Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16688
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA COMPOSITE IRRIGATION m PROJECT
(CREDIT 1621-IN)
JUNE 17, 1997
Agriculture and Water Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Rupees (Rs)
Atappraisal(1985)US$1  =  RsI2.0
Completion Year (1996) US$1 = Rs 35.3
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metre (m) =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometre (km) =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha) =  2.47 acres (ac)
1 million cubic metres (Mm3) =  804 acre-feet (ac-ft)
1 cubic foot per second (cfs or cusec) =  0.0283 cubic metres per second (m3/s)
1 kilogram (kg) =  2.2 lbs (lb)
1 metric ton (t) =  2,205 pounds (lb)
1 thousand million cubic feet (TMC) =  28.317 mlllion cubic metres (Mm3)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April I - March 31
Vice President             Mieko Nishimnzu
Director               :  Robert S. Drysdale
Division Chief/Manager     Shawki Barghouti
Staff Member               N K. Bandyopadhyay



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA COMPOSITE IRRIGATION HI PROJECT
(CR. 1621-IN)
Table of Contents
P R E F A C E   .....  ......... .......  ...... ...........................    .................................................................. ..................................i
EVALUATION SUMLIvARY.1i
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ..........................................................1
A. PROJECT  OBJECTIVES                                 .......................................................
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES .....................................4
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ......................................                                       10
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY                                    .. .................................... 12
E. BANK PERFORMANCE ...................................... 13
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ......................................                                                       14
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ......................................                                                     17
H. FUTURE OPERATION  ...................................... .                                                       17
I.  LESSONS LEARNED  ...................... ......................................................................... 18
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES ...............................                                                                    21
Table 1.  Summary of Assessments .........2...1. ... .............................................................. 21
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ............................... 23
Table 3: Project Timetable ...............................                                                          24
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .......................... 24
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project lnplementation ...................................................              25
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation ...................................................                  26
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project ...................................................                           26
Table 8A: Project Costs .................................................... 27
Table 8B: Project Financing ...................................................                                     27
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits ...................................................                           28
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ...................................................                             29
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .............................................. 33
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...................................................                          33
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ...................................................                              34
APPENDICES
1.        Mission's Aide Memoire
2.        Economic and Financial Analysis
3.        Miscellaneous Tables
4.        Economic Rehabilitation Program
5.        Borrower's Evaluation Report
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA COMPOSITE IRRIGATION PROJECT III
(Cr. 1621-IN)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Maharashtra Composite
Irrigation Project III (MCIP III) in India, for which Credit 1621-IN in the amount of SDR 164.2
million (US$160 million equivalent) was approved on July 16, 1985 and made effective on
March 13, 1986. The project was approved for restructuring on April 3, 1993, at which time the
credit was revised to SDR 132.2 million (US$128.8 million equivalent).
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1996, five and a half years later than the original
closing date of June 30, 1991. Final disbursement took place on February 20, 1997 and the
revised Credit amount was fully disbursed.
This ICR was prepared by an FAO/CP mission' which visited India from November 29
to December 16, 1996. It was finalized by Mr. N. K. Bandyopadhyay, Irrigation Engineer in the
Resident Mission in India, and Mr. Jean-Pierre Baudelaire, Consultant and former Task Manager,
and reviewed by Mr. Ridley Nelson, Principal Agricultural Economist, Agriculture and Water
Operations Division, and Ms. Kazuko Uchimura, Project Adviser, Country Department 2, South
Asia Region.
The ICR mission coincided with the final supervision mission2. It is based on a review of
the Staff Appraisal Report of the original project, the consultants' feasibility study of the
restructured project, legal documents, supervision reports and project files, as well as field
investigations and discussions with Bank staff and officials of the Irrigation, Agriculture, Public
Works, and Revenue and Forests Departments of the Government of Maharashtra (GOM). The
implementing agencies had prepared their own progress reports from which the mission was able
to draw considerable information regarding physical and financial progress of the works The
mission visited five of the six subprojects (Majalgaon, Upper Penganga, Kukadi, Bhima and
Krishna) and held discussions with project-level officers of the implementing agencies, and
participating farmers, collecting considerable information on project performance. Borrower's
comments have been taken into account and a Borrower's Evaluation Report is in Appendix 5.
I  Messrs. W.J. Sorrenson (Agricultural Economist, Mission Leader), G.S. Schokman (Irrigation Engineer,
Consultant) and S. Sarkar (Agronomist, National Consultant).
2 Messrs. N.K. Bandyopadhyay (Task Manager, SA2RS) and I.U.B. Reddy (R&R Specialist, SA2RS).






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA COMPOSITE IRRIGATION PROJECT III
(Cr. 1621-IN)
Evaluation Summarv
Introduction
1.   The Maharashtra Composite Irrigation Project III (MCIP III) initially provided for the
completion of the Jayakwadi and construction of the Majalgaon schemes. These schemes, located
along the Godavari river in West Maharashtra, are to cover an area of about 300,000 ha. At
restructuring, in addition to the continuation of the remaining works of the Jayakwadi and
Majalgaon subprojects, construction works for four new subprojects (Kukadi, Bhima, Krishna,
and Upper Penganga) were added.
Project Objectives
2.   The main objective of the original and restructured project was to substantially raise
agricultural production and farmers' incomes by improving the use of the poorly drained black
cotton soils and the available water in the reservoirs of the subprojects. This objective was to be
achieved through: (a) the completion of irrigation works and on-farm development works; (b) the
stimulation and promotion of agricultural development; and (c) the introduction of improved
operations and maintenance (O&M) practices. Additional measures introduced at the
restructuring stage were: (a) the economic rehabilitation of project-affected persons (PAPs); (b)
technical assistance to ensure the sustainability of the schemes; (c) establishment of water users'
associations (WUAs) to be responsible for water management, maintenance and cost recovery;
and (d) the modernization of canals.
3.   Command Area. Of the total of 733,000 ha of culturable command area (CCA) in the
subprojects included in the original and restructured project, the CCA under the project was
limited to 227,800 ha3 according to the availability of water.
4.   Components. The original project included the following components in the Jayakwadi
subproject: (a) completion of the irrigation systems (distributary and minor canals); (b)
completion of the main and link drains; and (c) development of three special distributaries
(SDDs); and the following components in the Majalgaon subproject: (a) completion of main
canals including lining; (b) construction of distributary and minor canals; and (c) construction of
the main and link drains. In the two subprojects, the components include : (a) the construction of
field and drainage networks; (b) land shaping; (c) rural roads; (d) equipment for land shaping; (e)
3  Jayakwadi, 88,000 ha; Majalgaon, 58,000 ha; Kukadi, 20,000 ha; Bhima, 28,000 ha; Krishna, 10,800 ha; and
Upper Penganga, 23,000 ha.



iii
strengthening the monitoring and evaluation unit; (f) technical, agricultural extension, and
research support; and (g) training, studies, study tours and consulting services.
5.   At restructuring, besides the continuation of the on-going works in Jayakwadi and
Majalgaon subprojects, civil works in the four new subprojects were similar to those provided for
in the original project. In addition, the project included: (a) modernization of reservoir headworks
in the four new subprojects; (b) service roads; (c) establishment of WUAs; (d) modernization of
water control including volumetric water supply and canal automation; (e) review of farmer
water rights; (f) continuation of the training program; (g) technical assistance for the development
of an O&M management system; (h) the economic rehabilitation of PAPs; (i) new studies -
environmental impact assessment (EIA) and environmental management plan (EMP),
management information system (MIS), plans of operation and maintenance (POM), and
evaluation of the water resources of the Godavari river basin; and (j) designation of a Dam Safety
Review Panel (DSRP).
6.   Loan Covenants. Covenants were included to promote achievement of project objectives
within the time frame of the project. The most critical covenants included: (a) adequate
budgetary provision and timely release of funds; (b) establishment and continuation within the
Agriculture Department (AD) of two new agricultural districts to implement the agricultural
program; (c) taking such actions as necessary to strengthen the Command Area Development
Authority (CADA); (d) an economic rehabilitation program; and (e) specific studies prescribed
under the restructured project. Covenants (a) and (c) were complied with after a delay of over
three years. Covenants (b), (d) and (e) were partially complied with.
7.   Evaluation of Project Objectives.  The project's main objective was clear and
appropriate. Although the concept was sound, the design of the project was biased more on
construction of civil works and did not adequately focus on the required supporting activities
needed to improve agricultural production. SAR targets of the civil works program were
unrealistic given past experience on budgetary allocations and problems of project management.
The restructured project appropriately included new features and financing to correct the
deficiencies identified under the original project and added measures to provide for the
improvement of the sustainability and the economic rehabilitation of PAPs of the subprojects.
The components included under the restructured project were well-defined and the revised
implementation targets were realistic.  The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) clearly defined
organization and management at the farm level and, at restructuring, funds were provided and
targets were specified.
Implementation Experience and Results
8.   At restructuring, the project was expected to cover about 227,800 ha. At closure of the
credit, about 210,000 ha were provided with irrigation facilities and the achievement in irrigated
cropped area has averaged 36 percent of the areas prepared for irrigation. There were signs of
water shortage in the subprojects located in the Godavari basin, whereas the three subprojects
located in the Krishna River basin appeared to develop normally, except for Bhima, due to delays
in the construction of a major structure. The construction of civil works, which started at a slow
pace due to procurement problems and inadequate funds, progressed satisfactorily achieving
about 90 percent on major works and about 86 percent on on-farm development (OFD) works.



iv
The progress on service and rural roads, and the formation of a small number of viable and
effective WUAs, has been quite satisfactory. Although the targets for the formation of WUAs
were achieved, many of these WUAs are not yet fully effective. Maintenance of irrigation
infrastructure continues to be a major issue. Funding constraints and the indifferent attitudes of
Irrigation Department (ID) staff and farmers are major factors influencing the implementation of
an effective maintenance program. Unless the automated canal system introduced on a pilot basis
is better developed, and proper maintenance is carried out, particularly below the level of the
branch canals, the advantages of the system will not be realized.
9.   Progress on the economic rehabilitation program (ERP) and the Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA), Environmental Management Plan (EMP), and Plan of Operation and
Maintenance (POM) studies, included under the restructured project, has fallen well behind
schedule. The studies were to be completed before December 31, 1996 but only started in late
1996 and specification of the ERP component was finalized in early 1996. Agricultural
development got off to a poor start mainly due to non-provision of funds under the original
project. However, with the inclusion of a special provision at the time of restructuring, a specific
program was eventually agreed to between ID, AD and the Bank. An achievement of about 83
percent of the agricultural development component was recorded at the end of December 1996.
10. Project Impact. Agricultural production at the end of disbursement has been much below
what was anticipated. The main reasons for this have been limited availability of water and
incomplete infrastructure4. The situation in the future is not likely to change substantially unless
major modifications are made by: (a) the ID in optimizing the allocation of available water to all
dams under its jurisdiction within a river basin; and (b) by the ID staff, WUAs and farmers in
terms of water management at scheme level. Although below SAR estimates, significant increases
in farmers' incomes were achieved in the project command areas which have benefited from canal
water or groundwater recharging as a result of MCIP III.
11.  Economic Rates of Return (ERR). The ERRs, estimated at appraisal, restructuring and
at implementation completion, are tabulated in Part I, para 39. The re-estimated ERRs are much
below appraisal and restructuring estimates (except in the case of Kukadi) and range from -2
percent to 15 percent. The overall project ERR is estimated at implementation completion at 7
percent. Due to a lack of data on water availability during project implementation, future scheme
performance (especially irrigation intensities) and the ERR estimates should be considered
indicative.
12. Project Sustainability. Presently, O&M funding levels for infrastructure controlled by ID
are well below requirements; many WUAs routinely desilt and clean canals; confusion exists on
who is responsible for the maintenance of the structures within the WUAs' command areas; and
inadequate technical advice is provided to the WUAs by the ID staff. There are few visible signs
of any improvement in funding levels, although the Government of Maharashtra (GOM) accept
that present levels of O&M funds are inadequate. In its Ninth Five-Year Plan, GOM are
proposing to increase the level of O&M funding based on actual requirements of individual
irrigation schemes. Intensive on-site training for ID field staff and WUAs on periodic and
4 Limited water availability could be due to inherent scheme design problems where the areas prepared for
irrigation over-extend water available and/or poor water management by the ID and farmers.



v
preventive maintenance activities are required, which would not only reduce maintenance costs
but also contribute immensely to the optimum use of the scarce water resources. Also, the
formation of scheme-level and basin-level committees, which were not included in the
restructured project, would significantly contribute to improving water allocation and sustaining
irrigation infrastructure. Unless the above actions are taken and an effective maintenance system
is firmly in position, the sustainability of the project would be uncertain.
13. Actual Project Cost and Financing. The original project costs, inclusive of physical and
price contingencies, were estimated at US$322.7 million. At the time of restructuring, the total
project cost was re-estimated at US$310 million, including contingencies and the IDA credit at
SDR 132.2 million (US$178 million) was to finance 57 percent of the revised total project costs.
Actual project expenditure up to December 31, 1996 is estimated at US$368.3 million (see Table
8A). The credit was fully disbursed at US$187.7 million, representing 51 percent of the estimated
expenditure up to December 31, 1996 and 40 percent of the estimated final project cost including
the balance works.
14. Key Factors Relating to Achievement of Project Objective. The major factors affecting
the limited achievement of the project's objectives of substantially raising agricultural output and
farmers' incomes are- (a) inadequate budgetary allocation and timely release of funds, delays in
the appointment of key staff to CADA (ID II) during the first three years, procurement issues in
the award of contracts for major civil works, and weak project design which resulted in a
reformulation exercise ending with restructuring the project; (b) limited available water during the
construction period, poor system management and a greater expansion into high water-demanding
crops (bananas and sugar cane) than envisaged in the design cropping patterns5; and (c) a limited
adoption of effective water management and O&M procedures.
15. During the restructured project period, civil works construction continued satisfactorily,
although land acquisition and contractual problems adversely affected the construction of a few
major works on the main canals. Whilst ID concentrated on civil works construction, insufficient
effort was made to expedite the implementation of the ERP component and studies related to
EIA, EMP, the evaluation of water resources of the basins where the subprojects are located and
finally, the POMs for the subprojects. The poor progress resulted in Bank supervision missions
giving unsatisfactory ratings for implementation progress and development objectives.
16. The performance of ID II on maintaining works has generally been unsatisfactory, and
there has not been any turnover of the maintenance of structures to WUAs other than the cleaning
and desilting of canals. ID II staff did not repair irrigation infrastructure suffering from deferred
maintenance before turnover to WJUAs as was envisaged in the restructured project, not because
of a lack of funds, but because of a lack of coordination and cooperation between themselves and
ID I. It is also apparent that training program did not focus adequately on maintenance.
17. Not identifying before appraisal a detailed agricultural component involving the AD
contributed to the initial slow progress in increasing agricultural production. During the latter
part of the restructured project period, a provision of funds (included at the time of restructuring)
5 It has been suggested that rainfall during the construction period (1986 to 1997) has been below average but
no statistical evidence has been available to the ICR mission to demonstrate this.



vi
and an agreed program of work between ID and AD, resulted in satisfactory progress, albeit in
small portions of the MCIP III command areas.
18. Performance of the Bank. The SAR dealt comprehensively with factors related to the
achievement of the project objectives. However, inadequate project preparation work reflected in
the design weaknesses identified in the second year of implementation, particularly on the
drainage network, the SDDs and the agricultural development component, indicate a less than
satisfactory performance of the Bank during the initial project implementation period. However,
during the reformulation exercise culminating in the restructured project, the Bank's contribution
was very useful. The Bank was directly responsible for preparation of a package of measures to
ensure the economic rehabilitation of PAPs, environmental sustainability of infrastructure and
future environmental management in the operational phase, establishment of viable and effective
WUAs, and the modernization of water management. Supervisions were carried out regularly.
While the Bank's actions to resolve constraints on construction were useful, efforts to expedite
the implementation of the agriculture and ERP components and studies were not effective until
late in the project. The Bank's reporting on O&M and the poor performance of areas actually
irrigated compared to those provided with irrigation infrastructure was not sufficient.
19. Performance of the Borrower. The Borrower's performance in the identification and
preparation of the original project was satisfactory in works related to planning and design of
irrigation systems and structures. However, the performance on supporting activities, the design
of drainage networks, and land shaping, was less than satisfactory. Reformulation was resorted to
in the second project year. Construction of civil works, after a very slow start, progressed very
well in the latter period and continued satisfactorily during the restructured project period. The
Borrower's performance related to the ERP component, as well as with implementing important
studies (EIA, EMP, POMs, and water resources evaluation), was unsatisfactory due to excessive
delays in commissioning them. Its performance in O&M of systems was poor and institutional
arrangements at farm level were less than satisfactory, although good progress was made in the
formation of a small number of successful WUAs. Initially, coordination between the ID and AD
was unsatisfactory, but in the latter years of the restructured project the situation improved and
coordination between the two departments was satisfactory.
20.  Project Outcome. The project's outcome is rated satisfactory with respect to civil works
construction (irrigation and roads), the recognition of the importance of WUAs in O&M and in
irrigation agriculture extension. However, in terms of present agricultural achievements (irrigated
areas), progress on the ERP component, studies included at restructuring, and the generally less
than adequate maintenance of irrigation infrastructure, the outcome is unsatisfactory and
expected results are yet to materialize.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
21. Plans for Future Works and Operation. The GOM has committed itself to the following
program of action to complete the project: (a) ID to complete the balance civil works over a
period of three years ending in FY1999/2000, and the studies by the end of FY1997/98; (b) the
Rehabilitation Department to carry out the implementation of the approved plan for the ERP in
three years subject to the availability of funds; (c) the AD to continue the agricultural
development program for a further three years from available State funds; and (d) the PWD to



vii
complete the rural roads program over a period of two years. With respect to civil irrigation
infrastructure, as there are indications that water supply may be insufficient to feed the developed
command areas of the subprojects in the Godavari river basin, GOM should concentrate on
completing main and branch canal infrastructure which supply water to the areas where OFD
works have been completed, and prepare operational plans to remedy the problem to the extent
possible. Until water availability is confirmed through additional studies on water resources,
actual cropping patterns adopted by farmers, canal operation, and all works to further expand the
command areas, should be suspended. In addition, training program in maintenance for ID field
staff and farmers should be included. Funding levels for O&M remain at the same level, although
the GOM's Ninth Five-Year Development Plan proposal to increase funds for O&M based on
individual scheme needs is an encouraging sign.
22.  Lessons for Future Projects. The lessons learned from the project are classified as follows:
Water Resources Availability and Management
(a)  Unless the adequacy of water supply and the proper management of the existing
systems is ensured, expansion of irrigation facilities to new areas in the CCA of
the subprojects should not be taken up.
(b)  The financing of future water resources development projects in Maharashtra
and elsewhere in India should be preceded by: (i) the issuance of a state water
policy defining the state priorities and institutional reforms, (ii) the preparation
of a state water management plan defining the availability and management of
water resources on a river basin basis; (iii) the identification of the rehabilitation
requirements of the existing operational irrigation infrastructure prior to
considering further developments; and (iv) the consideration of private sector
groundwater development to increase the efficiency of irrigation.
(c)  The cropping patterns used in designing the subprojects were quite different
from those currently followed by farmers, especially in Majalgaon. Careful
consideration is needed as to whether water should be spread thinly over the
areas where irrigation infrastructure has been created, as a means of drought
protection, or spread over smaller areas to enable development into higher
value, thirsty crops. The optimum economic strategy would vary from
subproject to subproject depending on the extent and condition of existing
irrigation infrastructure, the effectiveness of WUAs in managing water, and on
the irrigation water responses and economics of alternative crops.
(d)  The usefulness of the Pilot Project for Dynamic Regulation (canal automation)
is questionable if the Majalgaon command continues to face water shortages,
due to limited water availability and the poor maintenance of the canals (minors
and field). Water allocations to this command need to be reviewed within the
framework of the Godavari basin water resources management studies and a
proper POM needs to be prepared and implemented in order to test the
feasibility and sustainability of canal automation in India. Furthermore, the pilot
activities should be continued for at least three more years.



viii
Operation and Maintenance
(e)  No new projects should be considered for financing unless an effective and
sustainable O&M system covering both the construction and operational periods
is agreed upon and implemented.
(f)  To improve the performance of ID II field staff and WUAs in O&M, it is
recommended that: (a) more intensive training (classroom and site) in
preventive and periodic maintenance activities be given to ID II field staff and
WUAs; (b) the technical supervision of WUAs should continue even after
turnover of maintenance to them; and (b) an effective supervision schedule for
Section Officers, and canal inspectors, be introduced with high level staff
monitoring their activities.
(g)  Farmer involvement in O&M activities is critical to the sustainability of the
project. In order to ensure that O&M activities are performed satisfactorily by
farmers, WALMI should carry out more training, particularly on maintenance
(preventive and periodic) at farm sites and not only in classrooms, taking groups
to areas where severe deterioration is apparent.
Water Users' Associations
(h)  The responsibilities between ID I and ID II for rehabilitating the structures
turned-over to WUAs needs to be clarified, and the WUAs involved in these
activities to ensure a sense of ownership.
(i)  The effectiveness of WUAs should be judged not only in terms of financial and
water management, but also in terms of their ability to maintain the structures
turned-over to them.
(j)  The ID II, which is responsible for the formation of WUAs, should recruit either
institutional specialists or NGOs to work as a team with its own engineering
staff while preparing the rehabilitation and O&M plans prior to turn-over of
irrigation structures to farmers.
(k)  Once WUAs are formed throughout a scheme command, there is a need to form
a scheme-level committee which would negotiate the allocation of water at the
beginning of each season with the ID II. Special training will be required for
this which should also be taken up under future projects.
Irrigated Agriculture
(1)  In future, the Bank should ensure that, in all new projects providing irrigation
facilities to traditionally rainfed areas,  an agricultural component with a
separate budget is included in the project from the outset.



ix
(m) The ongoing extension work in the subproject should continue for another three
years to ensure a better uptake of irrigated agriculture by project beneficiaries
and a more efficient use of water at the farm level
Economic Rehabilitation of Project Affected Families
(n)  An ERP component must be backed by a detailed action plan prior to project
implementation. Such components must have a separate allocation of funds and
be regularly monitored.
General
(o)  The quality of project preparation  is a major consideration for successful
project implementation. The review of technical aspects are as important as the
other social, economic, and financial aspects.
(p)  Complex Bank-financed irrigation projects should include provision for a mid-
term review to be carried out by a team of specialists not connected with the
project, and the monitoring of project implementation should not be confined to
only physical and financial progress, but should also include irrigation
performance and impact on agricultural production.
(q)  To improve coordination between the various implementing agencies involved
in an irrigation project, a project-specific coordination committee, chaired by
the Secretary of Finance, is needed. Funds should be allocated directly from the
Ministry of Finance to the agency responsible for a project component.
(r)  Special arrangements need to be agreed with the Borrower prior to project
implementation to ensure that national and, particularly international, consultant
firms are recruited in a timely manner.



1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA COMPOSITE IRRIGATION PROJECT III
(Cr. 1621-IN)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Statement of Project Objectives
1.   Original Project. The main objective of the Maharashtra Composite Irrigation Project m
(MCIP M) was to substantially raise agricultural production and farmers' incomes by improving the
utilization of poorly drained black cotton soils and the available water in the command areas of
Jayakwadi and Majalgaon reservoirs. These two subprojects were initially under the Maharashtra
Composite Irrigation Project I (MCIP I - Cr. 736-IN) and initiated in mid-1977. MCIP m was to: (a)
complete irrigation works and on-farm development in the Jayakwadi command; (b) stimulate and
promote agricultural development in all of the command area (200,000 ha); (c) advance the
development of the associated Majalgaon command (100,000 ha) completing its first segment of
24,000 ha; and (d) introduce improved O&M practices. Major emphasis was to be shifted away from
large infrastructure works to on-farm development, water management and agricultural production
practices, so as to trigger a self-sustained process of agricultural growth. Issues already identified to
be adversely affecting the achievements of the expected benefits were to be addressed under the
project. These included: (a) better land management (drainage, land shaping, tillage); (b) better water
management (appropriate distribution systems down to the farms, reliable and timely supply, and
meticulous O&M of the systems); and (c) improved support services and incentives to the farmers
(farmers' organization, training, input supply, equipment, technical advice, appropriate crops, and
marketing outlets). Although the primary objective was increased agricultural production, there was no
specific component involving the Agricultural Department (AD). A special services component, which
was to have included intemational technical assistance in agriculture, was not put under the control of
AD and consequently was not implemented.
2. Project Components. In the Javakwadi command, major works included: (a) the completion of
irrigation systems (distributaries and minors) on about 45,000 ha; (b) completion of main and link
drains on about 153,000 ha; and (c) construction and/or rehabilitation of rural roads on 537 km.
Command Area Development Authority (CADA) works included: (a) construction of field channels
and structures and field drains on about 68,000 ha, and field channel protection on about 102,000 ha;
(b) development of three Specially Developed Distributaries (SDDs) on about 7,300 ha; (c) land
shaping over an area of about 128,000 ha; and (d) technical support to farmers on the entire 200,000 ha
of the command.
3.  In the Majalgaon command major works included: (a) completion of construction of the first
100 km of the main canal, including distributaries and minors, lining and structures estimated to cover
about 57,000 ha; and (b) main and link drainage network and rural road network covering the first



2
segment of about 24,000 ha. CADA works included: (a) construction of field channels, structures,
field drains, land shaping and technical support to farmers on about 24,000 ha; (b) the development of
one SDD serving about 4,000 ha; and (c) preliminary promotion programs for farmers on the rest
(76,000 ha) of the command.
4.   Common programs. for both the Jayakwadi and Majalgaon subprojects, included: (a) equipment
for land shaping, telecommunication and monitoring; (b) strengthening the monitoring and evaluation
unit within the project; (c) agricultural extension and research support; and (d) training, studies, study
tours and consulting services.
5.   Restructured Project. Between about 1987 and 1992, the project was restructured to take
account of the scarcity of water and make use of additional rupee funds available from the credit due to
the devaluation of the rupee vis-a-vis the SDR. In early 1987, the Bank advised GOM that as certain
components at appraisal had been founded upon inadequate information or analysis, with a view to
reformulation of the project, additional studies were needed. These were: (i) drainage; (ii) land
shaping; (iii) rural roads and canal service roads; (iv) deferred canal lining; (v) pilot distributaries; (vi)
additional system simulation; (vii) agricultural development; (viii) volumetric water supply to water
users' associations (WUAs); and (ix) feasibility studies of subprojects partially completed under the
Bank-financed MCIP II (Cr. 954-IN) project. While retaining the main objectives, the restructured
project aimed to expand the scope of the project by including: (a) investments on water distribution and
drainage networks in four additional subprojects which were included in an earlier Bank-financed
MCIP II; (b) an economic rehabilitation program (ERP) of project-affected persons (PAPs) with
special emphasis on consultation with PAPs and their participation in designing a compensation
package; (c) inclusion of features to ensure environmental sustainability and sound future
environmental management in the operational phase; (d) establishment of WUAs to be responsible for
water management, maintenance, and cost recovery through an extension program designed to create
farmer participation and involvement; and (e) modernization of water management. Other objectives
included: (a) the development of a management system for O&M; (b) the inculcation of an O&M
culture amongst subprofessional staff at the field level and farmers; (c) development of areas
compatible to the available water resources; (d) studies to improve performance of the project and to
ensure its sustainability, and at the same time to improve the performance of ID staff, (e) training of
project staff and farmers; (f3 establishment of an MIS to monitor and report on project activities; and
(g) an effective organization and management to implement the project.
6.   Project Changes after Appraisal. Of the total 733,000 ha of CCA of the six subprojects
incorporated in the restructured project, the command area included in the project was restricted to
227,800 ha according to water availability. This consisted of Jayakwadi 88,000 ha, Majalgaon 58,000
ha, Kukadi 20,000 ha, Bhima 28,000 ha, Krishna 10,800 ha and Upper Penganga 23,000 ha
7.  In line with the reassessed availability of water, the Majalgaon command area was reduced to
58,000 ha; lining of distributary canals with a capacity less than 3 m3/s was deferred, the rural road
component was reduced to 344 km and the four SDDs were dropped as these were deemed
impractical, non-replicable and would duplicate the research being done by universities. Instead of the
SDDs, CADA concentrated on pilot area proportional rotational water supply operations. Several
covenants were revised. These related to economic rehabilitation, designation of a Dam Safety Review
Panel (DSRP) to review all the dams and related structures in the project area, preparation of
Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) for each command area under the project and the
establishment of WUAs which would recover water charges.



3
8.   The restructured project included: (a) completion of the ongoing Jayakwadi and Majalgaon
irrigation and drainage works, including associated rural roads which were part of the original project;
(b) completion of irrigation and drainage works and associated rural roads on four additional
subprojects - Kukadi (100,000 ha), Bhima (113,000 ha), Krishna (81,000 ha), and Upper Penganga
(139,000 ha) which were previously partially developed under MCIP II; and (c) buildings, vehicles and
equipment, studies, training, dam safety measures, economic rehabilitation, rural roads and bridges,
and economic development.
9.   The changes at restructuring for the Jayakwadi command were as follows: (a) the area covered
by the main and link drains was reduced to about 72,000 ha and about 5,500 ha respectively; (b) sub-
surface drains to cover an area of about 13,500 ha were added; (c) the rural roads program was
reduced to 310 km; (d) field channel protection was reduced to about 93,000 ha; (e) on-farm
development (OFD) coverage was increased to 88,000 ha; (f) the SDDs were replaced by the Pilot
Proportional Distributaries (PPDs) covering an area of 620 ha; (g) the land shaping area was reduced
to about 32,000 ha; (h) construction of 572 km of service roads; (i) establishment of about 10 WUAs;
(j) construction of buildings; and (k) modernization of the Paithan left and right bank canals including
distributaries were added.
10. Changes at restructuring under the Majalgaon command were as follows: (a) the construction of
about 150 km of service roads; (b) the main and link drainage network was reduced to 15,500 ha; (c)
the rural road network was reduced to 34 km covering the total command area of 58,000 ha; (d) field
channel protection and on-farm development works to cover the entire command area of 58,000 ha; (e)
the SDDs were replaced by the development of about 30 minor canals in accordance with the
principles of volumetric water supply, and about 30 WUAs were to be established on these minor
canals; (f) land shaping was reduced to about 6,200 ha; (g) operation of the Majalgaon main canal up
to km 100, and the Ganga Masala branch canal over its entire length, both on the principles of dynamic
regulation; (h) technical support to farmers and a preliminary promotion program to cover the
command area of about 58,000 ha; and (i) updating the baseline socio-economic survey for PAPs and
their economic rehabilitation.
11.  Works and Services. For the four new subprojects these were to include: (i) modernization of
six dams, 3 powerhouses and a tank; (ii) construction of about 468 km of the main and branch canal
system; (iii) upgrading the existing canal system for about 225,000 ha; (iv) partial lining of the
distribution network for about 62,000 ha; (v) on-farm development works including main and link
drains on about 85,000 ha and sub-surface drainage for about 15,900 ha;; (vi) construction of 144 km
of service roads, 380 km of rural roads and 23 bridges; (vii) pilot operation land shaping and
conjunctive use covering an area of about 4,000 ha; (viii) construction of buildings; (ix) establishment
of about 10 water user associations; and (x) carrying out baseline socio-economic surveys for the
preparation of the ERP for PAPs.
12.  Traiinng. Equipment. Technical Assistance and Studies. The restructured project provided for:
(a) training, at WALMI (Aurangabad) and the State Agricultural Universities, in water management
and agricultural practices for farmer leaders in the project area, as well as CADA and ID staff, (b)
technical assistance to project officers for advisory services; and (c) special studies in the areas of canal
automation, radio telecommunication networks, volumetric water supply, farmers' water rights,
environmental impact assessment (EIA) and EMP, and preparation of future projects. The project also
provided for: (a) construction equipment; (b) vehicles for construction and O&M; (c) radio
communication systems for the control and monitoring of canal systems; (d) agro-meteorological and
hydrometeorological networks; (e) provision of office technology for management, monitoring and



4
evaluation of the project; and (f) strengthening of Maharashtra's hydrological measurement and
analysis capabilities through: (i) the provision of equipment; and (ii) the carrying out of a study in the
Paithan catchment area of the Godavari Basin.
Evaluation of Project Objectives
13.  The project's main objective was clear and appropriate. However, the design of the project did
not adequately estimate water availability and the practicability of carrying out land shaping with heavy
earth moving equipment. In addition, it did not focus, nor sufficiently clearly define and make adequate
financial provision for, critical activities such as water management, agricultural production practices
and sharing of O&M responsibilities between the GOM and farmers, necessary to trigger a self-
sustained process of agricultural growth. This was clearly demonstrated by the need to restructure the
project.
14.  The SDDs proposed under the project were designed according to the warabandi system, which
was not implementable in locations where the Shejpali system is used. Accordingly, these had to be
dropped. A concerted effort by the Bank and project management would have been required to ensure
success. The design and implementation procedures of the civil works program were relatively simple.
However the SAR targets were unrealistic, given earlier experience on budgetary allocations and
problems associated with project management (delays in posting of senior staff).
15.  The restructured project, besides the introduction of measures to adjust the environmental and
economic rehabilitation components to meet the guidelines and policies of the GOM and the Bank, in-
line with the India Irrigation Subsector Review (Report No. 9518-IN of 20 December 1991),
appropriately included new features and financing to correct the identified deficiencies. The
components were well defined and implementation targets were realistic. Appropriately, emphasis was
placed on environmental sustainability.
16.  According to the SAR, farmer organizations would be set up at three levels' Outlet Committees
(OCs) at the level of chaks; Water Utilization Committees (WUCs) at the level of minors; and Canal
Advisory Committees (CACs). No targets for these were set. At restructuring, targets (specified in
the legal agreement) were set for the formation of WUAs, and no emphasis was placed on the upper
tier (above WUAs) and the lower tier (chaks).
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Overall Achievement
17.  The project ran into delays soon after inception in the appointment of key personnel and funding.
From the start emphasis was placed by the ID on construction with little attention being given to
capturing optimal benefits from the infrastructure created (irrigated cropped area being much less than
the available area) and to the sustainability of the investment (inadequate maintenance and a limited
number of effective WUAs throughout the project command areas). Of the 210,170 ha of command
area provided with irrigation facilities at the end of December 1996, the irrigated cropping intensity at
credit closure has averaged 36 pcercent compared to the appraisal target of 175 percent at full
development. Hence, limited progress has so far been made in achieving the main objective of
increasing agricultural production and farmers' incomes. This result is similar to the findings of



5
Maharashtra Water Utilization Project Completion Report (PCR)6 where in the Jayakwadi command
the seven-year average cropping intensity during project implementation was 20 percent compared to
the SAR target of 113 percent.
Physical Achievements
18.  Except for the construction of major works, which considerably exceeded SAR targets (see
Table 5), progress on other components of the project has been below expectation. ERP, environment,
special studies and technical assistance have shown little progress due to excessive start-up delays.
19.  Irrigation Works. The total culturable command area (CCA) of Jayakwadi and Majalgaon to
be achieved under MCIP mI was estimated at 146,000 ha in the SAR. The four subprojects included at
restructuring account for a further 81,800 ha making a project total of 227,800 ha. By December 31,
1996, irrigation potentials were created through the completion of the main and distribution networks
and OFD works to the six subprojects totalling 210,170 ha, 92 percent of the target.
Culturable Command Areas and Areas Provided with Irrigation Infrastructure
Area Provided with
Total           Conunand Area      Irrigation Faclities
Subproject         Conmuand Area       Under MCIP HI       at Credit Closure
Jayakwadi             200,000             88,000               84,600
Majalgaon             100,000             58,000               55,530
Kukadi                100,000             20,000               18,470
Bhima                 113,000             28,000               20,400
K(nshna                81,000             10,800a/             11,480
Upper Pengarga        139,000              23,000              19,650
Total                 733,000             227,800              210,170
a/ According to the GOM's comments dated May 1997 on the draft ICR, the command area of the
Krishna project was increased from 10,800 ha to 14,000 ha. This had not been brought to the
attention of the ICR mission.
20. The overall progress on dams and canal works implemented by the Irrigation Department I (ID
I) is estimated at about 90 percent. The progress on QFD works, implemented by the Irrigation
Department 11 (ID I1), on Majalgaon, Kukadi, and Bhima varied between 87 percent and 100 percent,
while on the remaining subprojects (Krishna and Upper Penganga) the progress was unsatisfactory (60
percent). Physical targets and achievements are summarized in Table 5.
21.  Buildings. Buildings in Kukadc and Krishna have been completed while the progress at Bhima
was 50 percent.
22. Rural and Service Roads. At the time of the ICR mission in December 1996, about 678 km of
service roads, 776 km of rural roads and 6 bridges were completed7.
6 Report No. 125/91 CP-IND 90 CR, FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program dated 28 October 1991, Credit
1383-IN and Loan 2308-IN.
7 According to GOM (their comments of May 1997 on the draft ICR) 11 of the 22 bridges were completed by 31
December 1996.



6
23.  Water Users' Associations. A total of 193 associations have been registered (276 percent of
the target of 70 after restructuring) and irrigation infrastructure has been handed over to 71
associations. The associations registered, and the ones which have accepted responsibility for all O&M
activities, are not necessarily in the subproject command areas, which was not a requirement of the
restructured project.
24.  Improved Water Management.  Under the original project, the Pilot Proportional
Distributaries (PPDs) equipped and operated on the area proportional system of rotational water supply
(RWS) were established (this replaced the SDDs) to demonstrate the comparative benefits over the
existing Shejpali system. In 1990, plans were finalized and implementation commenced, but delays
occurred due to the reformulation exercise.
25. The Pilot Project for Dynamic Regulation (PPDR) began in 1994 and was to be
commissioned in late December 1996, financed jointly by IDA and a French grant. PPDR included the
Majalgaon main canal commanding 58,000 ha, the Ganga Masala branch canal (commanding about
11,000 ha) and minor canals (2 lined and 2 unlined taking off the branch canal commanding about
2,000 ha). All civil works and installation of equipment have been completed. The sophisticated
system is operational for regulating the main and branch canals. Maintenance of the computer program
used to dynamically regulate the main and branch canals is still dependent on the French consultants
who have installed the system.
26.  In the opinion of the mission, the pilot activities should be continued for at least three years to
test the feasibility and sustainability of canal automation in India, given its potential importance for
raising the efficiency of water use. The assistance of the international consultant should be withdrawn
before the end of the pilot period extension.
27.  Dam Safety Review Panel (DSRP). Under the origmal project, the Dam Safety Directorate
was to inspect and report on the condition of the Majalgaon Dam once a year and the Paithan Dam
once every five years. The Directorate fulfilled these obligations as required. In 1990, the Bank
requested the GOM to establish an independent panel, and reiterated in early 1994, its request for the
formation of the panel as per the Bank's guidelines. The GOM eventually established an independent
DSRP in May 1994. A one-time report of the DSRP was submitted in June 1995 and the panel's
report was accepted by the GOM in August 1996. The safety measures including rehabilitation works
on all 9 dams of the project, were estimated to cost about Rs.960 million. Iniplementation of the
program has been initiated.
28.  Agriculture. Two new command area agricultural districts were to be established. These were
to be staffed by additional Village Extension Workers (VEWs) so as to raise the ratio of VEWs to
farmers from 1:1,200 to 1: 800. However, no progress was made in this direction because of the
inadequacy of the proposal. The SAR made provision for intemational agricultural consultants to
prepare an agricultural component for on-farm demonstrations, adaptive research and training of staff
and farmers. There was apprehension on the part of the AD to get involved and no consultants were
contracted. Apart from the technical assistance, no other funds for agriculture were included in the
SAR. In the restructured project, the lessons learnt during the initial years of MCIP Im were
capitalized upon. Although progress was initially quite slow, eventually a specific program of work
was agreed by the ID, AD and the Bank. Consequently, funds were provided by GOM through the
project to conduct about 30,618 crop irrigation demonstration sites (for which an achievement of 43
percent was realized), 3,947 drip and sprinkler irrigation demonstration sites were established (43
percent achievement), 52 multipurpose Agricultural Technology Dissemination Centers were built



7
(100 percent achievement) and 223 training programs were conducted for the AD staff and farmers
against a target of 131. However, against an approved outlay of about Rs. 190 million, 56 percent
achievement was obtained by October 31, 1996, with an anticipated achievement of 83 percent up to
December 31, 1996.
29.  Areas benefiting from increased canal water are much below expectations mostly due to
inadequate water supply during the project construction period. However, it is encouraging that where
canal water is being received, cropping intensities are mcreasing as well as crop yields. Mission
findings mdicate that in areas where adequate water is available, the speed of switching from rainfed to
irrigated agriculture and realizing irrigation potential is faster than was predicted in the SAR and in the
feasibility studies of the four additional subprojects (seven years as opposed to twelve years).
However, shortages of water appear to be restricting the expansion of actual areas irrigated and crop
yields. There is some evidence of recharging of groundwater in the project areas and the number of
dugwells in all project command areas has increased during MCIP JR. There has been a positive
agricultural production impact to the increased extension. It is important that the agricultural
component is continued for at least 2 to 3 years more in order to consolidate the efforts so far made.
30.  Economic Rehabilitation8. Affected persons to be economically rehabilitated under the
restructured project were not affected by MCIP III itself, but by dams which had been constructed
under previous projects By the time MCIP m started, the affected persons had already been resettled,
but unsatisfactorily The purpose of the Economic Rehabilitation Program (ERP) carried out under the
restructured project was mainly to rehabilitate these affected persons. The Maharashtra Project
Affected Act, 1986, laid down clear policies and rules for rehabilitation, which Maharashtra agreed to
follow under the project. The Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement stated that
the economic rehabilitation will be according to this Act. At the time of restructuring the conditions for
implementing this Act were discussed and agreed upon. These included the preparation of: (a) a
house-to-house socio-economic survey to be carried out m all project schemes except Jayakwadi which
had been resettled much earlier, and (b) on the basis of the survey, Maharashtra was to frame a specific
economic rehabilitation implementation plan of the restructured project. Whereas the socio-economic
surveys were completed, Maharashtra took much time in issuing the project specific plan. Finally, a
Government Order was issued in January 1996 with a detailed economic rehabilitation policy and
action plan which was endorsed by the Bank. Out of the four activities envisaged under this
component, only civic amenities have commenced. So far 18 percent of physical progress (162 out of
905 new facilities to be created) and 33 percent of financial progress (about Rs. 125 million out of Rs.
378 million) have been achieved. Implementation of the other three components (housing, irrigation
and income generation) is yet to commence. Funds earmarked for 1996/97 for these three activities are
yet to be placed with the Divisional Commissioners. Though 70 percent (10 out of 14 positions) of the
professional staff created for exclusive implementation of this program are in position, the key position
of Deputy Secretary is yet to be filled. Updating the list of eligible PAPs for individual schemes, and
recruitment of non-government organizations (NGOs) for the implementation of income generation
activities, have not been completed. No efforts have been made so far to finalize the terms of reference
(TOR) and appointment of consultants for Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E).
31.  Training. A total of 125 courses were conducted at the Water and Land Management Institute,
Maharashtra for ID and AD staff, farmers, WUA office bearers and NGOs. Some 2,482 staff and
2,844 farmers and NGO representatives were trained under the program. WALMI is fully equipped
with modern facilities to carryout the training envisaged under the project. Training staff have several
8 See Appendix 4 for details of the ERP.



8
years of experience in the required disciplines. To date the main thrust has been on the training of
project staff on all engineering aspects and to a lesser extent on O&M. With regard to WUAs, the
emphasis was to train the office bearers on all aspects of finance and management and to a lesser extent
in O&M. The courses were mainly through classroom lectures with a minimal level of field work.
However, between Apnl 1993 and November 1996, 130 ID staff were given training in canal
maintenance by WALMI. In addition, 226 graduate and diploma engmeers received five months
intensive training at WALMI, which included canal maintenance as one of its topics.
32.  Since 1994/95 regular training in water management was carried out at the Rahuri and Parbhani
State Agricultural Universities. Attendance by ID staff fell below targets. The foreign training program
was not realized smce available funds were diverted for other purposes. Farmers' training, including
rallies and educational tours, are reported to have been undertaken by AD staff.
33.  Equipment, Technical Assistance and Studies. The project financed equipment and vehicles
for construction, O&M, radio communication, agro-meteorological and hydrometeorological networks,
and office technology for management, monitonng and evaluation. The restructured project also
provided technical assistance for the preparation of: (a) a water resources management plan in the
Godavari nver basin; (b) plans of operation and mamtenance for all project schemes; (c) environmental
impact assessment and plans for project schemes located in the Godavari and Krishna River basins;
(iv) a Management Information System (MIS); and (v) socio-economic surveys for the economic
rehabilitation of PAPs. All equipment and vehicles have been procured after some delay. However,
except for the MIS and socio-economic surveys of PAPs, all other studies could not be completed by
credit closure due to considerable delays in recruiting national, and particularly, international consultant
firms.
34.  The studies included in the onginal project and not connected to the reformulation exercise
were completed prior to restructuring. The status of all studies, including those added at the time of
restructuring, is shown in Table 7.
Objectives of Sector Policies
35.  Sector policies relevant to the project include: (a) optimization of the full potential of the
available water in the reservoirs; (b) water management of the system from the reservoir to the farms;
(c) implementation of an effective and practical O&M program, including sharing of physical and
financial aspects between GOM and farmers; (d) increasing of water charges to a level commensurate
with actual O&M costs; (e) increasing irrigated agricultural production; (f) the ERP of PAPs; and (g)
environmentally sustainable irrigation infrastructure. These sector policies remain to be translated into
concrete action in the future since only limited success has been achieved in MCIP HI towards their
implementation. Water charges have been increased but not to levels compatible with the cost of
O&M. The functioning of a small number of WUAs is improving and the coordination between AD
and ID staff has improved. These are positive signs for the development of irrigated agriculture in
Maharashtra.
Institutional Development Objectives
36. A workable management system for O&M is now being evolved with the organization of WUAs
and the sharing of responsibilities between the GOM and farmers. At the time of restructuring, it was
decided to focus efforts on the formation of WUAs at the level of minors. This decision was taken as a
result of: (a) the poor results that the ID was experiencing in the formation of OCs in the MCIP HI



9
project; and (b) the positive results which were emerging from the pilot efforts of forming WUAs with
the assistance of NGOs in the Mula command of the Maharashtra Water Utilization Project (MWUP).
The rnission visited a number of WUAs and it was encouraging to note that in a number of cases,
where members of the associations had been trained through the project, and where turnover of
infrastructure to farmers had occurred, good results are being achieved. These WUAs were effectively
managing the distribution of water among their members, successfully collecting water fees and
controlling their associations' finances, as well as organizing the desilting and cleaning of canals. The
principle of volumetric supply had been successfully introduced. Although OCs were dropped at the
time of restructuring because they were not functioning, it is desirable to maintain these committees in
an informal manner at the outlet level to facilitate the distribution of water among all outlet users. The
mission has concluded that the project has successfully piloted a small number of WUAs consolidating
the principles of participatory irrigation management (PIM) which were initiated in the Mula scheme of
the MWUP.
37. A critical factor is a concern for maintenance, which is still not fully appreciated by field staff
and farmers The training programs have improved the capability of high and mid level staff of ID and
AD, but have had little impact on field staff. One of the observations made in the supervision reports
was that ID staff concentrated more on construction activities and the expansion of irrigation networks
well beyond the available water resources, at the expense of the already developed areas which are not
serviced with a reliable and adequate water supply. The objective of the restructuring was to address
this point. However, this perspective appears to be contmuing. Studies of the Godavari and Krishna
River basins would improve the operation of existing schemes and assist in the preparation of future
projects.
38. Data collection and reporting improved considerably as a result of the establishment of the
MIS. Experience gained from the constraints confronted in the coordination of the project's
implementing agencies will be valuable in improving institutional aspects of future projects.
Economic Rate of Return
39.  The re-estimated ERRs at project completion, compared to those at appraisal and restructuring,
are tabulated below. The underlying assumptions and information supporting the analyses are given in
Appendix 2.
Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
Subproject                                      (%)
SAR              Restructuring            ICR
Jayakwadi                  29                                         15
Majalgaon                  13                                          5
Kukadi                                           5                     5
Bhima                                            17                   -2
Krishna                                          18                   5
Upper Penganga                                   9                    -2
Overall Project                                                       7
40.  It should be emphasised that, due to the limited data available to the ICR mission relating to
water availability, a number of uncertainties had to be incorporated in the re-estimated ERR
computations, especially relating to future irrigated areas, so that the results should therefore be



10
considered as indicative. However, poor initial project design and slow project start-up, significantly
reduced benefiting areas, cost overruns, funding constraints for O&M, and focus on construction at the
detriment of system performance and maintenance, are consistent with low project performance.
Consequently, the reduction in the ERRs compared to those estimated at appraisal and restructuring are
not unexpected/ The project has, however, had a positive impact on agricultural production and
farmers' incomes in the areas where water has reached. Similar results were obtained in the PCR of
the MWUP 9. The overall project is estimated by the mission to have an ERR of 7 percent. The higher
ERR of the Jayakwadi subproject is due to the fact that primarily only OFD works were completed
during MCIP mII; earlier investment was treated as sunk costs and therefore ignored.
Sensitivity Analysis
41.  Potential economic benefits are not expected to be realized as foreseen in the SAR and at the
time of restructuring. Major reasons for this are: (a) inadequate water availability during the project
construction period; (b) lower agricultural benefits; and (c) higher costs per additional hectare irrigated,
than were anticipated. Sensitivity tests were carried out to examine the impact of: (a) increasing future
areas irrigated where it was assumed that from the year 2000/2001 100 percent irrigation intensity
would be obtained; (b) increasing agricultural production (+25 percent and +50 percent); and (c)
reducing project costs (-25 percent and -50 percent). Details are provided in Appendix 2.
42. For all of the sensitivity tests carried out, only the Jayakwadi subproject yielded an ERR above
12 percent (the ERR ranged from 15 percent to 26 percent). The ERR of the Majalgaon subproject
increased to 14 percent when irrigation intensities were raised to 100 percent from the year
2000/2001 as against lower percentages foreseen by the ICR mission and 175 percent foreseen in the
SAR In all other cases tested in Majalgaon and in the other four subprojects (Upper Penganga,
Kukadi, Bhima and Krishna), the ERRs remained below 12 percent, ranging from -0.7 percent to 10
percent. ERRs of all subprojects were more sensitive to reductions in project costs than to the samne
percentage increases in agricultural benefits.
Farm Incomes
43.  Incomes estimated in the SAR and by the ICR mission for representative farms under without-
project rainfed conditions are compared to those under with-project irrigated conditions at full
development in first quarter 1997 prices. For Jayakwadi, farm incomes are re-estimated by the ICR
mission to increase from about Rs.12,600 to Rs.58,700 compared with about Rs.23,000 to Rs.85,700
at appraisal. In the case of Majalgaon, farm incomes are re-estimated to increase from about
Rs.11,900 to Rs.69,300 compared with an increase from Rs.11,300 to Rs.115,800 at appraisal. Farm
incomes at the time of re-evaluation for the other four subprojects included at the time of restructuring
are detailed in Appendix 2. These range from about Rs.6,600 to Rs. 12,600 under present rainfed
conditions, to between Rs.49,200 to Rs.69,300 under fully developed irrigated conditions.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
44.  Local Currency Depreciation. The depreciation of the Rupee against the SDR had a major
effect on the project enabling four additional subprojects to be included in MCIP Im.
9 ERRs estimated in the SAR and PCR respectively were: Jayakwadi (47% and 7%); Puma (36% and -16%); and
Khadakwasla (19% and 5%).



11
45.  Implementation Record and Delays. The non-completion of some major construction works
(aqueducts, regulators and drainage crossings, canal excavation in rock, and lining) was caused by: (a)
objections to acquisition of land and prolonged litigation; (b) objection by villagers to blasting
operations in close proximity to their villages; (c) shortage of blasting materials for rock excavation;
(d) delay in the approval by GOM to go ahead with the construction of Hanga Aqueduct; and (e)
unexpected delays with the contractor working on the construction of the Ghod Aqueduct under the
Kukadi subproject and the resultant delay in re-mobilization.
46.  Factors Generally Subject to Government Control. The original project was initially delayed
two years, primarily due to the late appointment of the Chief Administrator ID II (CADA), other key
positions, and insufficient budgetary allocations. In 1986 (one year after start) GOM, advised by the
FAO/CP and with the concurrence of the Bank, started a reformulation exercise to improve project
performance whlch was affected by: (a) problems in project design associated with availability of
water, drainage, SDDs and agricultural development; (b) poor coordination between implementing
agencies and untimely release of funds, particularly during the first three years; and (c) inadequate
budgetary allocation for O&M works.
47.  Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control. The following factors had a
direct influence on project progress by the implementation agencies. For ID I: (a) overestimation of the
water available10; (b) slow procurement particularly on LCB contracts; (c) unsatisfactory quality
standards in concrete works of major structures and canal lining; (d) concentration on construction
while neglecting the maintenance of completed infrastructure; (e) delays in repairing completed works
prior to handing over to 1D II; (f) disagreement with the Bank on conditions in the major works tender
documents; (g) conflict between ID I and ID II in taking over completed project works for operation;
(h) weak agriculture input during the period of the original project; and (i) low priority given to the
implementation of the ERP component and ELA, EMP, and POM studies. Most of the construction-
related issues which impeded progress initially were resolved in the latter years of the project resulting
in satisfactory ratings for construction of major construction works. ID II was responsible for OFD
works, O&M of the operational phase of completed works, the formation of WUAs and the
implementation of the water management program.
48.  The AD had practically no input in the original project. This was due to the non-provision of
funds by GOM and the definition of a program of work. A conflict between ID and AD appears to
have been the main reason for the cancellation of the SDD component which was elaborately designed
during the preparation phase of the original project. Delays in road works were mainly due to
disagreement between ID, PWD and the Bank on the reduction of the scope of work. After much
delay the issue was resolved by the PWD agreeing to undertake some of the roadwork with their own
funds. Delays in completing the socio-economic surveys, the preparation of the resettlement and
rehabilitation plan, and the GOM's slow issuance of a Government Order (GO) were contributing
factors to the unsatisfactory status of the ERP component. Poor progress of the ERP component was
also due to: (a) an earthquake in the State of Maharashtra and the Bombay riots which caused a
diversion of funds in the early 1990s; (b) untimely resolutions to decide on the implementing agencies
for the four activities; (c) lack of effective coordination; (d) delay in recruiting NGOs; and (e) failure to
appoint a monitoring and evaluation agency. These constraints were addressed and resolved towards
10 This is a debatable issue, since simulation studies have indicated sufficient water in all schemes except
Majalgaon. However, scheme performance data collected by the ID during MCIP III suggests that there could be a
problem of water availability especially in the three subprojects in the Godavari River basin (Jayakwadi, Majalgaon
and Upper Penganga).



12
the end of December 1996 by the issuance of a rehabilitation policy and action plan for persons
affected by previous projects.
49.  Project Cost and Financing. The project costs, inclusive of physical and price contingencies,
were estimated at appraisal at US$322.7 million (Rs.3,872 million) in 1985 prices. An IDA credit of
SDR 164.2 million (US$160 million equivalent) was to finance about 50 percent of the total costs and
the remaining expenditures were to be met by GOM. At the time of restructunng, the total project
cost, including physical and pnce contingencies, was re-estimated at US$310 million (Rs.8,622
million) in 1992 prices and the IDA credit at SDR 132.2 million (US$178 million equivalent). At this
time, SDR 32 million was cancelled from the credit and retroactive financing remained at SDR 9
million11. The new credit amount was to finance 57 percent of the revised total project costs. Actual
project expenditure up to December 31, 1996 is estimated at US$368.3 million (Rs.10,01 1 in current
Rupees), and included the estimated cost of the balance works programmed up to March 31, 2000, at
US$438.3 million (Rs 12,471.50 million in current Rupees)'2. Including the cost of the balance works,
the actual project cost is 136 percent and 141 percent of the SAR and restructured project cost
estimates, respectively. The cost overrun is in part due to the devaluation of the Rupee against the
US$, which allowed an expansion of construction works included in the project. The credit was fully
disbursed on February 20, 1997 at an amount of US$187.7 million, representing 51 percent of the
estimated expenditure up to December 31, 1996 and 40 percent of the estimated final project cost
including the balance works.
50.  The loan disbursements by category of expenditure were as follows: works 95.2 percent;
equipment, vehicles and materials 1.9 percent; incremental staff salaries 0.5 percent; consultancy
services and training 2.4 percent.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
51.  Sustaining mcreased agricultural production and farmers' incomes depends on several factors,
including: (a) availability of adequate water and the management of this water; (b) effective operation
and maintenance of the headworks, irrigation and drainage systems; and (c) viable and effective WUAs
and the formation of scheme-level and basin-level committees.
52.  As at December 31, 1996, irrigation facilities have been provided for about 92 percent of the
MCIP m project command areas. The balance area depends on the completion of the major aqueducts,
rock excavation of a limited reach of main canals and the OFD works within the reach of the
incomplete main canals. As the availability of water is limited, GOM with its own funds should first
complete all works on the main and branch canals which supply water to the areas where OFD works
are completed
53.  Limited availability of water is reflected in the shortfalls in the irrigated cropped areas compared
to the areas prepared for irrigation in the period 1988 through 1996 (see Appendix 3, Table 10).
Records indicate an average irrigation intensity of 36 percent (Appendix 3, Table 8). Concems
regarding water management up to the chak outlet resulted initially in the implementation of pilot
proportional distributaries (PPDs), and the one at Majalgaon was further improved by introducing
measures to provide the control by Dynamic Regulation (PPDR). So far the results have been
" The Bank rejected a request from GOM to increase retroactive financing to US$15 million.
12 See Appendix 3, Table 1.



13
promising in that optimum use of the water available from the reservoirs could be achieved through
effective control of flows particularly in the main canals. However, the success of the operation will
hinge critically on the maintenance of the minor canals and the development of a system which can be
operated and maintained without external support. A minor canal completed in about 1994 is showing
signs of deterioration due to the lack of maintenance, but this could also reflect problems in
construction. Several temporary rock boulder checks were observed at chak outlets, control gates were
damaged, beds were silted up and canals, especially at the tail reaches, were overgrown. Overall, there
is doubt whether the expected increase in production would be achieved and, even if it is, it seems
likely that poor maintenance of the irrigation and drainage infrastructure would result in the increases
not being sustained. Project sustainability must therefore be considered uncertain.
54.  A critical factor to ensure sustainability is an effective and viable maintenance program
particularly in areas where farmers are responsible for maintenance. As yet, WUAs formed a few
years back are not aware of their maintenance responsibilities for structures, apart from the desilting
and cleaning of canals, nor are they aware of what maintenance of structures within and below the
minors'3 entails. The inculcation of an O&M culture in the lower level ID field staff has not been
achieved. It is also a concern that training programs have not focused sufficiently on O&M. Funds for
O&M of the network to be maintamed by the government are based on outdated norms and require
estimating on needs-based assessments. Records indicate that such an assessment has been made (a
few years back). However, GOM recogmze that present levels of O&M funds are inadequate and in
their Ninth Five-Year Plan they have proposed increases in O&M funding in line with the actual
requirements of individual irrigation schemes. This proposal will need to be translated into an effective
action program which would need to take into account turnover to farmers of maintenance
responsibilities.
E. PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK
55.  Identification and Preparation. The Bank was closely involved in earlier projects where many
of the problems experienced in this project were identified. The PCR for MCIP I (dated November
1984) drew attention to the slow uptake of irrigation by farmers and considerable efforts were made to
improve this in the MWUP (Credit 1383-IN and Loan 2308-IN). Despite this, the problem persisted
mainly due to the unreliability of the water supply to farmers' fields. The weaknesses in the design of
MCIP El[ identified in the second year of implementation, specifically on the drainage network, the
SDDs and agricultural development, could have been avoided if the Bank had made a greater effort to
supervise their preparation The Bank became heavily involved in the reformulation exercise and in
finalizing the scope of the restructured project. It was responsible in arrangmg the services of FAO/CP
to provide advice and assistance during the reformulation exercise, and for providing an effective
package at restructuring. Bank (Headquarters and Resident Mission) staff worked closely with ID and
AD staff of the GOM and with GOI staff on policy matters. Given the Bank's awareness that O&M
funds were allocated on outdated norms and that some works required rehabilitation, a special
provision for canal upgrading was made.
56.  Appraisal. The performance of  the Bank in appraising the project was deficient. This
judgement is based on the need, which arose after a year, to reformulate the project. Despite the
statement in the SAR that ample water was available, there was insufficient. The project was
13 The mission recognizes that under the restructured project, all structures suffering from deferred maintenance
were to be repaired before turnover to WUAs. However, these works, which were to be funded by the project,
were not carried out apparently because of a lack of cooperation and coordination between the ID 11 and ID I.



14
reformulated over a three year period and finalized by a supervision mission m close co-operation
between Bank staff, consultants and GOM. The measures taken were adequate to prepare an effective
package.
57.  Supervision. Twelve supervisions (the last in November/December 1996) were carried out
during the period of the original and restructured project not including the period 1991/92 through
1993 when actions by the Bank and the GOM were mainly centered on restructuring the project. All
supervision missions were manned by specialists in the required disciplines and comprised a mix of
Bank Headquarters and Resident Mission staff and consultants. In the early years, the continuous
pressure applied by the Bank on the posting of key staff to the CADA organization resulted in an
improvement in management performance. Problems were identified and detailed in supervision
reports and, as most of the problems persisted and continued to plague the early stages of the original
project, the Bank realized that the project had to be restructured. However, because of diverging views
within the Bank on whether the project should be restructured or the credit cancelled, the restructuring
process dragged along for quite some time. When it was finally decided that the project could be
restructured, and that the savings resulting from the devaluation of the rupee against the dollar could be
used for financing the completion of the ex-MCIP II subprojects, it took another two years to prepare
the feasibility studies and to complete the restructuring process. During the restructured project
implementation, the Bank issued a threat to suspend disbursements m October 1995 because the ERP
component had not been initiated by the Borrower. At credit closure implementation of measures
specific to the environmental studies and ERP are in their infancy14. In the identification of inadequate
budget allocations, quality of civil works, and the supervision of the improved water management
component, specifically the PPDR, the Bank's involvement was very useful. However, supervision
missions concentrated on ongoing civil works, and did not pay enough attention to the maintenance of
completed works for which a special provision had been made. Correspondence related to O&M in
project files refer to an O&M report submitted to the Bank in compliance with a condition m the
project agreement. No positive action or follow up was taken on the findings and recommendations in
the report. As regards WUAs, achievement numbers are detailed but the quality and performance of
these associations, and actions to be taken to resolve problems, are not specified. Though supervision
missions reported the areas which were being irrigated compared to areas made available for irrmgation,
no specific action was taken.
F. PERFORMANCE OF THE BORROWER
58.  Preparation. ID prepared the original project taking account of comments in the Bank's Aide-
Memoire dated 19 May, 1984, and the findings of the PCRs for MCIP I and II. GOM, advised and
assisted by FAO/CP, with monitoring and guidance by the Bank, prepared the restructured project.
The four new subprojects were prepared by internationally recruited consultants It was agreed that the
preparation and design of the original project was weak on aspects other than construction of irrigation
works. The restructured project rectified the deficiencies of the original project and was also adjusted
to conform to the Bank's guidelines and policies on environmental and economic rehabilitation
aspects. The Borrower performed well in the preparation, including designs, tendering, procurement,
and, with the improvement in project management, the restructuring was approved by the Bank.
14 This threat resulted in the formulation of an ERP policy in January 1996. By this stage it was too late to have a
significant impact on the implementation of the ERP component since most of the outstanding credit was already
committed to completing irrigation works.



15
59.  Implementation. Performance of the Borrower during the first two years of the original project
was unsatisfactory. Funds fell well below the required amounts. Management was weak resulting
from delays in posting key staff to the project. Tendering for major civil works was adversely affected
due to GOI and GOM reluctance to conform to the Bank's guidelines. GOM's decision to defer lining
of canals with a capacity less than 3 m3/s, and to also reduce the scope of the rural roads component,
were objected to by the Bank and further delayed implementation. While construction of major civil
works was carried out at a slow pace during the original project period, with improvements in project
management and funding and procurement issues resolved, durmg the restructured project period the
performance of the Borrower improved. However, the Borrower's performance on the institutional
development of O&M, environmental studies and preparation of POM was unsatisfactory. Its
recognition of the importance of WUAs was highly satisfactory, but too much attention was given to
meeting targets for their formation at the detriment of improving their effectiveness and farmer
turnover.
60.  Quality Control. Performance was mitially substandard. No special organization under the ID
was set up although constant and effective checks on major works were required. Supervision
missions regularly commented on the deficiencies. During the latter part of the original project, and
throughout the restructured project, a separate and independent organization under the ID was set up.
Standard tests were carried out and units of this organization were operated on site at major aqueducts,
drainage structures and regulators. Strict control measures were exercised. However, there was room
for improvement in compaction of concrete to obtain a better finish. The construction of the widely
scattered minor OFD structures supervised by ID II were carned out to the required standards.
Earthworks, and precast lining in field channels, were however substandard. The precast lining was
very poor and signs of severe dilapidation even after only one year of operation are visible. The ID
should explore the possibility of carrying out selective lining with rectangular in situ brick lined
construction as it appears that even after several years of experience in the manufacture of precast
concrete sections, the product is very substandard The quality of lining of the mam canals is good.
Lining by mechanical methods is far superior to that by manual operation in that the finish and
construction joints are superior. Maintenance is reduced as construction joints are spaced further apart
resulting in less weed growth and reduced seepage losses.
61. Operation and Maintenance. Though the responsibilities of ID I and U) II appear well
defined, in practice there are problems particularly in the coordination of their respective activities, and
the Borrower's performance in O&M is unsatisfactory. Currently the ID is responsible for maintaining
all irrigation ifrTastructure from the headworks down to the field canal outlets to the chaks. The
department is now in the process of handing over to WUAs, the O&M of irrigation systems covering
an area of about 400 ha usually coming under mnor canals. Operational activities managed by WIUAs
are covered satisfactorily. The distribution of water to WUAs on a volumetric basis are also carried
out to the required standard. Preventive maintenance of structures down to the chak level is not carried
out due to funding constraints and the lack of an effective maintenance plan. Periodic maintenance is
not carried out on a needs-based assessment. In addition, a lack of either preventive or periodic
maintenance has caused operational infrastructure previously managed by the ID I, to deteriorate to a
state that rehabilitation is now required. One of the shortcomings of the Borrower was not to avail
itself of the use of the special funds made available under the project to rehabilitate or upgrade the
irrigation structures during the restructured project implementation period. This would have taken care
of the maintenance needs of completed structures prior to their turn-over to WUAs. In addition, no
provision was made for the maintenance of the structures during the construction period.



16
62.  It was noted that: (a) lined sections are illegally broken to get water onto farms; (b) leaks
developed around outlets and drops, and lack of attention for long periods caused the complete collapse
of these structures; (c) clearing of shrubs around structures have not been carried out; (d) on fully
lined main and branch canals extensive growth of shrubs were observed at construction joints left
unattended for several years; (e) headwalls of gated structures have been damaged and control
arrangements are damaged or missing; (f) farmers have constructed their own check structures thereby
causing erosion of the channel bed; (g) field channels recently completed are being destroyed
completely or partially to facilitate mechanical ploughing; and (h) drainage network systems are not
maintained satisfactorily and have returned to their original overgrown condition.
63. Studies. The EIA, EMP, POM and river basin studies which should have been completed
during the restructured period have only recently commenced. The major reason was inordinate and
unjustified delays in recruiting national, and particularly international, consultant firms to carry out
these studies.
64.  Economic Rehabilitation  Component. Although priority was to be given to the
implementation of the economic rehabilitation component of PAPs, a plan was finalized as late as early
1996, and to date except for some work on the provision of civic amenities, compensation payments to
PAPs have not commenced.
65.  Progress and Audit Reports. Satisfactory progress reports were regularly submitted to the
Bank and audit reports were submitted with minimal delays.
66. Agricultural Development. During the original project, performance was unsatisfactory.
However during the restructured project period, the Borrower provided a separate allocation of funds,
and this created an interest in AD. The results in terms of increased agricultural production and
farmers' incomes have been quite impressive, but need to be consolidated if they are to have a wider
and sustainable impact on agricultural production within the project command areas.
67.  The poor utilization of the irrigation potential created can be due to a number of reasons: (a)
scarcity of water; (b) project design limitations where the demand for water exceeds the water
available; (c) willingness of farmers to take-up water; (d) farmers' reliance on nver lifts and wells; (e)
incomplete scheme works preventing water flow; (f) water management practices adopted by ID staff
and farmers; and (g) cropping patterns adopted, especially the use of high water demanding crops.
Discussions with farmers, WUAs and ID field staff suggested that, especially in Majalgaon and Upper
Penganga, limited water availability has definitely been restricting the area irrigated and this seems to
be the core problem. The reasons why water is not being regularly supplied to all of the areas where
OFD works have been completed as part of the project appear to result from poor and inequitable
system management whereby the canals located in the upper reaches of irrigation systems continue to
receive more water than those located at the tail end where the project was being implemented.
Corrective action, based on the ongoing POM studies, needs to be taken to improve the prevailing
situation. Unless this is done, the economic returns of the subprojects will continue to be lower than
originally expected.
68.  Steering Committee. A Steering Committee was to be established and maintained thereafter,
for promotion of agricultural development and was to be headed by the Secretary of the ID. The
committee was to meet once every three months (the minimum being six months). The first meeting
was held in 1985. As the SDDs were dropped, the activities of the committee ceased and in 1991 a
new Steering Committee was created to monitor implementation of the project, and specifically the



17
PPDs and the volumetric RWS There is no record of the activities of the committee. Judging from
the progress of these studies, it is presumed that the committee had some influence on the results
obtained. However in matters of O&M, WUAs and overall project coordination, the committee's
performance appears to have been unsatisfactory
69. A coordinating committee organized at the level of the GOM's Ministry of Finance has the
responsibility for the review of all externally financed projects. This high level committee served no
useful purpose to resolve the inter-agency issues which impeded implementation of MCIP III. Had
there been a project-specific coordinating committee, chaired by the Secretary of Finance and manned
by high level staff of each of the ministries and departments implementing the project, fimely action to
resolve several issues which retarded progress could have been taken.
70.  Compliance with Covenants. During the original project all dated covenants at restructuring
were substantially complied with, after a delay of several years. At credit closure all dated covenants
for the studies and ERP component included in the restructured project were not complied with.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
71.  The project's outcome with respect to civil works (irrigation and roads), and recognition of the
importance of WUAs in O&M and irrigation agriculture extension, is rated satisfactory. However in
terms of present agricultural achievements, slow progress on economic rehabilitation of the ERP
component and the EIA and EMP studies, as well as the poor condition of the operational irrigation
infrastructure, the outcome is unsatisfactory. The reason for the low ranking is the low irrigated
cropped areas averaging about 36 percent at Credit closure, lack of progress in farmer turnover and the
less than satisfactory performance of ID field staff in providing technical supervision to WUAs, and the
continuing low funding levels for O&M leading to the need for rehabilitation due to deferred
maintenance. In addition, the objectives of equitable, predictable and reliable irrigation supplies to all
farms according to the dependable reservoir supply have not been realized in the completed command
areas, especially in the Godavari basin subprojects.
H. FUTIIRE OPERATION
72.  The following actions would be required to complete the project and to ensure it is operated in
such a way that its objectives are achieved: (a) completion of remaining major civil works required for
supplying water to the command areas where OFD works have been completed; (b) a realistic
assessment of water supplies from the storage reservoirs and the area that could be irrigated; (c) EIA
and EMP studies and the measures to be implemented; (d) the preparation of an effective POM; (e) a
training program for ID field staff and farmers focused on maintenance activities; (f) a continuing
program for organizing viable and effective WUAs; (g) provision of adequate budgetary allocations for
O&M of infrastructure to be maintained by the ID; (h) completion of the studies; (i) a continuation and
consolidation of the agricultural development program for three more years; and (j) completion of the
ERP component.
73. The GOM has submitted to the World Bank a plan of action for the period January 1997 to
March 2000 to complete the balance works on irrigation infrastructure, roads, bridges and agriculture,
as well as to complete the studies and the ERP component referred to in the previous para (see
Appendix 3, Tables 4 and 6).



18
I. LESSONS LEARNED
74.  The lessons learned from the project are classified as follows:
Water Resources Availability and Management
(a)  Unless the adequacy of water supply and the proper management of the existing
systems is ensured, expansion of irrigation facilities to new areas in the CCA of
the subprojects should not be taken up.
(b)  The financing of future water resources development projects in Maharashtra
and elsewhere in India should be preceded by: (i) the issuance of a state water
policy defining the state priorities and institutional reforms, (ii) the preparation
of a state water management plan defining the availability and management of
water resources on a river basin basis; (iii) the identification of the rehabilitation
requirements of the existing operational irrigation infrastructure prior to
considering further developments; and (iv) the consideration of private sector
groundwater development to increase the efficiency of irrigation.
(c)  The cropping patterns used in designing the subprojects were quite different
from those currently followed by farmers, especially in Majalgaon. Careful
consideration is needed as to whether water should be spread thinly over the
areas where irrigation infrastructure has been created, as a means of drought
protection, or spread over smaller areas to enable development into higher
value, thirsty crops. The optimum economic strategy would vary from
subproject to subproject depending on the extent and condition of existing
irrigation infrastructure, the effectiveness of WUAs in managing water, and on
the irrigation water responses and economics of alternative crops.
(d)  The usefulness of the Pilot Project for Dynamic Regulation (canal automation)
is questionable if the Majalgaon command continues to face water shortages,
due to limited water availability and the poor maintenance of the canals (minors
and field). Water allocations to this command need to be reviewed within the
framework of the Godavari basin water resources management studies and a
proper POM needs to be prepared and implemented in order to test the
feasibility and sustainability of canal automation in India. Furthermore, the pilot
activities should be continued for at least three more years.
Operation and Maintenance
(e)  No new projects should be considered for financing unless an effective and
sustainable O&M system covering both the construction and operational periods
is agreed upon and implemented.
(f)  To improve the performance of ID II field staff and WUAs in O&M, it is
recommended that: (i) more intensive training (classroom and site) in preventive
and periodic maintenance activities be given to ID II field staff and WUAs; (ii)
the technical supervision of WUAs should continue even after turnover of



19
maintenance to them; and (iii) an effective supervision schedule for Section
Officers, and canal inspectors, be introduced with high level staff monitoring
their activities.
(g)  Farmer involvement in O&M  activities is critical to the sustainability of the
project. In order to ensure that O&M activities are performed satisfactorily by
farmers, WALMI should carry out more training, particularly on maintenance
(preventive and periodic) at farm sites and not only in classrooms, taking groups
to areas where severe deterioration is apparent.
Water Users' Associations
(h)  The responsibilities between ID I and ID II for rehabilitating the structures turned-
over to WUAs needs to be clarified, and the WUAs involved in these activities to
ensure a sense of ownership.
(i)  The effectiveness of WUAs should be judged not only in terms of financial and
water management, but also in terms of their ability to maintain the structures
turned-over to them.
(j) The ID II, which is responsible for the formation of WUAs, should recruit either
institutional specialists or NGOs to work as a team with its own engineering staff
while preparing the rehabilitation and O&M plans prior to turn-over of irrigation
structures to farmers.
(k)  Once WUAs are formed throughout a scheme command, there is a need to form a
scheme-level committee which would negotiate the allocation of water at the
beginning of each season with the ID Il. Special training will be requwred for this
which should also be taken up under future projects.
Irrigated Agriculture
(1)  In future, the Bank should ensure that, in all new projects providing irrigation
facilities to traditionally rainfed areas, an agricultural component with a separate
budget is included in the project from the outset.
(m) The ongoing extension work in the subproject should continue for another three
years to ensure a better uptake of irrigated agriculture by project beneficianes and a
more efficient use of water at the farm level.
Economic Rehabilitation of Project Affected Families
(n)  An ERP component must be backed by a detailed action plan prior to project
implementation. Such components must have a separate allocation of funds and be
regularly monitored.



20
General
(o)  The quality of project preparation is a major consideration for successful project
implementation. The review of technical aspects are as important as the other
social, economic, and financial aspects.
(p)  Complex Bank-financed irrigation projects should include provision for a mid-term
review to be carried out by a team of specialists not connected with the project, and
the monitoring of project implementation should not be confined to only physical and
financial progress, but should also include irrigation performance and impact on
agricultural production.
(q) To improve coordination between the various implementing agencies involved in an
irrigation project, a project-specific coordination committee, chaired by the
Secretary of Finance, is needed. Funds should be allocated directly from the
Ministry of Finance to the agency responsible for a project component.
(r)  Special arrangements need to be agreed with the Borrower prior to project
implementation to ensure that national, and particularly international, consultant
firms are recruited in a timely manner.



21
PART I: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of obiectives              Substantial    Partial    Negliaible  Not Aplicable
(4)          (4)         (4)          (4)
Macro policies                      Fl [Z                   [LJ
Sector policies                                             P r]         [I
Financial objectives                            El           El          [f
Institutional development            l         ElI                       El
Physical objectives                                                      E E  E  E
Poverty reduction                  El                        E            El
Gender issues                      E            E            El
Other social objectives            El           El           E               i
Environmental objectives           E]                        El           El
Public sector management           E            E            El
Private sector development           l            l         F] 
Other (specify)                    El           E           E  
B. Project sustainabilitv                   Likely       Unlikely    Uncertain
(4)          (4)         (4
Hi~11
C. Bank Rerformance                       satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
(4)                      (4)
Identification                               A LJ         E
Preparation assistance           El          El          [f
Appraisal                       E           El
Supervision                     El                        El



22
Ih1h
D. Borrower verformance                   satisfactor    Satisfactorv   Deficient
Preparation
Implementation                                           FT]
Covenant compliance              Z            [W
Operation (if applicable)                    D           [ E
H2thlI                                     Highly
E. Assessment of outcome               satisfactor    Satisfactorv   Unsatisfactorv  unsatisfactor
El           (l                           E ()
I  01    C:              E             [2-



23
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                   Purpose                                              Year of approval    Status
Preceding operations
I.Maharashtra Irrigation I Project (Cr.   Inigation development of the second stage (about  1977            Closed
736-In)                              100,000 ha) ofthe Jayakwadi/Majalgaon river basin.                     PCR issued
1984
2. Maharashtra Irrigation II Project  Financing of a five year time slice of a composite  1979              Closed PCR
(Cr.954-IN) US$452.9 million        programme of six new Irrigation schemes (Bhirna,                        issued 1987
Krishna, Kukadi, Upper Penganga, Upper Wardha and
Warna). Pilot Farmers' Project.
3. Maharashtra Agricultural Extension   Agricultural extension.                          1981
Project (Cr. 1135-IN)
4. Maharashtra Water Utilization    To mcrease effective use of available water in Jayakwadi    1983        Closed PCR
Project (Cr.1383-lN, Ln. 2308-IN)   and other schemes.                                                      issued 1995
5. National Agricultural Extension  To strengthen the T&V extension system, to improve the    1984          Closed PCR
Project (Cr.1523-lN)US$65.6 million   capacity of central agencies to provide training and                  issued 1994
guidance to the states, and to finance special studies.
6. Second Agricultural Extension    To improve the coverage, depth and quality of extenson  1985            Closed PCR
Project (Cr. 1569-IND) US$49.0      services of the States of Haryana, Gujarat, and Kamataka                issued 1994
million                             and to assist the state of Jammu and Kashmir in the
improvement and reorgamisation of agricultural extension.
7. Pilot Project for Watershed      To: (a) develop, on a watershed basis, and through the use   1983       Closed PCR
Developmrent in Ra&fed Areas        of appropriate organization and management syste,                       issued 1995
(Cr.1424-lN) US$31 milhon           suitable technologies for increasing and stabilizing crop
and forage yields, as well as the production of fuelwood
and timber in selected rainfed faunng areas; and (b)
defne technical criteria, adnunistrative procedures and
investment limits useful in replicating watershed
development activities in other areas.
Follomwng Operations
1. National Water Managemntr Project  Increase agriculhtural output providing farmers with more    1987     Closed PCR
(Cr. 1770-lN) US$14 mnillion        reliable & predictable irrigated water.                                 issued April
1996
2. National Agricultural Extension  Introduce T&V system in Himachal Pradesh and Uttar   1987               Ongoing
Project III (Cr.1754-1N) US$85      Pradesh; further strengthen the reorganised agricultural
million                             extension and linkages between extension & research in
Assam.



24
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project process                              | Date planned            Date actual/
l  ___________________    latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)              1977                    1977
Preparation                                             1983                    1983
Appraisal                                               N.A.                    September 1984
Negotiations                                                                    1985
Board presentation                                                              July 16, 1985
Signing                                                                         December 5, 1985
Effectiveness                                                                   March 13, 1986
Preparation for restructuring                                                   1987 to 1992
Bank's of approval of the restrucred project                                    June 8, 1993
Project completion                                      June 1990 (original)
December31, 1996        December31, 1996
(restructured)
Credit Closing                                          June 30, 1991           Extended twice up to June
(original)              1993
December 31, 1996       December 31, 1996
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Financial Years (FY)
FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90        FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97
Appraisal esfimate    25.50    59.30    99.50    133.50  156.40  160.0   160.0   160.0   160.0   160.0   160.0
Actual"           4.22     12.44    17.19   25.77      43.24   51.15   58.46   91.48    128.86  177.99   187.74
Actual as % of     17      21       17       19        28       32      37       57      81       111     117
estimate
Date of final      20 February 1997
disbursement
Sourced from FACT (Financial and Cost Application). Actual disbursements incorporate the SDR 32 million cancelled from the Credit in
1992.



25
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Esfimate                          Actual
Key Implementation Indicatorsl/   Unit        Restructured    Revised           Cumulative        % of Revised
Target          Target(1994/95)    Achievement      Target
1. Culturable Command Area       000 ha       227.S0          227.S0            210.17            92
2. Modernization of Headworks    %            100.00           100.00           99.00              100
3. Main Canals
(a) Earthworks                   000 m3       18,169.00       19,073.00         17,344.00         91
(b) Lining                       000 m2       6,437.00        6,320.00          4,711 00          75
(c) Structures                   Nos.         894.00          896.00            777.00            87
4. Branch Canals
(a) Earthworks                   000 m3       4,665.00        4,910.00          4,070.00          83
(b) Lining                       000 rn2      2,686.00        2,524.00          1,662.00          66
(c) Structures                   Nos.         560.00          566.00            400.00            71
5. Distributary Canals
(a) Earthworks                   000 rn3      15,208.00       15,835.00         14,848.00         94
(b) Lining                       000 rn2      3,636.00        3,587.00          3,361.00          94
(c) Structures                   Nos.         13,891.00       14,719.00         12,967.00         88
6. Minor Canals
(a) Earthworks                   000 rn3      8,806.00        9,914.00          8,726.00          88
(b) Lining                       000 r2       3,256.00        3,251.00          3,123.00          96
(c) Structures                   Nos.         5,701.00        6,377.00          4,731.00          74
7. Vehicles and Equipment         %           100.00           100.00            100.00            100
8. Upgradation of
Existing Canals                 000 ha      200.00           215.08            163.04            76
9. Main and Link Drains          000 ha       160.75           141.47            141.47            100
10. Sub-Surface Drains           000 ha       17.76           15.89             15.89             100
11. Field Canals                 000 ha       230.70          230.37            208.58            91
12. Selective Lining             000 ha       197.98          198.15            164.85            83
13.Land Shaping and
Conjunctive Use                000 ha      50.02            50 02             35.56             71
14. Service Roads 2/             km           1,140.00        866.00            678.00            78
15. Rural Roads 2                km           1,140.00        837.00            776.00            93
16. Bridges                      Nos.         23.00           21 00             6.00              29
17. Buildings                    Rs M         77.32           76.72             62.34             81
18. Vehicles and Equipment       Rs M         91.16           91.16             73.33             80
19.Water Users Associations      Nos.         70.00           70.00             193.00            276
20. Economic Rehabilitation       Rs.M        not estimated   583.81            0.00              0
21. Civic Amenities               RsM         not estimated   343.10             139.60           41
22. Studies                       Rs M        82.52            82.54            31.92             39



26
Estimate                                 Actual
Key Implementation Indicators'       Unit          Restructured      Revised            Cumulative          % of Revised
Target           Target(1994/95)     Achievement         Target
23. DSRP-Repairs and
Safety Measures                   RsM                            203.50              0.00                0
24. Agricultural Development         Rs M          190.00            190.00              157.00             83
" For the main canal systems, the SAR estimated 9 MN3 of earthworks, 12 Mm2 of lining and 1,200 structures. These quantities were
exceeded by 400%, 7% and 1,470% respectively.
2 SAR estimated 250 km of service roads and 657 km of rural roads. The quantities were exceeded by 171% and 18% respectively.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
(Not Applicable)
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Studies & Surveys              at appraisal/redefined            Status                      lmpact of study
1. Specially Developed        Aimed at triggering a process of  Abandoned after the second   The pilot area-proportional
Distributaries (SDD)           agricultural development in the   year as deemed impractical,   rotational water supply
project area                      non replicable and was      (RWS) replaced the study.
duplicating existing research
programmes.
2. Refining Cultural Practices  To determine cost effective methods   Cancelled as it would   No impact
and improve farmer income.        duplicate research
programmes being carried
out inthe country.
3 Develop and test fanning     To improve farmer income.           - do-                      No impact
systems
4. Study of border length      To find out the a cost effective  Cancelled as being carried out   None
method of land shaping.           at WALMI and the
universities.
S. Design and test animal drawn   To improve tillage operations using   As research is widely carried    None
equipment                      appropriate technology.           out in the country, the study
was not taken up.
6. Developing correct operating    To improve water management and    Completed and review was  No record ofthe findings nor
regimes for the distributary   O&M.                              carried out by GOM in 1988.   any improvement in water
network                                                                                       management or O&M.
7. Land shaping criteria       Production of a manual to facilitate    Completed.             The revised manual with the
land shaping,                                                  mclusion of Bank's comments
was useful in land shaping
operations.
8. O&M cost study              To assist in costing maintenance on    Compleed. Report sent to the   The outdated norms are still
a needs based assessment and the  Bank but no record of       being used for budgetary
revision of the outdated norms used   acceptance ofthe report  purpose and no useful
for budgeting.                                                purpose was served by the
study.
9. Monitoring of resettlement  Monitoring ofthe economic and     Completed in October 1987.   The study was accepted by
and rehabilitation             social progress of PAPs settled in                            the GOM and used for design



27
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate             Actual Estimate11
Item
Rs. million   US$ million     Rs. million    US$ million
Major Works (ID I)                          2,334.4          194.5        6,059.4          206.8
CADA Works (ID II)                           999.9            83.3        1,446.3           60.4
Common Programmes:
- Special Development Distributaries          88.2             7.3
- Technical Services/Studies                  32.3             2.7           58.7             2.6
- Vehicles and Equipment                      69.5             5.8           77.9            4.6
- Establishment                              347.9            29.0        1,568.4           70.6
- Buildings                                                                  41.6             1.6
- Training                                                                   70.7            2.1
- Dam Safety                                                                  5.5            0.2
Resettlement and Rehabilitation                                             139.6             2.0
Rural Roads and Bridges (PWD)                                               375.5            12.5
Agricultural Development (AD)                                               167.0             4 9
Total Project Costs                      3 ,872.2 "        322.71/      10,010.6 21       368.3 21
" Includes physical and price contingencies.
2v Up to 31 December 1996.
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate"
(US$ million)                   (US$ million)
Source
IDA                                                      160.0                           187.7 2'
Other External Sources                                        0                               o 3/
Borrower - GOM                                            162.7                            180.6
Total                                                     322.7                             368 3
" Up to 31 December 1996.
v Sourced from FACT (see Table 4)
3 No co-financing institution, although French Aid supported the pilot dynamic regulation
activities in the Majalgaon subproject.



28
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Appraisal Estimate            ICR Estimate
Rainfed      Irrigated     Rainfed       Irrigated
Farm Incomes (Rs per 4.5 ha farm)
II/
Jayakwadi                               23,020        85,720        12,590        58,680
Majalgaon                               11,280       115,770        11,920        69,270
Upper Penganga                                                      6,570        57,120
Kukadi                                                               8,220        52,160
Bhima                                                               10,260       49,230
Krishna _ __                                                        16,650       78,460
Appraisal Estimate            ICR Estimate
Economic Rates of Return (%/o)
Jayakwadi 21                      18 and 29 4'                15
Majalgaon 21                      13                          5
Upper Penganga 31                 9 and 11 5                 -2
Kukadi 3'                         5                           5
Bhima 3/                          17                          -2
Krishna3'                         18                          5
Underlying Assumptions
Project Life                      40 years                   40 years
Standard Conversion Factor        0.8                        0.9
Construction Conversion Factor    0.7-0.8                    0.9
Unskilled Labour                  0.66 financial price       0.9 financial price
" First quarter 1997 prices.
2' At appraisal.
3' At restructuring.
4/ New area and MCIP l/GOM portion respectively.
s' RBC an 0-1 10 and km 0-177 respectively.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original    Revised
Covenant Present  fulfilment  fulfilment  Description of
Agreement Section    type       status   date       date       covenant                                                 Comments
202(a)     T         OK                             Plan, design, construct, operate and maintain works under part A   Complied
and B of project according to standards/criteria satisfactory to IDA
and provide adequate funds for O&M.
2.02(b)    T         OK                             Plan, design and implement land shaping according to criteria  Complied
satisfactory to IDA.
2.02(c)    M         OK       12/31/85    11/30/86   Train project staff and furnish schedules to IDA for    Complied
review/comments.
2.02(eXi)   M        OK       12/31/93    3/31/95   GOM shall review and update with the assistance of consultants,  Complied
lists of PAPs except Jayakwadi.
2.02(eXii)  E        OK       09/30/93    12/31/94    GOM shall review and update its regulations dealing with  Complied
04/02/96   entitlement of PAPs except Jayakwadi, including civic amenities,
financial assistance for housing, land and income generating
schemes.
2.02(f)    M         OK      06/30/93    03/31/95    GOM shall strengthen R&R units at district level, including the   Complied
04/02/96   appointment of a Senior Officer of a suitable rank with necessary
administrative and financial powers for each command area
except Jayakwadi.
2.02(g)    M         OK       12/31/93    12/31/94   GOM shall prepare with assistance of experienced consultants    Complied
04/02/96   acceptable to the association and in close consultation with PAPs,
rehabilitation plans in consistent with the act; such plans shall set
out proposed income generating schemes, eligibility criteria and
submit to the association for review and approval.
206        T         NYD                            Take measures to minimise risk of malaria and other water-  Necessary actions are being
related diseases in the project area.                   taken to minimise the risk of
malaria & water- related
diseases in respect of
Jayakwadi & Majalgaon.
2.08       T         OK                  12/02/96   GOM shall take all necessary remedial measures recommended by Complied.



Original    Revised
Covenant Present  fulfilment  fulfiltment  Description of
Agreement Section    type       status   date       date        covenant                                                Comments
the DSRP through the existing Dam Safety Organization.
2 09       T         OK                             GOM shall carry out the Paithan Catchment area of the Godavari  Complied
Basin Study under Part L(ii) of the project in accordance with
TORs and schedule agreed with the Association
2 10       T         SOON   06/30/96                GOM shall complete the studies under Part D.2 of the project  Complied. Studies are
(except as provided in Sec. 2 11) and furnish the results of the    entrusted to Consultant which
studies to the Association for review and comments.     are in progress.
2.1 l(a)   M         SOON   12/31/95                GOM shall prepare, in accordance with the TORs and schedule   Complied, except appointment
agreed with the association and furnish for review and comments, of consultants for POM for
environmental impact assessment and management plans under   Jayakwadi and UPP.
Part D.2 of the project, for each of the command areas under Part
A,B,G,H,I and J of the project
2 1 l(b)    M        OK                             Initiate the implementation of such plans, and monitor such  Complied.
implementation through the MIS established under Part E of the
project.
3 01       F         OK                             Maintain separate records and accounts and furnish copies of    The Statement of Expenditure
accounts and financial statements as soon as available, but not    (SOE) for 94/95 are already
later than 9 months after end of the year               sent. The SOE for 95/96 are
being sent shortly
3.02       F         OK                             Furnish Audit Report to IDA immediately following finalization.  The Statement of Expenditure
(SOE) for 94/95 are already
sent The SOE for 95/96 are
being sent shortly.
3.03(a)    M         SOON   06/30/94    Proposed   GOM shall complete the establishment of the Water Users'  Target for establishing WUAs
06/30/96    Societies under the project in accordance with the procedures    is 80.
and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association.   Societies registered are 193.
Societies handed over to
beneficiaries are 71.
3 04 A     F         NC                             Review and, if required, revised levels of water charges every    Not complied
two years commencing not later than Dec. 5, 1987, to cover
average O&M costs and portion of investment costs
commensurate with repayment capacity of farmers
3 04 B     M         OK                             Wherever half the farmers on a distributary request water, make Complied
supplementary kharif irrigation available to such farmers.



Original    Revised
Covenant Present  fulfilment  ftdfilment  Description of
Agreement Section    type       status   date       date       covenant                                                 Comments
3.04 C     F         OK       12/31/86              Conduct study and determine annual amount for O&M costs.   Complied
3.05       F         OK       04/01/87              On April I of each year, make annual budgetary allocations to  Complied
cover O&M costs.
3.06 (a)    F        OK                             GOM shall take all such action as shall be necessary, including  Complied
provision of fuids for carrying out through CADA the land
shaping of farmers' fields.
3.06(b)    F         OK                             Make adequate arrangements for the recovery of the funds that    Complied
may be lent.
3.07       F         OK       12/31/86              Conduct study to assess loan repayment capacity of farmers for  Complied
land shaping and, if necessary, revised lending terms.
Schedule 2  M        OK       10/31/93    10/31/94   Update furnish to the Association, for its review and comments, a  Complied
para (a)                                            detailed work plan for carrying out parts C, D, E, l, K and L of the
project and thereafter taking into account the Association's
comments, if any, to implement such plans                                               H
Schedule 2  M        OK       06/30/93              GOM shall appoint and thereafter maintain within its AD a  Complied
para (bXi)                                          qualified and experienced officer of SDADO level as Water
Management Specialist in such T&V cluster of the project area.
Schedule 2  M        OK       06/30/93    12/31/94    Strengthen existing agriculture extension services at the district  Complied
para(bXii)                                          level in the project area with adequate staff including an assistant
to the Principal Agriculture Officer at each district.
Schedule 2  M        OK      06/30/93               GOM shall appoint and thereafter maintain within its ID a  Complied
(c)                                                 Conmmand Area Development Administrator of the SE level in
each command area, each with qualifications and responsibilities
acceptable to the Association.
Schedule 2  M        OK                             Establish suitable farmer's organisations pursuant to a plan  Complied
(d)                                                 satisfactory to GOM and IDA to promote active participating
fanners in O&M of system, land shaping and maintenance of the



Onginal    Revised 
Covenat Present  fulfihment  fiilfihment  Description of|
Agreement Section    type        status   date        date       covenant                                                   Comments
service roads. 
Schedule 2  M        SOON                             Cause CADA to carry out required improvement and          Fanners are being trained for|
(e)                                                   modification in irrigation system within two years of     O&M activities. Required
commissioning of each Distributary m consultation with    improvement and modifications
farmers' organization.                                    in irrigation system is being
carried out before handing
over system to societies.



33
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                   Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1. OMS 2.25 Cost Recovery Policy             The GOM did not comply with this OMS which
emphasises the importance of recovering the full
cost of O&M of irrigation schemes.
2. OMS 2.36 Environmental Aspects of Bank Work  The GOM did not comply with this OMS which
emphasises the importance of environmental aspects.
The EIA and EMP studies included at restructuring
were not implemented before Credit closure.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs 1/
Stage of             Planned                  Revised                Actual
project cycle                                l
Weeks       US$'000     Weeks       US$'000    Weeks    US$'000
Preparation to           nr 2/          nr         nr           nr        30.5      59.0
appraisal                                                                                l
Appraisal                  nr           nr         nr           nr        48.5      91.0
Negotiations through       nr           nr         nr           nr         7.9      15.2
Board approval
Supervision               45.0         48.4        49.6         45.4    464.3      467.5
Completion                 15.0        51.4        11.1         34.6       7.2      28.2
TOTAL                    60.0         99.8        60.7         80.0     558.4     660.9
1/ Data extracted from FACT as of 10 March 1997.
2/ nr = no records available.



34
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Perfornance rating
Stage of
project cycle           Month/     Number    Days m           Specialised           hnplemen-      Develop-
year       of           Seld          staff Skills         tation          ment          Types of
peesons                   represented'5         status         objectives    problems6 |
Through appraisal 17                                                  _
Appraisal through'
Board approval
Supervision 3
Sept85    1 I1                       IE(3),A(3)RE(I),P     I              I             F,M
___ __ __ ___ __ __S(l),S(I)                                                                  _   _   _ _ _ _
2           ~          April 86    5            19            IE(l),RE(l),PS(l),    3              2             F,M
_____________ |F(l),A(l)
3                      Nov. 86    n.a          na             na                    na             na          |  a
4                      Sept.87      1          7             IE(l)                  4              2             F,M
5                      May 88      6           8              IE(2),A(l),RE(l),    4               2             F,M
S(l), DE!(l)
;~~~~ T   I =   =_
6                      Oct.88      2           o0             I 1E(2)               3              2
7                      June 89   |6          I5              I|E(2),PE(2),PA(1),    2              I         I P,T,EA
!__ _       !             !CA(l)                !              !
8                      Dec. 89     5            11            EE(2),PIE(I),RE(1)  | 2              1            T,EA
9                      July90      3           7              E E(2),RE(l)        12             lI              F,TA,
10                    Jan.91      5          1 [5            I E(2),RE(l),A(l),   2               1            M,F,P,TA,
.l     |           |           l              | ~~~~~ ~ ~~                 ~     ~       ~~~~ARS(I)      |EA
i I                    Aug91       5           4            | PIE(1),E(1),RE(1), i 2               1          1 C,M,F,P,TA
=l              =             =      |   |  S(l)           j               _   _ _ _      EA
12                     Dec.93      6            13            PIE(I),E(I),RE(l)    2               1            C,FP,T,TA,
=              =             =       I   |   | PE(I),RR          =        I     =        S, E
13                     Dec. 94     4           23             PIE(l),IE(l),RE(1),   S              S            C,P,T,TA,S,
|l     l           l            |             | ~~~~~ ~ ~ ~               ~      ~       ~     ~~~~ARS(I)      |EA
14                     Nov. 95    4            5            | PIE(l),IE(l),S(l),   U             | S           | C,PT,TA,
-   -         1A(l)                 1             .                S,EA
15                     Aug.96      6           11           | PIE(l),IE(I)A(l),    U            | U           | C,P,TTA,
=              =             =        J_gRR(1),RE(1), CE(1) [              _ _ _         S,EA
16                     Dec.96      2            12            IE(I),RR(1)          n.a              n.a        |  a
Completion             Dec.96        3          12          ] E(l),IE(l), A()     I             I              I
'5PIE=Principal hTigation Engineer, IE=Lrrigation Engineer, PA=Project advisor, CA=Chief Agriculturlist, A= Agriculturalist
A=Agriculbre Research Officer, RE=Roads Engineer, F=Fmancial Analyst, S=Sociologist, RR=Resettlement and Rehabilitation
Specialist, DE=Drainage Engineer, PS=Procurement Specialist, E=Econonist, CE=Construction Engineer
1 6 F=Finacial, M=Management, P=Procurewent, TA=Technical Assistance, C=Legal Covenents, S=Studies, EA=Environmental,
T=Training
7 No records available on FACT as at 10 March 1997.



35
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NDIA
MAHARASHTRA COMPOSITE IRRIGATION PROJECT III
{CR. 1621-lN)
APPENDIX 1
MISSION'S AIDE-MEMOIRE
A. Introduction
1.        An FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme (FAO/CP) mission comprising
Messrs. W.J. Sorrenson (Agricultural Economist, Mission Leader), G.S Schokman (Irrigation
Engineer) and S. Sarkar (Agronomist), visited India from 29 November to 16 December 1996 to
review the implementation performance of the Maharashtra Composite Irrigation Project III
(MCIP III) and prepare its Implementation Completion Report (ICR). As required by Bank
regulations, the FAO/CP mission coincided with the last supervision mission for the project by
Messrs. N.K. Bandyopadhyay (Task Manager) and I.U.B. Reddy (R&R Specialist), from the
World Bank, Resident Mission, New Delhi. After initial discussions with staff of the Resident
Mission in New Delhi, the mission visited Maharashtra from 2-13 December. Field visits were
made to five of the six subprojects included in MCIP III (Majalgaon, Upper Penganga, Kukadi,
Bhima and Krishna). Discussions were held with farmers and concerned field officials from the
Irrigation, Public Works, Agriculture and Revenue and Forests Departments. The mission also
visited the Water and Land Management Institute (WALMI) in Aurangabad.
2.        A wrap-up meeting was held in Bombay on 13 December 1996 to discuss this draft
aide-memoire. The meeting was chaired by Mr. R.G. Kulkarni, Secretary Irrigation Department
and was attended by Mr. M.D. Pendse, Secretary Irrigation, CAD, and other staff concerned with
the project of the Departments of Irrigation, PWD, Agriculture and Rehabilitation.
3.        This draft Aide-Memoire summarises the findings and preliminary conclusions of the
ICR mission, and is subject to confirmation of Bank and FAO/CP management.
4.        The mission wishes to express its appreciation for the excellent assistance and
hospitality extended to it in Maharashtra.
B. The Project
5.        The MCIP III project was appraised in 1985. Implementation started in December
1985 and the project was to be completed in June 1991. Subsequently, the project was extended
twice on a twelve month basis to 30 June 1993 and in April 1993 approval was granted to
restructure the project with a revised closure date of 31 December 1996.



36
Project Objectives
SAR
6.        According to the SAR the main objective of the project was to substantially raise
agricultural production and farmers' incomes by improving the utilisation of black cotton soils
and available water in two command areas (Jayakwadi and Majalgaon). These subprojects were
funded under the MCIP I project (Cr. 736-IN) which was initiated in mid-1 977. MCIP III was to:
(a) complete irrigation works and on-farm development in the Jayakwadi command; (b) stimulate
and promote agricultural development in all of the command (200,000 ha); (c) advance the
development of the associated Majalgaon command (100,000 ha) completing its first segment of
24,000 ha; and (d) introduce improved O&M procedures. Major emphasis would be shifted away
from large infrastructure works to on-farm development, water management and agricultural
production practices, so as to trigger a self-sustained process of agricultural growth.
Restructured Project
7.        While retaining the main objectives of increasing agricultural productivity and
farmers' incomes, the restructured project aimed to expand the scope of the project by including:
(a) investments on water distribution and drainage networks in four additional incomplete
subprojects which were included in an earlier Bank financed project (MCIP II - Cr. 954-IN); (b)
an economic rehabilitation programme for families who had been earlier affected when the dams
were constructed for the Majalgaon, Upper Penganga, Kukadi, Krishna and Bhima subprojects';
and (c) to improve project performance and environmental impact.
Project Components
SAR
8.        Major Works:
(i)  In the Jayakwadi command completion of irrigation systems (distributaries and
minors), main and link drains and the construction and / or rehabilitation of 537
km of rural roads within the Jayakwadi command; and (ii) in the Majalgaon
command construction of structures along km 0-67 of the main canal,
construction of the main canal between km 67-100 including lining and
structures, distributaries and minors along the first 100 km of the main canal,
main and link drains and 120 km of rural roads in the first segment of the
command.
9.        On-Farm Development Works:
(i)  In the Jayakwadi command, construction of structures, field channels and
drains, the development of three special distributaries (SDDs), land shaping
Economic rehabilitation in the Jayakwadi command had been completed earlier.



37
and technical support to farmers in the entire command; and (ii) in the
Majalgaon command, construction of structures, field channels and drains, the
development of one special distributary (SDD), land shaping and technical
support to farmers.
10.       On-Farm Development Works:
(i) Equipment for land shaping, telecommunication and monitoring; (ii)
strengthening the project monitoring and evaluation unit; (iii) agricultural
research and extension support; and (iv) training, studies, study tours and
consultancy services.
Restructured Project
11.       As per the restructuring mission findings, the project was to be restructured to
complete the ongoing irrigation and drainage works and associated rural roads in the Jayakwadi
and Majalgaon commands as per the SAR. The Majalgaon command area was reduced from
100,000 ha to 58,000 ha in line with the reassessed availability of water and the Kukadi
command (100,000 ha), Krishna command (81,000 ha), Bhima (106,000 ha) and Upper Penganga
(140,000 ha), were added'.
12.       Construction Works. In order to complete works in all 6 subprojects the following
construction works were included: (i) 570 km of main and branch canals; (ii) distributary
networks on 103,580 ha; and (iii) main and link drains on 78,000 ha.
13.       On-Farm Development Works. Across all 6 subprojects construction of: (i) field
channels and drains on 106,000 ha; and (ii) land shaping on 32,150 ha.
14.       Rural and Service Roads. Construction and / or rehabilitation of: (i) 836.6 km of
rural roads; and (ii) 757 km of service roads.
15.       Water User Associations. The establishment of WUAs was included in the project
at the time of restructuring. Some 80 WUAs were to be formed and handed-over in the subproject
command areas (not necessarily within the project affected areas). Associations were to be
responsible for water management, the maintenance of irrigation works from the level of minors
and for the collection of water fees on a volumetric pricing basis from all farmers within the
command area of the concerned minors. The development of WUAs was to be achieved through
an extension programme designed to create farmer participation and involvement.
16.       Agriculture. A detailed agricultural component was to be prepared and carried out
to support agricultural extension and demonstration plots for improved water management.
1 These areas have been obtained from the project supervision reports and include areas already developed, to
be developed under the project and to be developed in the future



38
17.       Economic Rehabilitation. The economic rehabilitation programme was to cover
the needs of some 36,000 project affected persons (PAPs) through: (a) the provision and
upgrading of basic civic amenities in 218 villages (roads, water, street lighting, schools,
community centres, sanitary units and other facilities); (b) the provision of financial assistance -
Rs 15,000 and Rs 10,000 for agricultural and non-agricultural families respectively for upgrading
of their housing; (c) the provision of tube well lift irrigation facilities to those PAPs not having
access to adequate irrigation; and (d) income generating schemes for the landless PAPs living
below the poverty line of up to Rs 18,000 per family to be implemented with the involvement of
NGOs.
18.       Environment. This component was included to ensure environmentally sustainable
infrastructure and subsequent operation, including the actions and Environmental Management
Plans for all of the subproject command areas. Initial implementation of the Plans was to be
undertaken not later than 31 December 1995. The hydrological measurement and analysis
capability of the ID was to be strengthened through the provision of additional equipment and
technical assistance for a pilot water resource study in the Godavari Basin up to the Paithan dam.
19.       Technical Assistance, Training and Studies. Special studies and modernisation
were to be funded including volumetric water supply to WUAs, canal automation and a review
of farmer water rights.
20.       Project Management.   This component was added to strengthen project
management through the establishment of management information systems and office
technology, training and tightened administrative procedures and staff reinforcement to expedite
procurement.
Project Costs
21.       The total cost of the MCIP III project inclusive of physical and price contingencies
was estimated at appraisal at US$ 322.7 m (Rs 3,872 m). IDA credit was for SDR 164.2 m (US$
160 m). At restructuring the total project cost, inclusive of physical and price contingencies, was
re-estimated at US$ 310 m (Rs 8,662 m) and the IDA credit at SDR 132.2 m (US$ 128.8 m). At
this time SDR 32 m was cancelled from the loan and retroactive financing was increased from
SDR 9 m to SDR 15 m.
C. Mission's Findings
Evaluation of Project Objectives
22.       The project objectives were clear and important considering that in the past ID, with
IDA support, had focused its efforts almost exclusively on the construction of surface irrigation
infrastructure. The widening of the project scope at restructuring to shift focus of attention away
from construction to: (a) ensuring optimum utilisation of the infrastructure created in the
commands; and (b) sustainability of the investment; was timely and appropriate in view of the
performance of the project at that point in time. Furthermore, it was in-line with the India
Irrigation Sector Review (Report No. 9518-IN of 20 December 1991).



39
Achievement of Project Objectives
23.       Disbursements initially were very slow. Despite an original closing date of 30 June
1991, disbursements at 28 February 1993 were SDR 40.3 m (only 24% of the original credit).
This low disbursement performance was due not only to the weak original project design (as
noted at the time of restructuring) but also to the large devaluation of the Rupee against the SDR.
Slow disbursement was overcome by the time of restructuring and disbursement performance
picked up thereafter.
24.       According to SAR, major emphasis was to be shifted from large infrastructure work
to on-farm development, water management and agricultural production practices, to trigger a
self-sustained process of agricultural growth. Initially project efforts focused on construction.
Increasing water use efficiency and actual areas irrigated, as well as the maintenance of irrigation
structures, were all neglected.
25.       At restructuring the scope of the project was substantially revised to: (a) improve
project performance through the economic rehabilitation of PAPs; (b) include environmental
management and sustainability features; (c) establish WUAs; (d) complete works in four
subprojects included in MCIP II; (e) reduce the command areas; and (f) improve project
management and performance. However, once again the main focus was found to be on the
construction activities.
26.       Except for the construction of major irrigation works and roads (90% and 110%'
complete respectively in financial terms), progress of all other components has been slow. A
number of components, especially R&R, environment, special studies and TA, have hardly got
off the ground. Furthermore, the areas of new irrigation have been much below expectation.
Therefore, the main objective of substantially raising agricultural productivity and farmers'
incomes through increasing the area irrigated, and the efficiency of water use, has not yet been
realised at the expected level.
27.       Credit under the project will be fully disbursed on, or shortly thereafter, 31 December
1996.
Implementation and Major Factors Affecting Project Performance
Irrigation Works2
28.       Irrigable Command. The culturable command area (CCA) estimated at appraisal
(1984/85) was 300,000 ha and was re-estimated at restructuring at about 227,800 ha. The
Jayakwadi and Majalgaon subprojects account for 146,000 ha and the additional four subprojects
included at restructuring account for a further 81,800 ha. By December 1996 about 182,000 ha of
on- farm development (OFD) works were completed giving an overall physical achievement of
80%.
1 Mainly due to excess quantities.
2 The areas quoted refer to the targets as at the time of restructuring the project.



40
29.        The re-estimated (at the time of restructuring) CCA of Jayakwadi, about 88,000 ha,
was achieved by 1991/921. By mid December 1996, irrigation potentials were created through
the completion of OFD works on the remaining subprojects as follows: (a) at Majalgaon, 55,457
ha out of the targeted 58,000 ha (97%); (b) at Upper Penganga, 19,631 ha out of 23,000 ha (85%);
(c) at Bhima, 15,921 ha out of 28,000 ha (57%); (d) at Krishna, 7,309 ha out of 10,800 ha (68%);
and (e) at Kukadi, 8,960 ha out of 20,000 ha (45%).
30.        Given the constraints of land acquisition, objections by villages in close proximity to
blasting operations, the extensive rock excavations in the main canal systems, inordinate delays in
the award of tenders and the subsequent contract management issues for the major aqueducts, the
progress achieved is highly commendable. Progress on OFD works implemented by ID II is
satisfactory. Delays in achievement of targets is mainly attributable to the requirement that OFD
works should commence only after the go ahead decision is given by ID I.
31.        Irrigated Cropped Area. Preliminary analysis of data supplied to the ICR mission
indicates that the overall progress so far achieved in terms of increased area irrigated has been
disappointing and is much below target. Of the total area of 227,800 ha to be brought under
irrigation as a result of project-related works, the maximum area which has actually been
irrigated is 69,409, accounting for 30% of the total area2. Achievement between subprojects has
varied markedly. Mission estimates indicate that the areas actually irrigated, expressed as a
percentage of the areas where OFD works have been completed, range from 45% to 97%. Major
factors responsible for this poor and varied performance are: (i) OFD works start only when
substantial completion is achieved in construction works, which set back progress in cultivation;
(ii) the long rotations and limited quantities of water being supplied to farmers, primarily
because of a shortage of water in the reservoirs especially in 1995; and (iii) farmers' reliance on
river lifts and well irrigation and their reluctance to take up canal water unless they can be certain
that water will be supplied both reliably and in sufficient quantity3.
32.        Construction (Irrigation) 4 . By mid December 1996, the overall progress on dams,
and canal works implemented by the construction division of the ID (ID I), is estimated at about
90%. Jayakwadi has been fully completed with the remaining subprojects varying between 77%
to 90%. The construction of the OFD works is the responsibility of the O&M division of the
Irrigation Department Il (ID 11). With the exception of Krishna, where the achievement is about
65%, the remaining subprojects have reached completion varying from 87% to 100%. Progress of
each subproject is described below:
Although the restructuring was approved in 1993, reformulation commenced in 1987 and the estimate of
88,000 ha was confirmed in 1990.
2 The figure of 69,409 ha is the sum of the maximum areas which have actually been irrigated in any one year
in each of the subprojects.
3 Farmers do prefer to use canal water, if it is available, because it is less costly than river lifts or well
irrigation.
4The targets for the construction works are as detailed in the SAR or later at the time of project restructuring.



41
33.      Jayakwadi. Prior to 1984/85, all works on the dam and the main and branch canals
were completed. Under MCIP III the following works were needed to be carried out: (a) the
distributaries and minors on about 45,000 ha; (b) the main and link drains covering about 153,000
ha; (c) OFD works on about 88,000 ha - increased from 68,000 ha; and (d) land shaping on about
128,000 ha. Prior to the commencement of the restructured subproject, in 1992/93, all works on
the distributary network commanding 88,000 ha and the OFD works for 84,671 ha were
completed. Land shaping on a reduced area (128,000 ha to 32,000 ha) was completed in 1994/95.
34.      Majalgaon. Works under the original MCIP III project included: (a) on the main
canal, the construction of 116 structures along km 0 to 67, and earthwork, lining and structures
between km 67 and 100; (b) construction of the distributary network on about 58,000 ha in the
reach km 0 to 100; (c) construction of the drainage network on the first segment covering an area
of about 24,000 ha; (d) construction of on-farm development works comprising the field and
drainage network on about 24,000 ha; and land shaping on about 24,000 ha.
35.       Out of a total length of 100 km of the main canal, earthwork on about 2 km and 14
structures are incomplete, about 90% of the branch canal is complete and 80% of the distributary
network commanding 58,000 ha has been completed. Substantial completion has been achieved
on field canals and drains with selective lining reaching about 77% of the estimated target. The
land shaping provision was reduced from 24,000 ha to 6,200 ha. Due to problems associated with
loan arrangements and farmers' reluctance to accept this development, only about 1,000 ha have
been completed.
36.       Upper Penganga. Works include: (a) the modernisation of the Isapur dam; (b)
construction of main and branch canals of about 220 km; (c) upgrading the existing distributary
canal system covering an area of about 25,000 ha; (d) construction of partially lined distribution
networks covering an area of about 23,000 ha; (e) construction of buildings; (f) construction of
OFD works (including main and link drains) covering about 23,000 ha; and (g) pilot land shaping
operations and conjunctive use covering about 4,000 ha.
37.       Modernisation works of the dam are substantially completed, and the remaining
works are expected to be completed by the end of December 1996. On the Isapur Left Bank
Canal (ILBC) 57 km have been fully completed and on the remaining 24 km about 70% of
earthworks, 50% of lining, and 40% of structures have been completed. In the Isapur Right Bank
Canal (IRBC), work is in progress on the entire length (Km 0 to 115). By mid December an
overall achievement of 60% is estimated. The incomplete works are located in the reach outside
the proposed subproject area of 23,000 ha, and as such do not affect the target of CCA to be
achieved under the subproject. The length of branch canals on both main canals to be developed
is estimated at 223 km. About 80% of earthworks, 47% lining, and 60% structures have been
completed. The overall progress on 107 km of distributary canals is about 70%. Under OFD, the
achievement on field canals and selective lining is 87%, whilst that of main and link drains is 3%.
Subproject staff did not consider this work necessary. This should be studied in depth and
technical reasons given for the omission. Land shaping was not carried out as farmers were not
interested in getting loans to carry out the work. Conjunctive use on about 4,000 ha was not
implemented due to delay in obtaining reports and certificates from the government organisation
responsible for groundwater exploration.



42
38.       Kukadi. The works included: (a) modernisation of the Dimbhe and Manikdoh dams,
and Visapur tank; (b) construction of 127 km of main and branch canals; (c) upgrading the
existing canal system covering an area of about 65,000 ha; (d) construction of partially lined
distribution networks covering an area of about 20,000 ha; (e) construction of main and link
drains and field canals covering about 20,000 ha and sub-surface drains covering about 500 ha;
and (f) provision of pilot land shaping and conjunctive use covering an area of about 4,000 ha.
39.       Modernisation works on the two dams including the preventive works specified by
the Dam Safety Review Panel (DSRP) and works on Visapur Tank have been completed. About
132 km of main canals on the right and left banks of the Dimbhe, Manikdoh, and Yedgaon
reservoirs were to be constructed under the subproject. About 98% of earthworks and structures
and 88% of lining have been completed. About 50% of earthworks in 12.5 km of the Ghod
Branch Canal is completed. The major works to be completed are: (a) the Ghod Aqueduct
located in the Dimbhe Right Bank Canal, and rock tunnelling in this canal is about 75%
complete; and (b) construction of Hanga Aqueduct located at km 74 of the Kukadi Left Bank
Canal commenced in October 1996. The reason for the delay was the late approval to go ahead
with the work as there was an alternative to use the Visapur Tank as a pick up reservoir. The
distributary network for about 15,000 ha out of the target of 20,000 ha has been completed. OFD
works covering about 17,700 ha has been completed. About 75% of the drainage system, 108% of
the sub-surface drains, and 66% of target for land shaping and conjunctive use have been
completed.
40.       Bhima. Works included under the subprojects are: (a) modernisation of Ujani Dam
and powerhouse; (b) construction of main and branch canals over a length of 63 km; (c)
upgrading existing canal system over an area of 85,000 ha; (d) construction of partially lined
distribution networks covering about 28,000 ha; (e) construction of field canals and drainage
covering an area of 28,000 ha; and (f) provision of pilot land shaping and conjunctive use
covering an area of 4,000 ha.
41.       Modernisation of dams has been completed. Although about 10% of the earthworks
on the main and branch canals have yet to be carried out, quantities based on targets at
restructuring have exceeded by about 30%. Structures have been completed and 75% of lining is
complete. Earthworks have exceeded the targets by about 10%, and 81% on the distributary
canals and minors. For completion of these canals, about 10% and 50% of earthworks are still to
be carried out. Structures on these canals have been completed, whilst lining has yet to be
provided to about 14%. The progress on field canals is estimated at 83%, while the provision of
drainage facilities has been completed. No land shaping and conjunctive use on the pilot area of
4,000 ha have been carried out.
42.       Krishna. This subproject provides for: (a) modemisation of the Dhom and Kanher
dams; (b) construction of about 58 km of main and branch canals; (c) upgrading the existing
canal system covering an area of 50,000 ha; (d) construction of partially lined distributary
networks covering about 14,000 ha; (e) construction of main and link drains and field canals
covering an area of 14,000 ha, and sub-surface drainage to an area of 1,000 ha; and (f) provision
of pilot land shaping and conjunctive use covering about 4,000 ha.



43
43.       Modernisation works have been completed. Earthworks in the main canal over 65
km (7 km in excess of the restructuring target) have been completed. Structures are estimated at
86% completion and lining at 71%. Earthworks on the distributary network including minors
have been completed with quantities exceeded by about 20%. On the distributary canals, 15
structures out of a total of 669 (the target), have yet to be completed, whilst on minors 1,413
structures have been completed as against a target at restructuring of 1,296. In distributaries,
lining has been completed with an excess of about 70%. In minors, lining is estimated at 93%.
Upgrading of existing canals is substantially completed, whilst the drainage system works are
fully completed. The progress on field canals is poor and estimated at 54% with selective lining
on the completed canals exceeding by about 50%. As in the case of Bhima, no work has been
done in land shaping and conjunctive use.
44.       Buildings. Under the original MCIP III project no provision was made for buildings.
At restructuring, funds were provided for buildings for both ID I and ID II. In Kukadi and
Krishna all buildings have been completed, whilst at Bhima 50% completion was achieved. There
was no provision for buildings at Upper Penganga.
Rural and Service Roads'
45.       Under the original MCIP III project, provision was limited to the construction of
rural roads. On the restructured project, in addition to rural roads in the new subprojects, service
roads were included in all subprojects, and a number of bridges was provided for the new
subprojects. A total of 727 km of rural roads (subsequently modified to 837 km) and 757 km of
service roads together with 21 bridges for the rural roads were included. PWD is responsible for
implementing the rural roads programme and the implementation wing of ID II implements the
service roads programme. Details with progress for each subproject are given below:
46.       Rural Roads. The programme includes: (a) Jayakwadi, 445 km; (b) Majalgaon, 34
km; (c) Upper Penganga, 39.5 km with 11 bridges; (d) Krishna, 65.5 km with 2 bridges; (e)
Bhima, 95.5 km with 4 bridges; and (f) Kukadi, 100 km with 3 bridges. In the six subprojects,
out of 779.5 km of roads and 21 bridges included in the implementation programme, 776.5 km
(93%) and 6 bridges (29%) have been completed. The poor progress on bridges is attributed to
constraints during the preparation and processing of tenders and contract management.
47.       Canal Service Roads. The programme includes: (a) Jayakwadi, 572 km; (b) Upper
Penganga, 45 km; (c) Krishna, 26 km; (d) Bhima, 81 km; and (e) Kukadi, 27 km; and (f)
Majalgaon, although the SAR provides for 150 km, the work was not included under a separate
2
item . Out of 757 km in the six subprojects, 679 km (90%) have been completed.
l Since many revisions were made after appraisal and restructuring, the targets are as per the final revisions
given in the progress reports of ID and PWD.
2 Presumably the work was included under embankment construction.



44
Quality of Civil Work Construction.
48.       Quality of concrete works in major structures carried out by ID I and PWD is of a
high standard. Quality control tests were regularly carried out. There is room for improvement
in compaction of concrete to obtain a better finish. The works carried out by ID II are widely
scattered necessitating strict supervision to achieve high standards. The ID II staff provide this
service satisfactorily as evident from the high standard of concrete and rubble masonry work.
However, there is room for improvement on lining and earthworks.
Water Users' Associations (WUAs)
49.       Under the original project, agreement was reached with the GOM, that it would
establish farmers' organisations in the project command areas in accordance with a plan
satisfactory to GOM and the Bank (schedule 2 (i) of the Project Agreement). The SAR proposed
the formation of Outlet Committees (OCs) to manage O&M of the channel system below the
chak level. The next level was to be Water Utilisation Committees (WUCs) to be organised for
each minor. The highest tier was to be Canal Advisory Committees (CACs) with jurisdiction
over an area of up to 40,000 ha. The mission's observation made during limited field visits
confirmed that minimal progress has been achieved in this field. Following unsatisfactory
progress the restructured project included a covenant in the legal agreement specifying targets for
the formation of WUAs. Eighty associations were to be formed, 30 in Majalgaon and 10 each in
the other subprojects.
50.       A total of 193 associations have been registered and irrigation infrastructure has been
handed over to 71 associations. The associations registered, and the ones which have accepted
responsibility for all O&M activities, are not necessarily in the project command area. The
associations that have been handed-over include: (a) 18 at Jayakwadi; (b) 4 out of the required 30
at Majalgaon; (c) I in Upper Penganga out of 10; (d) 17 out of the required 10 in Kukadi; (e) 18
out of the required 10 in Bhima; and (f) 13 out of the required 10 in Krishna.
51.       Limited field visits indicated that farmers' conceptions of maintenance were limited
to the desilting and clearing of canals, one time activities during a season. No preventive action
is taken to repair structures once deterioration commences. Lined sections are illegally broken to
get water on to farms. Leaks, mainly at drop structures, are not arrested in time and eventually
cause structural collapse. In minor canals under the control of WUAs, structures have deteriorated
to such an extent that major rehabilitation work is needed before effective water management can
be carried out.
52.       Field canal systems in areas controlled by WUAs, and in areas controlled by OCs, are
in a very bad state of disrepair. In most cases the canals, which were completed to acceptable
standards, are now small waterways with uncontrolled flows. Farmers and some field level ID
staff appear to accept the situation as normal.
53.       As a priority, ID staff should stop further registration of associations, and concentrate
on improving the performance of 10 associations at each subproject.



45
54.       Despite the weaknesses noted above, the mission did visit some WUAs which are
very effectively distributing water within their command areas and successfully collecting water
fees from farmers.
Improved Water Management
55.       Due to scarce and unreliable water resources in the river basins where the subprojects
are located, particularly the Godawari River Basin, in addition to carrying out a study of the water
resources of this basin, the restructured project included a component for operation of the
Majalgaon main canal up to km 100, and the Ganga Masala branch canal over its entire length,
based on "principles of dynamic regulation". Following this, the Pilot Project Dynamic
Regulation (PPDR) exercise was implemented on the Majalgaon Right Bank Canal. Existing
control structures were improved to operate automatically. Initially the main canal is to operate
under constant volume conditions and eventually to shift on to a controlled volume method. It
was envisaged that volume controls would be effected in the branch and minor canals and
existing structures were improved and new structures constructed. The pilot project incorporated
the provision of controls on the main canal for about 58,000 ha, the branch canal for about
11,000 ha and minor canals covering an area of 2,000 ha.
56.       The mission was impressed with the operation of the automatic system on the main
and branch canals. One important issue though is the cleaning of these canals (silt and rock falls)
and it is essential that a schedule of maintenance activities be prepared and implemented
effectively. The mission visited one minor which supplied water to about 700 ha. The condition
of this minor was found to be very substandard. Given that the infrastructure was completed over
the last two years, this is a matter for concern and should be addressed immediately if the pilot
operation is to be sustained.
57.       It is important that in future the formation of viable and effective WUAs, including
the education of farmers to maintain and safeguard GOM investments, should be carried out to
ensure sustainability.
Operation and Maintenance
58.       Currently the ID is responsible for maintaining all irrigation infrastructure from the
headworks up to the field canal outlets to the chaks. The department is now in the process of
handing over to WUAs the O&M of irrigation systems covering an area of about 400 ha per
association, usually under a group of minor channels.  Operational activities are covered
satisfactorily by department staff and farmers within the chaks.
59.       WUAs effectively carry out water distribution operations within their area of
responsibility. However, maintenance is problematic. Preventive maintenance by ID staff is not
carried out mainly due to funding restrictions, although limited periodic maintenance, such as
repairs to structures and desilting, are carried out by departmental staff. The mission observed
minors and field canals completed a few years back in a severe state of disrepair in all five
subproject areas. A major rehabilitation effort would be necessary to bring the system to an



46
operational condition to ensure optimal use of the scarce water and reduce excessive runoff into
the drainage system.
Agriculture
60.       SAR contemplated the creation of two new command area agricultural districts to be
staffed by specific Village Extension Workers (VEW) assigned to the two subproject command
areas so as to raise the ratio of VEWs to farmers from 1:1200 to 1:800. However, no progress was
made because: (a) a detailed programme of work was not prepared for conducting on-farm
demonstrations, adaptive research and training of staff and farmers; (b) there were no funds
allowed for in the original project for the agriculture work; (c) there was apprehension on the
part of the AD to get involved; and (d) there was a lack of effective co-ordination between the ID
and AD.
61.       In the restructured project the lessons learnt during the initial years of MCIP III were
capitalised upon. Although progress was initially quite slow, eventually a specific programme of
work was agreed to between the ID, AD and the Bank. Consequently funds were provided by the
GOM to conduct 30,618 crop demonstrations (for which 105% achievement was realised), 3,947
drip and sprinkler irrigation demonstration sites were established (43% achievement), 52
multipurpose Agricultural Technology Dissemination Centres were build (100% achievement)
and 223 training programmes were conducted for Agriculture Department (AD) staff and farmers
(target 131). Against an approved outlay of about Rs 190 m, 56% achievement was obtained up to
31 October 1996 with an anticipated achievement of 83% up to 31 December 1996.
62.       Although no specific data have been received from the AD regarding increases in
cropping intensity and crop productivity in the project affected areas, the mission will analyse
data obtained from the ID and from its field visits and interviews with farmers and AD field level
staff. While the areas benefiting from increased canal water are much below target, where water
is being received, cropping intensities are increasing as well as crop yields. Preliminary analyses
indicate that the speed of switching from rainfed to irrigated agriculture is higher than was
predicted in the SAR and in the feasibility studies of the restructured project. While farmers use
canal water conjunctively with tube and open well water, shortages of water are definitely
restricting crop yields. The overall impact on agriculture will therefore be restricted in the project
affected areas unless more water can be supplied from the project. The mission will allow for
increases in irrigated area once OFD works are completed, as well as for the recharging of ground
water reserves from canal water in the command areas. Full benefits will only be realised if more
water is made available and water use efficiency is raised. There has been a positive impact to the
increased agricultural extension effort in the project areas and the mission was pleased to note
that during the restructured project period, the co-operation between the ID and AD staff showed
a marked improvement. GOM should ensure though that extension efforts funded through the
project are kept up for at least 2-3 more years.
Economic Rehabilitation
63.       The main aim of including the economic rehabilitation component (ERP) at the time
of restructuring was to assist the GOM to improve the welfare of persons previously resettled due



47
to the dam investments made in the early 1970s. The ERP component was included to address
GOM inadequacies in the execution of R&R programmes. It was considered that the restructured
project ERP could serve as a model for possible further use elsewhere in Maharashtra.
64.       Retrofit socio-economic surveys were carried out during 1994/95 to find out the
number of PAPs residing in the resettlement villages and their living standards. Against the total
number of 36,084 who were originally affected, only 22,168 PAPs (61.4%) were identified at the
time of conducting the survey. Based on the survey findings and subsequent rehabilitation action
plans, the GOM brought out a Government Order (GO) in January 1996 detailing its economic
rehabilitation policy; which was subsequently endorsed by the Bank. The ERP was to be
implemented over a three year period from January 1996 to December 1998 with a budget of Rs
960 m (US$ 27.42 m).
65.      Implementation of this component is well behind schedule and is yet to pick up
momentum. Out of the four activities envisaged under this component, only civic amenities have
commenced. So far 18% of physical progress (162 out of 905 new facilities to be created) and 7%
of financial progress (about Rs 2 m out of Rs 382 m) have been achieved. Implementation of the
other three components (housing, irrigation and income generation) is yet to commence. Funds
earmarked for 1996-97 for housing, irrigation and income generation activities are yet to be
placed with the Divisional Commissioners. Though 70% (10 out of 14 positions) of the
professional staff created for exclusive implementation of this scheme are in position, the key
position of Deputy Secretary is yet be filled. Updating the list of eligible PAPs for individual
schemes and recruitment of NGOs for implementation of income generation activities, are
pending completion. No efforts have been made so far to finalise the TOR and appointment of
consultants for Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E).
66.       The mission is of the view that project implementation needs to be considerably
speeded up by: (a) placing adequate funds for all activities with the Divisional Commissioners;
(b) filling up the vacant staff positions including the key position of Deputy Secretary; (c)
finalising the recruitment of NGOs; and (d) selecting the M&E agency to monitor implementation
progress.
67.       The major reasons why implementation progress has been slow are:
(a)  Non-availability of funds. The ID and Rehabilitation Department (RD) failed
to decide over who should fund the various rehabilitation activities - housing,
income generation and irrigation. The ID is willing to finance only the civic
amenities, as these were in accordance with the State Act on rehabilitation
and are being implemented by the ID. According to them all other activities
should be financed out of the RD's funds since these are being implemented by
them. On the other hand, the RD do not have any funds and they feel it is the
responsibility of the ID, since they are responsible for displacement and it
should form part of the overall project cost. All the activities included under
the ERP are consistent with the Amended Development Credit Agreement
dated 8 June 1993. This problem should be sorted out by the GOM and the
necessary funds transferred to the RD for its implementation.



48
(b)  Lack of effective co-ordination. The delay in appointing a Deputy Secretary,
who would be the key person in the implementation of the ERP, has impeded
the co-ordination and guidance of staff at divisional and project level. There is
also no follow-up from the senior level staff at the divisional level. As a result,
the implementational preparation activities at project level have slowed down
considerably.
(c)  Delay  in  recruitment of NGOs. The appointment of NGOs for
implementation of the income generation activities has been pending for over
eight months. In spite of there having been no objection on the part of the Bank
for the recruitment of five NGOs, no action has been taken to finalise their
contracts.
(d)  Failure to appoint a M&E agency. The appointment of a M&E agency is
essential to monitor implementation progress and guide the NGOs and other
persons involved in the implementation process. The failure to initiate the
process of appointing a M&E agency has delayed the completion of various
preparatory activities such as updating the list of eligible PAPs for individual
schemes, issuing identify cards, finalising the details of the irrigation and
income generation components, and providing guidance to the staff involved in
its implementation.
Studies and Training
68.       Studies. To ensure the introduction of an effective management information system,
environmentally sustainable investments, and efficient irrigation management in the different
subprojects, it was envisaged that the following important studies would be carried out under the
project: (i) Development of a Management Information System (MIS); (ii) Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA) study and the preparation of a Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for the
Krishna Basin subprojects; (iii) an EIA Study and the preparation of an EMP for the Godavari
Basin subprojects; (iv) a Water Resources Study in the Godavari Basin up to Paithan Dam; (v) the
development of a Plan of Operation and Management (POM) for the Kukadi subproject; (vi) the
development of a POM for the Krishna and Bhima subprojects; and (vii) the development of a
POM for the Godavari Basin subprojects. The following is the current status of these studies:
(i)  Management Information System (MIS). Tender was invited on 16 August
1994 and a contract was awarded to M/S CMC Ltd. Pune on March 24, 1995 at
an estimated cost of Rs 7.796 m for the development of 24 MIS modules.
Almost all the modules have been finalised by the Consultant and are being
tested. A draft final report has been submitted by the Consultant and is under
review by the GOM. The Consultant has also trained 80 officials on basic
awareness and 21 officials in an advanced course in computer applications
during the period 8 July to 6 November 1996. Expenditure incurred up to 30
September 1996 is Rs 5.0 m.
(ii) EIA and EMP studies for subprojects in Krishna Basin. Tender was invited
on 21 November 1994 and a contract was awarded to M/S Acres International



49
Ltd. Canada on 10 September 1996 at an estimated cost of Rs 9.28 m with a
reduced scope of work from what was contemplated in the original proposal.
The Consultant has submitted the Work Plan which was approved by the GOM
on 30 November 1996. Expenditure incurred up to 30 September 1996 is Rs
0.36 m.
(iii) EIA and EMP studies for subprojects in Godavari Basin. Tender was
invited on 10 October 1996 for this study and a contract was awarded to M/S
_ _   ERM, London, on 10 September 1996 at an estimated cost of Rs 10.8 m. The
Consultant has submitted the Inception Report and first Progress Report which
are under review by GOM. No expenditure has been incurred up to 30
September 1996.
(iv) Pilot Studies of Water Resources in Godavari Basin up to Paithan Dam.
Tender was invited on 13 June 1994 and a contract was awarded to M/S
WAPCOS, New Delhi on September 22, 1996 at an estimated cost of Rs 11.0
m. The Consultant has submitted the Inception Report which is being reviewed
by GOM. Expenditure incurred up to 30 September 1996 is Rs 2.2 m.
(v)  Studies of POM for Kukadi Project. Tender was invited on 20 March 1996
and a contract was awarded to M/S SMEC, Australia on March 22, 1996 at an
estimated cost of Rs 25.68 m The Consultant has submitted the Inception
Report and the first Progress Report which have been approved by GOM.
Expenditure incurred up to September 1996 is Rs 8.41 m.
(vi) Studies of POM for Bhima and Krishna subprojects. Tender was invited on
21 August 1996 for this study and a contract was awarded to M/S CES, New
Delhi on 25 March 1996 at an estimated cost of Rs 6.67 m. The Consultant has
submitted the Inception Report and the first Progress Report which have been
approved by GOM. Expenditure incurred up to 30 September 1996 is Rs 2.8
m.
(vii) Studies for POM for subprojects in Godavari Basin. Tender was invited on
9 August 1996 for this study. The contract for this consultancy has not yet
been awarded.
69.       The mission notes that it was contemplated that these studies would be initiated
before 31 December 1995, and completed before Credit Closure on 31 December 1996. Since
they have only just been initiated, realisation of the objectives included at the time of project
restructuring to improve the performance of the infrastructure created and its environmental
impact, has not been realised.
70.       The main reasons for delays in completing the studies are: (i) the inability of GOM
to take prompt decisions on the tenders. GOM has taken between 7 to 27 months to award a
contract after invitation of tenders; and (ii) according a low priority to this work, preferring
instead to concentrate efforts on the completion of physical works.



50
71.       Training. The following training components were included in the project.
-    WALMI. Under MCIP III an amount of Rs 75 m was provided to WALMI for
conducting training in land and water management'. A total of 125 courses
were conducted for ID and AD officials, farmers, WUA office bearers and
NGOs. Some 2,482 officials and 2,844 farmers and NGO representatives were
trained under the programme. Up to November 1996 expenditure totalled Rs
64.55 m.
The mission was impressed with the modem facilities that are available for
training and the overall performance of the Institute. However, there is a need
to place more emphasis on the maintenance of major and OFD irrigation works
and on practical oriented training in the field.
-    Agriculture Department. Since 1994/95 regular training in irrigation water
management was conducted at the Rahuri and Parbhani State Agricultural
Universities. Attendance by ID staff, especially from Kukadi, Bhima and
Krishna subprojects fell below targets. The foreign training programme was not
realised since available funds were diverted for other purposes. However,
farmers' training, including rallies and educational tours are reported to have
been undertaken by AD staff.
Project Sustainability
72.       Project sustainability will be dependent on several factors. These are: (a) the
availability of adequate water in the reservoirs to conform to the criteria of 75% dependability;
(b) effective management of the available water; (c) effective preventive and periodic
maintenance of the headworks, the main and branch canals, the distributary networks inclusive of
the minor canals, the drainage network and finally the field canal systems at the outlet to the
chaks. This will be dependent upon the GOM ensuring increased and adequate funds for
maintenance and in improving the capability of ID staff to prioritise and supervise maintenance
work; and (d) completing outstanding works (after Credit closure) programmed up to 31 March
2000 - see attached summary operational programme.
73.       During the project period, Jayakwadi subproject was operational for several years.
However, inadequate water supply in the reservoir is reflected in the excessive shortfalls in the
cropped areas for the period 1991/92 through 1995/96. The dependability criteria has failed over
the last five years. This factor is a major concern as the expected benefits cannot be achieved.
74.       Concerns regarding water management up to the outlet to the chak resulted in the
implementation of the Pilot Project for Dynamic Regulation (PPDR). So far the results have been
promising in that optimum use of the water available from the reservoirs could be achieved
through effective control of flows particularly in the main canals. However the success of this
operation will depend on the maintenance of the minor canals.
I WALMI, Maharashtra, was established in 1980 for capacity building in an integrated approach to water and
land management.



51
75.       The most critical factor to ensure project sustainability is an effective maintenance
programme particularly in areas where farmers are responsible for maintenance. The mission's
findings on the effectiveness of the WUAs to carry out maintenance activities clearly indicate that
sustainability of project works is very much in doubt.
76.       As at December 1996, irrigation facilities have been provided for about 80% of the
project area. The balance areas is dependent on the completion of the major aqueducts, rock
excavation of a limited reach of the main canals and the OFD works within the reach of the
incomplete main canals. These works need to be completed using GOM funds.
77.       One other aspect relating to project sustainability is that it will be important that the
GOM, through the AD, maintain agricultural extension efforts in the project affected commands
for 2-3 more years. This will ensure that farmers successfully switch from rainfed to irrigated
agriculture, make good use of the infrastructure created and will be in a position to pay the full
operational and maintenance costs of the water supplied to them.
Assessment of Outcome
78.       The project's outcome with respect to the construction of civil works (irrigation and
roads) is rated satisfactory. However in terms of present agricultural achievements, performance
of WUAs (with the exception of operational activities), R&R and O&M, it is clearly
unsatisfactory. The reasons for the adverse ranking are: (a) the low cropped area averaging about
30% throughout the project period; (b) the less than satisfactory performance of ID field staff in
providing technical supervision; (c) the continuing low funding levels for O&M leading to
deferred maintenance; and (d) the technical, managerial and funding limitations of the WUAs to
maintain infrastructure. In addition, the objectives of equitable, predictable and reliable irrigation
supplies to all farms according to the dependable reservoir supply (75%) have not been realised in
the completed command areas
79.       The original project envisaged a shift from large infrastructure to OFD works, water
management and improved agricultural production practices, so as to trigger a self sustained
process of development. Whilst OFD works were emphasised, and at a later stage to assist in
improved water management the PPDR was taken up, the services of the AD were not effectively
utilised until very late in the project. Initially no project funds were allocated for the agriculture
component and a detailed work programme and responsibilities were not defined. At the time of
restructuring, funds were earmarked for the agriculture component, but valuable time was lost in
defining a programme of work. Throughout the period of the original project, co-ordination
between the ID and AD could have been much better.
Future Operations
80.       The financial programme for completing the civil works by ID 1, ID II, and PWD, as
well as the agricultural development component, R&R, studies and the recommended repairs and
safety measures by the DSRP have been furnished by the GOM following the wrap-up meeting in
Bombay (see attached summary). The cost of the balance works programmed to be completed by
31 March 2000 total Rs 2,470.86 (US$ 70 m). The outstanding irrigation works, studies and dam



52
safety measures total Rs 1,588.77 (US$ 45 m). No provision has been made to continue the
agriculture component beyond 31 March 1997. According to the AD representative at the wrap-
up meeting, the ID should provide the necessary funds for these project-related activities which
have been supported to date by the project. The cost of the balance work of the R&R component
is estimated at Rs 787.31 m (US$ 22 m), which according to the GOM will be executed as per the
availability of funds. PWD work is programmed for completion before 31 March 1998 at a cost
of Rs 55.52 m (US$ 1.6 m).
Lessons Learned
81.       The main lessons learned from the project are as follows:
(a)  The unsatisfactory performnance on the low cropped areas as against the
available CCA, is mainly due to the unreliability of water supplies and
insufficient water resources in the basins. Until an in depth study is carried out
in the two major basins affecting the subproject areas, no further expansion of
OFD works should be implemented, and no further extension of main canals
should be taken up.
(b)  Funds for O&M  are based on norms which need updating and should be
substantially increased to ensure effective preventive and periodic maintenance
of the infrastructure under the control of ID. The circle at Aurangabad has
worked out the detailed requirements based on actual needs. An updating is
required and followed up by a critical look by the GOM.
(c)  An immediate survey is needed to identify the rehabilitation needs of all
infrastructure mainly on the minors and field canals'. To safeguard the vast
investments made in the irrigation subsector, a rehabilitation project should be
prepared. No new projects should be taken up until the operation and
maintenance of existing projects are improved.
(d)  to resolve the problem of poor maintenance of the field channel system, it is
suggested that: (a) ID staff responsible for the formation of associations be
given intensive training in preventive and periodic maintenance activities; (b)
an effective supervision schedule for Section Officers, and Canal Inspectors, be
introduced and higher level staff should monitor the activities; (c) during the
formation period, maintenance activities should be detailed not in class rooms
b,ut at field sites. This could be done at handing over. The groups could be
taken to sites where infrastructure is in a severe state of disrepair; (d) the thrust
of the training courses at WALMI should be directed more towards preventive
and periodic maintenance and should be carried out at site.
(e)  The effectiveness of the unit responsible for the formation of WUAs should not
be judged on the numbers formed, and tumed-over to farmers, but on the
The infrastructure to be assessed is limited to existing works completed prior to the commencement of MCIP
Ill.



53
effectiveness of the associations not only on financial management and
operational aspects, but also on maintenance aspects. It is important to have a
follow up programme to ensure that all requirements are achieved.
(f)  Studies should be accorded their much needed priority. Delays experienced
on previous Bank funded projects continue to plague current projects. More
stringent covenants should be included and management of the Borrower and
Bank should closely monitor progress and take early action to ensure that target
dates are met.
(g)  To optimise the use of available water supplies, the PPDR is being
implemented. The benefits from this pilot project can only be derived if the
distributary network to be eventually managed by farmers is operated and
maintained to the required standards. Government involvement in the
maintenance of infrastructure in areas where the system is introduced should
continue until farmers are able to appreciate the importance of O&M.
(h)  In order to facilitate timely implementation of an agricultural component in an
irrigation project, there is a need to have a separate budget allocation for the
component which should be a part of the project cost. Moreover, to ensure
effective co-ordination between the AD and the ID, a Project Co-ordination
Committee of high level officials is needed, with funds passed directly from
the GOM Finance Department to the AD. The component should be closely
monitored and evaluated by the AD and the Project Co-ordination Committee.
(i)  Although implementation of the ERP is at an early phase the following lessons
can so far be drawn: (i) an R&R programme must have a policy delineated by
the State Government detailing the various activities to be carried out, budget
allocations, scope and involvement of NGOs, institutional mechanisms, and
monitoring and evaluation procedures; (ii) any project incorporating an R&R
component should have an exclusive budget earmarked for R&R which should
be a part of the overall project cost and passed directly from the GOM Finance
to the Rehabilitation Department to facilitate timely implementation; and (iii)
regular monitoring is critical for timely and successful implementation.
D. Follow-up
82.       The mission will return to Rome and prepare a draft ICR, in accordance with World
Bank guidelines, for submission to the IDA before 28 February 1997, which will then transmit the
draft ICR to the borrower for comment.



54
INDIA: Maharashtra Composite Irrigation Project III
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 1: Mission's Aide-Memoire
Attachment 1: Financial Program    of Balance Works of MCIP III
Cost of   Programme              Programme for
Work             Balance    1/97 to 3/97
Work
_1997-98   1998-9   19-2000
(Rs Million)
ID-I                       1132.24      110.85       693.43      167.74       160.22
ID-I                        202.43       30.27       113.64       36.50   .   22.02
PWD                          55.52        8.06        47.46           0
R&R                         787.31       30.00       250.00      250.00       257.31
Agri. Extn. Programme        39.26       39.26            -           -
Studies                      50.60       24.10        26.50           -
Implementation of DSRP      203.50       32.80       130.70       40.00
Recommendations
Total                      2470.86      275.34      1261.73      494.24       439.55



55
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA COMPOSITE IRRIGATION PROJECT III
(CR. 1621-IN)
APPENDIX 2
ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. INTRODUCTION
General
1.        This appendix details the economic re-evaluation of MCIP Im  carried out by the ICR
mission. It compares the methodology and the results of the SAR, in the case of the Jayakwadi and
Majalgaon subprojects, and those of the consultant's feasibility study for the remaining subprojects
which were included at the time of restructuring. In addition, the impacts of the project on farmers'
incomes have been re-estimated and are compared to those which were anticipated in the SAR at the
time the original project was formulated.
2.        Agricultural Benefits. MCIP Im was designed to provide irrigation to previously rainfed
areas and to raise agricultural production in areas already commanded through improving irrigation
facilities, drainage, landshaping and water management. Since the project focused excessively on
construction of irrigation infrastructure to the detriment of improved water use efficiency, the ICR
mission concluded that project benefits are confined to the areas which have been, or will be, irrigated
as a result of the MCIP m project. No benefits could therefore be attributed to improved water
management in the subproject command areas outside of those directly associated with the MCIP Im
project which were already being irrigated prior to MCIP m.
3.        Two types of agricultural benefits were quantified. The first is those associated with canal
irrigation and the second those associated with groundwater recharging from canal water.
(a)  Canal irrigation benefits. Here benefits are confined to areas in the subproject
commands which have actually been irrigated as a result of project works from the
start of the project up to the latest available data for the 1995/96 season. Future canal
irrigated areas in each subproject have been projected by the mission based on
actual performance since the start of the project.



56
(b)  Dugwell irrigation. Benefits from groundwater recharging have been assessed for
each of the subprojects'. The quantification of these benefits is based on historical
data on the number of dugwells in the subproject command areas included in MCIP
m.
4.        The agricultural benefits quantified are based on present and future crop budgets and
cropping patterns, under both rainfed and irrigated conditions, which have been reassessed through
detailed field work by the ICR mission. Irrigation potential in project benefiting areas is assumed to be
reached at a faster rate than was projected in the SAR, viz. seven years as opposed to twelve years.
5.        Past Irrigation Performance in the Subprojects. The actual areas irrigated have been
considerably below the areas which have been supplied with irrigation infrastructure and have
fluctuated widely (see Appendix 3, Table 7). In Appendix 3, Table 8, the actual areas irrigated in each
year are expressed as a percentage of the areas available for irrigation in each respective year. These
percentage figures provide a performance rating for each of the subprojects. Ratings have averaged
16% in Majalgaon, 17% in Bhima, 19% in Upper Penganga, 37% in Jayakwadi, 64% in Kukadi and
65% in Krishna. Overall, performance has been disappointing. Kukadi and Krishna have consistently
performed the best over the most recent seasons, while Jayakwadi has performed much better than
Majalgaon, Bhima and Upper Penganga.
6.        Future Scenarios. Two possible future scenarios were defined - a 'likely" and an
'bptimistic" Both of these scenarios are based on actual areas irrigated up to 1995/96, for which data
are available. They differ with respect to the projections of future areas irrigated. In the 'likely
scenario," the future areas irrigated are calculated by considering the areas which are planned to be
created up to the end of the balance works in 1999/2000 and assume that the average subproject-wise
achievement in areas actually irrigated up to 1995/96 will continue. In the case of the 'bptimistic
scenario" again the planned expansion in the areas created through the balance works are considered,
but in terms of future achievements in areas irrigated two assumptions have been made: (a) for the
subprojects which have performed reasonably (Jayakwadi, Kukadi and Krishna) it is assumed that
100% of the areas created up to the end of the balance works would be supplied with irrigation water
from year 1999/2000; (b) for the other subprojects which have performed poorly, it has been assumed
that only 50% of the areas that will be created will be irrigated from 1999/2000. The 'likely" scenario
was adopted as the base case since it is considered to most likely reflect future performance which
should be realizable provided the project is completed and the ID and WUAs adopt sensible O&M
plans.
l Seepage losses from canal water are significant in all of the subprojects which recharge wells below command
areas of the canals. Seepage occurs since all field channels and a greater part of the minors are unlined.



57
7.         Project Capital Costs. Nominal historical works-related project costs' bear little relation
to the real costs since inflation diminishes the purchasing power of the Rupee. To make cost figures
more representative of the real resources used in the subprojects, each year's Rupee cost was converted
into first quarter 1997 Rupees before summing them. The Wholesale Price Index for India was used
for this purpose (Appendix 2, Table 1). Actual expenditures on irrigation works up to December 31,
1996 have been used (Appendix 3, Table 3). In addition, the estimated costs of balance works have
been included in the re-evaluation which are detailed in Appendix 3, Table 4.
8.         O&M  and Cost Recovery.  Funds are insufficient to properly maintain irrigation
infrastructure both off-farm and on-farm. Currently the standard norm used for O&M is Rs.90/ha. The
ICR mission considers this totally inadequate. Mission estimates range from Rs. 1,470/ha to Rs. 1,955/ha
in financial prices2. These were converted into economic terms by applying a conversion factor of 0.9.
Currently irrigation water charges3, depending on the crop grown, range from Rs. 1 00/ha to Rs.200/ha
in kharif, Rs.150/ha to Rs.300/ha in rabi, Rs.300/ha to Rs.800/ha for the hot weather season, to
Rs. 1,750/ha for perennial crops (Appendix 3, Table 9). There is therefore a need to substantially raise
water charges if full recovery of O&M costs is to be realized. In the economic re-evaluation, water
charges are ignored since they are a transfer payment. O&M costs are included which are based on the
mission's estimates of the real costs of O&M required to ensure that the canal irrigation infrastructure
created in the project-affected command areas is adequately maintained.
9.         Sunk Costs. As in the SAR and the feasibility study, all costs associated with the
provision of irrigation facilities in the subprojects concerned, which had been incurred before MCIP  ,
have been treated as sunk costs and consequently ignored.
B. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
SAR Economic Analysis
10.        Basic Assumptions. Tradable farm outputs and fertilizer were valued at border equivalent
prices based on international prices, while the non-tradable outputs and most farm inputs were adjusted
from financial prices to economic values by the standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.8. Unskilled
labour was priced at two-thirds the financial price. For civil works, a variety of conversion factors
were used ranging from 0.7 to 0.8 and for equipment the conversion factor used was 0.8.
1 Equipment, vehicles, studies, training, rural roads, bridges, and rehabilitation and resettlement of PAPs, were
excluded from the project costs for the purpose of the economic re-evaluation because these items are general and
cannot be directly attributed to each of the subprojects.
2 Jayakwadi, Majalgaon and Upper Penganga Rs. 1,955/ha; Bhima Rs. 1,643/ha; Krishna Rs. 1,612/ha; Kukadi
Rs. 1,470/ha.
3 These were last revised in July 1994.



58
11.       Results. The economic rates of return calculated in the SAR, over a forty year time span,
were:
Jayakwadi - MCIP I and GOM portion (78,650 ha)  29%
Jayakwadi - new area (68,000 ha                 18%
Majalgaon - km 0-30 (24,000 ha)                 13%
12.       According to the SAR, the risks that farmers' responses to irrigation may not be adequate,
and yield levels would be below those anticipated, would be minimized, through: (a) the provision of
landshaping and improved system operation methods which would ensure all farmers including tail-
enders would receive reliable water supply; and (b) placing emphasis on increasing agricultural
productivity through SDDs, technical support to farmers, research and development, and monitoring
and evaluation.
Feasibility Study Economic Analysis
13.       Basic Assumptions. Most basic assumptions used in the feasibility study are not explicit
in the Consultant's report. Border parity prices were calculated for all crops for which World Bank
forecasts were available and for fertilizer. For the remaining crops and farm inputs 'appropriate"
factors were applied to their respective financial prices to reflect their economic values. A shadow
wage rate was used equivalent to 80% of financial rates.
14.       Results. The following economic rates of return were calculated:
Kukadi - base case (167,401 ha)               5%
Bhima - base case (134,140 ha)               17%0     l
Krishna - base case (62,990 ha)              18%
Upper Penganga - RBC km 0-110                 9%
Upper Penganga - RBC km 0-177                11%
15.       The low ERR calculated for the Kukadi subproject was attributed to its relatively high cost
and lower cropping intensities due to water shortages. The consultants concluded that the Kukadi
subproject should not be financed and that alternatives needed to be considered capable of supporting
higher cropping intensities.
ICR Economic Re-evaluation
16.       Basic Assumptions. Tradable farm outputs and fertilizer were valued at border equivalent
prices based on international prices (Appendix 2, Table 2) while the non-tradable outputs and farm
inputs were adjusted from financial prices to economic values by the standard conversion factor (SCF)
of 0.9. Farm labour and project costs (both capital and O&M) were also adjusted by the SCF of 0.9.



59
17.       Crop Budgets. The detailed crop budgets on which the re-evaluation rests are provided in
Appendix 2, Tables 15-34.
18.       Farm Models. The farm models specified for each of the subprojects which were used to
quantify the impact of the project are given in Appendix 2, Tables 3 to 8.
19.       Benefit and Cost Streams. The detailed benefit and cost streams for each of the
subprojects are provided in Appendix 2, Tables 9 to 14. Details relating to the derivation of the flows
are footnoted.
20.       Summary of Results. The recalculated economic rates of return for the base case ('likely
scenario") over a forty year time span, were:
Jayakwadi - (88,000 ha)                        10%
Majalgaon - (58,000 ha)                        -8%
Upper Penganga - (23,000 ha)                  -11%
Kukadi - (20,000 ha)                            3%
Bhima - (28,000 ha)                             naI
Krishna - (10,800)                              4%
21.       Sensitivity Analysis. The following sensitivity analysis tests were undertaken in the re-
evaluation:
Increased areas irrigated. A major assumption of the re-evaluation relates to the
projected future irrigated areas. Hence a 'bptimistic"scenario was specified in which
the future irrigated areas in each of the subprojects were set equal to the maximum
areas in any year which have been achieved up until 1995/96 (see Appendix 3, Table
1 for details). These ranged from 7% to 65% of the irrigated areas created. The re-
estimated ERRs are given below:
Base       Optimistic
Jayakwadi - (88,000 ha)               10%             19%
Majalgaon - (58,000 ha)                -8%             7%0l
Upper Penganga - (23,000 ha)          -11%             -2%
Kukadi - (20,000 ha)                   3%              4%
Bhima - (28,000 ha)                    na             -12%
Krishna - (10,800 ha)            4%              4%
For this subproject the net benefit flow was negative in all years so that an ERR could not be calculated.



60
Increased incremental agricultural production. The incremental agricultural
benefits have been assessed by the ICR mission through detailed field analysis.
They are based on what has actually occurred in the project command areas. The
agricultural component was delayed. Essentially it got off the ground only in the last
two years before credit closure. However, its results over this short period of time
have been impressive, although they have been confined to relatively small parts of
the project command areas. Unfortunately, it seems that this good work will not be
replicated to other command areas since the component will most likely not continue
following credit closure. Had the agriculture component been successfully launched
at the start of the project, and irrigation water supply more reliable, there is no doubt
that farmers' switches to irrigated farming, and hence their responses in terms of
increased production, could have been greater. Changes in the ERRs if agricultural
benefits were increased by 25% and 50% are shown below:
Base         +25% agric.  +50% agric.
benefitsbenefits
Jayakwadi - (88,000 ha) 10%       16%          22%
Majalgaon - (58,000 ha)    -8%          -2%          1%
U. Penganga - (23,000 ha)    -11%      -7%          -5%
Kukadi - (20,000 ha)        3%          5%           7%
Bhima - (28,000 ha)         na          na           na
Krishna- (10,800)           4%          6%           8%
-    Reduced project costs    .The project was not an overly expensive undertaking
in terms of cost per hectare created (US$2,284/ha). However, since the actual areas
irrigated have been much below those created, the real costs per hectare irrigated are
much higher. If the maximum area irrigated in any one season is used after project
restructuring (45,876 ha in 1994/95), the costs work out at US$9,555/ha due largely
to the fact that costly infrastructure was created but not fully utilised due to a
shortage of water and inadequate water management practices. The major cost item
was canal lining - especially of the main canals. Excessive lining was carried out and
costs could have been reduced significantly had selective lining been done. Also
there was a cost over-run, which in dollar terms was 41%, some of which was due to
the devaluation of the rupee against the dollar during project construction. The
'likely" scenario was re-calculated for two cost reductions, viz. 25% and 50%,
which yield the following ERRs:
Base         -25%         -50%
costs       costs
Jayakwadi - (88,000 ha)          10%         14%          21%
Majalgaon - (58,000 ha)          -8%         -7%           -5%
U. Penganga - (23,000 ha)       -11%         -10%          -8%



61
I    Kukadi - (20,000 ha)              3%           6%          9%
Bhima - (28,000 ha)              na            na           na
Krishna- (10,800)                 4%           5%          7%
C. AGRICULTURAL AND FARM INCOME IMPACTS
Agricultural Impact
22.       Since the project was considerably altered at the time of restructuring, when four more
subprojects were added to the two subprojects included in the original project, it is not meaningful to
compare the agricultural impact estimated at appraisal to that at the time of the ICR. However, it can be
concluded that the impact of the project on agricultural production has been much less than that
estimated at appraisal since the area actually irrigated has averaged only 36% of that created during
project implementation due to a scarcity of water. The situation in the future is not likely to change
unless major changes are made by the IID at the river basin level in terms of optimising the allocation of
water to dams, and by the ID staff, WUAs and farmers in terms of water management at the scheme
level.
Cropping Intensities
23.       The cropping intensities estimated at appraisal and at the time of the ICR are shown below.
SAR
Jayakwadi and Majalgaon
Present rainfed           100%-105%
Future irrigated    175%
ICR
Jayakwadi/        U.Penganga  Kukadi        Bhima        Krishna
Majalgaon
Present rainfed  93%-99%           67%         100%         100%          100%
Future irrigated 175%             124%         159%         155%          157%0l
24.       In the Jayakwadi and Majalgaon subprojects, whilst the rainfed cropping intensity is
estimated to be slightly lower at project implementation end than it was at appraisal, the future irrigated
cropping intensity estimates remain unchanged. For the additional subprojects irrigated cropping
intensities are all estimated to be lower than in the Jayakwadi and Majalgaon subprojects due less
experience of farmers in irrigated agriculture.



62
25.       It was considered by the ICR nission that full irrigation potential in pre-project rainfed
areas would be reached in 7 years rather than the more conservative 12 years assumed at appraisal. The
main reasons for this faster switch from rainfed to irrigated farming are: (i) the increasing number of
private dugwells in the project command areas and the impact this has had on expanding the knowledge
base of farmers of irrigated farming since appraisal in the project command areas; and (iii) the
reasonably active irrigation extension in the area, stimulated in the most recent years through direct
project interventions.
Farmers' Incomes
26.       SAR. Average farm incomes1 for a 4.5 hectare farm calculated in the SAR under rainfed
(without-project) and irrigated (with-project) conditions are summarised below. Full details, including
the crop budgets and cropping patterns for each of the subprojects are contained in Appendix 2.
Net Farm Income (1997 financial prices)
Without Project      With Project        Change
(Rs)                (Rs)               (%)
Jayakwadi       23,020               85,720              272
Majalgaon       11,283               115,774             926
27.       ICR re-evaluation. Farmers' incomes recalculated by the ICR mission for a typical 4.5
hectare farm are tabulated below for each of the subprojects. Net farm incomes are compared under
present rainfed conditions to those expected under irrigation at full development.
Net Farmn Income (1997 Financial Prices)
Present Rainfed     Future Irrigated       Change
(Rs)                (Rs)              (%)
Jayakwadi       12,592               58,684              366
Majalgaon       11,922               69,271              481
U. Penganga      6,575               57,119              769
Kukadi           8,218               52,157              535
Bhima           10,260               49,233              380
Krishna         16,653               78,455              371
28.        For the Jayakwadi subproject, the re-estimated farm incomes under both rainfed and
irrigated conditions are lower than were estimated at appraisal. In the case of Majalgaon, the re-
estimated net farm income under rainfed conditions is almost equal to that estimated at appraisal,
although the re-estimated net farm income under irrigated conditions is only slightly more than half that
1 Incomes are averages weighted by the areas of the different subproject segments analysed in the SAR. Rupee
values inflated to first quarter 1997 prices using the WPI index (Table 1).



63
estimated at appraisal. Comparing the estimated changes in farm incomes as a result of the project, the
change is now estimated to be considerably higher in Jayakwadi (366% compared to 272%) but much
lower in Majalgaon (481% compared to 926%). Nevertheless, the impact of providing irrigation to
farmers is still estimated to provide a substantial lift in farmers' incomes. It should be stressed that
these changes in farmers' incomes only apply to a limited number of farmers in the project-affected
command areas - probably less than 40% of all farmers. For the farmers who have not received canal
water, or additional well water from groundwater recharging, the project has not had any impact on
their incomes.



64
INDIA: Maharashtra Composite Irrigation Project III
Implementation Completion Report 
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 1: Wholesale Price Indices and Inflators for India
Fiscal Year (a)           WPI                        Inflators
1997Q1=100(b)             1997Q1=1
1985/86                       38.27                       2.61
1986/87                       43.56                       2.30
1987188                       45.43        ___            2.20
1988/89                       48.92                       2.04
1989/90                       53.08                       1.88
1990/91                       58.67                       1.70
1991/92                       65.90                       1.52
1992/93                       69.81           _           1.43
1993/94                       75.51 _                     1.32
1994/95                       83.78    _                  1.19
1995/96                       91.40                       1.09
1996/97                   |   94.34                       1.06
1997Q1  .         _          100.00                       1.00
(a) Fiscal year WPI = average of Q2,Q3,Q4 and Ql   _
(b) Source: International Finacial Statistics, IMF, various issues



.8dmso    b -             -                                           - I-
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a i 0040 d =dll                                                                         I        -   
pANTY (1)                           _                      _                                                               iEI
13618        m        GlumS               12        S                             SUGA                             16N      DAO)                          90
CANE
PRAECTED  Y         A 117 PRIC          2_
h                                    Ut5.  T      2566    60340         140 0         047 4   i     i0 797 O              120 3X      060    136 40              Ii 5Z                40 
bdlbsIIOIUOdsga,S           7           i          56'      118        I111 It                                          116    7 I           III         _                  =       I_
b csnstaedl dIS"  doomf                   f _        5SI    71201       14167   *io01            510478     11154   5   250 75      44934      0                 16314                l?4t
OUAUTYUADASTMENT                                    - 0 #0 -,O 00         *0600        000          000 0     0 o           7D  o     35       1000 c             1000                1  t000
K         MARK5ET ELVA4T                            24 12     701        1103B         4020       161S30   1U04 02         43        t57 27 6                          o         n -743
kasmaunha _                          USSUtT         5000     10000       00 o         0 00       250 0       50 00        .o000     1000       50 00              5 00                1000
CIF* MN    PORT                       USt           20412     012701    11763         15620        36530     145 02       17323      257 27    21095              23314               16743
EXC54AIGE RATE t4                     RIADSI          5        3560       150          30 2                                356        35 60     15 60              3 60                356 0x:
CIF IDIAN POfi                        AsUT        1041062   260076      6 150 24     16303         647       4822        6          f o040   5 0  _              62W 46              1106 4
Pod                                  RsT           261n 77     226s     157 6        14000      -121512     11708        15 I7    228    1577             -          46              14102
Wemas                                Rs/Mt   -         150   20000      20000        20000    24000         20            -200 -  2500W                 10000                        1000 0 IOO
hiU  ano                                         t20 2W   120W        1200W        tlO0 W      20          120 00      1500Isw  2 00        12000               120 O              t200W
4_ased so 8              tlW2 f              f 2 W 5 0 3s   h00ii dhd I  s  ff3542                                                075        700 0170 P8  =   07 S  105
p  d"o                   %             *2~~~~~~~~~~5W   -200 W    tO00   -100 Woo 050              eo         1W         O    t                       WWIO
VA ufd co"e                --         R&lT                                                      25WW             _
OLESALE VALUE                         Rmat          ff7b4    M12521    50006 tOS.60  5e  55 s5              Sf            5t        5 f         1b              1 i1    _
FARWGATE PstfCE                       R";tT           47t U   tW5026 St Sf  0        5n5         5025        tf  7        *t         072 SS    Ot1704    _                           67t  420 5  =
ECONOSC FAXK>TlE PtUCE 47 tt~~~~9051                      Si5         t5to5W 0 1    4   5 07   Sa                            0--2-    *t43  0tn
Ii  10.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0(0
[4) bdzishe PA=       tITY              "_t_l  oXL6                                           bSCF   I
t4}-l vw uuedZh - Rs __



INDIA - Maharashtra Composite Irrigation Project -II
Appendix  2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Jayakwadi and Majalgaon Sub Projects
Table 3: 4.5 Hectare Farm Model - Jayakwadi
l________   ___j%   of typical holding  |
Season/Crop                    Present - Rainfed                           Future - Irrigated
Kharif                  _            _              ._ l _l
Millet               _ __              10    _                                    18
Sorghum                                18                  __                     22
Groundnuts                                                                        14
Pulses                                 10                                         18
Rabi_
Sorghum                                30                                         31                         c 
Safflower                               9         _                                                          0'
____    Chickpea                                 4 _      _           __   _ _              .
Wheat                                                                             12
_____ Sunflower                                  .                                   19
Hot Weather
Vegetables          l                                           |                 10
Groundnuts                                                                         3
Biseasonal
________   Cotton                               12                                         22
Perennial               ____    _______                 _I_
Bananas                                                                            2
_   Sugar Cane                                                              _         4
Cropping Intensity                       93                                         175



INDIA - Maharashtra Composite Irrigation Project -11                      _      -
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
. _  _  _   _ ___  ___ _       Jayakwadi and Majalgaon Sub.Projects                           l
Table 4: 4.5 Hectare Farm Model - Majalgaon
% of typical holding    _
Season/Crop                    Present - Rainfed                          Future - Irrigated
_________   Kharif              l                                         - |
Millet            _                    10 .__     _            |                  18              ._ _
Sorghum                                10                                        20             __.
Groundnuts                                          .                             14
---Pulses              ______            18                           _   _         18 .
Rabi                                                                                   _         |   . _            0%
_   Sorghum                               28                                         20                     |
Chickpea             .                                                            10
Wheat         .__                         _                                       10
Sunflower                              12                                        10
Hot Weather
Groundnuts                                                                       10
Biseasonal
Cotton                                 21        _                               30
Perennial
Bananas                                                                            3
_ ___   Sugar Cane                _                                                        12
Cropping Intensity                       99                                        175



INDIA - Maharashtra Composite Irrigation Project -11/
Appendix  2: Economic and Financial Analysis
'Upper Penganga Sub Project                             I
Table 5: 4.5 Hectare Farm Model
% of typical holding
Season/Crop                     Present - Rainfed                            Future - Irrigated
Kharif                                                                   .          _
Millet                     _            13 3_                                       33            ll
Sorghum                                                                             33
Groundnuts                                                                          1 0
Vegetables                                                    _                      5
Pulses                   __              8
Paddy                     _              5
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ab i  - - - - - - --_                                                    _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _
Sorghum                    _             5                                .           8           |
Wheat                                           _17
Chickpea                _                5                                           5
_________ Hot Weather                       _                .
Sunflower                                                                            I
Groundnuts                                                                           4
Biseasonal
Cotton                    ___           31                                          35
Perennial                    ____   =                                                             . .
Bananas                                                                              2
___ ___ Sugar Cane             _         . ___                                             4                      l
_______   Cropping Intensity                       67                                         124



INDIA  - Maharashtra Composite Irrigation Project - 111
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Kukadi Sub Project
J.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_____     ~Table 6: 4. 5 Hectare fiarm Model
h% of typical holding
Season/Crop                    Present - Rainfed                            Future - Irrigated       -_---
Kharif                                                                                                        :
Millet                _                22                                                        l
Sorghum                                 11                                          16            _ __
Groundnuts                              11                                          47
Pulses                                  11
Vegetables                                                                          16
Rabi          _                                         _     _     _         _          _______.  ____
Sorghum                                 27                                          14
Wheat                                                                               24
Chickpea                                18                                          14
Vegetables            ____                        _                                 14
Sunflower                                                                           14
Cropping Intensity                       100                                         159
_   _  _   _   _  _  _  _   _  _                       I   _ __    = _ _   _   _  _   _   _  _  _    _  _  _    _  _  _



INDIA - Maharashtra Composite Irrigation Project -11
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
____  ____________   _____                      Bhima Sub-Project
____   _________                  _______  Table 7: 4.5 Hectare Farm Model
___ _  _% of typical holding                           |    _ _
Season/Crop                          Present - Rainfed                                   Future - Irrigated
_________   Kharif
Millet                           _             17  _ _                                            17                          I  o
|  Sorghum                     ___ _               5                                                 25                          I
Groundnuts                                      6                                                 41
Rabi                                                                                   . . _                          _
Sorghum                                       43                                            _     34
|  Wheat                                                                                             20
-|  Chickpea                                      22                                                  13
Sunflower                 _ __                  7         _                                                _ _
___    _ Bis _aso ,a   _             _______   _  _______              ._   ______     _  _____                    _____       ____
Biseasonal_|
Chillies                  _                                                |                       5
Cropping Intensity         I            I       100                                                155



INDIA  - Maharashtra Composite Irrigation Project - il/
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Krishna Sub -Project
Table 8: 4.5 Hectare FarrnM odel
% of typical holding
Season/Crop                     Present - Rainfed                           Future - Irrigated
Kharif
_ Sorghum                __               28           .J/37
Groundnuts                             14                                          22
Maize                                  14
Pulses                                 14                                     .                  _ ___ __
___           _     _      ___Paddy  ___ ____         _       _ __     __     ___             15 _ __          __  _
Rabi                                                               l
Sorghum               __       _       15                                          17
Wheat                          _                                                   20
Chickpea                                15                                         13
Hot Weather
Maize                          __                               l                   3
Groundnuts                                                                         10
Biseasonal
Spices                                                          l                  10
Perenn-ial                                                         l
Sugar Cane                                                                         10
. Cropping Intensity                      100                  _                      157



VEAR  ISM?   1967M   UM          ti062  565M  19791       167201    161M    2075    2499"  294576    2062S  4903    420o   42001    420010   42O0             42001    4201     42010  42010  420016
PIWJCT CEOSFTS
-Aecee   bad 1,0.1440.1.35.17                                606     32472     7 2035    so0632       3 1067 1211  s 299    9626    25562 3   27040    4000    4000    4000        400      400      400      400      400      400       400
Atea 5.0    le.1 ihn c"wM  .0401`  ."2    42        2.4 I2.           61306     53312    4960       762    1624    26 62    46352      6746    52 34    597      6000    600        60        60      60        90      60        60       60
A," c9.te .h. 3M mm.u 9                        241R..j9     77067.76790    79656566100   75007,40079 6737   62261 K  6416716009  635950    66640   6_1                   96        71       96        76       71      66          1     66
&MCWJIt                                                     47.22. .ftw  26.4 6   G417    49608   1660    t 1662  25729    24903   32478    02412     3621 0366276   426626   366.26   42662    4628          4 63    426636   3626    426626
TOTA COT                                 432       391      8 ,0   2710       6 641    299626    6S144   0 123    23746   36990. 27356   4273     6120 6 114             o         14 5732  666    676    976   9766  571  5766  9766.     57661  4
TOAl" ngM   IT                                               47ss   256636472  331   44606       14966    12114   26019    6762    20962   23974   43000   44269    44432    44423    44423    44422    44423    44433    44433    44423
AwTIENEPIT                              .2431    .211    .1549        .1       5230    14619    .8263   -296       4612   .742        8722    1326    20463    2422      24262   2429       24292   24292   3429       2429    2429      24292
NIV112%40 of                    2629 6o
696hm . u,    ea   fiSt              1 4m   69r l                    7cl S790. 0001 914.051 4m&   17     23         36      $3        65      $9        64      04        71      881 88              7i       M        71       71      88



709AICOST9                         454~~"R  18  16    17 116162           9430SSM  1991921 1924322   197271   1521SS19134769     29    159709    989 4553    45320 4386         39660    3696M  203686      3996M    3960366              8
PROJECT COSEFTS
1cooun'm 
foo  ca 008       d191.0     2          5 8      4  1     109        515      53       13It  6    223 47   547     54671   61479      s0 947   547      Goo       a4       54c67              64        47       54        47      57 
Am    otd   .,OW 31    O.44                                           423      4660    42IS       4890    39047     510,6    9623     BUST      51672     91        16      69        59        1       66        966                         51
Th.~O"   n.4d44                                                                  2500 tolool  39   402 40  2412     4009    433O    3426        4296 -  42   6   429        3 4.2 6   42       54 6   429  42     428     3 42   6   42   6   429
cm   lfo oftmdd,  ate. (.A 4986                                                        3U13326 343690340                    349       3490     72531      563      7 35.3  3526       91      33        61       33        59      22         5
PiM tso  60      f  Ia0                                                            3    0t 010101  65      37      0374      379       o  362   36       293       1 393    232s      33   2   393       2 39   2   39 2   39   2   39 2   38
TTLCSS..t  00411.                                     f 154    1162 14 0 21                0 .     2      s?1      M 1636     649    127666    9699      1709     4 372    14388     3as 34 586         93a      10 69     30N     1484 N    1484S
6u We ft1  .,Qtoaol.                                                                                                        -199 7  $9 10  39  74 332 5  29    9942  7942    10440    -2097 23 260 1430450 640    .060    -20600   130600    1406  4060
Al" othd  fet, fMd W7                                                            3        s        5         1        3        6       48        83266   2591    2994      26146    2677      21709     2740     274      2740      2740     2740
F.blOtllll oa (tw  mdl-  i                                                      i     528      S3           0         754                     54                      18634    96476    996 47        92471      944   9997    999 47      999
SIt oalw                                                   609 Sal    96    1409o    4790.   593        3696     5660    233a1          i 6997 s660     999    9464  16026s    14.2    951           96491 16823    16114s         s 1636  639
OThod woo toot,.,3 s 076                                                       .49     2.9       707         1  770 5        4 636    428 660    29      922      4 1726   43106     240 4  2291       2266      2322     2373      2417     244
TOA6NF-th                                                   5.09    1072      9666        SS    3 4921_564   466   3 897    457       340 65   93S31   9230 3157693    9.36 31       3794     3    31 9729  779  69    359949     9932    9976231
::Z96N       Wwf                        -449  1411         62       100 -77            999 .96    -16 09   .6124   -1309              59.66 2  -82374    13759   912 49    93746   913295   -12443      1  133674760       3 946027494       47
lac'al  112%164. 40o                                                                                                                       s S0? s -646.22                       3 4          S    iis ott            3 lt1 o.1 ,
9Eghh I4     u                   49916.91                                                                                              S4      1  i     -96       2  3     .03       2  0     -06      2  0     -06       2  0     -0D--06
NOTyES        lmin)I12  5                                                                                                                      2 G        49       52      2  6      2  5     2  s      61        6i,     261        6I       61
T-thol .od  oM leaWOKqdl                                                                                                                       26 116,  SOo 2O 04 20 40 2l d7 OO 0ttt?t40tw 040 2.t40b2t,40to4
2? El"al  to. LW*to                                                                                                                                     asO .  9    28, .2    27 2e5t9I  2lo  5 o  2710011 I J  999  060so011410000020 .006  2C.t50
3 TAo.ooo 611 00 oooai0d) 01124lo701toIt,.CCA ed5.931C(95eolt,b2le,92tO2Os                                                                                                                                         22o,2lot   030104dote1199196
61516.1    M*  owldEt,itolad..  I  ted  SCI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II                                                                                                                         I        I 
ERRoaod140   l%eloojsboto-40                        6 ee 



IAD4 - tfshif Cempos/te In*wtoba fPj*ct - IN_
_ _ _ _x~~~~~ppof  2 .Eco_mc xrd P_m-*   Analyst
_.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I                                    _- aw Dofi tel M.o    l7n   - --_ __ ___
=    rndYEAR 1o s7             I7S                                                260      0         202       82 IS 3i62 19  931          884      18415  1s     I  197iu     m"  24087   2001i02  20020     20nio4 20040 0  200 0  200  00   2000 00
PRiOECT coSTS
Ac0     mAd _elec _.2_7_           I                                                             108.20    167 2. 0   4260    734418  3       72    42  0 2000   10     2                     2         1       =              0             800
ccew   co   i.s  n am 19s7cwi   n1                               130,;   1   63 _ 42 74 533 &   330 7   37s 19                                               oa oa oa0  =
Amo 5.d  INW 31                                      =                                             t0.  0x  7,327 20 11,527 26    2305     363021,15 18 2        2,0   1. 23050  14 8350  72
Inrl"J  Oa  "Mz 4/ ___                                                                                        4    SS     7 47-1  11        12 37    13        16 03    15 29    !6 53     15 63     is6 *     15fi.3    15 53    is *:    15 53     15 53
Ca    5 m m ofdd   of51                                                                                2484     1.8      2502       12 2      86      5 12      647      64        64 7     647        6.47     64        64a4              847       847
o    Id    m..Ioc Oft1                                                                                                    368       41       43         60      460      50        62o 351       561  1.s2s 121            5       621      52        631  56 ss
TOto~~~~~ ~          ~          ~~~~~~~ COTS0 ao O oa  0 oco    o         0o       000   132 62       203 Sl - 42 37    WA7st    ^J 34     s an so    22n    21 to    21.74     t7.0      i7.0      17.03    17 03     17.0t    17.021-709
PiioECT UNCFITS===                                                                                                                                            _         _        _      _     _     __                  ___                      -
Al" WNPM t= sCr  c  I    71                                                                         82s a0   1 021 co  I'mia    2,0200a  3.729 S   15,755 12  so00 oa S5sa         I'S saia Il,soo 00   sco    I.SC0o  I Il,Soo a01.00 Iso     1,sc00 00  o 
10.0Wn lmoo (acloOI                                                                                                        26532    3813 a      1 3S 4    13 2    6,7 70 0,463    i.728 ee   ,72S a   ,72      1726    728          728       7206
Al"    otl  f     2rT                                                                                                                             220n210             33at861412221266                               252        58      213        58
Rat Nr &. 52 t5_                                                                                 4 84       3194    2645    25 71    2           6 22 3647    5 57           6764      6 47    640 8 87 2           24       6 4      6 94       6 4
002d hm  e ed                                                                                                       3                  4 1  0 . 5 164 0  22  3   1   7 3       a          7 28 52  2      7 2       5 21 8     21 54 28           28  1
FOA  6.07h                                                                                          484      700      12691    283      2681s    420        18.41     630     6611      67609    6782    7138         7227     7238      7226     7 238 4
f dth r Ipro endl                                                                                                                      a     62 S    6 9  7 31     7 aSS     7 99     8.33      S Go      5 5ti    6 5i      5 5i               a 6i81
NIT68N S                               000       000r l    000      000   0_0          000   _2 8   .2_683   41076                                OS2924   .32020   -36750    .12 70    13 33     13 9  14 58  1 21  158 7    5183    152 1  1 283    16 6
Srh "ar _ _ _  _                                                                                                                                       13 as     14U 3i    Is 11 8is SI11   52         123    17 91       17 94    17 94    17 94
5 10rritl                                         e=-4 94                                                6 34    10 54   16 72    24 Is  n7 30    52  4  55  07                   5      7          2t 9      a5 , 62 23    42 94    62 94    62 94  a2 94
Ger rr^rar rrv                                      =                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 74  O sS  I a0  2 51  3 62  5f III  7 93  6.26  a 59    11.8    9 13      9 33     9 44      9 44     9 44
TOTAL 11it1WIT      |                                                                                 4 94      7 as    I1 59    IS 31    26 i    41 ao    5 .46    63 ao    as 51    67 SO          S97  71n 30    72 27    72 31    72 38    72 38
MET KNEaFTS         |                       000        O x        0 OCO            00 ca0 oa oo     12766   ISII 53  -450 79   5  24  3220 2z  -357 5C    35.75   -41 OS   -43 77          50 71     52 69    64 27    55 is    552  fS 29      5    5 9 S  29
NV 422% 40 2108l 12 _                    s twmi__
89 140 6  j- .9  %
NlOTES                                                                                                                                                                                                                           =
11 CM, *lduf noAol s Kods 0 I00        5502(s 0 .t248            .d .os.. 0  d m IIhd.*sm1 NW r s ___.
31 Asmo   "1        ar_   oer wc.     r lw  mai m42w  i.s   ted to dw CCA smdx MC111 dithS lot       of om  1 Mr9m  lost  1 do_ 18606.
5rASmn       w  f SWm  Soom w_t wodd So 151% ol cr    Ar. C    coo s O  2 5 hr8..0   md1 is to.,    .,b y ppip  SCF.
5/ 11d 8     rr o      Nc ..sdoSIeO sdOs    Mr       d brSCf $                                                      
ii AcsMM mo,n    001  u0 199L96 Ifti'" Ito wd vM 1    5 .0 loom us"         I WS  I   _    _
rI ASS.d to be 1% .1 cd i014 v        11        gd   by" onv N 0|0



PAOJECT ISNEFITS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
lootntedsoio  lId tin. 01. YEAR. 75a          97          988       1410l             912       46619   39260   14250      606       6002    697106    502659  192666    1600000001160020    1600304    160040S  2000    56000  12000
AU.ee eNW blmoon  o.dIa. 5.3 W   I                                                                              6        342          7 632  179     60 0     1253l    564       566       220       220      220       260      260       260       26
Fos   mmo 310. 1ta146                                                                                       153 2w126           2489     2627     632 316    60      3360      36         6         60      20        30       26         6         6
Al ecOnd  500 3.                                          10003044663    723    6.363                                                     666      553720  1268 O 7.540200     5402       40 00040042                            42      142       50
ThwumOd    -.seata2 4o4 627                                                                                                      S70      653         2      1 506 216  13401    54622    1422    54822    14632    5483        146      546       54632
.O.."aof  sada. Iowet S                                                                                 0         2    58        2 76     aa 136     02      465       629 7  660         63       62        63        63       63        63       63
TOTLCOST  no ete0                                                      00            0      00l       4    26 9 34 2            4         3- 07     376o9    4946    6546      23686     16626     726       7o26     7626      7626     7625      1 725
Setentit" toaodl    am ol     7                                                                      4S d8              21 .6G38                             7132      6756    5037D    5169       5365     5623      1666     5665      5666      5666
A 6 b mibt   50,Me W Wbtor(Ieda)42                                                                                               6                    W      11        7S49     916      10.60     12650     254.0    52600    1770       2570     3770
5.06.30W      s".                                                                                 348       7.7 52 75I    2366        263         3669     627      64        82.65  60 67       9625so    50460       1066  534 5s 623 503623
0,e.nd.o.ie re& Intol022                                                                                                2 6     22 6  224          426?     694       761402   1 50.2   524M 4 526          142 1473 567       5646     14702     1 5726
TOA.ONFowlS                                                                                         546      7.67     5667      2394      39362     43 466662          2763    903       50333     S33a 359         a52669        5266  5322      52262
NT4FIth                                   00        00        00        00       00        .0      644    260        333    -6276        7676        7   4250  4660    206      6946      7056    666 25033          10943        1536  15669        5526
614340   1                        4756odtoeco)71                                                                                                                           5    03        I9        361     1  3      l  5      IS0       6a        6
NOES.a  M1Vl1anolI74                                                                                                                                                            91       1.0       3  o     1.0       12                  77        77
5Col Ndodh 1651 ",oldt andoC' I0 on.  . ob9es. netd421and                                                                                                                                                      20olit9ensnt andisdslOistSs
714b etl ote.                                                                                            7e7ted00571I21hSe.020.13039tO9    62 70A ong44    82.U so90 30. 90 21oo04 SS oe0 too    o113o45ootdt.233116l26
6AsC-de sea 0.h.34  ten2n woOs 2.o.d be2464 03 s                                                                                                                 9I sea90lto.   26.12 44513003.44tel3In @73.1OO4 le1n.026    I   S
6TOTAL aElET       .oeso9lddteb                                                                                                      9      3 o b.a d.eY 5                        932b0e3            II e     is 9    2led!2 S SC F                  325
75NET   en0 le    O1956  l.sot.OtOe ensFIT   60  5000 bes oedt 7656 no aeon494 3n33i9onsi-7  9                                                       -60        8so     2  9       04        7 5     9 s       0 3       0  3    1  8         s99    16
NPV Ao1.d12.40 beS ..0010   .0   .,65532 0   Wbenu,o Sne



INDM  - Mahtashir9  Composite Iffgeton Project -IN
_____________                 _____   _____  ______                Append&x 2  Economsc and F,nancA  AnaIlsy
BAn,   S&ub.Iecf                       ._
78   .3 fC%s,m   Col, !  dt B,h1 I(R. anjsm 1997 con, ., w  I
YEAR       198n/a7   1987,88  196683  1089190  1990/91  1991192   109293  1983194  1994f95  -1995,96   1996197  1997/OS   1998,99  1999/00  2000/01  2001102  2002,03  2003/04  2004t50  200Sx   2006107  2007w
PROJECT COSTS
kmwlllwo Cons,
AcI.M 4I bOld n.s Wkslf                                                                          177 71    175621   497 11   058856   867231      72 44    III114    Ila984.    a00
EOmm su 6     or    188997 vs- 2/                                                                 228 71   209 34   532 40    77 38 t    41 21    e6 10   100 03    1068e8      000
Afu a"eed (ha) 3/                                                                                    837 00  3.937 00  8.235 00 19,021 00 18 336 60 20.752 62        26.584 20 28.000X
cAmUSW 0t O1 CaeSt4/S                                            =                                              _ 244     5 0o     9 78     12 8      148      1834  3        12  1991      19,S     199,      1s91      1981     1991      1891     1991
Ca    CaoSll t ddlWma   =S Si                                                                          082      049       00       1 47    33 67         0      844      673       7.03
OSMt Cost eof addtlo  ws.. */                                                                                   0 04      00o       008      0 15     1 67      19        2 24     2 S4      2 88     2 86      2 88     2 88      2         2 86     2 86
TOTAL COSTS                                  000       000       000      000       000      000   22953   21220    53802    8591a          S806 9C 849    12476    1340t    2946          2277      2277      22.77    227       22.77    2277    2277
PROJECT 8ME6FfITS
kmpgesd v.. -g5elod fo- cw4ds Ih 7/                                                                    271       432      598      1080    12208    14315    18450    18678    21000    21000    21000    21000    21000    21000    21000    21000
mes, b.,lfti Dnom tfounilw loihaioBno 2f                                          =                               4 !      as      94        147     1U43      2145      2461     2106      3116      als      315X      6ISC     3160      also      3160
flC a " VS.   F  _a _..                                  _                                                04 70 08    9      0o0      0t  o     0 o3     O4 09 so            oss      oss       o 9^s    0 5       09 5       94      o g6  0 ie  g0
Tho h v                                                     e-  )                                                   0          4 9  *o   5    o  5  0 6     3          40 6t  0 61     os       06        on   6 t 67   t    57        0 5E     o o 
mh   at"'ortl             =         _         _         _         _        =        _         _        _         =        _          32 t83   32 8      3384 6         4       78 1  36 71    38 65     38 61    38 65     388      238 65       65 
2AlEl.    s. ghth996/ae. V5.ell                       *an,sO&fte IJs 9887 do711wsltdl7e1 o.29  s48S7SGS lO6
M/A.othI v,, aeC eeedSetaIma7 S                     eOe CA l20l C6   a/ISga.5  cleseIsw                                                                                                                                          elof 58e02aK 119026
S.n t*1.    0"t o              _      _                                                              79     1 29    _  a      3 29    36 22    42 32    so0 5t   bS          es so    as 65      7131    7 12   25  71 l      72 26    724       724
GouQtww14 0t.'Ch.192 =                                                                                         O i     0 19      0 27  o    45      5 43  5    35      7 59      a 7t  o003        10 30  lo 70    10591   10 78  lo 84  lo 87
TOTAL fBEltEfITS                                                                                      0  79     z 1 4     1        3 57    35 ?i    47 75    55 94    N6 l0    IS 67    78 61        el tK    el so    825         3 03    53 30    83 3i
ffTtlEliEfiTS                               ooa        oi0      ooc       ooo       oo       ox     220       21060  5 3    0    568S12   551 34   -40 74    67 81    56794    48 20    55 95        5883     59 19    59 73    5028    tio53    60566
NPv 12%.40 ".4                 4 X333 26 Rs WmPo      
EMt40s1 ~ ~~~~~- 24 %l
90TES                   _        _         _         _         _         _        _        _         _        _         _        _                                    
1/ Casts ..ckb4t,m*s .  td t ib#". bL,4ngs W-01M. -00ces, sr4m t, NW nint tflbEDo              
I/AvuelDlloue o310 CNkst"IJ  19Whli tVt   hgdi-CWkl...tbVn4eitom    *9 tcnvfetlncc-bSCf ol09_ 
4/ Caisold at RS670/. poeald Ic ofl I&m a. beusO   RSIf68. Wq wled 150 o f.. .o.ks e  Sled   SCr
U 6AeSSo,eNU boDng f- .4w11w0.ld ba 15% lOfe 0.1C C, lcosel pn 2 5      6.50600 Ad.led l  W-on  olem S br a irm9 SCF
6/ 5%    We d     a". Lwe +hch of kS   p51p0g m , w m  dewtd br SCf !                                                                              _
7/ ACtU.0 aSSdlaaw uad  10 181995S, 1lh..ll,l algnedt Ove S   0 h a n5.114 Ine  75% *  ellen hmel sI
Al As.aWd lo be 15% el Cus i  * 01  s,Il,otl b0wvlds Miegdbr os re   ------------.+
I        ,                                                                                



_~aa _100  _hl 31                                                                        21200  1.2000 7N.30 -  900  730900t a.           945te    lr6ga ti5 922 00t -00 0
_       nx 2  EconoDic wd Financial AnAdyl                              
kwam,_                      = 0_                 -          rwal 44                                                  308      509x Co1           57        639d     703sb     7.68a    76l       76 _68             76        7.6       76 _ __66=_
0EA54 se9857   1987/t of adBalbals wa   1s                 199O2 l                                   047      068 90104          0774 I95   199O2,7 19971 0  d99   I9 CC  2000901  21.102  2002K    2 1004  10  20  10  100
PROJECT COStS           __
hAct..   a4 badIw  a. 1.1         _39 92   100 X                                                                        1,40       474      463 7 143 34    775 0  58 01  21 10                                          60                    0
E_   ts h conul 1997 p- 2t                         _S1 3                                                    lie " U   S 2S   254 3    1# 75    57 51    82 2             4 23 49   012
Ame ...td Ihid 1                                               |                                                      -252 Ot  6.278 00  7.309 00 il309    00 S1 81 7t -,5   tl 927 25 10 6000C       
katlal O&t4 cats 481                                                              =3"6                                                  s 09  51      s 76      e 39     7 03      7.e8      7 61     75t       76  7 el  776                7      7 Go
Cwt  oalt 1 adddon. wnt  5                                                                                               10 34     4 0        6 0 49  2 26     2 35      2 47      2       27
OSU. d a af a" Iwb6/                                                                                                               0 4.      a60     40 8       0 74     0  87     O90      1067     1         1067 10  I           06 I    10 7      1007
TOTAL COSTS                       =          OC        000      OOt       000       0Ot      000    51 3t   1188fa   164 27   268 89   142 96    76 Is    Ui 72    338B7    11 24            8 78     8 71      87t         787    8 78      878t      787
FROJECT 8tNEFITS____
Al"           bngat-  1hnl                                                                                                                   06 51 0  712  73   047      064       1.80     1215      1215      120       1210     121t      1210     1210
FTn   d .   W"   I tO C U d                                                                                          i s   -   --1   7 9  1 17   1 9   6 98   2 1   6 4   2 3   5 9  2 5   U 4  2 7  e2 7 4   2 7   4 9   2 7   4 9 2 7  4  2 7   4 9  2 7   4 9  2 7 4
Ftlh VW I0   w0i c6dl                                                                                                                            3 46     3 a       4.31     4.73        16     5 55      60t       6 01     6 01      601       001    J
Fillh   al~~~~~~~~~    aOl                                                                                          362      406       4.81     406       540      885       830       630      630       630~~~~~~3 2    0  461    9  640 6 s    30 6 0    3  aio
Sl-,b y.l     c14l                                                                                                                                                  3 78       2       4271     51 8           5 4   .11     6         6 50      650
S-tonh aol  IW.01d                                                                                                                                                          3294       4 42     4891      5 40      588s     6 37      68        686 a
S        YS.b-a o                                                                                                    15 79    23 07    27 20    33 51      40 34    47 79    56 81    58 52        0 44    62 26     6366      645  1   65 10    6s10
Gawd a1W  lcatwgig                                                                                                               2 37      3 58     409         031    6.05      7 17        36     8 76      9 07      9 34     9 S5      0 6      9 77
TOTAL BENEFITS                                                                                         000      000            s157  2624    30 84    3760     457      5 864    63.02    e  0    69 21        71.33     73 00    7441      74 7t    74 8i
NUTSENEFITS                                  000       000 0o             000       000      000    -51 38    1106    146848    2426d    112 11    38 58    .1636        1097     51 7     5812      6043      6255      6422     a538      6801     68e0
NPV 112%7.40 VYa)                -28452i Rs 1Won
EA (40 V*aS                         S 1%
NOTES
W Costs aocadO tw0lI loadM .0001      a. r1.15I. .010s0  a    aId 0a04ll . 4  104bd ldna_                                                                     _         _                                                        _
21A.0 a        at.. tpW31 Oeg. 1996 09.004  51hy  El  aplaWbnce t6 m   Il.t 1997 , an vffttd w 4      p0o5     aby WWr    SCFOS 0=0
41 CAdd aR 6701aIOOMao l lofl llm       spk           a1ad lao an.IaOm    .    adO bYSW  I       I        I         I___V
V561 sA L as. banal o h  kwoO id P. I5% ol canoaaoa CA   1010 by  28 6                                          SC F56   000 A ds labY  a  SC
71 Actue amlioAMd   a v 19956. dt4ttwledt ln..ad @005 Ya       l boa .  10    atnwzY 01.11110_
IA ...d 0 to De 15%    l   alln gdcuni        .      b onI  Y.       r        |        l f    A   f !                                       _        __



78
INDIA - Maharashtra Composite Irrigation Project - 11
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Upper Penganga Sub-Project               I
Table 15: Economic Crop Budget (per hectare)
Sorghum (Hybrid) - Kharif (Rainfed)
_     _       I _ _                      I _ __ __    _            _
Item           Unit              Present                        Future 1/
Qty.    Unit Price    Value      Qty.  Unit Price    Value
(Rs.)     (Rs.)                (Rs.)      (Rs.)
A. Gross Value of
production.
Yield                     Kg.         1500      5.13       7695       1650      5.13    8464.5
By product                Kg.         2250     0.495    1113.75       2475     0.495  1225.125
Gross Return                                             8808.75                      9689.625
B. Cost of Farm Inputs.
Land Preparation           ha             1      1080       1080          1     1080       1080
Seed                      Kg.            8     36.81      294.48         8     36.81    294.48
Manures                 tonne            4       180        720          5       180       900
Fertilizers - N           Kg.           20     17.43       348.6        20     17.43      348.6
P         Kg.           10      12.37      123.7        10      12.37     123.7
K         Kg.           10      10.72      107.2        10      10.72     107.2
Pesticides                 ha             1       180        180          1       180       180
Labour - Hired            m-d            46      40.5       1863         50      40.5      2025
Family        m-d            46      40.5       1863         50      40.5      2025
Total Direct Costs                                       6579.98                        7083.98
C. Net Return
(A - B)                    ______2228.77                                         2605.645
Notes :
I/ Higher yields attained 7 years after first receiving irrigation.
Family labour and hired labour expressed in man-days (m-d) assuming 1 woman day is equivalent to
0.4 man-day.           lII l               l
Assumed male : female labour is 3:1 and family labour : hired labour is 1:1
I~~ __                               _ _ I__             _ _



79
INDIA - Maharashtra Composite Irrigation Project - 111
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
_Upper Penganga Sub-Project  I            I
Table 16: Economic Crop Budget (per hectareJ
-_______           Sorghum (Hybrid) - Kharif (Irrigated)
Item           Unit              Present                        Future 1/
Inadequate Irrigation           Adequate Irrigation
Qty.    Unit Price    Value      Qty.  Unit Price    Value
(Rs.)     (Rs.)                (Rs.)      (Rs.)
A. Gross Value of
production.
Yield                     Kg.         1800      5.13       9234       2600      5.13     13338
By product                Kg.         2700     0.495      1336.5      3900     0.495    1930.5
Gross Return                                             10570.5                       15268.5
B. Cost of Farm Inputs.  _
Land Preparation           ha             1      1080       1080          1     1080       1080
Seed                      Kg.            8     36.81      294.48         8     36.81    294.48
Manures                 tonne            5       180        900          6       180      1080
Fertilizers - N           Kg.           40     17.43       697.2        80     17.43    1394.4
P         Kg.           20      12.37      247.4        40      12.37     494.8
K         Kg.           20      10.72      214.4        40      10.72     428.8
Pesticides                 ha             1       180        180          2       180       360
Labour - Hired            m-d            52      40.5       2106        62       40.5      2511
Family        m-d            52      40.5       2106        62       40.5      2511
Total Direct Costs                                       7825.48                       10154.48
C. Net Return
(A - B)             _                              2745.02                        5114.02
Notes:
I/ Higher yields attained 7 years after first receiving irrigation.
Family labour and hired labour expressed in man-days (m-d) assuming 1 woman day is equivalent to
0.4 man-day.                       l     l           l
Assumed male : female labour is 3:1 and family labour hired labour is 1:1



80
INDIA - Maharashtra Composite Irrigation Project - 1
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Upper Penganga Sub-Project  |            I
Table 17: Economic Crop Budget (per hectare)
Groundnuts - Kharif (Irrigated)
Item           Unit              Present                        Future 1/
Inadequate Irrigation            Adequate Irrigation
Qty.    Unit Price    Value      Qty.  Unit Price    Value
(Rs.)     (Rs.)                (Rs.)      (Rs.)
A. Gross Value of
production.
Yield                     Kg.         1000     10.08      10080       1200     10.08     12096
By product                Kg.          500      0.45        225        600      0.45       270
Gross Return                                              10305                          12366
B. Cost of Farm Inputs.
Land Preparation           ha             1      1260       1260          1      1260      1260
Seed                      Kg.          100     19.35       1935        100     19.35      1935
Manures                 tonne            4       180        720          4       180       720
Fertilizers - N           Kg.           12     17.43      209.16        25     17.43    435.75
P         Kg.           25      12.37     309.25        50      12.37     618.5
K         Kg.            0      10.72          0         0      10.72         0
Pesticides                 ha             1       180        180          1       180       180
Labour - Hired            m-d            50      40.5       2025         55      40.5    2227.5
Family        m-d            50      40.5       2025        55       40.5    2227.5
Total Direct Costs                                       8663.41                        9604.25
C. Net Return
(A - B)                                            1641.59                        2761.75
Notes:
I/ Higher yields attained 7 years after first receiving irrigation.
Family labour and hired labour expressed in man-days (m-d) assuming 1 woman day is equivalent to
0.4 man-day.           I         I         I         Il
Assumed male : female labour is 3:1 and family labour : hired labour is 1:1



81
INDIA - Maharashtra Composite Irrigation Project - 1
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Upper Penganga Sub-Project
Table 18: Economic Crop Budget (per hectare)
Paddy (Drilled) Kharif - (Rainfed)  _
Item           Unit               Present                       Future 1/
Qty.    Unit Price    Value      Qty.  Unit Price    Value
(Rs.)     (Rs.)                (Rs.)      (Rs.)
A. Gross Value of
production.
Yield                     Kg.         1500      6.47       9705       1650      6.47   10675.5
By product                Kg.         2250     0.585    1316.25       2425     0.585  1418.625
Gross Return                                            11021.25                      12094.13
B. Cost of Farm Inputs.__________
Land Preparation           ha             1      1440       1440          1      1440      1440
Seed                      Kg.           55     7.785    428.175         55     7.785   428.175
Manures                 tonne            4       180        720          4       180       720
Fertilizers - N           Kg.           15     17.43      261.45        15     17.43    261.45
P         Kg.           10      12.37      123.7        10      12.37     123.7
K         Kg.           10      10.72      107.2        10     10.72      107.2
Pesticides                 ha             1       180        180          1       180       180
Labour - Hired            m-d            55      40.5     2227.5         58      40.5      2349
Family        m-d            55      40.5     2227.5        58       40.5      2349
Total Direct Costs                                      7715.525                       7958.525
C. Net Return
(A - B)                                           3305.725                         4135.6
Notes
I/ Higher yields attained 7 years after first receiving irrigation.
Family labour and hired labour expressed in man-days (m-d) assuming 1 woman day is equivalent to
0.4 man-day.           IlI_I
Assumed male: female labour is 3:1 and family labour: hired labour is 1:1
T  f   r       A                _ _    _ _    _



82
I    I         I          I          I               I
INDIA - Maharashtra Composite Irrigation Project - 111
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Upper PengangaSub-Project   I             I
Table 19: Economic Crop Budget (per hectare)
Pulses - Kharif (Rainfed)
Item           Unit               Present                        Future 1/
Qty.  Unit Price    Value       Qty.  Unit Price   Value
(Rs.)      (Rs.)                (Rs.)      (Rs.)
A. Gross Value of
production.
Yield                      Kg.          400       10.8       4320       440       10.8       4752
By product                 Kg.          100     0.387        38.7        110     0.387      42.57
Gross Return                                               4358.7                        4794.57
B. Cost of Farm Inputs.
Land Preparation            ha             1       900         900          1       900       900
Seed                       Kg.           15      29.7       445.5         15      29.7      445.5
Manures                  tonne            3       180         540          4       180        720
Fertilizers - N            Kg.            0     17.43           0          0     17.43          0
P         Kg.             0     12.37           0          0     12.37          0
K         Kg.             0     10.72           0          0     10.72          0
Pesticides                  ha             0       180           0          1       180       180
Labour - Hired             m-d            25      40.5      1012.5        26       40.5      1053
Family         m-d           25       40.5     1012.5         26      40.5       1053
Total Direct Costs                                          3910.5                         4351.5
C. Net Return
(A - B)                                                448.2                         443.07
Notes:
I/ Higher yields attained 7 years after first receiving irrigation.
Family labour and hired labour expressed in man-days (m-d) assuming 1 woman day is equivalent to
0.4 man-day.           I1                              l  l
Assumed male : female labour is 3:1 and family labour : hired labour is 1:1



83
INDIA - Maharashtra Composite Irrigation Project - 11
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
| Upper Penganga Sub-Project  I
Table 21: Economic Crop Budget (per hectare)
Pearl Millet (Hybrid) - Kharif (Irrigated)
'I                         I~        I
Item           Unit              Present                        Future 1/
Inadequate Irrigation 1/        Adequate Irrig
Qty.  Unit Price    Value      Qty.  Unit Price
(Rs.)     (Rs.)                (Rs.)
A. Gross Value of
production.
Yield                     Kg.         1200      4.95       5940       2000      4.95
By product                Kg.         1800     0.315         567      3000     0.315
Gross Return                                               6507
B. Cost of Farm Inputs.           _
Land Preparation           ha             1      1350       1350          1      1350
Seed                      Kg.          3.5    38.25    133.875         3.5    38.25
Manures                 tonne            3       180         540         4       180
Fertilizers - N           Kg.           30     17.43       522.9        60     17.43
P         Kg.           15     12.37      185.55        30     12.37
K         Kg.           15     10.72       160.8        30     10.72
Pesticides                 ha             1       180        180          2       180
Labour - Hired            m-d            50      40.5       2025         60      40.5
Family        m-d           50       40.5       2025        60       40.5
Total Direct Costs                                      7123.125
C. Net Return
(A - B)                        =                  -616.125               =
Notes:
I/ Higher yields attained 7 years after first receiving irrigation.
Family labour and hired labour expressed in man-days (m-d) assuming 1 woman day is equivalent to
0.4 man-day.           x                  _
Assumed male: female labo our is 3:1 and family labour: hired labour is 1:1    =



84
INDIA - Maharashtra Composite Irrigation Project - 111
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
T       Bhima Sub-Project    I            I
Table 22: Economic Crop Budget (per hectare)
Vegetables - Kharif (Irrigated)
Item           Unit              Present                        Future 1/
Inadequate Irrigation            Adequate Irrigation
Qty.   Unit Price    Value       Qty.  Unit Price    Value
(Rs.)     (Rs.)                (Rs.)      (Rs.)
A. Gross Value of
production.
Yield                     Kg.         7000      2.25      15750      10000      2.25     22500
By product                Kg.            0         0           0         0         0          0
Gross Return                                              15750                          22500
B. Cost of Farm Inputs.
Land Preparation           ha             1     1440        1440          1     1440       1440
Seed                      Kg.         0.75       450       337.5      0.75       450      337.5
Manures                 tonne            8       180       1440         10       180      1800
Fertilizers - N           Kg.           75     17.43    1307.25        150     17.43    2614.5
P         Kg.           50      12.37      618.5       100      12.37      1237
K         Kg.           50      10.72        536       100      10.72      1072
Pesticides                 ha             2       180        360          2       180       360
Labour - Hired            m-d            82      40.5       3321        92       40.5      3726
Family        m-d            82      40.5       3321        92       40.5      3726
Total Direct Costs   X                                  12681.25                          16313
C. Net Return
(A - B)                                            3068.75                           6187
Notes
I/ Higher yields attained 7 years after first receiving irrigation.
Family labour and hired labour expressed in man-days (m-d) assuming 1 woman day is equivalent to
0.4 man-day.                                                    I         I r___=
Assumed male : female labour is 3:1 and family labour: hired labour is 1:1



85
INDIA - Maharashtra Composite Irrigation Project - 111
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Upper Penganga Sub-Project  I           I
Table 23: Economic Crop Budget (per hectare)
Wheat - Rabi (Irrigated)__=
Item          Unit         _    Present                       Future 1/
Inadequate Irrigation           Adequate Irrigation
Qty.   Unit Price    Value      Qty.  Unit Price    Value
(Rs.)     (Rs.)               (Rs.)      (Rs.)
A. Gross Value of
production.
Yield                    Kg.         1500       5.8       8700      2500        5.8    14500
By product               Kg.         1500     0.306        459      2500     0.306       765
Gross Return                                              9159                         15265
B. Cost of Farm Inputs.    ==                 =_==
Land Preparation          ha             1     1440        1440         1      1440      1440
Seed                     Kg.          100      9.45        945       100      9.45       945
Manures                 tonne           4       180        720         5       180       900
Fertilizers - N          Kg.           40     17.43      697.2        80     17.43    1394.4
P         Kg.           20     12.37      247.4        40     12.37     494.8
K         Kg.           20     10.72      214.4        40     10.72     428.8
Pesticides                ha             0      180           0         1       180       180
Labour - Hired            m-d           53      40.5    2146.5         65      40.5   2632.5
Family        m-d           53      40.5     2146.5        65      40.5   2632.5
Total Direct Costs                                        8557                          11048
C. Net Return
(A - B)                                               602                          4217
Notes:
I/ Higher yields attained 7 years after first receiving irrigation.
Family labour and hired labour expressed in man-days (m-d) assuming 1 woman day is equivalent to
0.4 man-day.          IIi
Assumed male : female labour is 3:1 and family labour : hired labour is 1:1
I    I    I    I                                     =__=



86
INDIA - Maharashtra Composite Irrigation Project -11
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Upper PengangaSub-Project   I             I
Table 24: Economic Crop Budget (per hectare)
Sorghum (Local) - Rabi (Rainfed)
Item           Unit               Present  _                     Future 1/
Inadequate Irrigation           Adequate Irrigation
Qty.    Unit Price    Value       Qty.  Unit Price    Value
(Rs.)     (Rs.)                 (Rs.)     (Rs.)
A. Gross Value of
production.
Yield                     Kg.          800        6.3       5040        880       6.3      5544
By product                Kg.         1600      0.495        792       1760     0.495      871.2
Gross Return                                                5832                         6415.2
B. Cost of Farm Inputs.
Land Preparation           ha             1      1080        1080          1     1080       1080
Seed                      Kg.             8      14.4       115.2         8      14.4      115.2
Manures                  tonne            3       180        540          3       180       540
Fertilizers - N           Kg.             0     17.43          0          0     17.43          0
P         Kg.             0     12.37          0          0     12.37          0
K         Kg.             0     10.72          0          0     10.72          0
Pesticides                 ha             0       180           0         0        180         0
Labour - Hired             m-d           28      40.5        1134        30       40.5      1215
Family        m-d            28      40.5       1134         30       40.5      1215
Total Direct Costs                                         4003.2                         4165.2
C. Net Return
(A - B)                                              1828.8                           2250
Notes:
I/ Higher yields attained 7 years after first receiving irrigation.
Family labour and hired labour expressed in man-days (m-d) assuming 1 woman day is equivalent to
0.4 man-day.           III_ l                         I     .
Assumed male : female labour is 3:1 and family labour : hired labour is 1:1
I         l         l            _  _l_                   _         _



87
INDIA - Maharashtra Composite Irrigation Project - 11
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
| Upper PengangaSub-Project  |            l
Table 26: Economic Crop Budget (per hectare)
Sorghum (Improved) - Rabi (Irrigated)
Item           Unit              Present                         Future I/
Inadequate Irrigation           Adequate Irrigation
Qty.   Unit Price    Value       Qty.  Unit Price    Value
(Rs.)     (Rs.)                (Rs.)      (Rs.)
A. Gross Value of
production.
Yield                     Kg.         1800       6.3      11340       2400       6.3    15120
By product                Kg.         3600     0.495       1782       4800     0.495      2376
Gross Return                                              13122                          17496
B. Cost of Farm Inputs.
Land Preparation           ha             1      1260       1260          1     1260       1260
-Seed                      Kg.            8      14.4       115.2         8      14.4      115.2
Manures                 tonne            5       180        900          6       180      1080
Fertilizers - N           Kg.           40     17.43       697.2        80     17.43    1394.4
P         Kg.           20      12.37      247.4        40      12.37     494.8
K         Kg.           20      10.72      214.4        40      10.72     428.8
Pesticides                 ha             1       180        180          2       180       360
Labour - Hired            m-d            52      40.5       2106        60       40.5      2430
Family        m-d            52      40.5       2106        60       40.5      2430
Total Direct Costs                                        7826.2                         9993.2
C. Net Return
(A - B)                                             5295.8                         7502.8
Notes:
I/ Higher yields attained 7 years after first receiving irrigation.
Family labour and hired labour expressed in man-days (m-d) assuming 1 woman day is equivalent to
0.4 man-day.          I|I |                |
Assumed male : female labour is 3:1 and family labour : hired labour is 1:1
T         I         T         T                        =___ ___ _



88
INDIA - Maharashtra Composite Irrigation Project - I11
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Upper PengangaSub-Project   |            I
Table 26: Economic Crop Budget (per hectare)
Chickpea - Rabi (Rainfed)
Item           Unit              Present                         Future I/
Qty.    Unit Price    Value      Qty.  Unit Price    Value
(Rs.)     (Rs.)                (Rs.)      (Rs.)
A. Gross Value of
production.
Yield                     Kg.          500         9       4500        550         9      4950
By product                Kg.          125     0.405      50.625       135     0.405    54.675
Gross Return                                           4550.625                       5004.675
B. Cost of Farm Inputs.
Land Preparation           ha             1      900         900          1      900        900
Seed                      Kg.           55      19.8       1089         55      19.8      1089
Manures                 tonne            4       180        720          4       180       720
Fertilizers - N           Kg.            0     17.43           0         0     17.43          0
P         Kg.            0      12.37          0         0      12.37         0
K         Kg.            0      10.72          0         0      10.72         0
Pesticides                 ha             0       180          0          0       180         0
Labour - Hired            m-d            28      40.5       1134        29       40.5    1174.5
Family        m-d            28      40.5       1134        29       40.5    1174.5
Total Direct Costs                                          4977                           5058
C. Net Return
(A - B)                                           -426.375                        -53.325
Notes:
I/ Higher yields attained 7 years after first receiving irrigation.
Family labour and hired labour expressed in man-days (m-d) assuming 1 woman day is equivalent to
0.4 man-day.           I         I         I         I
Assumed male : female labour is 3:1 and family labour: hired labour is 1:1



89
I         I         I         I           1--'      
INDIA - Maharashtra Composite Irrigation Project - 111
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
| Upper PengangaSub-Project   I           l
Table 27: Economic Crop Budget (per hectare)
Chickpea - Rabi (Irrigated)
Item           Unit               Present                         Future I/
Inadequate Irrigation           Adequate Irrigation
Qty.    Unit Price    Value       Qty.  Unit Price    Value
(Rs.)     (Rs.)                (Rs.)      (Rs.)
A. Gross Value of
production.
Yield                     Kg.         1100          9       9900       1500         9     13500
By product                Kg.          275      0.405    111.375        375     0.405   1 51.875
Gross Return                                           10011.375                       13651.88
B. Cost of Farm Inputs.    _
Land Preparation           ha             1       900         900          1      900        900
Seed                      Kg.            55      19.8       1089         55      19.8      1089
Manures                  tonne            5       180        900          6       180      1080
Fertilizers - N           Kg.            12     17.43     209.16         25     17.43    435.75
P         Kg.            25     12.37     309.25         50     12.37      618.5
K         Kg.             0     10.72          0          0     10.72          0
Pesticides                 ha             1       180         180          2       180       360
Labour - Hired             m-d           38      40.5        1539        45       40.5    1822.5
Family        m-d            38      40.5       1539         45      40.5    1822.5
Total Direct Costs                                        6665.41                        8128.25
C. Net Return
(A - B)                                            3345.965                       5523.625
Notes:                                       _
I/ Higher yields attained 7 years after first receiving irrigation.
Family labour and hired labour expressed in man-days (m-d) assuming 1 woman day is equivalent to
0.4 man-day.           I         I [I                 I          l 
Assumed male : female labour is 3:1 and family labour : hired labour is 1:1
_ __ _   _         _      I       _     _    _I=_             _ _       _



90
INDIA - Maharashtra Composite Irrigation Project - 1
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Table 28: Economic Crop Budget (per hectare)
Upper Penganga Sub-Project  I            I
Groundnuts - Hot Weather (Irrigated)
_                                      I_
Item           Unit              Present                        Future 1i
Inadequate Irrigation            Adequate Irrigation
Qty.    Unit Price    Value      Qty.  Unit Price    Value
(Rs.)     (Rs.)                (Rs.)      (Rs.)
A. Gross Value of
production.
Yield                     Kg.         1200     10.08      12096       2000     10.08    20160
By product                Kg.          600      0.45        270       1000      0.45       450
Gross Return                              I               12366                          20610
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
B. Cost of Farm Inputs.    =.                         ____
Land Preparation           ha             1      1620       1620          1     1620       1620
Seed                      Kg.          100     19.35       1935        100     19.35      1935
Manures                 tonne            4       180        720          6       180      1080
Fertilizers - N           Kg.           12     17.43      209.16        25     17.43    435.75
P         Kg.           25      12.37     309.25        50      12.37     618.5
K         Kg.            0      10.72          0         0      10.72         0
Pesticides                 ha             2       180        360          2       180       360
Labour - Hired            m-d            53      40.5     2146.5        65       40.5    2632.5
Family        m-d            53      40.5     2146.5        65       40.5    2632.5
Total Direct Costs                                       9446.41                       11314.25
C. Net Return
(A - B)                    __       _              2919.59                        9295.75
Notes
I/ Higher yields attained 7 years after first receiving irrigation.
Family labour and hired labour expressed in man-days (m-d) assuming 1 woman day is equivalent to
0.4  man-day.          lI1                    1  1      llll
Assumed male : female labour is 3:1 and family labour: hired labour is 1:1



91
IT      I           I         I           I         I
INDIA - Maharashtra Composite Irrigation Project - 111
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Upper Penganga Sub-Project  I            l
Table 29: Economic Crop Budget (per hectare)
Sunflower - Hot Weather {Irrigated)
Item           Unit              Present                        Future 1/
Inadequate Irrigation           Adequate Irrigation
Qty.    Unit Price    Value      Qty.  Unit Price    Value
(Rs.)     (Rs.)                (Rs.)      (Rs.)
A. Gross Value of
production.
Yield                     Kg.         1200         9      10800       1800         9    16200
By product                Kg.            0         0           0         0         0          0
Gross Return                                              10800                          16200
B. Cost of Farm Inputs.                     _
Land Preparation           ha             1      1440       1440          1     1440       1440
Seed                      Kg.           10      35.1        351         10      35.1       351
Manures                 tonne            5       180        900          5       180       900
Fertilizers - N           Kg.           30     17.43       522.9        60     17.43    1045.8
P         Kg.           15      12.37     185.55        30      12.37     371.1
K         Kg.            0      10.72          0         0     10.72          0
Pesticides                 ha             2       180        360          3       180       540
Labour - Hired            m-d            55      40.5     2227.5        68       40.5      2754
Family        m-d            55      40.5     2227.5        68       40.5      2754
Total Direct Costs                                       8214.45                        10155.9
C. Net Return
(A - B)                                            2585.55                         6044.1
Notes:
I/ Higher yields attained 7 years after first receiving irrigation.  _      ____
Family labour and hired labour expressed in man-days (m-d) assuming 1 woman day is equivalent to
0.4 man-day.           I         IlI_I
Assumed male: female labour is 3:1 and family labour : hired labour is 1:1
l         l         l         l            ___         =_    _  _



92
I        I         ~I                    I
INDIA - Maharashtra Composite Irrigation Project - 111
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Upper Penganga Sub-Project  I
Table 30: Economic Crop Budget (per hectare)
Cotton (Hybrid) - Biseasonal (Irrigated)
Item           Unit              Present                        Future 1/
Inadequate Irrigation           Adequate Irrigation
Qty.    Unit Price    Value      Qty.  Unit Price    Value
I_______________________     =     _____=__|  (Rs.)      (Rs.)                (Rs.)      (Rs.)
A. Gross Value of
production.
Yield                     Kg.         1100       18.4     20240       1200      18.4    22080
By product                Kg.          550      0.18          99       600      0.18       108
Gross Return          |         |                         20339                          22188
B. Cost of Farm Inputs..
Land Preparation           ha             1      1440       1440          1     1440       1440
Seed                      Kg.            3     321.3       963.9         3     321.3      963.9
Manures                 tonne            5       180        900          6       180      1080
Fertilizers - N           Kg.           50     17.43       871.5       100     17.43      1743
P         Kg.           25      12.37     309.25        50      12.37     618.5
K         Kg.           1 0     10.72      107.2        20     10.72      214.4
Pesticides                 ha            1 5      180       2700        20        180      3600
Labour - Hired            m-d            80      40.5       3240         90      40.5      3645
Family        m-d            80      40.5       3240        90       40.5      3645
Total Direct Costs                                      13771.85                        16949.8
C. Net Return                                                     _ r____
(A - B)          __ :__r_|6567.15                                                  5238.2
Notes:                 |
I/ Higher yields attained 7 years after first receiving irrigation.
Family labour and hired labour expressed in man-days (m-d) assuming 1 woman day is equivalent to
0.4 man-day.
Assumed male : female labour is 3:1 and family labour: hired labour is 1:1



93
[                    I         I           I         I          _ _
INDIA  - Maharashtra Composite Irrigation Project - 1
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Upper Penganga Sub-Project  I             I
Table 31: Economic Crop Budget (per hectare)
Cotton (mrstaple) - Biseasonal (Rainfed)
Item           Unit               Present                        Future 1/
Qty.    Unit Price    Value       Qty.  Unit Price    Value
_______________________ _  (Rs.)  (Rs.)                (Rs.)      (Rs.)
A. Gross Value of
production.                                                     _
Yield                      Kg.          800       18.4      14720        880      18.4    16192
By product                 Kg.          400      0.18          72       440       0.18       79.2
Gross Return                                                14792                         16271.2
B. Cost of Farm Inputs.   L_I_
Land Preparation            ha             1      1440       1440           1     1440       1440
Seed                       Kg.            8       38.7      309.6          8      38.7      309.6
Manures                  tonne            4       180         720          4       180        720
Fertilizers - N            Kg.           25      17.43     435.75         25     17.43    435.75
P          Kg.           12     12.37      148.44         12     12.37    148.44
K          Kg.            5     10.72        53.6          5     10.72       53.6
Pesticides                  ha            10       180       1800         10        180      1800
Labour - Hired             m-d            60      40.5       2430         62       40.5      2511
Family         m-d           60       40.5       2430         62      40.5       2511
Total Direct Costs                                         9767.39                        9929.39
C. Net Return
(A - B)                                             5024.61                         6341.81
Notes:
I/ Higher yields attained 7 years after first receiving irrigation.
Family labour and hired labour expressed in man-days (m-d) assuming 1 woman day is equivalent to
0.4 man-day.           i                              I T  T_ _
Assumed male : female labour is 3:1 and family labour : hired labour is 1:1
__     __                  I          I            __         __=_                    _



94
I  I   I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~I   I                    I=
INDIA - Maharashtra Composite Irrigation Project - 111
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Upper Penganga Sub-Project  I            i
Table 32: Economic Crop Budget (per hectare)
Chitlies - Biseasonal (Irrigatedj
Item           Unit              Present                        Future 1/
l_____________________  Inadequate Irrigation    Adequate Irrigation
r________________  Qty.    Unit Price    Value  Qty.  Unit Price    Value
________________________  =     _________  (Rs.)       (Rs.).              (Rs.)      (Rs.)
A. Gross Value of
production.
Yield                     Kg.          600        36      21600        800        36    28800
By product                Kg.            0         0           0         0         0          0
Gross Return          I        T_.T              _X_      21600                          28800
B. Cost of Farm Inputs.    _
Land Preparation           ha             1     1350        1350          1     1350       1350
Seed                      Kg.          0.4       450         180       0.4       450        180
Manures                  tonne           6       180       1080          8       180      1440
Fertilizers - N           Kg.           50     17.43       871.5       100     17.43      1743
P         Kg.           37      12.37     457.69        75      12.37    927.75
K         Kg.           37      10.72     396.64        75      10.72       804
Pesticides                 ha             2       180        360          3       180       540
Labour - Hired            m-d           100      40.5       4050       120       40.5      4860
Family        m-d          100       40.5       4050       120       40.5      4860
Total Direct Costs                                      12795.83                       16704.75
C. Net Return
(A - B)                                            8804.17                       12095.25
Notes:
I/ Higher yields attained 7 years after first receiving irrigation.
Family labour and hired labour expressed in man-days (m-d) assuming 1 woman day is equivalent to
0.4 man-day.           lI                    I     I  l
Assumed male : female labour is 3:1 and family labour: hired labour is 1:1



95
INDIA - Maharashtra Composite Irrigation Project - 111
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Upper Penganga Sub-Project  I            I
Table 33: Economic Crop Budget (per hectare)
Bananas Perennial (Irrigated)
Item           Unit              Present |                      Future 1/
Inadequate Irrigation          Adequate Irrigation
Qty.    Unit Price    Value      Qty.  Unit Price    Value
(Rs.)     (Rs.)                (Rs.)      (Rs.)
A. Gross Value of
production.
Yield                     Kg.        40000      5.07    202800    50000         5.07   253500
By product                Kg.            0         0           0         0         0         0
Gross Return                                             202800                         253500
B. Cost of Farm Inputs.                       _                      _
Land Preparation           ha             1     2700        2700          1     2700       2700
Seed                      Kg.         4200       0.9       3780       4200       0.9      3780
Manures                 tonne           20       180       3600         20       180      3600
Fertilizers - N           Kg.          200     17.43       3486        400     17.43      6972
P         Kg.           85      12.37    1051.45       170      12.37    2102.9
K         Kg.           85      10.72      911.2       170      10.72    1822.4
Pesticides                 ha             4       180        720          5       180       900
Labour - Hired            m-d           170      40.5       6885       185       40.5    7492.5
Family        m-d          170       40.5       6885       185       40.5    7492.5
Total Direct Costs                                      30018.65                        36862.3
C. Net Return
(A - B)                                          172781.35                       216637.7
Notes:
I/ Higher yields attained 7 years after first receiving irrigation.
Family labour and hired labour expressed in man-days (m-d) assuming 1 woman day is equivalent to
0.4 man-day.           I                   II r 
Assumed male : female labour is 3:1 and family labour: hired labour is 1:1



96
INDIA - Maharashtra Composite Irrigation Project - 111
Appendix 2: Economic and Financial Analysis
Upper Penganga Sub-Project  I             I
Table 34: Economic Crop Budget (per hectare)
__________________  Sugarcane Perennial (Irrigated)
Item           Unit               Present                        Future 1/
Inadequate Irrigation           Adequate Irrigation
Qty.    Unit Price    Value       Qty.  Unit Price    Value
( _Rs.)       (Rs.)                (Rs.)     (Rs.)
A. Gross Value of
production.
Yield                     Kg.        60000       0.49      29400     70000       0.49     34300
By product                Kg.             0         0          0          0         0          0
Gross Return                       r       ,               29400                          34300
B. Cost of Farm Inputs.           _                    _          _ __
Land Preparation           ha             1      3150        3150          1     3150       3150
Seed                      Kg.         5000        0.9       4500       5000       0.9      4500
Manures                  tonne           10       180       1800         10       180      1800
Fertilizers - N           Kg.          200      17.43       3486        400     17.43      6972
P         Kg.            85     12.37    1051.45        170     12.37    2102.9
K         Kg.            85     10.72       911.2       170     10.72    1822.4
Pesticides                 ha             4       180         720          5       180       900
Labour - Hired             m-d          150      40.5        6075       160       40.5      6480
Family        m-d           150      40.5       6075        160       40.5      6480
Total Direct Costs                                       27768.65                        34207.3
C. Net Return
(A - B)                                             1631.35                           92.7
Notes:               _
I/ Higher yields attained 7 years after first receiving irrigation.
Family labour and hired labour expressed in man-days (m-d) assuming 1 woman day is equivalent to
0.4 man-day.           III               II                       
Assumed male : female labour is 3:1 and family labour : hired labour is 1:1



97
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA COMPOSITE IRRIGATION PROJECT III
ICR. 16214lNl
APPENDIX 3: MISCELLANEOUS TABLES
1.       Total Project Costs by Financial Year
2.       Cost Summary Subproject Wise
3.       Year-Wise Expenditure by Subproject (Up to 31 December 1996)
4.       Financial Program   for Balance Work of MCIP III
S.       Statement of Subproject Wise Physical Achievements Against Targets
6.       Physical Program   af Balance Works Beyond 31 December 1996
7.       Year-Wise Culturable Command Areas: Provided with Irrigation and
Actual Cropped
8.       Subproject Wise Irrigation Performance
9.       Flow Irrigation Rates
10.      Year-Wise Areas Available for Irrigation and Actually Irrigated by Season



INDLk Mdw=Mm CmVoMe lirlipation Pmjsd III
APWI& 3. Miscellaneous Tobin
TOM 1: Total Projed Costis by FMNCW Yew
Prot"Icellpeamw             19"47            1907186           lsmo              IOBOM             I"Wgl             1921192           19020113          IVIIV94           ltmo       I      iown        199647 up So D- 9 JACL ENP    T.     I COO d Balmme WWOM      TOW PmW Cog
RWI RAOUSS              1279              1297              14 49             to Go             17 95             2462              26 41             31 36            3105              3371              35 2?      131          1906           35 3                    1
RsM    UN M    AsM    unm    RsM    us$ m                    US$ U    Rs M    Un M    RS M  IUS11 M    R&M    USSM I R&M    Un M    Rs M  I us$ m    RSM    US$ PA   RSM    UN M I  RS M                      US11 M    RS M  I  US11 M       RSM       usll u
krwad- D"L I
t ModwnMbM d
Headwoft & Cwwb                                                                                                                                   374 -15232   --406   183 70        6 00    14364     425    4511        124    623 52    1904      5300        150    676 52         2144
usm, cwws                   is 97     1 46    56 48     4 35    58 55     4 04    so 96     3 06    45 94     2 56    38 00   1-5 5   308 33    1167   327 42    10 44   76146    24 05 1.106 43    3520   42479    12 04  3.277 33   110 46    531 00          i5ot  3,80833         125 51
b..Ch, Out. &                             I                                                                      I                                  -
MNWC.Wlds                     4         3521       34     2 72    36 70     2 53    5t 25     306    8403       4 60    gois      392   104 31      736   22600       721   335 44    10601  06364    2026   370 57    1061                  7641    5024         im       2,706.79      9194
krilows D"L I
upwaabm of
consw                                                                                                                                    2 79     1-1      9 44     030   10387      326   13539       4 03    42 46      1 20    "4 45     4 92     Is 00       042    309 45          9 35
Man old Lk* Otwi            1957      1 33     3 43     026      254      Ole      I 66     010      I so     0 09     2 07    OOB      0 26     401      4 31S    014      5 52     0 21    46 64     1 39    1707      0 51    too GI     449       000        00D    106 61          4 49
6Sub Sfam Omm                                    2 50     019      2 42     0 17     6 so     0 41     6 20     0 35     420      Oil      4 52    017       $62    'O 27     733      0 23     $17      024      2 53     007      53 22     2 22      7 00       020      60 29         2 41
7 ROW chantwo &                                                                                                                                                                        000
-soltm*ve U*v                 66 35     5f9    3105       2 39    6864      4 74    5166      3 70    53 36     2 97    3510      147    7119      2 70    6716      2 70    80 71     2 80   lliSS      3 32    47 96     136    724 03    33 42    ift 43        469    889 46         3811
6 L&W Shap.9 &W Caq                                           I        I                                                                                                 I        I                 I
U"                          37 60     2 90     5 82     0461    3 321    023       7 05     0 42     I 27     046    22 61     0 92    24 14     0911   10 49      0 33     194      0 05     5 431    016      0 63     0 02    127 40     0 93     10 00       028    137 40          7 21
S        Romm                                                                     0 50     0 00     3 37     019      4 05    017      912      035      6 79     0 22    12 44     0 39    15 29     045      3 08     0 09     64 64     145       5 00       014      59 64         1 n
10 FOMUbWWUAS                                                                                                                             020      ooi      020      001      0 W      0 03     4 50     013      310      0 09      a 90     0 28      000        000        a 90        0 28
11 DV-    R"uM-(PPDR)                                                                                                                                                         I 78     0 00    8440      191    1082       0 31     77 00     2 27      000        000      77 00.        227
COMM P10911INNIUSS Ftw
Wallis
12 Estmbkshn*M Cam           132521   10 36    76 46      a 05   115 2?     7 95   105 75    6 35   100 95     6 07   122 57     6 00   17221      6 52   182 69     5 02   195 47     5 N    240 "      713   12365       351  1.50 43    7064         0 00       000  1.568 43         7064
2BW&np                         20DI    016       409      032      0 91    006      067      004  - 0 29       0 02     0 42     002      074      0 03     711      0 23     978      0 31    12 26     036      3 33     009      41 62     1 63      000        000      41 62         1 63
14 VorJcks SO EqpmM           0001    0 00    49 19      3 791    9 971    069     0 00     0        000      000      160      0 07     0 25     001      Oil   _O 00    1525        0 40     i 06     003      040      0011    7164       4 60      0 00       0 00     77 84         4 60
is SWSS                        6 001    0 46     297      0 23    9 77     067      2 341    014      1 44     000      0 73     003      2 47     0 09     127      004      067      002    1500       0 44    la 05     0 451    58 71                                                 --
la inw"                            I                                                                                                                        9 08     029    16 44      0 52    21 70     064    23 50      0 67     7072      212       000        OOO      70 72         212
2 Dwn$af*RSVW.F&;;7                I                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I                      I
ROPWM MA Safety M     S                                                                                                                                                                                          5 50     015       a so     0 10   203 501       5 76    209 001       79-2
Re" 0   rA AL- ReMbfta
18 Ec*    Rshmb*wbon                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S03 81       io 54    583 01       18 54
19 C*AC    rmms                                                                                                                                                                                70 00     0 00    6960      197    130 60      1 97    20350        $16    343 10         7 74
P.W; Wwks DOW
20 Rwal Roaft &,d Bddgj                                      1    3 001    021      000      0 00     680      0 30    7330      2 N     13 T7     0 M     3937                        1                         so 60     172    375 50    12 45     55 52        157    431 02         14 03
jAqftuft OePL
1000                                                    00                        421                  iii-   206 26          6



99
INDIA: Maharashtra Composite Irrigation Project III
Appendix 3: Miscellaneous Tables
Table 2: Cost Summary Subproject Wise (Rs Million)
Restructured   Completed up to December
ComTiponlent       1992/93             31,1996          Baance for Completion       Tobl
Cost       Cost          %          Cost       %        Cost      % ExlSav
Jayakwadi
Irrigation I                  382.00        314.21         82      53.00       14       367.21        4
Inrigation II                   0.00      1,452.05                  0.00              1,452.05
Public Works Dept             157.45        153.88         98       0.00        0       153.88        2
Sub Total                     539.45      1,920.14                 53.00              1,973.14
Majalgaon
Irrigation I                 1,503.63     1,394.74         93     128.73        9     1,523.47       -1
Imrgation II                  407.15        403.52         99      39.87       10      443.39         -9
Public Works Dept               9.98          9.98        100       0.00        0         9.98        0
Sub Total                    1,920.76     1,808.24                168.60              1,976.84
UpperPonganga
Irrigation I                 2,034.40     1,580.66         78     453.74       22    2,034.40         0
Irrigation II                 214.11        127.30         59       4.05        2       131.35       39
Public Works Dept              79.82         23.62         30      56.20       70        79.82        0
Sub Total                    2,328.33     1,731.58                513.99              2,245.57
Kukadi                  _
lmgation                     1,153.11     1,087.60         94     115.89       10    1,203.49         *4
lmgation II                   170.29        136.97         80      32.34       19       169.31        1
Public Works Dept              84.30         47.80         57      36.50       43        84.30        0
Sub Total                    1,407.70     1,272.37                184.73              1,457.10
shima                  _             _
Irrigation I                 1,592.11     1,862.87        117     240.15       15    2,103.02        -32
Irrigation II                 174.75        141.37         81      58.73       34       200.10      -15
Public Works Dept              98.30         77.00         78      21.30       22        98.30        0
Sub Total                    1,865.16     2,081.24 _    _         320.18              2,401.42
Krishna
Imgation 1                    684.75        659.47         96     153.24       22       812.71       -19
Irrigation II                  75.69         53.08         70       8.30       11        61.38       19
Public Works Dept              37.40         24.90         67      12.50       33        37.40        0
Sub Total                     797.84        737.45         92     174.04       22       911.49       24
Common Programmos
R&R Activities
Civic Amenites                343.10        139.60         41     203.50       59       343.10        0
Economic Rehabilitation       583.81          0.00          0     583.81      100       583.81        0
Training                      104.00         70.72         68       0.00        0        70.72       32
Studies                        62.17         58.71         94      50.60       81       109.31       -76
Agriculture                   190.00        157.20         83      32.80       17       190.00        0
Dam Safety Review Panel _
Rep.&Safety Measures          959.42          5.50          1     203.50       --I      209.00       78
Sub Total Com. Programme     2,242.50       431.73         19   1,074.21              1,505.94
Total Project Cost 1/       11,101.74     9,982.75         90   2,488.75         1  12,471.50
1/ Costs of buildings, vehicles and equipment have been included under ID I and ID II.



IND)IA. Maharashira Composite Irrigation Project 11
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 3 Mliscellaneous Tables
Table 3: Year-Wise Expenditure by Subproject (Up to 31 December 1996)
(Rs Million)
JAYAKWADI
(Page 1 of 4)
Project Component  86/87      87/88    88/89      89/90    90/91     91/92     92/93     93/94     94/95      95/96     Up to
31/12/96
Jayakwadi
ID (I)
Modernization                                                                                29.47     43.96     59.31       47.33
Main Canals                                                                                      -         -         -           -
Branch Dist. & Minor   42.08     20.30      10.30    10.20      9.90      8.92      6.22      3.45
Establishment                   -         -         -         -              -         -         -         -         -           -
Subtotal ID (1)       42.08     20.30     10.30     10.20      9.90      8.92      6.22     32.92     43.96     59.31      47.33
ID (11) CAD Works
Upgradation                -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -           -
Main & Link Drains      19.57     3.33      2.54       1.66     1.50      1.20      0.26         -         -         -           -
Sub-Surface Drains         -      2.50      2.42      6.80      6.20      4.20      4.52      8.62      4.02       1.53       0.24     o
Field Channels &       66.35     31.05     58.96     56.26     44.81     19.31     19.41      3.97       1.40     0.09        0.08     o
Lining
Land Shaping           37.80      5.82      3.32      7.05      8.27     22.31     23.77     10.08       1.92        -           -
Service Roads                        -         -      0.50      3.37      4.05      9.12      6.59      7.67      5.61        0.13
Subtotal ID (11)     123.72     42.70     67.24     72.27     64.15     51.07     57.08    29.26      15.01      7.23       0.45
PWD                                                      -         -         -         -         -         -         -           -
Rural Roads                                                              73.30     12.42     14.61      8.01      6.78        3.51
BGS                                                                          -         -     22.34      9.31      2.55        1.05
Bridges & Strtcttires
Subtotal                                                                73.30     12.42    36.95      17.32      9.33       4.56
Establishment Cost    128.52     64.16     85.01     79.06     76.15     86.87     79.38     85.14     60.24     61.13       35.41
Buildings               2.00      4.09      0.91      0.67      0.29      0.42         -      1.25      2.62      0.99        0.57
Vehicle & Equipment        ,    49.19       9.97         -         -         -         -         -         -      1.06        0.46
Studies                 6.00      2.97      2.15      0.71      0.41      0.56      2.32      1.23      0.58      0.34        5.78
Subtotal             136.52    120.41     98.04     80.44     77.53    87.85     81.70     87.62      63.44     63.72      42.22
Total                 302.32    183.41    175.58    162.91    151.58    221.14    157.42    186.75    139.73    139.59       47.23



INDIA: Miahaashira Composite Irrigation Projeca III
Implementtion Completion Report
Appendix 3 Miiscellaneous Tables
Table 3: Year-Wise Expenditure by Subproject (Up to 31 December 1996)
(Rs Million)
MAJALGAON
(Page 2 of 4)
Project Component   86/87    87/88    88/89    89/90    90/91    91/92    92/93    93/94    94/95    95/96    Up to
31/12/96
ID (I) -
Modernization
Main Canals            18.97    56.48    58.55    50.96    45.94    38.00   102.05    31.70    45.00   124.20        14.45
Branch Dist. & Minor    3.00    15.04    26.40    41.06    74.12    87.26    47.65    78.15    36.58    40.20        10.51
Subtotal ID (X)       21.97    71.52    84.95    92.02   120.06   125.26   149.70   109.85    81.58   164.40       24.96
ID (II) - Upgradation
Main & Minor Drains        -        -        -         -        -     0.77        -         -     0.07        -
Sub-Surface Drains                                                       -        -         -        -        -
Field Channels &                                                     16.79    23.37    34.88    25.27    13.97       20.20   -
Lining
Land Shaping                                                          0.30     0.37      0.41        -        -
Service Roads
Dynamic Regulation                                                       -        -         -     1.78    40.10      22.52
WUAs                                                                   0.2       0.2      0.4      0.4      0.5        1.4
Subtotal ID (II)                                                    18.06    23.94    35.33    27.46    54.71      44.12
PWD                                                                      -        -         -        -        -
Rural Roads &                               3.0     6.98        -        -        -         -        -        -
Bridges
Others
Establishment           4.40    14.30    30.26    26.69    32.87    35.70    67.32    65.84    49.43    75.54        26.36
Buildings                  -        -         -        -        -        -        -         -        -        -
Vehiicle & Eqtuiptent                         -        -        -     1.60     0.26      0.11    11.42        -
Studies                    -        -      7.62     1.63     1.03     0.17     0.19      0.04     0.09     0.28
Subtotal               4.40    14.30    40.88    35.30    33.90    37.47    67.77    65.99    60.94    75.82       26.36
Total                 26.37    85.82   125.83   127.32   153.96   180.79   241.41   211.17   169.98   294.93       96.04
...~ ,.  =,=                                                                     ===,                        = _    ,.



INDIA: Mialiarashira Composite Irrigation Project III
Implementtion Completion Repon
Appendix 3: Mliscellaneous Tables
Table 3: Year-Wise Expenditure by Subproject (Up to 31 December 1996)
(Rs Million)
(Page 3 of 4)
KUKADI                                        BHIMA
92/93    93/94    94/95    95/96    Up to      92/93    93/94    94/95    95/96    Up to
31/12/96                                     31/12/96
ID (I)
Modernization                   98.11    89.39    67.41      10.00             9.00        0     24.2         0
Main Canals            58.00    72.91   164.74   318.35       38.8   75.86    72.53   205.76   204.69     92.67
Branch Canals     )
Distributary Canals  )  906    11.55    12.40    99.85        16.70    85.83    75.98   201.99   206.36    369.44
Minor Canals     )
Establishment             0        0         0        0          0       0        0        0        0         0
Vehicle & Equipmenit      0        0         0        0          0       0        0        0        0         0
Buildings                 0         0     1.08     1.60       0.84     0.04     2.53     1.47    0.98         0
Subtotal
ID (II)
Main & Link Drains        0      0.75      3.0     0.07          0       0       3.6    2.50     45.0     17.89
Sub-Suirface Drains       0        0      0.80     0.22       0.08       0        0      1.51       0         0
Field Channels &        6.74    16.61    25.02    32.33       3.32    13.19     7.29    11.73    18.8      4.09
Selective Lining
Land Shaping &            0        0         0     5.43       0.53       0        0        0        0         0
Conjunctive Use
Service Roads             0       0.2      2.0     1.54       0.00       0        0     2.07     3.13         0
PPDs                      0        0         0        0          0       0        0        0        0         0
Buildings                 0        0         0        0          0       0        0        0        0         0
Establishment             0        0         0        0          0       0        0        0        0         0
Vehicle & Equipment       0        0         0        0          0       0        0        0        0         0
Upgradation of Canals                    16.30    21.70        9.0    2.79     5.28    70.08     85.4      40.0
WUAs                      0        0       0.5      0.2        1.0       0        0      0.5      0.2       1.0
PWD
Rural Roads &             0        0    11.00      37.3      10.48     0.15    7.42    13.42    53.06     23.90
Bridges



INDIA: Miabarashtra Conmposite Irrigation Project III
Iniplementtion Completion Report
Appendix 3: Mliscellaneous Tables
Table 3: Year-Wise Expenditure by Suibproject (Up to 31 December 1996)
(Rs Million)
(Page 4 of 4)
KRISHNA                                    UPPER PENGANGA
92/93    93/94    94/95    95/96    Up to      92/93    93/94    94/95    95/96    Up to
31/12/96                                      31/12/96
ID (I)
Modernization              0     2.73      1.29       0           0       0    13.01    49.06    12.72         11.27
Main Canals            12.98    53.25    75.92   148.07       72.87    59.44    97.03   270.04   391.12      218.27
Branch Canals     )
Distributary Canals )    26.43    39.66    50.63    93.03     29.88    19.12    17.21    33.84    49.12       41.00
Minor Canals      )
Establislunent             0        0        0        0           0    14.61    19.95    55.05    70.27       40.57
Vehicle & Equipment        0        0        0         0          0       0        0        0        0            0
Buildings                  0        0        0        0           0       0        0        0        0            0
Subtotal
ID (II)
Main & Link Drains         0        0       1.0     1.84          0       0        0        0      0.05           0
Sub-Surface Drains         0        0      1.00     2.00       1.99       0        0        0      1.23        0.02
Field Channels &        0.51     4.41      9.75     9.37       8.45     7.97    20.00    15.54    19.67        9.95
Selective Lining
Land Shaping &             0        0        0        0           0       0        0        0        0            0
Conjunctive Use
Service Roads              0        0      0.70     5.01       2.95       0        0        0        0            0
PPDs                       0        0        0        0           0       0        0        0        0            0
Buildings                  0        0      0.70     0.22          0     0.70     3.33     3.91     8.49         1.92
Establishment              0        0        0        0           0     10.9   11.66      9.45    10.59        6.52
Vehicle & Equipmenit       0        0        0         0          0       0        0      3.83       0            0
Upgradation of Canals      0      1.75    10.16    35.55       7.24       0      2.41     7.33     7.00           0
WUAs                       0        0        0      0.70       0.30       0        0        0     0.70         0.40
Rural Roads                0        0      2.34    24.90       7.78       0        0        0    10.40        13.26



104
INDIA: Maharashtra Composite Irrigation Project 111
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 3- Miscellaneous Tables
Table 4: Financial Program   for Balance Work of MCIP-III
(Rs million)
Cost of                    PROGRAMME
Balance Work
Name of Project               as on        01/1997 to    1997-98    1998-99   1999-2000
01/01/1997      03/1997
Jayakwadi         ID-              53.00          2.60       50.40
ID-II
Subtotal                           53.00          2.60       50.40      0.00       0.00
Majalgaon         ID-I            110.99         12.17       98.92
ID-II           38.39           8.39      30.00
Subtotal                          149.38         20.56      128.82      0.00       0.00
Upper Penganga    ID-I           384.58          15.58      369.00
ID-Il           61.27          10.06      51.21
Subtotal                          445.85         25.64      420.21      0.00       0.00
Kukadi           ID-I             131.20         17.00       48.90     28.00      37.30
ID-II           22.30           4.90       10.30      7.10
Subtotal                          153.50         21.90       59.20     35.10      37.30
Bhima             ID-I           276.17          37.00       55.91     86.44      96.82
ID-It           70.47           6.22       17.53     24.70      22.02
Subtotal                         346.64          43.22       73.44    111.14      118.84
Krishna          ID-I             176.30         26.50       70.40     53.30      26.10
ID-Il           10.00           0.70       4.60       4.70
Subtotal                          186.30         27.20       75.00     58.00      26.10
PWD (UPP)                         55.52           8.06       47.46
Agriculture                        32.80         30.00        2.80
Studies                           50.60          24.10       26.50
Total                           1,473.59        203.28      883.83    204.24      182.24
Implementation of                203.50          32.80      130.70     40.00
Reconstruction of
DSRP
R&R                              787.31          30.00      250.00    250.00     257.31
Grand Total                     2,470.86        275.34    1,261.73    494.24     439.55



INDIA: Maharashtra Composite Irrigation Project Ill
Appendix 3: Miscellaneous Tables
Table 5: Statement of Subproie:t Wise Physical Achievements Acainst Tarqets        (PaSS 1 of )
Jayakwadl Subproject                 Majalgaon Subproject                 Kukadi Subproject
Work Items   Unit Restruct.  Achievement  %   Balance Restruct. Achievement %   Balance   Restruct.   Achievement %    Balance
1992/93   Dec.31,1996             !992/93   Dec.31,1996              1992/93    Dec31, 1996
ID I Works       _               ==____                                                                                 __
1.Modemization
%       10000        100.00 100    0.00 0100           0.00           0.00     100.00      93.00   93      7.00
2. Main Canals                                                                _
(a) Earthworks    Tm3     0.00        0.00         0.00  6,040.00   5,860.00  97    180.00    4,577.00   4,446.00 97.14  71.00
(b) Lining     Tm2        0 00        0.00         0.00  1,050.00    970.00 92.4    80.00    1,507.00    1,321.00 87.66    186.00
(c) Structures  Nos       0 00        0 00         0.00   276.00     265.00  96     11.00      186.00    181.00 97.31     5.00
3 Br.Canals
(a) Earthworks  rTm3      0 00        0 00         0.00     0.00       0.00          0.00      260 00     196.00 75.38    64.00
(b) Lining    rTm2        0.00        0 00         0.00     0.00       0.00          0.00       25 00     21.00   84      4.00
(c) Structures  Nos       0 00        0.00         0.00     0.00       0.00          0.00       27.00     26.00  96.3     1.00
4. Distributaries  ____=
(a) Earthworks    Tm3     0.00        0.00         0.00  5,700.00   5,500.00 96.5   200.00    4,790.00   4,752.00 99 21    38.00
(b) Lining     Tm2        0.00        0.00         0.00  1,412.00   1,250.00 88.5   162.00     889.00    886.00 99.66     3.00
(c) Structures  Nos       0.00        0.00         0.00  2,626.00   2,275.00 86.6   351.00    7,422.00    7,341.00 98.91  81.00           W
5. Minors                      _                                                                             _    =
(a) Earthworks    Tm3   2,485.00   2,465.00  99    0.00  4,225.00   4,000.00 94.7   225.00       0.00      0.00           0.00
(b) Lining    |Tm2   1,517.00      1,507.00  99    0.00   672.00     728.00 108      0.00        0.00      0.00           0.00
(c) Structures  Nos       0.00        0.00         0.00  1.901.00   1,690.00 88.9   211.00       0.00      0.00           0.00
ID II Works
6.Upgrading      =                          =                                =                                    =
Exist.Canals   ha         0.00         0.00         0.00     0.00      0.00           0.00   65,000.00   45,860.00   71 33,216.00
7. Main Drains    ha    72,690 00    72,690.00 100    0.00 11,160.00   11,160 00  100  0.00   20,000.00  20,000.00  100    0.00
8. Link Drains  ha     5,500.00    4,310.00  78    0.00
9.Subsurf.Drains  ha    13,500.00    12,692.00  94    0.00   0.00      0.00           0.00     560.00     460.00   82      0.00
!O.Field Canals   ha    85,000.00    84,671.00 100    0.00 58,000.00  56,000.00 96.6  2,000.00   20,000.00   15,540.00 77.70  4,460.00
11.Selec.Lining    ha    88,000.00    87,290.00  99    0 00 58,000.00  40,000.00  69 18,000.00   20,000.00   17,000.00   85  3,000.00
12.Land Shap.  |-    _         _ .  .         .
&Conjunc.Use    ha    33,862.00    33,862.00 100    0.00   158.00     158 00  100     0.00    4,000.00    1,540.00   39  2,440.00
13.Serv.Roads    Km     572.00       572.00 100    0.00      0.00      0.00           0.00      27.00      18.00   67      9.00
PWD Works                                 I_I_I _II
14.Roads       Km       445.00       413.00  93    0.00    34.00      34.00  100      0.00      93.00      98.00  105      0.00
15. Bridges    Nos        0.00         0.00        0.00      0.00      0.00           0.00       3.00       2.00   67     0.00
Fibe:AWICIPPHY.XLS   I                                                                   I                           I_I



INDIA: Maharashtra Composite Irrigation Project III
Appendix 3: Miscellaneous Tables
Table 5: Statement of SubDroiect Wise Physical Achievements Against Targets              (Page 2 of 2)
______________               Bhima Subproject          I_Krishna Subproject                                  Upper Penganga Subproject
Work Items    Unit   Restruct.    Achievement %    Balance   Restruct.  Achievement %     Balance  Restruct. Achievement  %    Balance
1992193     Dec.31, 1996                1992/93   Dec. 31,1996               1992193  Dec. 31, 1996
ID I Works                _                                                                                                    _
1.Modemization
%            100.00       100.00  100      0.00    100.00       100.00   100    0.00    100.00       100.00   100     0.00
2. Main Canals
(a) Earthworks   Tm3          1,498.00    2,211.00  148    191.00   1,542.00    1,542.00   100    0.00  4,512.00     3,285.00 72.81  1,227.00
(b) Lining       Tm2           829.00       647.00   78     65.00   1,334.00     946.00 70.91   386.00  1,717.00       827.00 48.17   890.00
(c) Structures   Nos           111.00       111.00  100      2.00    129.00      111.00 86.05    18.00    192 00       109.00 56.77    83.00
3.Br.Canals                                                                   _
(a) Earthworks   Tm3          1,103.00    1,274.00  116     74.00      0 00        0.00           0.00  3,302.00     2,600 00 78.74   702.00
(b) Lining       Tm2           759.00       571.00  75.2    26.00      0.00        0.00           0.00  1,902.00     1,070.00 56.26   832.00
(c) Structures   Nos           122.00       122.00  100      6.00      0 00        00 0           0.00   411 00        252.00 61.31   159.00
4 Distributaries
(a) Earthworks   Tm3          3,148.00    3,451 00  110    291.00    227 00      260.00 114.5    0.00  1,343.00        885.00  65.9  458.00
(b) Lining       Tm2          1,112.00      977.00  87.9    36.00    155.00       98.00 63.23     1.00   168.00        150.00 89.29    1800
(c) Structures   Nos          2,150.00    2,150.00  100    828.00    669.00      654.00 97.76    15.00  1,024.00       547.00 53.42   477.00  o
5. Minors           _                       .__
(a) Earthworks   Tm3           666.00     1,208.00  181    360.00    383.00      483.00 126.1  126.00  1,047.00        570.00 54.44   477 00
(b) Lining       Tm2           820.00       686.00  83.7     2.00    181.00      169.00 93.37    93.00    66.00         33 00    50    33.00
(c) Structures   Nos          1,078.00     1,615.00  150    22.00   1,296.00    1,413.00   109    0.00  1,426.00       750.00 52.59   676 00
ID 11 Works                                         _              _
6.Upgrading        __               _
Exist.Canals      ha         85,000.00    83,000 00       3,000.00  50,000.00    46,828.00     3,172.00     0.00         0.00           0.00
7. Main Drains    ha         28,000.00    30,972.00           0.00   6,000.00   6,000.00   100     0.00 23,000.00      650.00 2.826     0.00
8. Link Drains    ha
9.Subsurf.Drains    ha        1,400.00     1,514.00  108      0.00   1,000.00    1,100.00   110    0.00  1,300.00      120.00 9.231     0.00
!0.Field Canals   ha         28,000.00    23,323.00       4,677.00  16,700.00   9,046.00       7,654.00 23,000.00    20,000.00      3,000.00
11.Selec.Lining   ha         28,0W0.00    15,996.00   57  12,004.00   1,679.00  2,561.00 152.5    0.00
12 Land Shap.
&Conjunc.Use      ha          4,000.00        0.00    0  4,000.00   4,000.00        0.00    0 4,000.00  4,000.00         0.00     0 4,000.00
13.Serv.Roads     Km             81.00       28.00  34.6    53.00     26.00        34.00 130.8    0.00    45.00         45.00   100     0.00
PWD Works                                                      _
14.Roads          Km            134.00      134.00            0.00     97.00       79.80 82.27    19.00    33.60        17.00  50.6   15.00
15. Bridges       Nos             7.00        3.00  42.9      4.00      1.00        0.00    0      1.001   10.0          1.00           9.00
1            - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l  I       I                           I       J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



107
INDIA. Maharashtra Composite Irrigation Project III
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 3 Miscellaneous Tables
Table 6: Physical Program        of Balance Works Beyond 31 December 1996
(Page I of 4)
Balance          YEARWISE PHYSICAL PROGRAMME
Project Component      Unit        Quantity
as on        01/01/1997    1997-98    1998-99    1999-2000
01/01/1997         to
l _________________  _________                     31/03/1997
Jayakwadi Project
Modernization of        %                    22             5          17
PLBC & PRBC
Majalgaon Project
ID-(I) WORKS
MAIN CANAL
(a) Earthwork        000 m3                180            35         145         0             0
(b) Structures        Nos.                  11             2           9
(c) Lining           000 m2                 80             15         65
Distributaries (25 to
250 cusecs)
(a) Earthwork        000 m3                200            10         190
(b) Structures        Nos.                 351            15         336
(c) Lining           000 m2                162             6         156
Vehicle & Equipment     %                   100           100
Minors (1-25 cusecs)
(a) Earthwork        000 m3                225             10        215
(b) Structures        Nos.                 211             8         203
(c) Lining           000 m2                  0
ID(II) WORKS
(a) Field Channels   000 ha                  2           0.55       1.45
& Field Drains
(b) Selective lining  000 ha                18           3.39      14.61
Upper Penganga
Project
ID-([) WORKS
(a) Earthwork        ooo m1              1,929            55       1,874
(b) Structures        Nos.                   5             7         235
(c) Lining           000 m2                186            50       1,672
Distributaries (25 to
250 cusecs)
(a) Earthwork        0oo m3                458            35        423
(b) Structures        Nos.                 477            37         440
(c) Lining           000 m2                 18             2          16
Canal Upgradation       %                   100             15         85
Minors (1-25 cusecs)
(a) Earthwork        000 m3                477            37         440
(b) Structures        Nos.                 676            55         621
(c) Lining           000 m2                 33             3          30
ID (II) WORKS
(a) Field Channels   000 ha                  3           1.04       1.96
& Field Drains
(b) Selective lining  100 ha                14           11.5        2.5
(c) Bridges           Nos.                   8                         8



108
INDIA: Maharashtra Composite Irrigation Project III
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 3: Miscellaneous Tables
Table 6: Physical Program        of Balance Works Beyond 31 December 1996
(Page 2 of 4)
Balance          YEARWISE PHYSICAL PROGRAMME
Project Component      Unit        Quantity
as on        01/01/1997    1997-98    1998-99    1999-2000
01/01/1997         to
31/03/1997
Kukadi Project
ID-(I) WORKS
HEAD WORKS
(a) Dimbhe             %                  0.08          0.01        0.07        0              0
(b) Manikdoh           %                     0
(c) Visapur Tank       %                     0
Modemization
MAIN CANAL
(a) Earthwork        000 m3                 71            20         51         0              0
(b) Structures        Nos.                   5             l          4         0              0
(c) Lining           000 m2                186            10         30        5 I            95
BRANCH CANAL
(a) Earthwork        000 m3                64             20         44         0              0
(b) Structures        Nos.                   I             0           I        0              0
(c) Lining           000 m2                 4              0           l         l             2
DISTRIBUTARIES
(a) Earthwork        000 m3                38              5          16        17             0
(b) Structures        Nos.                  81            12         40        39              0
(c) Lining           000 m2                  3             0          0          l             2
ID (II) WORKS
(a) Main & Link      000 ha                  0
Drains
(b) Sub-Surface      000 ha               0.04          0.01        0.03        0              0
Drains
(c) Field Channels   000 ha                4.6             1         1.6        2              0
(d) Selective Lining    000 ha               3             0          1         2              0
(e) Conjunctive Use    000 ha             2.46             I        1.46        0              0
(f) Upgradation      000 ha              19.14             6       13.14        0              0
Work
(g) Service Roads      km                   9              3          6         0              0
(h) Water Users'      Nos.                  0
Association
(i) Buildings         0% 



109
INDIA: Maharashtra Composite Irrigation Project III
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 3 Miscellaneous Tabics
Table 6: Physical Program         of Balance Works Beyond 31 December 1996
(Page 3 of 4)
Balance          YEARWISE PHYSICAL PROGRAMME
Project Component      Unit        Quantity
as on        01/01/1997    1997-98   1998-99    1999-2000
01/01/1997         to
_________      31/03/1997
Bhima Project
ID-(I) WORKS
HEAD WORKS
Vjani Dam &              %
Powerhouse
Main Canal
(a) Earthwork         000 m3            191.43             30      101.43       60
(b) Structures         Nos.                  2              -           I         I
(c) Lining           000 m2              64.96              9         10         15         30.96
Branch Canal
(a) Earthwork         000 ml             73.63             11      47.63         15
(b) Structures         Nos.                  6              -          4          2
(c) Lining            000 m2             26.22              5          5          8          8.22
Distributaries (25-
250 cusecs)
(a) Earthwork         000 ml            291.15            50       161.15        80
(b) Structures         Nos.                828            120        408       300
(c) Lining           000 m2              36.21              4          6         10         16.21
Minors (0-25 cusecs)
(a) Earthwork        000 m3             359.96            50      209.96        100
(b) Structures        Nos.                  22              2         13          7
(c) Lining           000 m2               1.58           0.18        0.40      0.40          0.60
Upgrading of Canal     000 ha              2.52           0.22       0.30       0.70           1.3
Vehicle & Equipment                           -              -           -         -
ID (11) WORKS
(a) Field Channels      ha               46.77              3         15         17         11.77
(b) Selective lining    ha              12,004          1,000       5,000     3,000         3,004
(c) Main & Link         ha                   0                          -         -
(d) Sub-surface         ha                   0              -           -
(e) Land Shaping &      ha               4,000           600         600      1,400         1,400
Conjunctive Use
(fl Service Road       km                   35              5          5         13            12
(g) Water Users'
Association
- Registered      Nos.                   0                         -          -
- Handed-over     Nos.                   0              -- 
(h) Buildings           %                   50                        10        20             20
m      -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



110
INDIA: Maharashtra Composite Irrigation Project III
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 3: Miscellaneous Tables
Table 6: Physical Program        of Balance Works Beyond 31 December 1996
(Page 4 of 4)
Balance          YEARWISE PHYSICAL PROGRAMME
Project Component      Unit        Quantity
as on        01/01/1997    1997-98   1998-99    1999-2000
01/01/1997         to
31/03/1997
Krishna Project
ID-(I) WORKS
HEAD WORKS
Dhom & Kanher           %
Dams&Powerhouses
MAIN CANAL
(a) Earthwork        000 m3
(b) Structures        Nos.               18.00          3.00        7.00      8.00
(c) Lining           000 m2             388.00         50.00       50.00    178.00        110.00
DISTRIBUTARIES
(25-250 cusecs)
(10.8 Th)
(a) Earthwork        000 ml
(b) Structures        Nos.               15.00          2.00        6.00      7.00
(c) Lining           000 m2               1.00                         -      0.75          0.25
MINORS (0-25
cusecs)
(a) Earthwork        000 m3
(b) Structures        Nos.
(c) Lining           000 m2              12.00          2.00        5.00      3.00          2.00
ID (II) WORKS
Upgrading Existing    000 ha               3.17          0.90        1.00      1.27
Canal
(a) Main & Link        ha
(b) Sub-Surface        ha
(c) Field Channels     ha                 7.65          0.30        5.35      2.00
(e) Conjunctive Use    ha                 4.00          0.10        1.80      2.10
(f) Service Roads      km
(g) Water Users'      Nos.
Associations
(h) Buildings          %
11 This area consists of 10,800 ha area for Arphal Canal between 43 to 85 km and deprived area of 5,900
ha from Dhom and Kanher canals.



INC4A 9961       _M  CCI_39        b          Poo29d 111
h          _p~   UaO999MO  1,09.
APP_ S Meas,$ Toi
TIu    ya.*   C9dIo30WColf44tt4dAro.5 P04.wfl h3.99  aodA43II11 _a   Al94  9916d4
80p12           CCA .610."  |       l1om9                  19m47          I        99749                 1H9                     t9o"0                     393l0ll                     3i7132                         91                                4                                                 10977
U___       Moo9        C.M         030._99.              WM4   CIZ12 A..4C4 pp    A0..s1  tC.C2  A4.I5                                          C-P.    A1.0k I  C.-0 A-                                                  0             C2           A..%"         C4. A9.L     C09 AIM9    C5 4
h ..k9. l,               0a          11994           0       23130           0      35190       6069        70         35472      7091        3990          75610          90339        77J0           10932         79Z 0             1on7          79901       19111         9471          309            940 S326                    64671       99
US&M 5Isla_ 1390                                                                                 471        73          921          171            3309        330             4-99         30410             4634          41447        3532         30919            069         3947           3233           4745 79
__~~~~                    ~~~~ =_  -                                                                                                                   - _  _--                                                                                              -                                                I
20                                                                                                                                    0      1      K = .         a             =                            ===l lo  4=    34f         2260          4,1      _    4210           73SS     S     OY           11960 
90.                       293    _                =          -       -         =             =             =          =           =          =93                                                                         7              279            3337        432          9335            599         89333          loss         93921       90              9
I ,949                    90000                                 _                                          _                                                                   0             0            '3             0                 0            233          a                         X337  3420    7909          4749          730        90
,99?94      t            2300             f                      1                                                                                              0             0             0             0          3 5000             93           73357       909           11907          96           9 1703         2029          96316
I0..99o.oo.,0            337912      99,                    290                     331911   00            394090      3390       791140      04909         32320          99          939            93279         993997            9309          936334       307           94243970                   494269         323598        999          9
__.                              M"          Kh9       9.. TS           n                   (W _ 0  _ _. T 0 ho 9.   _ 9..9d-  by 99610 _09E.
F499 AWACIPCRAR 09.0



INDIA: Maharashtra Composite tnigation Pro;ect III
Impementation Complebtion Reporl
Appendix 3. Miscellaneous Tables
Table 8: Subproject-Wlse Irrigation Cropping Intensities
Jayakwadi                 Majalgaon               Upper enanga                T  ukdiiima                             -rish                      -
Season     Av       At      1     1            At               A        At       %        Av   iAt                   Av       At               Av        At   *
1988189    57,950   35,472      61    1,510      478       32
1989/90    70,910   39.960      56    7,230      929       13      _           .         _                    . _                                                   . _
1990191    75.610   30.335      40   16.710    1.303        8 __                                                                              _                ___
1991192     77,580     50,832   67   23,060    4391        19
1992/93    78,840   10,827 __ 14   30,4101   4.634         15    3,000,    828       28      810      455       581    837       271       32                        -     -
1993194    79.901   19,211      24   41,447    3,532        9    7,357    1,021      14    3,440    2,280       66    3.937      432      11      252        0    0       s
1994195    84,671   30,899      36   50,189    5,061       10   11,987    1,688      14    6,033    4,210       70    8.235      598        7    5.287    3,420   65
1995196    84,671    5,826       7   53.947    3,259        6   17,058    2,620      15    7,355    5,060       69   15,921    1,085        7    7.309    4,748   65
%Averages                       38                         14            .            9             .           65                         14                      65 I/
.______  _______                                                             _______   Overall average  36%
Av - Number of hectares available for irrigation.                             _                                                           .__
Al Number of hectares actualy irrigated. I                             ._                                                            -_-|
%= Actual area expressed as percentage of available area.
1/ Exckudes 199394 figures.           --                                                                                    -



113
INDIA: Maharashtra Composite Irrigation Project 111
Implementation Completion Repon
Appendix 3: Miscellaneous Tables
Table 9: Flow Irrigation Rates
(Rs per Hectare)
Season/Crop            Year-Wise Rates per Major/Medium & Minor Projects
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3     Year 4     Year 5
From      1.7.1991    1.7.1992    1.7.1993    1.7.1994
1.7.1990  .
KHARIF SEASON
Kharif seasonals                    65         70          80         90         100
Kharif paddy (for agreement)        65         70          80         90         100
Kharif paddy (as per demand)       120        140         160        180        200
Kharif groundnut                   120        140         160        180        200
Pre-seasonal/water (for rabi         -           -          -           -
crops in kharif season)
Hy. foundation crop                120        140         160        180        200
RABI SEASONS
Rabi seasonals (excluding           90        105         120        135         150
wheat & H'nut)
Rabi wheat                         100        125         150        175        200
Kharif & rabi cotton               180        210         240        270        300
Rabi groundnut                     180        210         240        270        300
Rabi & hot weather paddy           180        210         240        270        300
Foundation crop                    180        210         240        270        300
Post-seasonal/watering for          30         35          40         45          50
kharif crops in rabi
HOT WEATHER SEASON
H.W. seasonals                     180        210         240        270         300
H.W. groundnut                     375        420         500        550         600
H.W. cotton (from 1st April)       400        450         500        550         600
H.W. cotton (from I st March)      480        560         640        720         800
Additional Water - one water        90        105         120        135         150
in H.W. season
Post-seasonal water - one           35         45          55         65          75
water in H.W. season for rabi
crops
TWO SEASONAL CROPS
Tur. Batata & others:
(i) kharif& rabi season             90        105         120        135         150
(ii) rabi & H.W. season            150        175         200        225         250
PERENNIALS
Sugarcane                        1,000       1,250      1,500       1,750      1,750
Banana                             800       1,000      1,250       1,500      1,750



114
INDIA: Maharashtra Composite Irriapfon Project 111
Implementation Completion Report
Appendix 3: Miscellaneous Tables
Table 10: Year-Wise Areas Available for Irrigation and Actually Irrigated by Season
(Hectares)
Jayakwadi       Majalpon          Upper          Kukadi           Bbira          Krishna
Penganga
Total Available            57,950            1,510
Kharif                          -
Rabi                       15,066             259
Hot Weather                16,974            14
Two Season                      -               4
Pemrnnial                   3,432              31
Total Irrigated           35,472             47S
1989190
Total Availabic            70,910            7.230
Kharif                      2,088
Rabi                       20,879             440
Hot Weather                 11,255            160
Two Season                                      9
Perennial                   5,738             320
Total Irrigated           39,960             929
199091
Total Available            75,610           16,710
Khaif                          77              13
Rabi                        12.013            633
Hot Weather                 14,192            237
Two Season                      3
Perennial                   4.050             370
Total Irrigated           30,335            1.303
191/92
Total Available            77.580          23,060
Kharif                      2,780             224
Rabi                       29,243           3,490
Hot Weather                 9.923              72
Two Season                  6,534             453
Perennial                   2.352             152
Total Irrigated           50,832            4,391
1992/93
Total Available            78,840          30.410            3.000            810              837
Khwif                           .II                              -               - .
Rabi                        9,542            1.892            433             415              214
Hot Weather                                 1 I.701           174              40
Two Season                    176             571              110
Perennial                    1,109            459             141
Total Irrigated            10,827           4,634            858             455              271
193194
Total Available            79,901           41,447           7,357           3,440           3,937             252
Khauif                                          -                -            520
Rabi                        3,924             595             412            1,542             388
Hot Weather                 14,099            822             194             218               44
Two Season                     44                              194
Perenial                     1,144          2.11S             219
Total Irrigated            19,211           3,532           1,019           2,280             432               0
1994195
Total Available            84,671           S0,189          11,987           6,033           8,235           5,287
Khuif                         233             149                             459                              581
Rabi                        7,910            1,140            776            2,139             535            1,940
Hot Weater                  13,950            355              155           1,612              63             899
Two Season                  4,157             645             413
Perennial                   4,649            2,772            344
Total Irrigated           30,899            5,061           1,688           4,210             598           3,420
1995/96
Total Available             S4,671          53,947          17,058           7,355          15,921            7,309
Kharif                          -                -                             549                           I,S2
Rab-                         1,743            621            1,095           4,511           1,050           2,562
Hot Weather                     -              32             263                .              35            1,034
Two Season                   1,108            365              722
Perennial                   2,975            2,241            540
Total Irrigated             5.826           3.259           2,620           5.060           1.085           4,748



115
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA COMPOSITE IRRIGATION PROJECT III
(CR. 1621-IN)
APPENDIX 4
ECONOMIC REHABILITATION PROGRAM
A. Background
1.        The mission's findings on Economic Rehabilitation Program (ERP) are based on: (a) field
visits to the project sites; (b) documents provided to the mission by the rehabilitation and irrigation
departments; and (c) discussions with the staff of Rehabilitation and Irrigation departments responsible
for implementation of ERP.
2.        The key areas of concern during the mission were: (a) allocation of funds to the Divisional
Commissioners; (b) the recruitment of NGOs and M&E agency; (c) finalization of list of eligible
beneficiaries for individual schemes; (d) progress in construction of balance civic amenities in the
resettlement Gaothans; and (e) filling of staff positions.
3.        The inclusion of economic rehabilitation component is one of the strong reasons for
supporting restructuring of the project since economic rehabilitation would otherwise may not have
been satisfactorily executed by GOM. This component was included to redress the inadequacies in the
earlier rehabilitation efforts made by GOM. The amendments to the Development Credit Agreement
between India and IDA, dated 8 June 1993, contains that the borrower would update the baseline socio-
economic surveys and assist in completing the plans for the rehabilitation of eligible persons affected by
Majalgaon, Kukadi, Bhima, Krishna, and Upper Penganga commands. The rehabilitation program
includes provision of civic amenities in resettlement villages, housing, irrigation and income generating
schemes for eligible persons (Schedule 2 of Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement,
dated 8 June 1993).
B. Objectives
4.        The main aim of including the economic rehabilitation component was to assist GOM's
efforts to improve the welfare of persons previously resettled due to earlier investments related to
reservoir and headwork's development. The objective under this time-bound economnic rehabilitation
program was to improve or regain the standards of living that they had prior to their displacement. It



116
would thus redress a past inadequacy in GOM's execution of R&R, acknowledged by GOM, who have
asked for Bank's assistance to achieve this objective. More broadly, the restructured project's
economic rehabilitation program would also serve as a model for possible further use elsewhere in
Maharashtra.
C. Project Component
5.        Retrofit Socio-economic surveys were carried out during 1994-95 to find out the number of
PAPs residing in the Resettlement villages (RGs) and their living standards. Against the total number
of 36,084 who were originally affected during early seventies, only 22,168 PAPs (61.4%) were found
residing in RGs at the time of conducting survey. Based on the survey findings and subsequent
rehabilitation action plans, the GOM has brought out a Government Order (GO) dated 4 January 1996
detailing out the economic rehabilitation policy. This reflects the commitment of GOM to implement
this important component of the project by moving beyond minimal linkages of traditional programs to
poverty alleviation programs. It added improvements in civic amenities, housing, irrigation facilities
and opportunities for development of income generation activities. The Bank found that plan to be quite
progressive and endorsed it. As per the plan, this component would be implemented over a three year
period from January 1996 to December 1998 at a cost of Rs. 960 million (US$27.42 million). The
various activities to be undertaken under this component are as follows:
(a)  Providing the basic civic amenities  as per the existing "Maharashtra Project
Affected Persons Act, 1986" and undertaking the necessary repairs of already
existing facilities (Rs. 384.60 million);
(b)  Providing financial assistance (Rs. 15,000 for agricultural families and Rs. 10,000
for non-agricultural families) to those PAPs who are living in the kuchha and semi-
pucca houses for their protection from natural hazards and calamities (Rs. 178.80
million);
(c)  Extending appropriate assistance (up to Rs. 55,000) for creating irrigation facilities
to those landed PAPs who do not have adequate irrigation facilities (Rs. 280.0
million); and
(d)  Providing assistance to the  landless PAPs living below poverty line (up to
Rs. 18,000) to enable them to engage in some income generation activities with a
view to raise their living standards above poverty line (Rs. 120 million). This
component of the policy will be implemented with the involvement of NGOs.
6.        The details of ERP as per implementation program agreed with the Bank during January
1996 is fumished in Table 1, which differs marginally with the provisions made in the GO of 4 January
1996.



117
Table 1: Details of Economic Rehabilitation Program as per Implementation Plan
(Amount in Rs million)
Project    Civic amenities    Housing        Irrigation     Income Generation    Total
Scheme        Amount
No.   Amount  No.   Amount  No.    Amount   No.    Amount
Kukadi    121      28.08  2688   60.03    876     48.18    671       14.76     151.05
Krishna    533     38.33  1332   19.60    457      25.13    327      7.19      90.25
Bhima      916    174.68  4290   59.42    737      40.53    2210     48.62     323.25
Upper      165     72.35  1560   18.96    1505     82.77   635        13.97    188.05
Penganga                                          __                                    l
Majalgoan  188     65.37  1491    21.66  1515      83.32    1339     29.46     199.81
Total     1923   378.81  11,341 179.67   5090    279.93   5182       114.00    952.41*
* In additional to this, there is also provision of 2.8 million for creation of additional staff.
D. Mission's Findings
7.         Implementation of this component is well behind schedule and is yet to pick up momentum:
(a) out of the four activities envisaged under this component, only improvements in civic amenities has
been commenced. So far 18% of physical (162 out of 905 new facilities to be created) and 33% of
financial progress (Rs. 125 million out of Rs.378 million) was noticed. The implementation of other
three components (housing, irrigation and income generation activities) are yet to be commenced; (b)
the funds earmarked for 1996-97 for the components of housing, irrigation and income generation
activities are yet to be placed with the Divisional Commissioners; (c) though 70% of the professional
staff created for exclusive implementation of this scheme is in position, but the key position of Deputy
Secretary is yet to be filled; (d) updating of list of eligible PAPs for individual schemes is yet to be
completed; (e) recruitment of NGOs for implementation of income generation activities has been
pending for quite some time; and (f) no efforts have been made so far to finalize the TOR and
appointment of consultants for Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E).
8.         The mission is of the view that the project implementation need to be considerably speeded
up by (a) placing adequate funds for all activities with the Divisional Commissioners; (b) filling up the
vacant staff positions including the key position of Deputy Secretary; (c) finalizing the recruitment of
NGOs; and (d) selecting the M&E agency to monitor and provide regular feed back of the project
implementation activities.
E. Major Factors Affecting Timely Implementation
9.         The mnssion observed that the following are the major factors affecting the timely
implementation ERP:
(a)  Non-availability of funds: As the Credit under the project has been fully utilized,
the irrigation and rehabilitation departments have been arguing over who should fund
the rehabilitation activities of housing, irrigation and income generation activities of



118
ERP. The Irrigation Department is willing to finance only for civic amenities, as
these were in accordance with the state act on rehabilitation and being implemented
by Irrigation Department. According to them all other activities should be financed
out of the rehabilitation department's funds since these are being implemented by
Rehabilitation Department. On the other hand the Rehabilitation Department do not
have any funds and they feel it is the responsibility of Irrigation Department, since
they are responsible for displacement and it should form part of the project cost All
the activities included under the ERP are consistent with the Agreement Amending
Development Credit Agreement dated 8 June 1993 and the GOM should resolve this
issue early and provide necessary funds to complete the balance works within the
planned period as per GO of January 4, 1996.
(b)  Lack of proper co-ordination: The Deputy Secretary is the key person in the
implementation of the program which is yet to be filled up. The delay has affected
the proper coordination and guidance to the staff at divisional and project level.
There are also no proper follow-up from the senior level staff at the divisional level.
As a result, the preparation activities of implementation at project level suffered
considerably.
(c)  Delay in recruitment of NGOs: The appointment of NGOs for implementation of
income generation activities is pending for over eight months. Despite the Bank's
" no objection" for the recruitment of NGOs, no action has been taken to finalize
their contracts. This has resulted in considerable delay in initiating this important
component under ERP.
(d)  Failure to appoint M&E agency: The appointment of M&E agency is essential to
monitor the implementation progress and provide necessary guidance to the NGOs
and other persons involved in the implementation process for successful and timely
execution. The failure to initiate the process of appointing the M&E agency has also
contributed to delay in completing various preparatory activities such as updating of
list of eligible PAPs for individual schemes, issuance of identity cards, finalizmg the
details of irrigation and income generation components, and providing guidance to
the staff involved in implementation.
F. Current Status and Management of ERP
10.       The mission expressed concern over the delay in initiating the housing, irrigation and
income generation activities pertaining to this component. Out of the total budget provision of Rs. 380
million for 1996-97, only Rs. 177 million was placed with the Commissioner of Pune to be utilized only
for civic arnenities. The mission was informed that the amount for Aurangabad division is yet to be
placed with the Commissioner. The details of implementation progress at each project level are shown
in Attachments 1 to 5.



119
Finalization of Economic Rehabilitation Plans
11.       The project level implementing authorities are supposed to finalize the plans after duly
consulting each PAP by ascertaining their existing housing condition and income level. The mission
observed that substantial progress was noticed in respect of finalization of PAPs eligible for housmg
grants While in case of Kukadi, Upper Penganga and Majalgaon the task of finalizing list has been
completed, in case of Bhima and Krishna it is near completion. Finalization of list of beneficiaries
regarding irngation facilities has been delayed due to lack of proper coordination between the District
Resetflement Offices and Geological Survey Development Agencies (GSDAs) except m Upper
Penganga and Majalgaon projects where the process has been completed. In case of these two projects
wells are not suitable in most parts of the project area and they have to go for lift irrigation in a big way.
The mission was informed that detailed instruction of lift imgation is yet to be issued. As a result the
detailed survey in this regard is yet to be initiated. Fmalization of list of beneficiaries for income
generation activities is proposed to be taken up only after the formal recruitment of NGOs who are
expected to finalize the lists.
Improvement of Civic amenities
12.       Substantial progress was noticed in this component only under Bhima-Ujjani and Krishna
projects. So far 18% of physical (162 out of 905 new facilities to be created) and 33% of financial
progress (Rs. 125 million out of Rs. 378 million) was noticed. The details of physical progress (new
facilities and repairs to existing ones) and the financial progress were presented in Attachments 6 to 8.
The implementation of civic amenities component is at various stages of completion and funds have
been made available for this component in Pune division. However, in case of Aurangabad, both in
Majalgaon and especially in Upper Penganga there had been no progress because of non-release of
finds earmarked during 1996-97. Preparation of tender documents and invitation of tenders are m
advance stage and if funds are made available in time most of the civic amenities can be completed by
December 1997.
Staff Positions
13.       Ten out of the fourteen senior level staff created for implementation of ERP are in position.
However, the key position, i.e. Deputy Secretary at Headquarters is yet to be filled in. Identification of
suitable person for this position will be key for successful implementation of this component as he will
be the main coordinator for the implementation program.
Recruitment of NGOs
14.       The GO on rehabilitation policy for this project emphasised the need for involvement of
NGOs for implementation of income generation schemes (para 7 of Rehabilitation Policy dated January
4, 1996). The recruitment of NGOs for implementation of income generation activities and formation
of cooperative societies for lift irrigation schemes has been pending since March 96. Bank gave its " no



120
objection" for hiring five NGOs. In respect of hiring other NGOs for other subprojects Bank had
requested GOM to submit the revised proposals for review and clearance. There was no progress
since then in this respect.
Recruitment of M&E agency
15.       No efforts have been made so far to finalize the TOR which were discussed and agreed
during the January 1996 mission regarding the selection criteria and recruitment of monitoring and
evaluation agency. The appointment of M&E agency is essential to monitor the implementation
progress and provide necessary guidance to the NGOs and the implementing officials from time to time
for successful implementation. The mission strongly recommends that the M&E agency should be
appointed without any further delay.
Progress Reports
16.      During the last supervision mission in July 1996, formats for progress reports were given
to the GOM for periodical monitoring of the progress and taking timely management decision based on
progress. Bank has not received any progress report on this component and it was informed to the
mission that since there was no progress these were neither prepared nor sent. The mission strongly
recommends that the progress of implementation of this component should be sent to the Bank quarterly
for information and record.
G. Urgent Actions Required for Speedy Implementation
17.       As per the Legal Agreement, ERP was to be completed by Credit Closure on December
31, 1996. Due to various reasons, it was agreed that the economic rehabilitation component of the
restructured project would be implemented over a three year period from January 1996 to December
1998 at a cost of Rs. 960 million (US$27.42 million). The implementation has only began and so far
has been confined to one component only, i.e. providing civic amenities. Therefore it is not appropriate
to evaluate its impact, outcome and sustainability at this point of time. In the opinion of the mission it
should be evaluated at the end of three year period, i.e. in December 1998. The GOM should take
prompt action in sorting out the source of funding for this component as this appears to be the single
major reason for the inordinate delay in implementation. The Bank should be kept informed about the
decision of GOM regarding source of funding for this component from now onwards. The
implementation of this component need to be speeded up by GOM by: (a) placing adequate funds for
all four types of activities with the commissioners; (b) immediately filing up of the position of Deputy
Secretary, who will be the mam coordinator of implementation program; (c) recruitmg NGOs without
any further delay; and (d) finalizing the TOR for M&E based on the comments provided by the Bank
and appointing the M&E agency.



121
Attachment 1
Summary of R&R implementation
Kukadi Project
(Cost in Rs Million)
Target as per  Achieve-  Antici-   Balance  Likely Date
Implementation  went as    pated    as on 31-     of
Plan       on 30-   achieve-   Dec-96   completing
Details                                           Nov-96   ment as             implement-
on 31-             ation target
Dec-96
L Housing
(a) PAPs to be given grants          2688           ---       ---       949     31-Dec-97
(b) Total cost                       60.03                             13.50
IL Irrigation facilities
(a) PAPs to be benefited              876           ---                1168     31-Dec-98
(b) Total cost                       48.18                    ---      5256
M. Income Generation Schemes          671
(a) PAPs to be covered               14.76         ---       ---       932     31-Dec-98
(b) Total cost                                    ---        ---      16.77
IV. Civic amenities
(i)New facilities
(a)New facilities to be created        60           20        20        40       30-Jun-97
(b) Total Cost                       19.90         6.46      7.18      12.72
(ii) Repairs
(a) Repair works to be taken up       61            ---       20        41      31-Dec-97
(b) Total cost                        8.18          -        6.13      2.05
(iii) Total
(a) No. of works                      121          20        40         81      31-Dec-97
(b) Total Cost                       28.08         6.46     13.31      14.77



122
Attachment 2
Summary of R&R implementation Project
Krishna Project
(Cost in Rs Million)
Target as per   Achieve-   Antici-   Balance   Likely date
Implementation   ment as    pated    as on 31-      of
Plan        on 30-   achieve-   Dec-96   completing
Details                                            Nov-96    ment as              implement-
on 31-              ation target
Dec-96
L Housing
(a) PAPs to be given grants           1332           ---        ---       949      31-Dec-97
(b) Total cost)                       19.60          ---        ---      13.50
IL Irrigation facilities              457
(a) PAPs to be benefited              25.13          ---                  1168     31-Dec-98
(b) Total cost                                                  ---      52.56
m. Income Generation Schemes          327
(a) PAPs to be covered               7.19           ---        ---       932      31-Dec-98
(b) Total cost                                     ---        ---       16.77
IV. Civic amenities
(i)New facilities
(a)New facilities to be created       263            55         65        198      30-Jun-97
(b) Total Cost                        28.02         22.31      25.00      3.02
(ii) Repairs
(a) Repair works to be taken up       270             3          8        262      31-Dec-97
(b) Total cost                        10.31         0.71       2.84       7.47
(iii) Total
(a) No. of works                      533            58        73        460      31-Dec-97
(b) Total Cost                       38.33         23 02      27.84      10.49



123
Attachment 3
Summary of R&R implementation
Bhima-Ujjni Project
(Cost in Rs Million
Target as per  Achieve-  Antici-   Balance   Likely date
Implementation  ment as    pated    as on 31-      of
Plan       on 30-   achieve-   Dec-96   completing
Details                                           Nov-96   ment as               implement-
on 31-              ation target
Dec-96
L Housing
(a) PAPs to be given grants           4290          ---        ---      949      31-Dec-97
(b) Total cost)                       59.42                             13.50
IL Irrigation facilities
(a) PAPs to be benefited              737           ---                 1168     31-Dec-98
(b) Total cost                        40.53         ---                 52.56
m. Income Generation Schemes
(a) PAPs to be covered               2210          ---        ---      932      31-Dec-98
(b) Total cost                      48.62          ---       ---      16 77
IV. Civic amenities
(i)New facilities
(a)New facilities to be created        377          87        200        177     31-Dec-97
(b) Total Cost                       150.08        94.56     98.70      51 38
(ii) Repairs
(a) Repair works to be taken up       539           ---       150       389      31-Dec-97
(b) Total cost                        19.60         ---       6.0       13.60
(iii) Total
(a) No. of works                      916           87        350       566      31-Dec-97
(b) Total Cost                       169.68        94.56     104.70     64 98



124
Attachment 4
Summary of R&R implementation
Upper Penganga Project
(Cost in Rs Million
Target as per  Achieve-  Antici-   Balance   Likely date
Implementation  ment as    pated    as on 31-      of
Plan       on 30-   achieve-   Dec-96   completing
Details                                           Nov-96   ment as               implement-
on 31-              ation target
Dec-96
L Housing
(a) PAPs to be given grants           1560                     ---       949     31-Dec-97
(b) Total cost)                       18.96          ...       ---      13.50
IL Irrigation facilities             1505
(a) PAPs to be benefited              82.77         ---        ---      1168     31-Dec-98
(b) Total cost                                      ---        ---      52.56
IL Income Generation Schemes          635
(a) PAPs to be covered               13.97         ---        ---      932      31-Dec-98
(1) Total cost                        _                               16.77
V. Civic amenities
(i)New facilities
(a)New facilities to be created        82            -         ---       82      31-Mar-98
(b) Total Cost                        58.92         0.83      0.83      58.09
(ii) Repairs
(a) Repair works to be taken up        83            ---       -         83      31-Mar-98
(b) Total cost                        13.43                    ---      13.43
(iii) Total
(a) No. of works                      165           ---       ---       165      31-Mar-98
(b) Total Cost                       72.35         0.83      0.83      71.52



125
Attachment 5
Summary of R&R implementation
Majalgoan Project
(Co_ _in Rs Million
Target as per  Achieve-  Antici-   Balance   Likely date
Implementation  ment as    pated    as on 31-      of
Plan       on 30-  Achieve-   Dec-96   Completing
Details                                           Nov-96   ment as              Implement-
on 31-              ation target
Dec-96
L Housing
(a) PAPs to be given grants           1491                     15       949      31 -Dec-97
(b) Total cost)                       21.66          ---     0.015      13.50
II. Irrigation facilities
(a) PAPs to be benefited              1515           ---      ...       1168     31-Dec-98
(b) Total cost                        83.32                    ---      52.56
III. Income Generation Schemes
(a) PAPs to be covered               1339          ---       ...       932      31-Dec-98
(b) Total cost                      29.46                    ---      16.77
IV. Civic amenities
(i)New facilities
(a)New facilities to be created        123          ---        6         117     31-Dec-97
(b) Total Cost                        24.20         0.84      2.18      22.02
(ii) Repairs
(a) Repair works to be taken up        65           ---        15        50      31-Dec-97
(b) Total cost                        41.17                   1.02      40.15
(iii) Total
(a) No. of works                      188           ---       21        167      31-Dec-97
(b) Total Cost                       65.37         0.84      3.20      62.17



126
Attachment 6
Details of Implementation Progress of New Civic Amenities to be
Provided in the Resettlement Gaothans
(a s on 30-Nov96)
No   Type of facility  Kukadi        Krishna       Bhlina          Upper         Majalgaon      Total
to be provided                                              Penganga
T C %  T C %   T C %   T C %   T C %   T C  %
I     Piped    Water  3   0  00    9   2 22.2  46 14 30.43    13 0   00                         71 16   22.5
____  supply Schemes
2     Bore Wells       5   0   0.0   6   2 33.3   6   350.0    -  -   -                         17  5  29.4
3     Open Wells        _-  - 3   0  0.0   18 00.0                -  -   -           -  --     21  0   0.0
4     School buildings  19      10  12  5 41.7  90 13 14.4    15             0  23  0   0.0   159 28  17.6
52.6                                       0.0           _ _ _ _ _ _
5     Approach roads   19        5  73  3  4.1   10532  62.5    1  0   0.0   29  0   0.0   227 40  17.6
26.3                        _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _
6     Intemal roads    2   0  0.0   12   1 8.3   11  327.3    1  0   0 0   1  0   0.0    27   4  14.8
7     SamitaryUnits     6        597          17  21  838.1    -  -    -    30  0   0.0    154 30 19.5
83.3          17.5          _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _
8     Gutters          5    0  0.0   35       19  68  14 20.6   25           0  6   0   0.0    139  33 23.7
54.3                         0.0
9     Community        -    -  --   8          4  8    00.0    9  0   0 0   --    -             25    4 16.0
_   Centres                     50.0                          .
10    Ashplatig   of_- -----   -  -23  0   0 0    23   0   0.0
__ _ roads                                      _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _
11    Others*         1   0  0.08              2  4   00.0    18                1   0  0.0   42    2   4.8
25.0                         0.0            ___    ___
Total           60        20   263      55  377 87 23.0   82  0  0.0   123  0  0.0   905  162 17.9
______ ______   33.3      1 20.9        1              1__ _ _   _ _ __ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
T: Target; C: Completed: % ; Achievement against target
* Others include street lighting, fencing of cremation grounds and land development



127
Attachment 7
Details of Implementation Progress of Repairs to Civic Amenities in Resettlement Gaothans
(as on 30-Nov-96)
N   Type of facility to   Kukadi       Krishna        Bhima          Upper          Majalgaon    Total
o   be provided                                                      Penganga
T C %   T C %   T C %   T C %   TC %  T C  %
I   Piped      Water  6   0  0.0    36 3   8.3   56   0  0.0   13 0   0.0                         111 3   2.7
supply Schemes
2    Bore Wells        -   -   --    23 0    0.0   60  0   0.0   --    -            -             83  0   0.0
3   Open Wells         1   0  0 0    21 0   00   41  0  0.0    -  -   -                           63   0   0.0
4    School buildings  8   0  0 0    43  0   00   84  0  0.0    22  0   0.0   21              0   178  0   0 0
_________________            _____________                 ~~~~~~~~~0.0
5   Approach roads     9   0  0.0    26  0   0.0   71  0   0.0   14  0   0.0          -      -   120  0   0.0
6   Intemal roads       16  0  0.0    49  0   0.0    77   0  0.0   27  0   0.0   23           0  192  0   0 0
7    SanitaryUnits      3   0  0.0     -   -   -      60  000        -   -   --    -         --   63   0   0.0
8   Gutters             12  0  0.0    29 0   0.0   11  0  0.0    -   -    --    2 0   0.0   54   0   0.0
9   Community           6   0  0.0    43  0  0 0   79   0  0 0       7 0   0.0    19  0  00   154  0   00
Centres
Total             61  20 3.3    270  3  11    539  0 00         83  0  0.0    65 0  00    1018 3  03
T: Target; C: Completed; %: Achievement against target.



128
Attachment 8
Details of Implementation Progress of Civic Amenities in Financial Terms
(Amount in Rs Million)
Project               Estimated        Spent as on        Achievement
Budget         30-Nov-96               %
Kukadi                             28.08            6.46                23.00
Krishna                            38.33           23.02                60.06
Bhima-Ujjini                      169.68            94.56               55.73
Upper Penganga                     72.35            0.84                 1.16
Majalgaon                          65.37            0.83                 1.27
Total                             373.81           125.71               33.18



129                 APPENDIX 5
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GOVERNMENT QE MAHARASHTRA
IRRlGATION DEPARTMENT
MAHARASHTRA COMPOSITE IRRIGATION PROJECT-Ill
(RESTRUCTURED)
( CREDIT-NO. 1621-IN)
BORROWER'S
EVAL UA TIO ORERT
MAY 199



130
llurro%er's Report                                                        PAGE-I
MAHARASHTRA COMPOSITE IRRIGATION PROJECT
(RESTRUCTURED)
CREDIT NO. 1621-IN
BORROWER'S REPORT
1.0 INTRODUCTION
1.1    After closure of Maharashtra Composite Irrigation Project -I ( MCIP-I) in 1978,
GOM  requested International Development Association of World Bank ( WB) for
consideration of further assistance in completion of balance work of Jayakwadi and
Majalgoan projects, so that maximum command area of these projects could be provided
water for irrigation. In consideration of GOM's request NVB had discussions and
deliberations with GOM and after completion of appraisal studies by GOM, the agreement
of MCIP-111 for the total external assistance of SDR 164.20 million was finalised in
December 1985, in whiich some civil works, command area development , agricultural and
road works in Jayakwadi and Majalgaoln projects were contemplated to be complcted by
June 1991.
1.2   Implementation of MCIP-1II commenced from 1986 after completion of preliminary
works as per WB's requirements. During implementation of MCIP-III it was realised that
some command area development provision contemplated in the agreement were either more
than the actual requirement or not actually required at all. Hence to reassess the actual
requirement of all provisions, with concurrence of WB it was decided in 1987 to reformulate
MCIP-III . Reformulating of MCIP-III could be finalised in 1989. In the meantime exchange
rate of rupee for dollar increased considerably from Rs. 12 for one dollar, as considered in
agreemenit to Rs. 34 for one dollar in 1989. Besides the above reasons adequate budget could
not be made available due to financial constraints prevelant in the State at that time due to
which funds were needed to be diverted to other essential and priority areas in the State.
2.0    PROJECT COST
2.1    Due to above obvious reasons total external assistance ( 164.20 M. SDR) was not
possible to be fully utilised on works of Javakwadi and Majalgoan projects, despite approval
of two extensions by WB upto April 1993. Ilence to utilise the full external assistance it was
decided to restructure MCIP-III by expanding the scope of works, by including some works
of Kukadi, Bhima, Krishna, and Upper Penganga projects, which were the earst-while
MCIP-II projects, and new components such as resettlement and economic rehabilitation of
PAPs, EIA & EMP studies, basii planning, Agricultural extension programmes,
developments of roads in command area of these sub projects etc. This restructured MCIP-
III was finalised after completing the required feasibility studies and accordingly the
restructured ( ammended ) agreement was signed in June 1993, with credit closing date up
to 31-12-1996 and the total external assistance of SDR 132.20 million.
3.0   DISBURSEMENT
3.1   Initially the disbursement for MCIP-III was very slow due to devaluation of Rupee
against the SDR and construction constraints. Most of the contracts for the works were
fixed before the agreement. These contracts were not fixed as per the tender norms of the
World Bank hence not eligible for disbursement. The closing date of the restructured
project was 31st December 1996. The sanctioned credit of SDR 132.20 million has been fully
disbursed before closing date of the credit 1621-IN.



131
Borro%cr's Report                                                          PAGE .2
3.2    Thc ycarly disbursement programme agreed during the rcstructured project and
disbursemcnt obtained was as under.
Year             Programme                            Disbursement
Upto 3/1992                                          SDR         37.60   Million
1992-93       SDR            4.60   Million      SDR           4.60   Million
1993-94       SDR           19.00   Million       SDR         22.80   Million
1994-95       SDR           26.50   Million      SDR          27.00   Million
1995-96       SDR           25.50   Million      SDR          32.50   Million
Upto 12/96       SDR            19.00   Million      SOR           7.70   Million
4.0    PROJECT  MONITORING
4.1    The Irrigation Dcpartmcnt had monitored these projects by setting up central
monitoring unit at Mantralaya, Munibai, regional monitoring unit at Pune & Aurangabad,
Project Monitoring units at each subprojects.
4.2    The World Bank Supervision Field Missions have visited the project areas every six
month for review of the project implementation. The Superintending Engineer, Special
Evaluation and Analysis cell at Punc was the co ordinating officcr for the whole project.
The monitoring report preparcd by thc Special Evaluation & Analysis Cell Pune had been
apl)reciated by the Field Mission. The Chairman Central Water Commission had also
rcviewed the project implementation quarterly. Implementation Completion Reporting
Mission visited the MCIP-III (R) project from 2 - 13 December 1996 and found the
project's outcome to be satisfactory in respect of civil works both for Irrigation and Roads.
The Mission has noted that the implementation of the agreed action plan for economic
rehabilitationi of PAPs has been satisfactorily prepared but not carried out for want of
funids during the last year of thc project
5.0    PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION
5.1    The Ammended Project Agreement for MCIP-III ( R ) was singed by the
Government of India with the World Bank on 8th June 1993. This projects was implemented
by four Departmcnts of the Government of Maharashtra as follows.
1) Irrigation Departmcnt :- All the Irrigation works. CAD works, special studies,
monitoring. WALMI training.
2) Public Works Dcpartment: Rural Road works in sub projects command area.
3) Agriculture Department :- Agricultural extension programme in the
command of the project and adaptive agricultural research training in
State agricultural Universities.
4) Rcvenuc & Forest Departmcnt: Resettlement, and Economic Rehabilitation
of Projcct Affected Persons in subprojects.



132
lUorrower's Reqori                                                        PAGE .3
6.0    IRRIGATION WORKS
6.1    The cultivable command arca to bc developed, at the Appraisal Report of MCIP-III,
was estimated 3,00,000 ha. and was re-estimated during restructuring the project in 1993
as 2,27,800 ha. i.e 1,46,000 ha. for Jayakwadi and Majalgoan projects, and 81, 800 ha. for
Kukadi, Bhima. Krishna and Upper Penganga subprojects. However, during the execution
the area of Krishna project was increased to 14,000 hia. and works were carried accordingly.
Thus thc total arca to be developed was 2,31,000 ha. Out of this development works on
2 10          4  0 .0,1i# ha. were completed by the closing date of the Credit,i.e 31st Dcember 1996.
2)  '6.4   Project wise development was as under:
Project                       Planned                Achieved         Achieved %
Jayakwadi                      88,000 ha.               84,670 ha.             96%
Majalgaon                      58,000 ha.               55,530 ha.            96%
U.Penganga                     23,000 ha.               19,650 ha.            85%
Kukadi                         20,000 ha.               18,470 ha.            92%
Shima                          28,000 ha.               20,400 ha.            73%
Krishna                        14,000 ha.               11,480 ha.            94%
Total    ;}686 ha.               2,10,200 ha.            91%
-3,3i, D 0
6.2   The main rcasons for the Icss achievemcnts of development arc i) constraints of land
acquisition, objections by villagers in close proximity to blasting operations, the extensive
rock cxcavation in the main canal system, delay in awarding some of the contracts for major
aqueducts.
6.3   It is the cxperience of the GOM that delay in fixing the tenders in certain cases, was
mainly duc to the tendering procedure laid down by the Bank, such as Bank's permission
for rejecting or rebiding tenders if the tender offer is high, no negotiations with bidders etc.
Tender offers were invariably high in these projects compared to the general trade in the
State. This give%scopc to infer that the contractors might have managed the tenders amongst
themselves as a evident from less numbers of offers received. Similarly Govt. was required to
increase lot of extra expenditure by way of litigation because of Bank insistence on inclusion
of arbitration clause in the tenders. Almost all the contractors have resorted to putting
forth unreasonablc claims and taking disadvantage of the clause. They were successful in
getting the claim because of legal position. It would be worthwhile to review these provision
in future projects.
6.5   Project wise objective and progress is as below.
7.0   Jayakwadj Project.
7.1    All the works on Jayakwadi dam and main and branch canals were completed
before March 1985. Under MCIP-III the following works were included : a) The irrigation
distribution system to serve 45,000 ha. ii ) The main drains of 72000 ha. and link drains of
5,500 ha. iii) on farm development works on 4.670 ha. out of 88.000 ha. completed. iv)
land shaping on 1,28,000 ha. v) Modernisation of the Paithan Left and Right bank canals
including distribution systems was completed. All these works were completed in 1994-95.



133
UIorroucr-s Report                                                       PAGE -4
8.0    Majalgoan Project
8.1    The works included  in MCIP-1II ( R ) project are  i) Construction of  116
structures on main canal. between km 0 to 67, construction of main canal between km 67 to
100, ii) Construction of the irrigation distribution system along the first 100 km. main
canal to serve 58,000 ha. iii) Construction of the field channel and protection work and OFD
works along the first 100 km. main canal to serve 58,000 ha. iv)) Carrying out land shaping
of 6,200 ha. (v) Operation of Majalgoan main canal and Ganga Masala branch canal on the
principle of dynamic regulation . vi) construction of 150 km. of service roads.
8.2   Out of above planned works, the achievement by 31-12-1996 is: i) Construction of
261 structures out of 276 structures on main canal, from 0 to 100 km. completed.,
earthwork 97 % and  lining  95 %, on 67 to 100 km. of main canal completed.  ii)
Construction of the irrigation distribution system along the first 100 km. main canal to serve
57,000 ha. out of 58,000 ha. completed. iii) Construction of the field channel and protection
work and on farm development works along the first 100 km. main canal to serve 55,
ha out of 58.000 ha. completed. iv)) Land shaping of 1600 ha. out of 6200 ha. completed.
Due to problems associated with the loan arrangements and farmer's reluctance to accept
this development, target could not be achieved . v) The Pilot Project Dynamic Regulation
(PPDR) exercise was implemented on the Mlajalgoan Right Bank Canal. The existing control
structured were improved to operate automatically. The main canal is initially to operate
under constant volume conditions was eventually shifted to controlled volume method. The
branchi and minor canals envisages  volume controls,  those  new structures were
constructed. The Pilot project was provided with controls on the main canal for about
58,000 ha. on the branch canal for 11,000 ha. and on minor canal covering area of 2,000 ha.
MIs. GERSAR of France, was thie consultant for implementation of the PPDR. A trial run of
the l PDR was taken in October 1996. The system will become operational during the
cropping season of 1997.
9.0 Upper Penganga Project.
9.1 The works included in MCIP-III ( R) projects are: i) Modernisation of the Isapur
dam ii) Construction of main and branchi canals about 220 km. iii) upgrading the existing
distributory canal system covering an area of about 25,000 ha; iv) constructions of partially
lined distribution networks covering an area of about 23,000 ha; v) Construction of OFD
works (including main and link drains) covering area of about 23,000 ha; and vii) Pilot land
shaping operations and conjunctive use covering area of about 4,000 ha.
9.2   Out of the above works planned, the achievement by 31-12-1996 is i) Modernisation
works of Isapur dam are completed. The preventive works recommended by Dam Safety
Review Panel (DSRP) are in progress. ii) Construction of Isapur left bank canal, 57 km
out of 81 Km. completed. Construction of Isapur Right bank canal of 115 Km, 74% of
earthwork, 50% of lining, and 42% of structures were completed. and on the remaining 24
km. branch canal about 70%  of earthvork, 50%  of lining, and  40%  of structures
completed. iii) Distributory canal system covering an area of 23000 ha. out of 25,000 ha
completed,A4jponstructions of partially lined distribution networks covering an area of
20,000 ha.k23,000 ha. completed v) Construction of on farm development covering area of
19.650l ha. out of 23,000 ha completed  and vii)  Land shaping was not carried out as
farmers were not interested in getting loans to carry out the work. Conjective use on about
4,000 ha. was not implemented due to delay in obtaining reports and certificates from the
Government organisation responsible for ground water exploration.



134
IIurra%cr's Repot                                                      PAGE .5
10.0 Kukadi Pmiroec
10.1  The works included in MCIP-1II ( R ) projects are: (i) modernisation of the
Dimbhc and Manikdoh dams, and Visapur tank; (ii) constructions of 127 km of main and
branch canals: (iii) upgrading the existing canal system covering an area of about 65.000 ha;
(iv) construction of partially lined distribution networks covering an area of about 20,000 ha;
(v) construction of main and link drains and field canals covering about 20,000 ha; sub-
surface drains covering about 500 ha; and (vi) provision of pilot operation for land shaping
and conjunctive use covering an arca of about 4.000 ha.
10.2   Out of the abovc works planned, the achievement by  31-12-1996  is i) The
modernisation works on the Dimbhe & Manikdoh dam and works on Visapur Tank
completcd. The preventive works recommended by Dam Safety Review Panel (DSRP) are in
progress. ii) Construction of 127 km of main canals on the right and left banks of the
Dimbhe, Manikdoh, and Yedgaon reservoirs are in progress, in this reach about 9896 of
carthworks and structurcs and 80% of lining have been completed. The major works
remained to be completed are: (1) the Ghod aqueduct located in the Dimbhe Right Bank
Canal. and rock tunneling in this canal. and (2) construction of Hanga aqueduct located at
km 74 of the Kukadi Left Bank Canal. These works were commenced in October 96 and are
in progress. (iii) upgrading cxisting canal system over an area of 45,760 ha. out of 65,000 ha.
were completed. (iv) construction of partially lined distribution network covering about of
19.960 ha. out of 20,000 ha. were completed (v) construction of field canals and drainage
eovering an area of 18.470 ha. out of 2O  ha, were completed. sub-surface drains
covering about 470 ha. out of 500 ha. completed. vi) Land shaping was not carried out as
farmers were not interested in getting loans to carry out the work. Conjective use on about
4.000 ha. was not implemented due to delay in obtaining reports and certificates from the
Government organization responsible for ground water exploration.
11.0  Bhima Project
11.1  The works included in MCIP-III ( R ) projects are: (a) Irrigation works includes;
(i) modernisation of Ujani dam and powerhouse; (ii) construction of main and branch canals
over a length of 63 km;(iii) upgrading existing canal system over an area of 85,000 ha; (iv)
construction of partially lined distribution network covering about 28,000 ha; (v)
construction of field canals and drainage covcring an area of 28,000 ha; (vi) provision of
pilot operation land shaping and conjunctive use covering an area of 4,000 hla.
11.2  Out of above works planned, the achievement by 31-12-1996 is i) Modernisation of
Ujani dam and power house has been completed. The preventive works recommended by
Danm Safety Review Panel (DSRP) arc in progress and will be completed by MKVDC Pune.
(ii) construction of main and branch canals over a length of 63 km is in progress and 94 96
of earth work, 90 % structures and 89 % of lining were completed. (iii) upgrading existing
canal system over an area of 71,290 ha. out of 85,000 ha. were completed. (iv) construction
of partially lined distribution network covering about of 28,000 ha. were completed (v)
construction of ficld canals and drainage covering an area of 20.400 ha. out of 28,000 were
completed. vi) Land shaping was not carried out as farmers were not interested In getting
loans to carry out the work. Conjective use on about 4,000 ha. was not implemented due to
delay in obtaining reports and certificates from the Government organization responsible for
ground water exploration.



135
lBorrower's Report                                                      PAGE -6
12.0         Krishna Projec
12.1  The works included in MCIP-11I ( R) projects are: (i) modernisation of Dhom and
Kanher dam and their powerhouses ; (ii) construction of main and branch canals over a
lcngth of 58 km; (iii) upgrading existing canal system over an area of 50,000 ha; (iv)
construction of partially lined distribution network covering about 14,000 ha; (v)
construction of field canals and drainage covcring an area of 14,000 ha; (vi) provision of
pilot operation land shaping and conjunctive use covering an area of 4,000 ha.
12.2  'Out of the above works planned, the achievement by 31-12-1996 is: i) Modernisation
of Dhom and Kanher and their power houses has been completed. The preventive works
recommended by Dam Safety Review Panel (DSRP) are in progress and will be completed
by MKVDC Pune. (ii) construction of main and branch canals over a length of 58 km was in
progress and 94 % of carthwork, 78 % structures, and 68 % of lining were completed. (iii)
upgrading existing canal system over an area of 46,300 ha. out of 50,000 ha. were
completed. (iv) construction of partially lined distribution network covering 5,400 ha. out of
14,000 ha. were completed. (v) construction of field canals and drainage covering an area of
1140i ha. out of 14,000 ha were completed. vi) Land shaping was not carried out as
farmers were not interested in getting loans to carry out the work. Conjective use on about
4.000 ha. was not implemented due to delay in obtaining reports and certificates from the
Govcrnmcnt Organisation rcsponsible for ground water exploration.
13.0 Water Management and User's Associations:
13.1  The restructured project provides for establishment of 10 Watcr user's associations
(WUAs) in Jayakwadi command, 30 in Majalgoan command, 10 each in Kukadi, Bhima,
Krishna and Upper Pcnganga project and hand over water management to the WUAs.
13.2  80 WUAs targeted to be completed by 31-12-1997, however  193 societies were
registered out of which 71 societies have taken over the responsibility of operation and
maintenance.  Remaining societies are persuaded to take over the management and
maintenancc.
13.3   Workshop of  officials as well as prominent NGOs and farmers were arranged to
cncourage the WUAs to take ul) the management & maintenance responsibilities. Farmers
are conscious about the bencfits of self managemcnt, and up gradation of the system.
13.4  The Director of Irrigation Researchi Directorate at Pune (DIRD) is motivating the
farmers towards WUAs formation, and monitoring the functioning of the WUAs in the State.
14.0         RURAL ROADS
14.1  The programme for the rural roads in the restructured project was prepared and
executed by the Public Works Department of Maharashtra.
14.2  The works included in MCIP-II ( R) projects are: i) Construction of a rural road
of 537 km  in Jayakwadi command  ii) Construction of a rural road of 120 km in the
Majalgoan command. (iii) Construction of a rural road of 40 km with 9 bridges in the
Upper Penganga command. (iv) Construction of a rural road of 140 km in the Kukadi
command. (v) Construction of a rural road of 100  km. in the  Bhima command. (iii)
Construction of a rural road of 103 km wvith 3 bridges in the Krishna command.



136
Uorro%cr-s Rcport                                                         PAGE -7
14.3   Out of the above works planned, thc achievement by 31-12-1996 is (i) In Jayakwadi
command 413 km. of rural roads out of 445 km. have becn completed. in Majalgaon
command, 34 km. of rural roads completed as planned. In Upper Penganga command, 21
km. rural roads and 3 bridges out of 40 km. rural road and 9 bridges completed. In
Kukadi command. 94 km. rural roads and 3 bridges out of 140 km. rural road completed.
In Bhima command, 129 km. rural roads and 3 bridges out of 134 km. rural road and 7
bridges completed. In Krishna command. 75 km. rural roads and 2 bridges out of 97 km.
rural road and 3 bridges completed.
15.0    Resettlement & Economic Rehabilitation of PAPs.
15.1  The programme for the Resettlement and economic rehabilitation of PAP's in the
restructured project was prepared and executed by the Revenue and Forest Department of
Maharashtra.
15.2 The works included in MCIP-1II ( R) projects are: i) Updating the base line socio-
economic survey for  Project affected persons to assist in completing the plans for the
rehabilitation, including provision of civic amenities in resettlement villages, housing, official
buildings , and income generating scheme for i) 4300 project affected persons in 26
villages in Majalgaon command ii) 4700 Project affected persons 29 resettlement villages
in Upper Penganga command. iii) 6400 project affected persons in 32 villages in Kukadi
command vi) 14000 Project affected persons in 51 resettlement villages in Bhima
command. v) 7300 project affected persons in 80 villages in Krishna command.
15.3   Out of the above works planned, the achievement by 31-12-1996 is i) The Socio
economic surveys were carried out by engaging Consultants during 1994-95 to find out
number of persons in the resettlement villages and their living standards. Against the total
number of 36,700 estimated originally affected PAPs , only 22,168 PAPs were identified at
the time of conducting the Surveys. Based on these surveys and with the guidance of the
World Bank, Rehabilitation Action Plan was got prepared from the same consultants who
had carried out the Surveys. The Action Plan after scrutiny by the Revenue & Forest
Departmcnt has been approved by Government of Maharashtra for implementation from
the credit available under MCIP-III (R).
15.4   A substantial progress was made on providing civic amenities to the project affected
persons, as per the Maharashtra Project Affected Persons Rehabilitation Act of 1986. The
implementation of civic amenities component is at various stages of completion and funds
are made available for this component. The balance civic amenities will be provided by the
GOM from the State funds.
15.5  Therc was no provision for economic rehabilitation in the administratively approved
irrigation projects, under execution in the State. Economic Rehabilitation is new concept to
Govcrnment of Maharashtra . It was accepted by the GOM   for execution under the
available Credit of MCIP-111 ( R ). Adopting the procedurc laid down by the Bank for
engaging consultants and getting the surveys carried out by the consultants the preparation
of the Rehabilitation Action Plan was delayed hence could not be executed during the Credit
period. The credit has been closed on 31-12-1996. It is therefore now necessary to re -
examinc the issuc for cxecuting the same from the State funds. This Rehabilitation Action
Plan was for five irrigation projects. There are numbers of irrigation projects in the State
where this Action Plan would bc required to be executed. The GOM has therefore
thinking of reviewing Maharashtra Project Affected Pcrsons Rehabilitation Act of 1986 .
GOM will take into account the experience gained from the socio economic surveys carried
out and the provisions in the rehabilitation action plan prepared under MCIP-III ( R)
while reviewing the Act. The Bank will be appraised in the matter in due course of time.



137
Borrower's Rcport                                                        PAGE -8
16.0    Training Technical Assistance and studies
16.1    Training
16.2  The restructured MCIP-Ill provides i) Training at Water and Land Management
Institute at Aurangabatl and the State Agricultural Universities, in water management's and
agricultural practices of farmers including farmers in the project area and CADA and
irrigation Department staff and study tours. ii) Special studies in the field of management
information system, Water management , basin planning, environmental impact assessment
& management plans.
16.3 Achievement: Water and Land Management Institute at Aurangabad has been
provided funds to conduct training in land water management. A total nos. of 125 courses
werc conducted for Irrigation and Agriculturc officials, staff, farmers, WUA office bearers
and NGOs. About 2482 ofricials and staff and 2844 farmers and NGO representatives were
trained upto December 1996, and an expenditure of Rs. 68.243 million has been incurred.
16.3  The Banks observation that there is need to place more emphasis on practical
oriented training is noted.
16.4   Work plan for Rs.18.20 millions for incountry and abroad study tours have been
approved by the Bank. Due to concentration on construction works, funds were not made
available to the study tours.
17.0 Equipment andVehicles ( Technical Assistance)
17.1  The restructured MCIP-1II provides i) Vehicles for the construction operation and
maintenance of the projects. ii) Establishment of radio communication systems for the
control and monitoring of canal system. iii) Establishment of agro-meteorological and
hydrometeorogical network. iv) Provision of Officer technology equipment for management,
monitoring and evaluation of the project.
17.2   Out of the above works planned, the achievement by 31-12-1996 is: i) Work plan for
procurements of vehicles amounting to Rs. 18.90 Million was approved by the Bank and all
vehicles are procured. ii) For establishment of radio communication systems for the control
and monitoring of canal system no expenditure has been done, as it is already in existence.
iii) Work plan amounting to Rs. 12.36 million has been approved by the Bank for
establishment of agro-meteorological and hydrometeorogical network. no expenditure on
this account has been incurred, as Ilydrometeorogical network has been included in the
National Ilydrological Project Credit No. 2774-In. The same is under implementation. iv)
Work plan for procurement of Office technology equipment for management, monitoring
and evaluation of the project amounting to Rs. 26,00 million was approved, Out of it
procurement of equipment amounting to Rs. 20.00 Million have been completed.
18.0 STUDIES
18.1  The ammended project agreement provides to carry out the important studies for
efficient irrigation  management, management information  system, environmental
sustainability, water planning, and basin study etc. The Bank insisted to carry out these
studies by engaging national and international consultants. So far such studies were got
carried out by establishing committees of experts or by the Central Design Organisation of
the Irrigation Department. I-Ience the finalising of the Consultancy services took more
time and therefore thesc studies could not be completed during the project period. The
present status of these studies is as below:



138
Borro,,er's Report                                                       PAGE -9
18.2   Management Information System (MIS) : M/s. CMC Ltd. Pune was engaged as
consultant at the cost of Rs. 7.796 million for the preparation of management information
system for six subprojects. The Consultants have prepared 24 modules for monitoring the
project works before, during & after construction of the project. The Consultant has also
trained 80 officials for basic computer awareness and 21 Ofricers in the advanecd course in
computer application, to operate the modules prepared for MIS. An expenditure incurred
for this work is Rs. 6.70 million.
18.3  EIA and EMP studies for subproiects in Krishna Basin: M/s. Acres International
Ltd. Canada was appointed as consultants for this study at an estimated cost of Rs. 9.28
million. The consultant have prepared and submitted the draft report of the study. The
same is under review of the review committee. The final report after approval of the GOM
will be sent to the Bank in due course of time for record. An expenditure Rs. 6.10 million is
incurred for this study.
18.4   EIA and EMP studies for subprojects in Godavari Basin: M/s. ERM London was
appointed as consultants for this study at an estimated cost of Rs. 10.80 million..  The
consultant have prepared & submitted the draft report of the study. The same is under
review of the review committee. The final report after approval of the GOM will be sent to
the Bank in due course of time for record. An expenditure incurred for this work is Rs. 6.10
million.
18.5  Pilot Studies of Water Resourcc in Godavari Basin up to Paithan Damn  M/s.
WAPCOS (India) Ltd. New Delhi was appointed as consultants for this study at an
estimated cost of Rs. 11.00 million. The consultant have prepared and submitted the draft
report of the study. The same is under review of the review committee. The final report
after approval of the GOM will be sent to the Bank in due course of time for record. An
expenditure Rs. 4.46 million is incurred for this study.
18.6 Studies of Plan of Operation and Water Management (POM) for Kukadi:
Mis. Snowy MEC Ltd. Australia, was appointed as consultants for this study at an estimated
cost of Rs. 25.68 million. The consultant have prepared and submitted the draft report of
the study.  The same is under review of the review committee. The final report after
approval of the GOM will be sent to the Bank in due course of time for record. An
expenditure Rs. 18.10 million is incurred for this study.
18.7  Plan of Operation and Management (POM) for Bhima and Krishna: M/s. CES, New
Delhi was appointed as consultants for this study at an estimated cost of Rs. 6.67 million.
The consultant have prepared and submitted the draft report of the study. The same is
under review of the review committee. The final report after approval of the GOM will be
sent to the Bank in due course of time for record. An Expenditure Rs. 5.53 million is
incurred for this study.
18.8 Plan of Operation and Maintenance (POM) for Jayakwadi & U.Penganga:
Tenders for appointing consultant for the work was invited. But due failure of negotiation
with the Bidder it could not finalised. Hence it was decided to prepare the said POM in-
house. The same will be sent to the Bank in due course of time for record.
18.9   Dam Safety Review Panel: The ammended project agreement provides for one time
review of the dams and major structures of subprojects5 by appointing Dam safety Review
Panel (DSRP). The DSRP of four member was appointed. The report submitted by the DSRP
is accepted by the Irrigation Department (ID). The superintending Engineer, Dam safety
organisation of ID is monitoring the implementation of the action plan for executing the
recommendations of the DSRP.



139
Borrower's Report                                                       PAGE 10
19.    Irrigated Agricultural Development
19.1  The restructured MCIP-III  provides establishment and implementation of
programme of adaptive research in thc project area to develop and demonstrate suitable
irrigution practice cropping sc(luClice and farm input levels.
18.2   Agriculture Dcpartment has conducted 30,618 crop demonstrations and  3947 drip
and sprinkle irrigation demonstration sites were established in the six project area. 52
multipurpose Agricultural Technology Dessemination Centers ( ATDC) were built and 223
training programme were conducted for agriculture department staff . The Bank had
approved the Work Plan for Rs. 190 million. An expenditure of Rs. 153.85 has been incurred
during the project period.
19.3  The infrastructure built and the experience gained from the agriculture extension
programme conducted under MCIP-111 ( R ) will be useful for further development.
20.0 Financial programme of balance works of MCIP-111 ( R I
= ____________________  _____________                     Rs.  M illion,
Work             Cost of             Programme for
balance work 1997-98   1998-99   1999-2000
ID- I Works                1021.39    693.43    167.74        160.22
ID-l1 Works                 172.16    113.64       36.50       22.02
PWD Works                    47.46      47.46          0           0
R & R                        16.74       5.06       5.56        6.12
Agri. Programme                   0         0          0           0
Studies                      26.50      26.50          0           0
DSRP implementation         170.00        130         40           0
Total                      1454.25   1016.09       249.8      188.36
21.2  Three sub project namely, Kukadi, Bhima & Krishna are being implemented by
Maharashtra Krishna Valley Development Corporation, Pune and the Corporation will
provide required funds for the completion of the balance works. Irrigation Department will
provide funds for Jayakwadi, Majalgaon & Upper Penganga sub projects for the completion
of the balance work. Public Works Department will provide funds for balance roads work.
The Agriculture Department had completed the agricultural programme. Regarding
Economic Rehabilitation plan, 4J mentioned in para 15.0 above, fovt. of Maharashtra is
thinking of reviewing Maharashtra Project Affected Persons Act of 1986. While revising the
Act the experience gained through the base line socio-economic surveys and the ERP
prepared under MCIP-III ( R ) will be suitably used. The actions taken by Revenue and
Forest Department, will be appraised to the Bank in due course of time.
22.0  Government of Maharashtra cxpress its appreciation for the excellent guidance
given by the Banks Supervision Missions during their field visits.









IMAGING
Report No.:        16688
Type:     ICR



