Document of
The World Bank
FOR omcIAL USE ONLY
Cc 9,   /v.?/-.z7A
Repwi No. P-4116-IN
REPORT AND RECOMKENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 164.2 MILLION
TO INDIA
FOR THE
MAHARASHTRA COMPOSITE IRRIGATION III PROJECT
June 20, 1985
|is domma ba a rea1_ed dltuilom ad m  be used by repiuts Wly il the perfmue d|
thir .Ud. duie Ilb ce.ts may n      ewis he dba_losed without W.dd Bank aothouizaioo.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00        =  Rs 12.00
Rs 1.00        =  US$0.08
Es 1 million   =  US$80,000.
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made at
US$1.00 = Rs 12.00.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AA         -   Agricultural Assistant (or Village Level Worker)
AD         -   Agriculture Depa-tment
AE         -   Assistant Engineer
ARDC       -   Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
CAC        -    Canal Advisory Committee
CAD        _    Com-and Area Development
CADA       -    Command Area Development Authority
CCA        -    Cultivable Command Area
CE         -    Chief Engineer
CEO        -    Chief Executive Officer
DADO       -    District Agricultural Development Officer
DIRD   -   -    Directorate of Irrigation Research and Development
EC         -    Executive Committee (CADA)
CON        -    Government of Maharashtra
ID         _    Irrigation Department
MCIP I     -    Maharashtra Composite Irrigation I Project
MCIP II    -    Maharashtra Composite Irrigation II Project
MCIP III   -   Maharashtra Composite Irrigation III Project
MLDC       -   Maharashtra Land Development Corporation
MWUP       -    Maharashtra Water Utilization Project
NABARD     -    National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
NARP       -    National Agricultural Research Project
OC         -    Outlet Committee
OFD        -    On-Farm Development
O&M        -    Operation and Maintenance
PAO        -    Principal Agricultural Officer
PWD=PW&HD  -    Public Works Department
RWS        -    Rotational Water Supply
SDD        -    Specially Developed Distributary
SMS        -    Subject Matter Specialist
T&V        -    Training and Visit (System of AgriculturaL Extension)
WALMI      -    Water and Land Management Institute
wUC        -    Water Utilization Committee
ZP         -    Zilla Parishad (District Level Authority)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
NABARASETRA COMPOSITE IRRIGATION III PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                     India, acting by its President (GOI).
Beneficiary:                  Government of Maharashtra (CON).
Amount:                       IDA Credit SDR 164.2 million (US$160 million
equivalent).
Terms:                        Standard.
Project Description:          The project would encompass two command areas:
Jayakwadi (200,000 ha) and Majalgaon (100,000
ha). The main components for Jayakwadi would
be: (i) completion of irrigation systems on
about 45,500 ha; (ii) completion of main
drains, link drains, and rural roads on about
153,000 ha; (iii) construction of field
channels, drains, and structures on about
68,000 ha and field-channel protection on
about 102,000 ha; (iv) landshaping of about
128,000 ha; (v) development of three
Specially Developed Distributories (SDDs) on
about 7,300 ha; and (vi) technical support to
farmers. For Majalgaon, the project would
include: (i) constructing 116 canal regula-
tion structures; (ii) construction of
Majalgaon main canal from km 67 to km 100;
(iii) construction of the distribution system
up to the 1-cusec outlet in an area of about
57,000 ha; (iv) construction of main and
secondary drainage and road networks on about
24,000 ha; (v) on-farm developments and
landshaping of about 24,000 ha;
(vi) development of a Hajalgaon SDD on 4,000
ha; and (vii) technical support to farmers.
Other investments would include:
(i) equipment for landshaping and
telecommunication; (ii) monitoring and
evaluation, (iii) extension service;
(iii) technical and agricultural extension
and research support; and (iv) training,
studies, study tours and consulting services.
The project would increase agricultural
production and farmers' income in the two
Thi document has a rticdedbmdbuton and may be used by rpients only in the pefonumc 
of thi officid dues ts contents my am othemri be dsclosed wbhout Wodd Bank authoMnonm



commands.  To minimize the risks that farmer
response might not be adequate, or that yield
levels might be lower than anticipated, the
project provides for landshaping and for
system operation methods which will ensure
that all farmers, including tail-enders, will
obtain a reliable water supply. In addition,
the project focuses on increasing agricul-
tural productivity, especially through the
SDDs', technical support to farmers, research
and development, and monitoring and
evaluation. The combined effects of these
activities should result in a high return per
unit of water and high level of farmers'
participation.
(US$ Millions)
Estimated Cost 1/                    Local           Foreign          Total
Project Component
(a) Jayakwadi - First Segment        13.5               1.9           15.4
(b) Jayakwadi - Second Segment       23.1               2.1           25.3
(c) Jayakwadi - Third Segment        72.2               7.1           79.3
(d) Majalgaon - First Segment        40.0               4.7           44.7
(e) Majalgaon - Second Segment       45.6               6.9           52.4
(f) Equipment/SDD/Technical
Services                        13.0               0.5           13.5
Total Base Costs                207.7              23.3          231.0
Physical Contingencies         25.7               3.4           29.1
Price Contingencies            56.1              6.5            62.6
Total Project Costs             289.5              33.2          322.7
1/ Includes taxes and duties that are insignificant.



-iii-
Financing Plan                                       (US$ Millions)
Local          Foreign           Total
GOI/COM                              162.7              -              162.7
IDA                                  126.8             33.2            160.0
TOTAL              289.5             33.2           322.7
Estimated Disbursements:
(US$ Millions)
IDA FY                      FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91
Annual                      25.5    33.8    40.2    33.8    23.1       3.6
Cumulative                  25.5    59.3    99.5   133.3   156.4   160.0
Rate of Return:          About 20Z.
Appraisal Report:        No. 5376-IN, dated June 18, 1985.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO INDIA
FOR THE MAHARASHTRA COMPOSITE IRRIGATIOU III PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed IDA
credit of SDR 164.2 million (US$160 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms,
to finance an irrigation project to increase agricultural production and
farmers' incomes by increasing the irrigated area and maximizing utilization of
the available water supplies. The proceeds of the Credit and the Loan would be
channeled to the Government of Maharashtra in accordance with the Government of
India's standard terms and arrangements for financing State development
projects. The exchange risk would be borne by the Government of India.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 11
2.      An economic report, "India:  Structural Change and Development
Perspectives" (5593-IN, dated April 24, 1985), was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 1, 1985. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 750 mil-
lion (in mid-1984) and an annual per capita income of US$260. The economy is
dominated by agriculture which employs more than two-thirds of the labor force.
However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate livelihood to
everyone engaged in agricultural activities, especially those who own little or
no land. Growth of value-added in agriculture - 2.2% since 1950/51 - has
been slower than growth of industrial value-added (5.3% per annum). As a
result, there has been a gradual decline in the share of agriculture in GDP (at
factor cost) from 52% in 1950/51 to about 33X in 1981/82, while the share of
industry rose from 20% to around 26%. But industrialization has not been rapid
enough to absorb the growing labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic
transformation, with significantly higher productivity and income levels. As a
result economic growth has been slow over the past three decades, averaging
about 3.6Z per annum since 1950/51.
4.      Nevertheless, there haa been steady progress, with per capita income
rising by about 1.4% per year in the period 1950 to 1980. Despite the large
population base and its relatively rapid growth, India has been able to
eliminate persistent dependence on foodgrain imports through significant
improvements in agricultural preduction. Savings and investment have increased
markedly since 1950/51: the gross natioral savings rate more than doubled from
10.8% of GDP (at factor cost) to 22.7Z in 1983/84, while the gross domestic
investment rate rose from 12.5% of GDP to 24.8% in 1983/84. Foreign savings
(balance of payments deficit on current account) have never financed a major
portion of domestic investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during the
early 1960s. Currently, foreign savings account for about 8% of investment.
1/ Parts I and II of the report are similar to Parts I and II of the
President's Report for the National Social Forestry Project (No.P-4094-IN),
dated May 22, 1985.



-2-
External assistance has been low both as a percentage of GDP and in per capita
terms, never rising above 3X of GDP and averaging beLow 1X for the past five
years. Net use of foreign savings has never risen above 32 of GDP, and
presently stands at 2.1%.
5.      Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export
promotion and more on import substitution. The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1969/70 averaged only 2.2% per annum, while the volume
growth of imports over the same period was 4.3%. In the early to mid-1970s,
however, rndia's terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant during
the 1960s, deteriorated sharply.  In response, the Government introduced
various policy measures designed to stimulate exports. As a result, the volume
of India's exports grew on average about 7.3Z per annum for the 1970s as a
whole, a performance which demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is
possible. While expanding world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle
East, contributed to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and
more effective export incentives played a major role.
6.      Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was buoyed
by higher levels of investment and an expanding level of foodgrain output. As
a result, growth in real GDP and in agricultural and industrial value-added
substantially exceeded the historical 30-year trends (paragraph 3) averaging
5.3%, 3.31 and 8.1%, respectively, during the 1975/76 to 1978/79 period. In
1979/80, however, this momentum was broken when the worst drought in recent
years, combined with a doubling of international oil prices and domestic supply
shortages, led to a sharp fall in foodgrain production, a decline in GDP, and
the opening up sf a relatively large trade deficit. Severe inflationary pres-
sures also emerged after several years of virtual price stability. These
setbacks coincided with the preparation of the Sixth Five-Year Plan which laid
down a program of adjustment that aimed at improving the trade deficit, remov-
ing infrastructural bottlenecks and ensuring price stability with an overall
growth of the economy of 5.2% per annum.
Recent Trends
7.      Despite the effects of two severe droughts in 1979/80 and 1982/83,
India's economy in the early 1980s continued to grow at the faster pace of the
second half of the 1970s. Between the two droughts (from 1979/80 to 1982/83),
GDP growth averaged almost 5% per annum, while between the two recovery years
(from 1980/81 to 1983/84), it was 4.5% per annum - substantially higher than
India's long-term growth rate of 3.6%. Continued rapid economic growth has
resulted from a development strategy which includes higher investment levels
and liberalized policies on imports, industrial licensing, prices, and commer-
cial borrowing. These policies, by easing constraints on the supply of
infrastructure and basic commodities, were a determining factor in the improved
performance of the economy and the industrial sector. This overall improvement
in performance, combined with a more restrictive monetary policy in 1981/82 and
1982/83, resulted in a sharp decline in the rate of inflation. The growth rate
of whoLesale prices declined from over 18% in 1980/81 to only 2.6% in 1982/83,
but rose to over 9% in 1983/84, mainly due to the effect of the 1982/83 drought
on food prices. Further improvements in the policy environment will be
required to maintain these higher levels of economic growth and investment
without putting undue pressure on the balance of payments or reviving infla-
tionary expectacions.



-3-
8.      Economic growth in the early 1980s has not been steady, mainly because
of the effect of uneven rainfall on agricultural production during the period.
In 1980/81 and 1981/82, the economy substantially recovered from the 1979
drought, with real GDP growing by 7.6% and 5.3X, respectively. While
industrial output expanded by 4% in 1980/81 and 8.6% in 1981/82, recovery was
particularly -.bust in agriculture where normal weather helped output to rise
by more than JA and 5.5%, respectively. The supply of power, coal, and rail
transport, already improved in 1980/81, was further expanded in 1981182,
recording growth rates of about 10%, 9.6% and 12.5%, respectively. This over-
all improvement in the Indian economy was halted in 1982/83 by a severe drought
in mid-1982 which reduced agricultural production by 4%, brought down the GDP
growth rate to 1.8%, and put further strains on the already difficult balance
of payments and domestic resource situation. The timely implementation of
various economic policies relating to foodgrain imports, procurement and
distribution, and the allocation of power to irrigation pumps mitigated the
otherwise very distressing effects of the poor monsoon. The economy recovered
in 1983/84, led by a robust agricultural sector - GDP grew by about 6.5% to 7%
with agricultural production growth in the 9X-1OX range and industrial growth
of 4.5%. The major factors contributing to the good economic performance
during 1983/84 were the excellent monsoon, combined with adequate agricultural
policies and programs, and satisfactory performance of the coal and transport
sectors. The power sector, however, emerged again as a constraint on higher
growth, especially in industry.
9.      Agricultural production rebounded strongly in 1983/84 in response to
the monsoon, improved use of inputs and continued expansion of irrigation.
Overall foodgrain production rose by iO%-12% over the previous year, reaching
a new record of 142-144 million tons, a substantial increase over the previous
peak of 133 million tons in 1981/82. Corrected for weather variations,
foodgrain production continues to grow at a trend of 2.6% per annumr-sufficient
to maintain a broad balance between supply and steadily increasing domestic
demand. Nonetheless, the balance remains delicate, and the need for foodgrain
imports to maintain consumer supplies or adequate buffer stocks could arise
from time to time. Thus, adequate management of foodgrain stocks and programs
to expand irrigation, strengthen extension and encourage the efficient use of
other agricultural inputs continue to receive high priority.
10.     Basic infrastructure services had a mixed performance in 1983/84,
partially because of sluggish demand from industry during the first half of
the year but also due to a failure to maintain the productivity gains of
1980-82. Electricity generation grew only by about 3.7% due to low reservoir
water levels during the first half of the year, delays in the commissioning
of new capacity, and a deterioration of capacity utilization in thermal plants.
As a result, power generation was about 11.5% below requirements and con-
stituted a major bottleneck in the economy. Key industries which were adver-
sely affected by power constraints included steel, fertilizers, cement, and
coal. To improve performance in the power sector, the Government recently
increased incentives for higher labor and management productivity in thermal
plants. Railway freight traffic, measured in ton-kms, grew by only 0.5% in
1983/84, reflecting sluggish demand. Coal production increased by about 6.5%
in 1983/84 reaching 139 million tons. When combined with stocks already avail-
able this level of production was sufficient to meet the relatively slow demand
growth. Infrastructural constraints would have emerged much more sharply had
the pace of industrial growth and demand been more rapid. It is therefore
critically important that India maintain the pace of investment in these key



-4-
sectors, mobilize sufficient resources to do so, and implement programs to
enhance productivity.
11.     The Indian economy has reverted from a situation of resource surplus in
the late 1970s to an aggregate resource deficit. The gap between gross invest-
ment and national savings increased from negligible levels during the late
1970s to an average equivalent to 2.1% of CDP in 1980-84. India's gross
national savings rate, which averaged 22.6% of GDP in the last four years, is
high by any standard, particularly considering India's low income and the large
proportion of its population below the poverty line. The scope for a substan-
tial increase in the savings rate is therefore quite limited. If India is to
maintain investment at about 25% of GDP, a major effort will be required to
raise additional domestic resources particularLy in the public sector. Future
increases in savings will depend heavily upon the enhanced profitability of
public sector enterprises which would require better utilization of capacity,
more efficient operations and adequate pricing policies. This would also allow
a marginal decline in the use of foreign savings from the recent 2.1Z-2.3X of
GDP to 1.5Z-1.8%, to ensure a sustainable external debt service burden.
12.     India's external resource position has changed notably since the late
1970s. The current account balance, which recorded surpluses from 1976177 to
1978179, reverted to deficits averaging US$3.5 billion and 2.1% of GDP during
1980/81 to 1983/84. Several developments contributed to these relatively
larger current account deficits. First, the terms of trade deteriorated
sharply in 1979/80 due to the second round of oil price increases and continued
to move against India during the first three years of the 1980s. Second, a
more liberal import policy towards industrial inputs was pursued. Third, net
invisibles declined as travel receipts fell off, workers' remittances stagnated
(reflecting slower development activity in the Middle East), and payment of
interest on higher Levels of foreign debt increased. Faced with severe
infrastructural constraints and a deterioration in its balance of payments,
India initiated an adjustment program in 1980/81 designed to raise the growth
rate from its historical level of 3.6Z to 5.2% while adjusting the country's
external balance to the adverse price developments in the world markets. The
main elements of this strategy, which is being successfully implemented, are
export promotion, import substitution where economically justifiable, implemen-
tation of a coherent energy policy designed to meet the energy needs of the
economy while curbing the growth of oil imports, and continued movement toward
a more liberal import policy aimed at providing producers with access to inputs
for higher capacity utilization, greater efficiency, improved technology and
capacity expansion.
13.     A positive development in India's balance of payments is the reduction
in the trade deficit from US$7.7 billion in 1980/81 to US$5.9 billion in
1983/84 despite unfavorable world market conditions and import liberalization.
Export volume growth and import substitution of oil and petroleum products,
metals and fertilizers more than offset the substantial increase in "other"
imports. These "other" imports consist mainly of industrial imports and capi-
tal goods which historically have been in chronic short supply and which are of
critical importance to capacity utilization, product quality, and plant modern-
ization and expansion. A major factor in the decline of the trade deficit was
the lower net import bill for petroleum, which dropped from US$6.7 billion in
1980/81 to US$3.4 billion in 1983/84 in response to a successful oil develop-



-5-
ment program that reduced import needs and allowed crude oil exports, which
totalled about US$1.5 billion in 1983/84. These structural changes in the
balance of payments are to a significant degree the result of India's develop-
ment and adjustment efforts over the past three years. It is expected that the
balance of payments will continue to be under strain for the next several
years, since the adjustment strategy will continue to require high levels of
imports.
14.     Even assuming a favorabLe export performance, India will need external
capital flows to augment its own resources for the foreseeable future, given
the low per capita income level in the country, the already high savings rate,
and the structural adjustment process. Faced with a growing need for external
capital inflows and stagnation in the availability of concessional assistance,
India decided at the start of the Sixth Plan to increase borrowings from the
International Monetary Fund (IMF) and commercial banks to substantial levels.
In the period covering the fiscal years 1981/82 to 1983V34, India drew SDR 3.9
billion from the Extended Fund Facility of the IMF. In addition, India bor-
rowed significant amounts on commercial terms from the Euro-dollar market and
increased the use of suppliers' and export credits. In the period 1980-84,
India contracted commercial loans totalling over US$6,000 million and
suppliers' credits of over US$1,000 million. The bulk of this borrowing has
been used for specific development projects in the public and private sector
(mostly for petroleum exploration and development, steel, power, aluminum and
shipping). India's favorable debt service position and the nature of its
borrowings, for project-related purposes instead of direct balance of payments
support, enabled it to tap commercial capital markets at favorable spreads.
This larger commercial borrowing and transfer of funds under the arrangement
with the IMF has stemmed the use of foreign exchange reserves which had fallen
to less than four months of import coverage in 1981/82.
Development Prospects
15.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India has the capacity
to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial sector is
small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large in absolute
terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufacturing a wide
variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure - irri- _Ion,
railways, telecommunications, power, roads and ports -- is extensive compared
to many countries, although there is considerable need for additional capacity
as well as improvement in the utilization of existing capacity. India also has
a wide range of institutions capable of fostering development and is well-
endowed with human resources. Finally, India has an extensive natural resource
base in terms of land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores,
but also gas and oil). With good economic policies and reasonable access to
foreign savings, India has the capability for managing these considerable
resources to accelerate its long-term growth.
16.     The Government is currently preparing the Seventh Plan which will lay
down the development strategy for 1985/86-1989/90. This strategy is expected
to continue the emphasis of the Sixth Plan on agriculture, energy development,
export promotion, domestic import substitution where economically justifiable
and the removal of infrastructural bottlenecks. Overall Sixth Plan performance
has been encouraging, with aggregate real investment projected to be about 30Z
higher than in the period 1975-80-a creditable performance indeed.  The Sixth
Plan expenditure targets, however, will not be fulfilled as resource mobi-



-6-
lization by the public sector will fall short of the financing requirements of
planned public investment. Actval aggregate real investment is projected to be
about 7% below the original target for the period 1980-85, private investment
being 5% to 10% higher and public investment about 20Z 1gwer in real terms than
acrually projected. In cerms of meeting Plan experditure targets, the perfor-
mance of the Central Government is ionsiderably betEer than that of the State
Governments. The Central Government's Plan outlays are likely to reach about
80% to 90% of the original Plan allocation in real terms, while the States'
will probably achieve only about 50Z of their targets, due principally to
shortfalls in resource generation. Bottlenecks in key sectors such as power,
transport and irrigation are likely to persist as a consequence of real invest-
ment shortfalls relative to original Plan allocations.
17.     Although Sixth Plan expenditure targets will not be met, India's capi-
tal formation rates have increased from 22.6Z in 1975-80 to 24.7Z of CDP in
1980-84. Recent higher capital formation rates are encouraging for future
income growth, but returns to investment have so far been relatively low. Much
of this phenomenon relates to India's stage of development, in which a large
and growing proportion of investment has been needed to build up basic
infrastructure services which have inherently high capital-output ratios.
However, there is scope to reduce capital-output ratios through improvements
in efficiency. As discussed in greater detail in our recent economic reports,
performance in the basic service sectors can be improved through better plan-
ning and management, thus leading to higher productivity and capacity utiliza-
tion throughout the economy. At the same time, programs to expand domestic
capacity are vital. In the case of tradeable commodities like coal, steel and
cement, this is justified on the grounds of comparative advantage. For sectors
such as irrigation, power and transportation, expansion of planned capacity in
accordance with the requirements of the rest of the economy will be vital for
sustained growth.
18.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious oil development program
backed by substantial financial commitment. Performance under the program has
been excellent with real investment and oil production levels running well
ahea-i of Plan Targets. In 1981, and again in early 1983, resources for
exploration and development were raised by successive price increases for
domestic crude and products. While the gap between domestic consumption of
petroleum and production remains large, India's dependence on oil imports
dropped from 63X of consumption in 1979/80 to about 41Z in 1983/84 and is
expected to decrease to about 33% of consumption by 1984/85. The rapidly
expanding level of exploration activity, combined with the possibilities for
accelerated offtake from known fields, offers much encouragement for India's
longer-term energy prospects. At the same time, the increases in domestic
petroleum prices have helped encourage conservation and slow demand growth.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge on
the extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and external
balance, while at the same time achieving more rapid growt'h than in the past.
This will require the continuation of the current development strategy which
assigns high priority to export promotion, public finance discipline, improve-
ment of economic efficiency, and investment in infrastructure, supported by
adequate flows of external borrowing and aid. In the short term, a relatively
large level of external borrowing, including an increased emphasis on commer-



-7-
cial borrowing, will be necessary to cope with the balance of payments conse-
quences of such a growth strategy.  However, an important element in providing
India with the capacity to adjust flexibly will be adequate flows of conces-
sional assistance since India is still a very poor country with a large rural
sector and enormous investment requirements for human development and basic
infrastructur9 Although India is currently in a position to increase borrow-
ing on commers.al terms from the very low levels of the past, there are, of
course, limits beyond which India will choose to sacrifice growth objectives
rather than accept debt on unfavorable or unmanageable terms. Nevertheless,
with a more open trade policy and expanded efforts to remove constraints on the
growth of productive capacity, supported by adequate mobilization of both
foreign and domestic savings, India is demonstrating that it can sustain a rate
of growth closer to 5.0% per annum than to the long-run trend of 3.6Z per
annum. If the rate of population growth can be brought to below 2.0% per
annum, a 5.0% growth rate would mean a doubling of the trend rate of growth of
per capita income of 1.4% per annum.  Success in these efforts would make a
significant difference to the prospects of easing poverty in India.
20.     A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the need
to accelerate India's development efforts. The 1981 Census indicated there
was no decline in the rate of population growth, which remained about 2.2% per
annum in the 1970s despite a measurable decline in fertility rates. The
population growth rate failed to decline in the past decade due to a reduction
in the infant mortality rate and an increase in life expectancy, reflecting
larger availability of food and health services. While this is a welcome
development, it implies a greater strain on the economy and re-emphasizes the
need for continuing efforts to strengthen the health and family planning
programs in a broad range of activities and services. These efforts are given
high priority in the Sixth Plan, which aims at a rise in the proportion of
protected couples in the reproductive age group from its estimated 1979/80
level of about 23% to over 35% by 1984/85. The Government is reviewing its
population policy for the Seventh Plan, with indications of a determination to
retain the emphasis on the implementation of family planning, health, education
and literacy programs aimed at reducing fertility rates.
21.     Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic and
social policy. More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more
than 80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers
and small farmers. About 51% of the rural population and 40Z of the urban
population subsist below the poverty line. Significant reductions in poverty
will depend primarily on an acceleration of economic growth, particularly in
agriculture, combined with effective implementation of poverty alleviation
programs. India's poverty alleviation strategy appropriately recognizes that
production-oriented programs, which aim at accelerating the overall pace of
economic growth, and poverty alleviation programs, targetted at those least
able to participate in the general growth of the economy, can be mutually
reinforcing rather zhan substituting for each other. Major poverty programs
operating on a nationwide basis at present include: the Minimum Needs Program
(MNP), the Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP), and the National Rural
Employment Program (NREP). The IRDP and NREP are targeted programs aimed at
increasing the incomes of the poor rapidly, either through the transfer of
productive assets or direct employment. The MNP, aims at broadening the provi-
sion of social infrastructure and basic services which enhance the human capi-
tal of the poor and improve living standards. These programs represent a
vitally important commitment of the Government to address the needs of the



-8-
poorest. The scale of the poverty problem in India, combined with the inherent
difficulties in implementing poverty programs in any country, imply the need
for continued efforts to enhance the effectiveness of these programs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
22.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 84 loans and 174 development
credits to India totalling US$6,818 miliion and US$12,934 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,465 million has been
repaid, and US$5,909 million was still undisbursed as of March 31, 1985. Bank
Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through March 31, 1985
totalled US$787 million, representing a decrease of about 27 percent over the
same period last year. Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements
as of March 31, 1985.
23.     Since 1959, IFC has made 32 commitments in India totalling US$265
million, of which a total of US$145 million has been repaid, sold, terminated
or cancelled. Of the balance of US$120 million, US$113 million represents
loans and US$7 million equity. A summary statement of IFC disbursements as of
March 31, 1985, is also included in Annex II (page 4).
24.       The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent with
the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture, energy and
infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in irrigation,
extension and on-farm development designed to increase agricultural
productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic agricultural
inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and seed
projects. Major elements of the lending program have also been directed at
helping to meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth of oil
imports, and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks which have hampered
economic growth in India, particularly through power generation and
distribution, and railways and telecommunications projects. The Bank Group has
also provided financing for a broad range of medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises, primarily in the private sector, through its support of develop-
ment finance institutions. Recognizing the importance of improving the ability
to savisfy the essential needs of urban and rural populations, the Bank Group
has supported nutrition and family planning programs, a rural roads project, as
well as water supply and sewerage and other urban infrastructure projects.
25.     This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant with
Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plan and in the approach being
taken by GO! in the preparation of the Seventh Plan. First, high priority will
continue to be given to GOI's agricultural program.  While India has made
significant progress in agriculture, productivity growth will have to be sus-
tained to improve the balance between food demand and supply and to contribute
to poverty alleviation and employment. Thus, the Bank Group will continue to
support irrigation, fertilizer production and distribution, and agricultural
extension and credit. Second, alongside GOI's efforts in promoting greater
efficiency and faster development of the industrial sector, increased assis-
tance will be provided for industrial development. Third, the review of per-
formance under the Sixth Plan confirms the high priority that should continue
to be given to the expansion and more efficient use of basic infrastructure
capacity and to the development of India's indigenous hydrocarbon resources.
Accordingly the Bank Group will continue to support the development of the
energy, transport and telecommunications sectors to alleviate critical



-9-
shortages which constrain output in both agricultural and industrial sectors.
Fourth, support of urban development and other COI basic social services
programs for the poor will also continue in light of the growth in population
which, despite successes in lowering birth and death rates, still increases by
about 16 million each year.
26.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1?7Cd. However, India
continues to require a substantial level of foreign assistance both to offset
the overall deterioration in the world trade environment, and to sustain the
relatively higher investment and growth rates achieved during the first four
years of the Sixth Plan. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for projects in
India should aim to include the financing of local expernitures. India imports
relatively few capital goods because of the capacity and competitiveness of the
domestic capital goods industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component
tends to be small in most projects. This is particularly the case in such
high-priority sectors as agriculture and irrigation.
27.       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessional terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India in the past was provided from
IDA. However, IDA lending to India is declining from a peak of US$1.6 billion
in FY82, mostly due to funding constraints related to IDA. The amount of IDA
funds available to India is likely to remain small in relation to India's needs
for externaL support. Thus, this requirement for additional assistance will
have to be met, in part, through larger Bank lending. Given its development
prospects and policies, India is judged creditworthy for Bank lending to sup-
plement IDA assistance. A continuation of efforts already underway to achieve
growth in productive capacity, trade expansion, higher levels of savings,
foodgrains self-sufficiency and a reduction in the rate of population growth
should result in continued economic growth and improvement in the balance of
payments. India's debt service ratio is estimated at about 15.2% in 1984/85.
This ratio is projected to rise to around 20% by 1989/90, mainly due to the
hardening structure of India's debt; and to increase slightly over this level
through the mid-1990's. Although the projected debt service ratios are con-
siderably above historical levels, they are still manageable and will not
adversely affect India's creditworthiness.
28.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank Group
accounted for 34% of total commitments, 132 of gross disbursements, and 12% of
net disbursements as compared with 62%, 33% and 37%, respectively, in 1983/84.
In 1983/84, about 19.0% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank
Group. On March 31, 1984, India's outstanding and disbursed external public
debt was estimated to be about US$26.9 billion, of which the Bank Group's share
was US$9.6 billion or 36Z (IDA's US$7.8 billion and IBRD's US$1.8 billion). As
of March 31, 1985 outstanding loans and credits to India held by the Bank
totalled US$18,288 million, of which US$5,909 million remain to be disbursed,
leaving a net amount outstanding of US$12,379 million.



-10-
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION IN MAHARASHTRA
Background
29.     The State of Maharashtra in Western India is the third largest
State in the Union. It covers an area of about 30.8 million ha and has a
population of 63 million, of which about 35% live in urban centers.
Industrial population is higher than in any other State in the Union, and
per capita income is about Rs 3,300 (about US$275), which is 4O0 above the
national average of Rs 2,300.
30.     The Western Chats divide the state north to south.  Short steep
rivers are common on the western side of the Ghats and the climate there
is very humid. On the eastern side, the land slopes gradually towards
the Bay of Bengal. Because the Ghats cut off the southwest monsoon
central Maharashtra is dry, and rainfall ranges from 600 to 1000 mm. The
arnual coefficient of rainfall variation is 25%, which indicates a high
risk of crop failure without irrigation. The predominant soils are black
cotton soils--water-retentive, very heavy and sticky with a high clay
content, therefore difficult to work when wet.
31.     Farming.  Because of the climatic and soil conditions, farming
in Maharashtra is difficult and must concentrate on drought-tolerant crops
such as sorghum, pearl millet, cotton, and groundnuts, as well as various
pulses. Rice and some tropical crops are grown only in the well-watered
Konkan and Vidarbha districts. The dominant mode of production is rabi
cultivation: crops are planted at the end of the rains and mature on
residual moisture. Relatively few inputs are risked and yields are low.
Nevertheless, agriculture accounts for 26% of Maharashtra's gross State
product and provides 62% of total employment. About 92% of Maharashtra's
farms are owner operated, 5% are partly owned and partly rented, and 3%
are under tenancy arrangements.
32.     Irrigation in Maharashtra.  The f4uctuations in the annual rain-
fall and the long dry season (October-June) make irrigation crucial for
increasing agricultural productivity in Maharashtra (which accounts for
only 4% of India's irrigable land). At present, only 12% of the cropland
has irrigation facilities. Of the 3.3 million ha irrigation potential
created, 1.5 million ha comprises major and medium surface schemes;
1.8 million ha is served by well and minor irrigation systems. Surface
irrigation is difficult and costly, because of the seasonal nature of the
river flows and lack of suitable reservoir sites. Where it is
established, however, and as a result of extensive research and
experiments, Maharashtra farmers are now making the shift from extensive
rabi cultivation on residual moisture to irrigated multiple cropping.
Farmers need expert advice to facilitate this transition.



-ll-
The Project Area
33.     The project encompasses Jayakwadi and Majalgaon command areas--
about 330,000 ha, spanning six administrative districts. The area forms a
narrow strip stretching for about 210 km along the Godavari river. The
climate is subtropical with one monsoon season.  The mean minimum tempera-
ture is about 13 C, and the rainfall ranges from 600 mm to 900 mm. The
area slopes from west to east and is open, rolling country with isolated
angular hills; the overall elevation is about 550 m. Because of the
topography, irrigated land will have to be levelled-about 80% will
require substantial shaping. The soils (which are essentially black
cotton soils, about 75% of which are classed as clay loams) shrink when
dry and are self-mulching. Soil fertility is generally good.
34.     Farm Size, Land Tenure, and Use.  The average farm size is about
4.5 ha. Most of the farms are owner operated, and about 70% of the total
area is cropped. About 6% of the land is reserved for forests or is not
available for cultivation, and about 24% is fallow or cultivable waste.
35.     Cropping Patterns and Yields.  In unirrigated areas, crops grown
include short-staple cotton, sorghum-the most important staple food crop,
pearl millet, green and black gram and chickpeas. Safflower is the tradi-
tional drought-resistant oilseed crop. Under irrigated conditions, sugar-
cane is the most remunerative crop. It is well adapted to the soil and
climatic conditions of the project area, and has a ready market with the
cooperative sugar mills. Other crops grown under irrigation include
long-staple cotton, groundnuts, sugarcane, bananas and wheat. Sunflower
production is increasing and, with some further research, it could become
an important crop. Maize and soybeans could be grown but face market
constraints.
Agricultural Support Services
36.     Agricultural Extension and Research.  Following the reorganization
of extension services, some of the village extension workers (VEWs) and
Subject Matter Specialists (SMS) became responsible for large groups of
farmers on irrigated as well as dry land. The number of VEWs is insuffi-
cient (the VEW-farmer ratio is a low 1:1200), and they lack the training
and skills needed to cope with all the problems encountered by the farmers
in irrigated and dryland farming. However, the Government plans to
increase the cadre of VEWs to a VEW-farmer ratio of 1:800, and, to the
extent possible, a VEW would deal exclusively with either rainfed or
irrigated agriculture. It also intends to strengthen the extension staff
dealing with irrigated agriculture by increasing the number of SMSs
trained in irrigation agronomy, and water management.
37.     The principal institution conducting agricultural research in the
project area is the Marathwada Agricultural University, Parbhani. The
University's research has focussed on varietal improvements; intercropping
and multiple cropping, yield studies in response to different levels of
irrigation; and cotton and oilseed research in the 1300 mm annual rainfall



-12-
zone. Under the Mbharashtra Water Utilization Project
(Cr. 1383/Ln. 2308-IN), the University has launched an adaptive research
program in the irrigated parts of the project area.
38.     Agricultural Inputs.  There are sufficient and well-organized
public and private suppliers of fertilizers within easy reach of farmers,
and consumption is showing a healthy upward trend. Seeds are supplied by
the National and Maharashtra State Seeds Corporations through the coopera-
tive outlets. In addition, there are many private producers who are
controlled by the seed certification agency. Most seeds are available in
adequate quantities, except for the hybrid cotton and the popular sorghum
hybrids, which occasionally are in short supply. The supply of pesticides
is also adequate. However, dealers are unable to provide advice on the
use of pesticides and sprayers, and thus the responsibility falls largely
on the agricultural extension staff.
39.     Marketing and Processing.  A satisfactory network of
Government-regulated markets covers the project area. The largest
marketed commodity is sugarcane (about 0.5 million tons per annum), which
is sold to the cooperative sugar mills close to the project area.
40.     Agricultural Credit.  The State-owned Commercial Banks and the
cooperative banks provide agricultural credit. Short-term credit--which
is used for fertilizers, pesticides, and seeds-is well organized and is
registering modest annual increases in volume despite growing arrears'
problems. With regard to medium- and long-term loans, about 80-90 of the
farmers who had loans in the past are in default and therefore ineligible
for new loans from the institutional credit system. The high rate of
default is due, inter alia, to (i) institutional weaknesses; and
(ii) drought conditions which affect farmers' ability to repay. A
separate project (NABARD) is under preparation to deal with credit
problems. With that project a comprehensive assessment will be given with
regard to the nature of the problems and what will be done to improve the
situation.
Bank Group Strategy and Previous Bank Group Assistance
41.     The Bank Group's agricultural strategy in States such as
Maharashtra is to support the Governments efforts to increase the
efficiency of the investments in irrigation, in order to increase agricul-
tural productivity and accelerate the overall pace of economic growth.
Consequently, the Bank Group's assistance is being focussed on:
(i) continued introduction of improved technology through improved design
and construction standards and training; (ii) improved operation and
maintenance; (iii) effective water management; and (iv) modernization of
existing irrigation system. The proposed project objectives are in line
with this strategy as the project covers three ((i), (ii) and (iii) above)
of the four basic elements of the Banks strategy.
42.     To date, total IDA/Bank commitments to Maharashtra for irrigation
amount to US$347.7 million, of which IDA has contributed US$325 million,



-13-
and the Bank US$22.7 million. Bank Group assistance has focused on the
zones with rainfall less than 750 mm/annum. The first IDA credit for
irrigation in Maharashtra was for the Purna Irrigation Project (Cr. 23-IN
for US$13 million, July 1962) which financed water storage dams, a
reregulating reservoir, about 56 km of main canal, and 400 ln of dis-
tributaries to command 61,000 ha. Agricultural production in the Purna
project area increased slowly, in part because of an inadequate field
channels, the lack of effective crop and water planning, and drainage
deficiencies. The first Maharashtra Composite Irrigation I Project
(MCIP I; Cr. 736-IN for US$70 million, October 1977) addressed the
problems of on-farm development in Purna and Jayakaadi projects. After a
delay of about one year in implementation, the project was completed and
closed in March 1984. The project completion report distributed in
November 1984 showed an economic rate of return (ERR) of 17Z on that
investment. A US$210 million credit (Cr. 954-IN) was approved in October
1979 for the Maharashtra Composite Irrigation II Project (MCIP II) to
finance a five-year timeslice of a composite project consisting of five
new irrigation schemes, and the upgrading of two (Mula and Cirna) schemes.
Project implementation is still under way. About 80Z of the proceeds of
the credit (US$165 million out of US$210 million) was disbursed by
September 1984. The Credit is expected to be exhausted by the closing
date of December 31, 1985. Of the eight subprojects included in the
package, two are ahead of schedule, four are on schedule, and two are
behind schedule; the latter two were not expected to be completed within
the project period. In 1983, IDA and the Bank approved a credit of
US$32.0 million and a loan of US$22.7 million for the Maharashtra Water
Utilization Project (MWUP), which was designed to increase effective
utilization of the available irrigation water supplies. The project
financed: (i) upgrading of irrigation and drainage systems of selected
areas covering 95,000 ha in five irrigation schemes; (ii) training;
(iii) adaptive research; and (iv) improved water management. Project
implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
43.     The project was appraised in September-October 1984.  Negotiations
were held in Washington in February/March 1985 with the Indian delegation
coordinated by Mr. A. Thapan, Deputy Secretary of the Government of
India's Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance. The Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 5376-IN) dated June 18, 1985 is being circulated
separately. A supplementary data sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Rationale
44.     The Bank already has assisted the GOM in developing the
Jayakwadi/Majalgaon scheme through MCIP I (Cr. 736-IN), MCIP II
(Cr. 954-IN) and MWUP (Cr. 1383-IN/Ln. 2308-IN). MCIP I financed the
completion of the construction of the main and distributary canal network



-14-
of Jayakwadi command.  MCIP II focussed on state-wide institution
building - staff training, and development activities in the pilot command
area. Valuable lessons have been learned from the previous projects on
the black cotton soils, especially with regard to engineering, field
preparation and tillage practices. These lessons have been built into the
proposed project, particularly with regard to canal lining technology,
appropriate landshaping, cropping patterns and agricultural practices.
Further Bank assistance is needed specifically to: (i) complete the
remaining infrastructural works and works for the new parts of the command
on time and to appropriate standards; and (ii) introduce improved
managerial techniques and technologies needed to cope with the black
cotton soil of the Deccan, to improve agricultural production. Bank
involvement through this project--especially with regard to modern irriga-
tion practices, adaptive research, planning and design for land shaping
and drainage--would enhance and accelerate the benefits from the expanded
infrastructure and improved institutional capability financed under MCIP I
and MWUP, and would enhance the effectiveness of GOM's new investments in
irrigation.
Project Objectives and Description
45.     The main objective of the project is to raise agricultural produc-
tivity and farm incomes through the expansion of irrigated areas, expanded
use of improved agro-techniques and efficient utilization of available
water supplies. The project would encompass two commands: Jayakwadi
(200,000 ha), and Majalgaon (100,000 ha). The main project components for
Jayakwadi would be: (i) completion of irrigation systems on about
45,500 ha; (ii) completion of main drains and link drains on about
153,000 ha; (iii) construction and/or rehabilitation of 537 km rural
roads; (iv) construction of field channels, drains and structures on about
68,000 ha and field-channel protection on about 102,000 ha;
(v) landshaping of about 128,000 ha; (vi) development of three Specially
Developed Distributaries (SDDs) on about 7,300 ha; and (vii) technical
support to farmers. For Majalgaon, the project would include:
(i) construction of 116 structures along Km 0-67 of the main canal;
Cii) construction of the main canal between Km 67-100, including lining
and structures; (iii) construction of the distribution system up to the
1-cusec outlet in an area of about 57,000 ha; (iv) construction of main
and link drainage on about 24,000 ha; (v) construction of 120 km rural
road network; (vi) on-farm developments and landshaping of about
24,000 ha; (vii) the development of Majalgaon SDD (4,000 ha); and
(viii) technical support to farmers. Other investments would include:
(i) equipment for landshaping, telecommunication and monitoring;
(ii) strengthening of monitoring and evaluation capabilities within the
project; (iii) technical and agricultural extension and research support;
and (iv) training, studies, study tours and consulting services.
Detailed Features
46.     Canal Construction.  The project would provide funds for the
construction and lining of about 60 km of main and branch canals, 615 km



-15-
of distributaries, and 1550 km of minors. All canals down to the one
cusec level would be lined. A backing of cohesive non-swelling material
will be used whenever the alignment passes through black cotton soils.
47.     Field Channels.  About 6,800 km of field channels would be con-
structed to Link the chak outlets with each farm (or group of farms if
less than one ha). The field channels would be sodded and provided with
selective protection over about 20Z of their lengths-the field channel
would be about 70m/ha, of which about 14m/ha would require protection.
48.     Main, Link, and Field Drainage.  About 2,120 km of main drains
and 3,500 km of link drains would be constructed to connect the chak
drainage systems to the natural drainage channels. In addition, about
4,500 km field drains would be constructed and completed before landshap-
ing starts. Protective structures would be constructed where necessary.
Field drains are needed on black cotton soils to drain the heavy monsoon
rains, dispose of excessive irrigation water, and keep a low water table
in the soil profile. The field drainage plans prepared by the Command
Area Development Authority (CADA) of the State Command Area Development
Department (CADD) will be part of the overall land development planning.
49.     Roads.  About 657 km of rural roads and 250 km of service roads
would be upgraded or constructed. The service roads would be part of the
construction of the main and distributary irrigation canals and drains of
the project. Network density would be designed to ensure all-weather
access to within 3 kms of any part of the irrigated area, and to all
villages with a population of more than 1,500 within the command. The
Public Works Department (PWD) would construct and maintain the roads of
the project.
50.     LandshapinS.  Landshaping is necessary to achieve productivity
levels assumed under the project. The farmers would be provided with
technical support to undertake landshaping that would conform to an over-
all chak plan. CADA would prepare the overall plan and supervise its
implementation. Landshaping would be carried out in one of three ways:
(i) farmers using their own resources; (ii) farmers receiving technical
advice, but not financial support; and (iii) the Maharashtra Land
Development Corporation (MLDC) would finance the work carried out by rADA
for farmers who need both financial and implementation assistance. The
GON would establish a special fund to ensure timely provision of financing
to farmers for carrying out landshaping of their fields. In addition, the
GOM would make adequate arrangements for the recovery of the costs of
landshaping (draft Project Agreement, Section 3.06(a) and (b)).
Initially, the loans would be on existing standard terms for institutional
Credit (10 years repayment period including two years of grace, with
interest at 10.25% per annum, for creditworthy farmers; and 13.4% per
annum for farmers who have defaulted in the past and/or have no security).
However, GOM is carrying out a socio-economic study which will constitute
a basis for determining appropriate terms and conditions for landshaping
loans. The Study is expected to be completed by December 1986 (draft
Project Agreement, Section 3.07).



-16-
51.     Specially Developed Distributaries (SDDs).  CADA would establish
and manage four SDDs to demonstrate the potential of accelerated agricul-
tural development. The SDDs would facilitate the testing of technical and
organizational solutions, and help to accelerate agricultural development.
Substantial managerial support would be provided, and improved irrigation
practices would be introduced. The main activities would be to:
(a) develop irrigation and cultural practices that would maximize agricul-
tural production; and (b) identify the constraints to increasing the
production of potentially viable crops now grown only on a very small
scale. The COM would by December 31, 1985, submit to IDA a comprehensive
plan for establishing and maintaining the four SDDs (draft Project
Agreement, Paragraph (f)(ii) of Schedule 2).
52.     Agricultural Extension Support.  The extension service is being
reorganized under the Maharashtra Agricultural Extension Project
(Cr. 1135-IN). To enable the expanded staff to work effectively, provi-
sions have been made for construction of houses for all VEWs and AOs
assigned to the area, office space for any new subdivisions and for the
Principal Agricultural Officer (PAO), who would head the agricultural
extension district that would cover the project area.
53.     Equipment.  Funds would be provided to purchase equipment for
landshaping, SDDs, operation and maintenance (O&M), and monitoring and
evaluation (M&E). The equipment would include elevating scrapers,
graders, crawler tractors with dozers, laser beam equipment, drip and
sprinkler equipment, vehicles, telecommunication equipment, and spare
parts. GOI would issue all the necessary authorization and permits
regarding the telecommunication equipment (draft Credit Agreement,
Section 3.02).
54.     Technical Services.  Specialized farming support services closely
linked to adaptive research would be provided. These would cover cultural
practices, design or modification of animal-drawn implements, field
irrigation practices, water distribution in the field, and cultivation
methods in the project area, especially in the SDDs. The special techni-
cal services would be provided by a team of experts who would demonstrate
the results of their work to CADA and extension staff as well as farmers.
The GON would: (i) prepare special technical services working plans by
December 31, 1985; (ii) prepare research plans acceptable to IDA for
implementation in the SDDs; (iii) employ the team by January 31, 1986
(draft Project Agreement, Paragraphs (b) and (d) of Schedule 2).
55.     Investigation, Training, and Studies.  The project would support
training and studies which would include: (a) strengthening training
facilities in WALMI and CADA for technical and operational staff and for
farmers; (b) study tours of key personnel of CADA and AD to suitable areas
with problems similar to those encountered on the vertisols of
Maharashtra; (c) water management research and overall system operation
studies, to improve water use efficiency in the project area;
(d) establishing a soils laboratory which would investigate fertility,



-17-
irrigation and soil mechanics problems; and (e) investigating and refining
appropriate farming technologies. The COM would submit to the Bank
detailed timetables and plans for each of these programs by December 31,
1985 (draft Project Agreement, Paragraph (a) of Schedule 2).
56.     The Irrigation Department would provide training for irrigation
staff in water management and overall system operation. CADA would
provide further training for the technical and operational staff and would
intensify farmer training. The necessary additional training facilities
for WALMI and CADA would be made available from the first year of project
implementation. Project staff and farmers would be trained according to
an agreed work plan and schedule. Plans would be prepared by December 31,
1985 (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.02(c)).
57.     Water Hanagement.  Maharashtra uses the Shejpali system of water
management under which farmers apply for "sanctions" (permission to use
irrigation water) seasonally for annual crops, and up to six years for
perennials. Under this system, it is difficult to manage the use of
irrigation water efficiently. With the project, the COM would introduce a
modified system or rotational water supply (RWS) called rigid shejpali,
which would make the managing of water distribution easier and thereby
improve irrigation efficiency. Furthermore, (i) the ID would supply the
sanctioned amount of water at the prescribed time; (ii) crops would be
sanctioned in such a way that the volume of water would be proportional to
the farmers' CCA; (iii) irrigation schedules would be prepared before the
season began and would be based on the crops sanctioned; (iv) in kharif,
supplementary irrigation would be made available in any distributary
conmmnd whenever more than half the farmers request water.
Organization and Management
58.     The State Irrigation Ministry, through its Command Area
Development Department (CADD) would have the primary responsibility for
project execution. The Agriculture (AD) and Cooperative (CD) Departments
would be responsible for providing Agricultural services. The CADD is
headed by a Commissioner who is equal in seniority to the Secretary of
the Irrigation Ministry. A State Cabinet subcommittee directs the CADA
policy. The CADD Commissioner prepares annual development and financial
plans in conjunction with the Secretaries of Finance, Agriculture,
Irrigation, and Public Works, and all the other departments concerned.
There are 13 CADAs in the State, each headed by an Administrator who
coordinates all activities within a CADA. The CADA undertakes construc-
tion up to the chaka outlet (24 ha), drainage, and service roads; the AD
renders technical advice; the Public Works Department constructs and
maintains the command area roads; and the Cooperative Department coor-
dinates the supply of credit for the purchase of seeds, fertilizers, and
pesticides.
59.     Construction if all works (except land development) and their
subsequent maintenance in the Jayakwadi/Majalgaon complex, are the respon-
sibility of the CADA Administrator in Aurangabad. The GOM would upgrade



-18-
the position of the CADA Administrator in Aurangabad to Chief Engineer
level, and would organize four sub-commands, in order to make the
Jayakwadi/Majalgaon CADA more effective, but at the same time retain a
unified overall command. The reorganization of Jayakwadi/Majalgaon CADA
would be completed by December 31, 1985 (draft Project Agreement,
Paragraph (e) of Schedule 2).
60.     Quality Control.  All on-farm-development (OFD) activities--
including survey, design, planning, and construction--are carried out by
the appropriate divisions under the supervision of the CADA Deputy
Administrator. Additional divisions would be established under the
project. Quality control would be a responsibility of a Technical Unit of
CADA established for that purpose. The Unit would prepare annual
schedules and carry out systematic spot checks in parts of the project.
It would control physical works, including earthworks, concrete gate
fabrication, and design. The COM would ensure adequate quality control by
CADA (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.02(d)). The GOM would carryout
planning, design, construction, operation and maintenance of the dis-
tributory canals, minor canals, drainage channels, link drains, service
and rural road networks in accordance with criteria and standards satis-
factory to IDA (draft Project Agreement, Section 2.02(a).
61.     Operation and Maintenance (OEM).  The operation of the canal
system up to chak outlets in Jayakwadi and Majalgaon is the responsibility
of CADA. The GOM would operate and adequately maintain the
distributaries, minors drainage channels, link drains, service roads, and
buildings under the Project, in keeping with sound engineering principles
and standards. For that purpose, the CADA would carry out annual surveys
of the required repairs in each irrigated system. Outlet Committees (OC)
would be responsible for O&M within the chaks. However, the farmers would
bear the O&M costs. The GOM would repair and maintain the field irriga-
tion and drainage channels where the maintenance works performed by the OC
are inadequate, and would recover the cost from the farmers concerned in
conjunction with land revenue.
62.     Project Steering Committee.  The GOM would establish a Project
Steering Committee to review progress and guide the CADA Administrator
responsible for project execution. The Committee would consist of the
Secretary, Irrigation Department (Chairman); Commissioner, CADA; Director
of Agriculture; Chief Engineer (Special Projects); Joint Director of
Agriculture (T&V); Director of Research, Parbhani University; and
Administrator, CADA (Member Secretary). The Committee would meet once
every six months to review the program, and emphasis in the first two
years would be on the SDDs. On the basis of expert advice, it would
suggest modifications in the plan of operation. The committee would be
established by August 31, 1985 (draft Project Agreement, Paragraph (f)(i)
of Schedule 2).
63.     Farmer Organizations.  Farmer Organizations would be established
in the project area at three levels. At the chak levels, outlet commit-
tees comprising at least three farmers, the Canal Inspector (CI) respon-



-19-
sible for operating water supplies to the chak and Agricultural Assistant
(AA) would be organized. These groups would be responsible for distribut-
ing water according to rotational water supply schedules, preventing
unauthorized irrigation, and maintaining field channels. The outlet
committees would be formed as soon as the chak boundaries were
established. They would be consulted on layout of field channels, loca-
tion of farm outlets and crossings, and constraints on the present system.
Secondly, in the minor and distributary branches, water utilization com-
mittees (WUCs, also known as Pani Panchayats) comprising four farmers'
leaders, the CI, and Junior Engineer (JE) would be organized for each
minor. The third level would be the main channel, where canal advisory
committees (CACs) would be established and would comprise five to ten
members of the WUC, the EE, ADO, AE, Planning Officer of the Zilla
Parishad, and a representative of the local sugar factories. The CAC
would develop the irrigation program, monitor performance of the main
system, correct deficiencies, and suggest improvements. All three types
of organizations would improve communication between the farmers and the
implementing agencies and would promote farmer participation. In order to
promote more active participation of farmers, the GOM would establish the
farmers' organizations in the project command area in accordance with a
plan satisfactory to COM and IDA (draft Project Agreement, paragraph (i)
of Schedule 2). The CADA executive committee, which includes farmers
representatives, would oversee the function of the local committees.
64.     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E).  The monitoring and evaluation
unit -.mder CADA would be strengthened and would (i) monitor planning and
scheduling of design and construction activities, expenditure and
reimbursements, irrigation performance, and groundwater recharge and
extraction; (ii) compile and evaluate crop input and yield data;
(iii) collect data about water charges, climate, and staff posting and
training. A special M&E cell would be established within the M&E Unit of
CADA to monitor the four SDDs and adjacent control distributaries. The
GOM would (a) submit to the Bank a plan for monitoring and evaluating
activities by December 31, 1985; (draft Project Agreement, Paragraph (h)
of Schedule 2); and (b) submit semiannual progress reports within three
months after the end of each reporting period starting June 30, 1986
(draft Project Agreement, Section 2.05).
65.     Cost Recovery.  The COM recovers irrigation costs in different
forms including taxes on marketed agricultural output, cesses, direct
collections from farmers in respect of landshaping costs and water
charges. With regard to water charges, Maharashtra has the second highest
level of water charges among the States of India. The water charges are
fixed roughly in proportion to the amount of water the crop uses and the
value of water in the season of use (perennial crops, Rs 750/ha; hot
season crops, Rs 200/ha; rabi crops, Rs 75/ha; and kharif crops,
Rs 50/ha). The charges are reviewed every five years against GOM's policy
of recovering O&M costs plus a part of the capital costs. With Bank
assistance, the GOM has carried out studies on alternative watercharge
systems, including the feasibility of a volumetric charge system (which
would be too difficult and expensive to operate). It is proposed to



-20-
continue with crop-specific watercharges for perennial crops, in the
rabi's hot seasons. In the kharif a flat fee per hectare of cultivable
command area would be levied. This would entitle the farmers to receive
irrigation water to supplement scarcity of monsoon rains in any dis-
tributary command wherever more than half of the farmers request water.
It is planned to intensify the efforts of improving farmers' understanding
of the benefits of supplementary irrigation in kharif.
66.     The GOM's collection of water charges has improved and is now
about 802 of total assessments State-wide. Collection is much lower
immediately after commissioning of major surface projects but improves as
they mature. Under this project, the GOM would: (i) review the level of
water charges every two instead of five years; (ii) make supplementary
kharif irrigation water available on any distributary whenever half the
farmers request water, against a flat fee charged per ha of CCA; and
(iii) conclude its study on O&M costs for irrigation projects by
December 31, 1986, submit the study to IDA for comments, and on the basis
of the recommendations of the study and IDA's comments, determine the
appropriate annual budgetary allocations for O&H (draft Project Agreement,
Section 3.04(a), (b) and (c)). Starting April 1, 1987, GOM shall make
annual budgetary allocations to cover the average costs of operation and
maintenance of irrigation projects during the next fiscal year (draft
Project Agreement, Section 3.05).
Project Costs and Financing
67.     The total project costs are estimated at US$322.7 million
equivalent. Foreign exchange costs are estimated at US$33.2 million
equivalent (about 10% of the total costs). Physical contingencies amount
to approximately US$29.1 million; price contingencies amount to
US$63 million and are based on expected inflation rates of 8.5Z per year
for local expenditure; and 8% for 1985, 9% for 1986, 1987, and 1988, and
7.5% thereafter for foreign expenditures.
68.     The proposed IDA credit of US$160 million equivalent would finance
about 50% of the total costs, including 100% of foreign expenditure and
about 44% of the local costs. The balance would be borne by GOI and COM.
Procurement and Disbursement
69.     Annex IV, attached, details the manner in which items would be
procured under the project. Civil works (including physical and price
contingencies), for the main and branch canal systems would cost about
US$194.6 million. About US$25.0 mil'lion of the works would exceed
US$6.0 million per package and would be procured under ICB. Works would
be packaged whenever practical in order to attract competition from large
contractors, but bids would be allowed in parts of the packages to
encourage small contractors to participate as well. The balance, which
would be small works scattered over large areas, would not be suitable for
ICB. They would be let through local competitive bidding
(Us$111.3 million), work order (US$19.3), and by Departmental forces



-21-
(US$39.0 million). CADA works (US$83.3 million) would be scattered over
the entire project area and would be awarded at different times. None of
the CADA c.ntracts would be suitable for ICB. Procurement would be under
LCB (US$45.4 million), work order (US$13.3 million), and Departmental
forces (US$24.6 million). Equipment and vehicles would cost about US$5.8
million, of which about US$5.1 million would be grouped in approximate
bidding packages costing each US$100,000 or more, and procured through
ICB, and the balance through LCB procedures. A preference (limited to 15%
or the customs duty, if lower), would be extended to local manufacturers
in the evaluation of bids. Light equipment and vehicles (about US$0.6
million) are readily available domestically. Because accessibility to
spare parts and prompt service facilities are essential, considerable
advantage would be derived from procuring locally manufactured light
equipment and vehicles. These would be procured under LCB procedures
satisfactory to the Bank Group. All bidding packages for works estimated
to cost US$0.5 million or more and ICB packages for goods would be subject
to the Bank Group's preaction review. The remaining contracts would be
subject to the Bank Group's post-action reviews. In order to facilitate
early start of project execution, retroactive financing not exceeding
US$5 million would be provided for eligible expenditures incurred after
September 1, 1984.
70.     Disbursements would be made for (i) 55Z of expenditures for civil
works; (ii) 100% of foreign expenditures for vehicles and equipment;
(iii) 100% of ex-factory costs of locally manufactured vehicles and
equipment; (iv) 70% of other locally manufactured vehicles and equipment;
(v) 70% of the costs for monitoring, the SDDs, houses for technical staff;
and (vi) 100X for soiL lab, special surveys, training programs, study
tours and technical services. Disbursement for civil works would be made
against certificates of expenditure itemized by project component.
Disbursements for work within a chak would only be made upon full comple-
tion of the field work.  Disbursement requests for such work would be
submitted together with a completion certificate duly signed by the AE in
charge, and stating that all works in the chak have been completed in
accordance with the agreed upon planning and design criteria.
Disbursements for payments of less than Rs 300,000 for works (including
departmental works) or Rs 150,000 for goods; incremental staff cost for
training, adaptive, and engineering research; monitoring and evaluation;
and the costs for the special surveys and study tour would be against
certificates of expenditures. Documentation for these works would be
retained by GOM and made available for inspection by the Bank Group during
review missions. Full documentation would be required for all other
disbursements. The expected rate of disbursement follows the typical
disbursement profile in the indian irrigation sector.
Benefits, Justification, and Risks
71.     The project would inc-ease agricultural production and farmers'
incomes by increasing yields of existing crops and permitting more inten-
sive cultivation of farmland through irrigation. The annual incremental
agricultural production at full project development would be for



-22-
sugarcane, 692,000 tons, straw, 481,000 tons, bananas, 469,000 tons,
sorghum, 440,000 tons, groundnutst 100,000, sunflower, 78,000 tons, wheat,
49,000 tons, vegetables, 37,000 tons, paddy, 30,000 tons, pearl millet,
28,000 tons, chickpea, 23,000 tons, and green and black grain, 20,000
tons. The total value of agricultural production would increase by about
US$220 million per year. About 66,000 farm families would benefit
directly from the project: the project would generate 95,000 full-time
additional jobs, and more than 50% of the additional employment would go
to the landless families in the project area and to migrant Laborers from
poorer neighboring districts.
72.     The economic rates of return for the different sLbareas of the
project range from 13X to more than 40%, and for the overall project about
20%. The sensitivity analysis, carried out to determine how deviation
from the maia assumptions (including investment costs, farmer response,
yield levels and implementation delays) affects the ERR, indicates that
the project could tolerate much larger deviations in variables than are
judged likely to be at risk.
73.     Since in the past the irrigation service was not reliable, there
is a risk that farmers initially may not have adequate incentive to fully
utilize the irrigation facilities under the project. In order to minimize
the risk, the project provides for system operation methods which will
facilitate provision of a reliable water supply to all farmers including
the tailenders. In addition the project calls for the establishment of
comprehensive farmers' organizations which will explain the benefits of
utilizing the irrigation facilities provided. Another risk is that the
yield levels may be lower than expected because of the technical problems
of managing the black cotton soils. In order to minimize this risk, the
project includes a large scale landshaping componenc which will improve
irrigation efficiency, the proposed SDDs, research and development
activities, and the technical services which would facilitate achievement
of increased yield levels. In addition, it provides for comprehensive
monitoring and evaluation to closely follow-up project performance and
to undertake timely corrective actions.
Environmental Effects
74.     The project is not expected to create adverse environmental
conditions.  With MCIP I, IDA assisted GOM's Health Department to effec-
tiveLy control malaria and reduce its incidence in the project area. The
Department now provides adequate services and is expected to continue to
take all necessary measures to minimize the risk of malaria and other
water-related diseases within the project area (Section 2.06 of the
Project Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
75.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the



-23-
state of Maharashtra and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for
in Article V, Section Itd) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
76.     Special conditions of this project are listed in Section III of
Annex II.
77.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
78.     1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
June 20, 1985



T A A L L3                                    Page  1  of  5
mIIDI                  -WsoCinScoAL   I   NAV  S
NDIDA                               EDERhIC ChbINS {IZICNED AYELRSJS ta
m                        (MOST mICmr  ST=TIMAE .r
12CM!              LW INcME             MIDD   ASinG
1196o&L   itm         EST=MasLh        SIA L PCwFC           Sn a AcIFC
A  (THSAnD   m)
TOTAL                                3287.6    3287.6      3287.6
AGRICULTUtUL                         1763.5    1780.5      I182.3
y a CAIrn C(13")                         60.0      100.0       260.0           278.b                    1091.2
1m    inuuna   PM CAPITA
(KnAMS OF OIL EQUIVALNaT)             79.0      113.0       1580            272.0                     567.3
PODULATIONMIl-!EXIA CT5OOSAf)    434849.0  541569.0   716985.0
IIR8AI POPULATION (Z OF TOTAL)         18.0      19.3        24.1            21.7                      34.7
POPULATION PROJECTIN
POPULATION IN  EA 2000   ML)                              994.4
STATIOnARY POPULATION (MILL)                             1707.2
POPULATIO MOIEWh                                            1.7
POPULATION Dm r
PZE SQ. NM.                         132.3     166.6       213.4           166.6                     261.9
Pm  SQ. KM. AGSR. LAND             246.6      307.5       387.1           345.5                    1733.1
POPULATION AGI! STRUCTUrE CZ)
0-14 RS                             40.9      42.7        39.3             35.8                     39.0
25-"4 YRS                           54.5       54.2        57.6            59.                      57.6
65 AND AOVE                           4.6       3.1         3.1             4.3                       3.3
POPUIATION CROST RATE (l)
TOTAL                                 1.       2.3         2.2              1.9                      2.3
URBAN                                2.5        3.3         3.9             4.1                      4.3
CRUDE BIRTH RfTl (PM THOUS)           47.7       4134        36.2            27.7                     30.1
CRUDE  LANK RlTE (PER THOUS)          23.8       17.8        12.7            lOfl                       9.5
GROSS RmiPioCaiON RATE                  2.9       z.          2.2             1.8                       2.0
FIJTLY PLAIUI
ACCEPDORS, ANNUAL (TH0S)             64.0    3782.0      6826.0
USERS (Z OF MAIED C )                  ..      11.7        28.0               .                     52.7
POOD A       0
IN=EX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                         98.0      102.0       101.0           11L8                     123.0
PU CAPTTA SUPPLY OF
CALGRIES (I OF REQrRSTIIrS)          96.0      91.0        8b.0            97.7                     114.4
PROTEIS (CRAMl PnU  6T)              54.0      50.0        46.0            56.8                     57.0
OF DUICII A!IAL AND rulsE          27.0       15.0       13.0 lc          14.9                     14.1
CHILD (AGZS 1-4) DEATH RATE           26.2       20.7        12.0             9.8                      7.2
LIM EXPECT. AT 3TRTH (YEARS)          42.5       47.5        54.6            60.0                     60.4
INFAaT ICKY. RATE (PER TIIW5)        :65.0      139.0        94.0            83.8                     66.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (DPOP)
TOTAL                                 ..        17.0       33.0 /d         32.9                      37.0
URBAS                                 .-       60.0        83.0 /d         70.9                      54.8
RURAL                                  .        6.0        20.0 7d         22.1                     26.4
ACCZESS TO EUCRA DISPOSAL
(I OF POPULATION)
TOrAL                                 ..       18.0        20.0 Ie         28.1                      41.3
DtRIAN                                ..       8S.0        87.0 77         72.8                     47.4
RURAL                                 ..        1.0         2. 0 77         4.6                      33.3
POpULATTON PER PYSICIA              4850.0    4890.0       3690.0 If       3484.Z                   7749.4
POP. PR NUMSINC PERSON              10980.0 Jg  7420.0      460.0 7W       4793.1                   2460.4
POP. PER HOSPITAL rED
TOIAL                              2180.0    1650.0      1290.0 if        1066.5                   104k42
URBN                                  ..         ..       370.07o         298.0                    651.2
RURaL                                  ..        ..    10410.07 d         93.4                    2594.6
ADIISSIONS PER NOSPITLL BED              ..        ..          ..              .,                      27.0
AVERAG*  SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 5.2       5.6         5.2 l-
URBA-N                                5.2       5.6         4.8 77 Te
RURAL                                 5.2       5.6         5.3 77
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROd
TOTAL                                 2.6       2.8
UUAN                                 2.6        2.8
RURAL.                                2.6       2.a
ACCESS TO ELECT. (1 OF DICILINCS)
-'                     T0til                                  ._         ..          . ..           ..
-                     BRMN ,134.                                   ..         ..
TOTAL                                  -'        '



ANNEX I
-LLXL. M                                    Page 2 of 5
IINDO                 - 6001:1. INOUL  CTl  DIATA INRUT
Z>~~~~~~~~umc noun CVKWI  AVUAZU p
110tT                   (M   UCDS *Us) lb
RECaT              LOW  1NC             PUDLE
19tO8L    197g!!   Eiiii1aT          AU:A 6 PACIFX          ABI A ACZ
ADJUTED hNULINN RATIOS
nPrt   TOA                          6l.O       73.0       79.0            97.4                    102.0
KIAL                     80.0       90.0       93.0            110.5                    105.9
73HALC                   40.0       56.0       64.0             13.7                     91.2
SRCORTYs TOTAL                      20.0      25.0        30.0            35.9                     46.0
NALE                      30.0      36.0       39.0             44.6                     48.7
FZIAl                     10.0      15.0       20.0             26.L                     43.1
VOCATIONL (2X o SECONDRY)              2.8       L.          0.7 /a          2.2                     17.5
PUPIL-TEICHER RATIO
PRLMARY                             46.0      41.0        54.0            38.5                     31.6
SECONDARY                           16.0      21.0          ..            18.7                     23.5
ADULT LrTERACY RATe (Z)               27.8      34.1        36.2            53.4                     72.9
PASSENl CARS/THOUSAND POP              0.6       1.1         1.4 fh          0.9                     10.1
toI RICZKvhRSlTHOUSBaND POP            4.9      21.5        43.6           112.1                    113.6
TV RZCIENJ/7=OUSAf POP                 0.0       0.0         1.7            15.7                     50.1
NESSPAPES ("DAD.Y CUERAL
INTEREST") CIRULATO
PER THOUSAND POPULATION             10.6       16.2       19.4 A          16.2                     53.9
CINEIA AMNNAL ATTEUDANCEJCAPTIA        3.2       6.2         3.7  j          3.6                      3.4
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)         185951.0  219196.0   282169.0
FEKLs (CPICENT)                     30.7      32.5        31.8            33.3                     33.5
ACCULTURz (PERCENT)                 74.0       74.0       71.0            69.6                     52.2
INUWERY (PERCENT)                   11.0      11.0        13.2            15.8                     17.9
PARTICIPATOIN RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               42.8      40.0        39.4            42.6                     3L7
1AIE                                57.0       52.4       52.0            54.7                     50.9
FEMALE                              27.3      26.9        25.9            29.8                     26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENC  RATIO              1.1       1.1         1.1             1.O                      1.1
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOE
RECEIVED NB
HICHEST 55 OF EDUSEIDLDS            26.7      26.3 1    22.2 1            22.2                     22.2
HI   202 OF OUSEOLO                 51.7      48.9 A      49.4            48.0                     48.0
LOwEST 202 OF HOUSCHOLDS             4.1       6.7  [      7.0 2           6.4                      6.4
LOwEST 402 OF BOUSKUOLDS            13.6      17.2 f      16.2 A          13.5                     15.5
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE PDVERTY 1ICCIE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBiN                                 ..        ..       132.0 bh        133.9                    188.6
RURAL                                 ..        ..       114.07j         111.6                    152.0
ESTlMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INICa
LEVEL CUSS PCR CAPTITA)
URBAN                                 ..        ..          ..              ..                    177.9
RMtAL                                 ..        ..          ..              ..                    144.6
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCCOE LEVEL (Z)
URBAN                                 ..        ..        40.3 /          43.8                     23.4
RURAL                                 ..        ..        50.7            51.7                     37.7
NOT AVAIABE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T I s
/   The group aYarqps for achb Inditor are populetin-uigLhbd arith_tc manse. CoGrag. of coutrim anaM the
Indicators depenod oa avatlabtity of data ad  e not unform.
/b  Unle.. otberwlee noted. "Data for 1960" refer to any yar between 1959 and 1961; "Date for 1970" betwee  1969 and
1971; and data for "Ibut Recent Eotteate" betwen 1980 and 1982.
Ic  1977; Id 1976; l. L975; If 1978; .a 1962; /h 1979; 1i 1964-65.
JUNE, 1984



ANNE I
Page 3 of 5
611.1titsul1.  itt.l sc .        dam  1-  -..N-s 4-..-all  Nmalljad mI N-  ..haIsa. 4    .1       .. It aMal1 .1.5 a. -4.4tl. "a   . -,w 1- aM. W-.aait-lap
b-.a .  .eg.lI.  e  .4  _....i.ai.. i.sa..a- .4  _.Wa.  a-  b8. am41..  -p.  a. ..a-..aa.sftm dht.-  l. isa  *1. 16lhatss  a-W . 
-ftP4.9.16.1  ~90MI.4. 14iLeW.- lnms. ag  -hmsp. .t.. ..J.  dt1st1 .. b.-. 4-al"-5
Ta....     i- **  -a  1L) atl.       -N.   .sp4. at. -b.in). t-tp 4W Co) -             av  N-a fimb s.a   lila.  1-NNfttan  1816 S- 0Wlp                t. ab.
.03,fte Mml-a  1.01,  (1 6l  it....b 1   at I          8.... a .4..  -    Itfi. 131  wa1.15 Ll.N. 4W 11iil. Mm..  a. 41_    b.1...  str_    a.a...ar
glow 4W 4Mg. 3. ."ta W.ilggt.P   it.. am~           -~. ....Wg- -6~,   1 *L..   -  1.- It. opl.Mlatpd se 4.1. 4W  161 1-t. ...  t1-81                        R. 
.spag.t Is sa.Is- e      a~t_- on- tit a  a--.  a.r1 .-m         -  '. f. st .ly mi    I.         r,b   31.CM tag      tai..sa 1. -1 -11.         C I   - p b..
-     .a.  ..a-&.,f  -.s.  a.o.t. ael at- . -    1O.1.  4W.a.__ N16 .                    iiij-jM1Ut9             9. 4W -. .a .1- -.351. ha ..a.V-
*On-E.dt.bsaat.-                                                                                        qa.  . - a.--d      .ns.. m.  eNOW -1 p.amal" M.ta
W     4 kal~t a-4-  W W it. r.11...  4   a..L  i.a.i  .  m. ..a. atoo.1 as-am                                                   t
S10 t   L1MI ,. c P...    *a a 9.   -9-            -A34t   41.(10-24l1               -wMIlmts   ..op.I. " "g-. NOW.   - .. WbOa.t.al.s~l   5.
a...  916m. 4W 395gg,                                                                      "-lsa          t.1a1.  ?stcll.tm.. vat..td     wgwt.ttph  N-4.614.1
N-wN C.M.F12  M   "~~~~M  - W"I pp-'-..                                       L-N -t1d   6.9-.3i   a.a..h 1-v   . F15.3-4 ca W.a =g.
pramy .iwW.a            -.I.* P-X.a.. ..a. g-    id Pk-. ..f=r -a.4W  a                                  . .la1. ca.) -lA   -1-m .-atgt   s.                   a
-W g-ea.-s.  .ha. ..Ia t,a. kga-r   .4 .11 oa.tst.. P., ..pII.  Ill.                      i-ali. 114.154  Wa4. Nff     I..1  -lalftl-.
.I..4   al a...-                                                                                                                  W.a.1 da s 14aa
9 -a- ..  -L                 e m                                                   U-M q-_~~~~~~ma.
M          L                         f-.ttaM    -Igi..1  - btill.  Mtd. 4W 1163d                                        WW          -P-   b   -i"1
N-m N-e"tNt9WA. 170. -                                            W912    9 %-.d 1- NWlatmC.4WPfMta
p-..  1-t                                                                                    P - 161W   a' .m - t gs,-iF-  4W fatSl"t   ttt.
Wgia.  t-N-1-ta.~. d         - -M.LC that.  .tgala.-  .AM  .t1.                                      V.1.l.        1.w  514             ..       a..4
.01..  PTMjagtl   i-st  P-t Ltlt   .1-b   Lb..5-10  goS thaw                         inlsph  p691..         -     -l
R-16.  elat. a    %.ntat ..pa. a.  lap&,- l..  4f ta tell
11515P9a-5.to"l a-al r-     a mm      NWt-                                  ot-i4.
m..1 -    tL*a,4W   5tt57 ts.4.lop.g   l.t9. -11n.                  gI.s.-I.bo.tt.1 totI.
Itgi..t,.p.1tt. -  51-5 .1491-  4W               rf e.. -p.II A..ltp91tt.6s -L                tsL.0.          91   - O   W.ot 1-- 3. 4W tla
rfl~pm  - Od  s6P ss.1   .ll. -o  1-gp.ll  Thlllp..tI    55-r                              aft L-   ...hI1.  -.149 ..  16  spet- mNd   ..-t1
,.W. h....li.. NNS-         m. . i - 1t,-. .inat I.ra  ..                               vd-f       I-L"  W,u p  f1-tmt ...I-ad   s. r  Wu-  .P     W-iai
4W -ssl  . am 4Mtb 1-a h. la 1- a1 g  I. a-. t-te.-           W  a.                    amsp4 sl V 4W-,--L    te =   i- .la           ? 116--1. ps1.a.
d-..a  t...  -'.. I. NtWg...-  pi-Igrig  .. sa  -.aa-ct4  -  hai                                  pault. -  bIst- aW     . ma. .tft.41L -.t,4...
6.3_     I.a..ad.a.tfal   9a.  ..--.W L.ta   I.asp....dt.  .tgl - .aa   s.. -1 lIs-. - &ad-  bet151..
211. -1 &t. Me. .4 i..11.. .4ltllpp    -   wgp.a    I-L..                              gi.aa   .sl~4   .11aI   1i1.4116p"-Teptga
p.Wltm   11-I -    1L. atS t    - 1 f-Lta.Pl.te -it I. a          tinl                  Pp.Ld. -LIT psit S..e.tn S-_ ' .bIsa   aa.t                     W.
I...  -  .1a.  at. -W NO1-f..t    sa . --     .m .    -L. I..                          ....gla   _.Ga1a.
.tla.asI1p.ft.tt . .        Js1. a..a -..  W. a.... b 411                       tI    gbls.aitI.I  ao   pc    I.   a
api.  I'  itwo.                                                                      --.-a 6  lI.tt bOt  tI. L  I UN-11  - s16t l- IN". -tltar.k            W
W...1 ft-                                      NWlarp.~ L-                                            N-... Lg. 4t.a.d-a .at..5
N-U.-  - IN=    L--- ) 4    lU  C1.."                                              Mat gepp la  8.tgl1   iaraoMal lM-1   .4   4  .1. 
p.. ..  a  a.l.a          - (oml --W P-NW.r   "ltt.t       -.11W4aP5t                           .ams    lt Isle                 ila.4 np
N.        AftiI LSI. tU   4W  q4  iga..
11 g.151  -   -4    53it.4WSaI-  gtq1-54ita                                            01. totl 4ttpm..g3.Pt                    7-11--P   11. ptt- 11-5 -
wI-NS,s   ii  lO N-         flU i--a                                                    tag-    tit t46. NW  d-45 NWtln  4
p.e.1.tt.0-I I.. PqP.t -tl -                  p-!  Cm   P        51tto   md               .111
P.P..1-a. p.bIa~gtl)-sm      -I  t.lpt4  11                                                .i-*1   ... ING.01.1is-eP-.                   -it1..." T  ... L-
P5fsOtl- to  1 L   li- "..m   4W- 19104S.                                         a.  -ttNt6. psel. s sapis4W t. 9t1 aTV N P.It- 16 4t.Pas
0..Sah10.(lp tN-.ago  '- 4..0  It.. hat                -  -uta.                    a..    41 aM... 410 p.   .1-.ie*-ah .o.t.5.
Limps.an8-  ml.4   16   4.                                                                  rtag 0.1.m   11114..            "1N-L
CaM. tlat. .t.  ama..)- m      -t tl  p.m 1       at    --pt                  LW So . talop It ft             gtlaI -i  a..l-.  lopht t 
11,1001-14. IIt 4W19      LNd-.                                                i.1-Lm-p61.Mi  114.1.1- Pm4    C-1-tla        -mLl    vhtm. -4- C.a.
-  m l  stls.fg   t..   mta                                -n.I                        - la~      t.-.a-sa  d6 l.si         tt.m                 .1-.  G-  
l.tlt  161  -  SV P1a.p    - am..44.   .tl.16   W                               .tt1..t-mla.  4Ia-M16lt                  p.a.df1i- P.4W
Vt4-b-m .4..   - 6..(... .-    9      -opis  IS--.  Lt.aa.11  4. lepIl                  sgoa,
-NNNttLN%-   -- p  g    . 1-mt   16 -- 4.1 16.1.  Mas.   ma atf                                                                                  _        _ l
.6.11. IW gI.m.  O11pd99sC.-1m..155   geg. MM-   1t4112 Ni                                                                       .  laiks..et..at
M Y  M  -1 -.1. 1. ~~11-lmt - im-  C s- -0-                    i     L163 sqgn     al    1. totIt-t.f- a W -. int-. a -. -
1.6-  6.-t.-  W                                                                       ma-r.-h -    -L.   mill. lOt -4 316 4L.S.. " 
f.A Nm  W       -0. -5pat.16    s.p  (llt-  .t.t- --aa P. a..  -t  - .a.ta.                            - P.14 tam -4 W- f- p         ft)..t  147 -.aL ma8 tgs
.fl -- 1       st eI -14         tta.. ttMatel.. .opt        _--4W                                      -  mom Pam  a .119.            2-16 .   at  4-tW   -
94Wf 4W  -.ligo pL.oU a. Ama             at..C C1a  p.Ps   sai 1..tta  1.11616-0. ta- I to P-- pPa; .-I. Il1- 4W lISft is
b.       -.tIA 4.a.mMplall  P.M .411. 4    9.01..  Iwlo.a -1.s                       taisga. P.....a  - tm    ..a  116   ..l.Ia                     1t64
6164  ma.. 51t5    4.et p1.1 -4.v1 16-53  91.4    1                            W16 i-                  W- ts.11.W   P-i .-:           ~ t.I -.k  op
dM5.                                                                               P.Lf W  t = n.aa-ttuto..t(a a.  5)
a.r.  ..t.         lt1- 44    s4.s.aCa.a               p   . .pg                          .9-a RI .  1-01.8  lo T4              -dW tit   s aIoe   . alIt a-
-1t   4  0.6.  ft  -te. pa  sop -a  ..int    nasa  f...  .                         t.-N.tg m- Win .al.             4. a  a.a.-aa. 4W  t-a. 3.
I-N .A:%  -el 19 4W ft._ltq      4W l=     I. dl4tgtIsla.    1.mg                    9g- -.1110  -           -k&ta-l 
16..0-lam      PM F.0  .4 -6 a%.tg.hbft9NN.54  t,  -ttis 5 . 5!       aa   .p..01.aPI  5)4    p
*                     .1114.17~Ult 4W  -Lamt% .-P0d-Im1 -altin.to  tg. ...Ii  .4.0..v.4                                                                          Is tm .3.155Il-1.i--114)
.W 4W -  4I.591 .tt   4. a.L.atlo. .a4W        & mlltoiI p..  Pa  a.
-.-It 44    op47     a-IT.9W1  t  -A                           .  0                   ara  StalS   Isa   Iml-% L t  -1 b.4 4  1_-Ist Al a.mss 4
9.11661    I  -.1 _t -L ..g.t.1. bpin   a..- - t-pM.n                    ~I.
N.U          e 4 6gm-  C. gm"a P--    P    pap itp      -   CaO   -&.NI 4
usag p.-. . 4.140 to MW  A-ld Sa -Lag  faa-s. t
s. -i-t-   31-p 4ft- t-   C. 71 11-  .1.1 "pp-oat 4W 21 a-                               .-..M                    . -1.4.161   a p 4.P1-1    1.164. Nts
8.4 1-Id  P.s  W.1 - 131.11 4W21  iag                                                t f-si41.11 110119-l btapM1-161 (616  l-             5-.1elaa-
lu" 01tS.   ft".1  SmNl S.  4W.1 4   4W. to -- plOassa        444W                       to..tgaw a.saty  4.611.            I .mi  o~g   .poa.   N-NI 
1-1.(.1-I-tIa-I   att      ttm       -sL ~Wmapr        iIs1ta N- Lh-6 1.1? ta ft1. 45. sa  ..t   - .11. 4W  -5.01 -
1- meo  1- 4wa-1s II  M.19.  N`l- 1140       ton 01 -1 o eMt  `W1116-- -!11.1   .61   -l-F1.1  to- 1--  11 . -K1 ft1-  S1   -1t
a-al   dgo ittelI.e  114 taks.1916 166 4   1q4 4...                a  L.4.ti. 4.-e aIm ..p.  1.1.. 1.1.1 M. 41Walk         .amt
mu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r'   Uf                                     K                  1.1161. P-1.1.tlp016..P-t I.. 06  .5..   9
1-IEM          SmIsa-   U. 111.   91.81   W  934.
ac..    .Ar4 tineamp 1    t-.6 .9miIal. -  tWo    a. 4   as
-- 11.60twm.  a..a W     01111lt  p.4sft-11.4.                                                                      (mnt.401..4    -081.
-1-   -     V1-574. ff 0 l 41a.tm    t.g   s1s.W I-d... tIllt   2
.almh. a-C 1.10 P-1610 -   Itp.sa .la.-s          11.  -9.   lF1-.
4.%-    -    ,ha.st..  - 11.48." 91..ly1 0-                    at mmW
_.b.- 4.  tmOali it 1-metU Pm o ilsplf.11-64 NWI 4.
tS ats S. 11-11.55 Ntel-ys - a-
M1~9.  Waga    Isslr.m     e!t1.4    ..
-          -40.            N-L)  .4    7  -lahas
a -Ca SIPl .-. 1-16  pi dt-.  tm-1- diIs l -v 1-163W
-zz .. 1- ks  4W ..a . l_4  ops  &.h-  t         . 4 A-   16-5
4W    a   a-m.4   ft.    11W 0.           PR plt.ss9  4
afe-k    m im



z wp a     of 5
* UONCU  OSVUAFX    DAT
GOP P  CAPITA IN 19M-15$260 */
CROSS DOIESTIC PRODUCT 1I 1983/14 b/                                       ANNUAL RATE OF CGR0WT (Z. Constant Prices) St
55/36-59/60  60/61-6165  65t66-69/70  70/71-74175  75/76-79/60  80/81-82/83
lISS SIR.    S
GOP at Market Prices             189.81    L00.0                  3.7          3.6          3.7        2.9          4.1         5.i
Gross Domestic Invmstment        45.94      24.0
Gross Nationl Smvng              43.17      22.7
Current Accoume Blance           -2.17      -1.5
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AD PRODUCTIVITY 13 198
Value added (at factor cost)     Labor Force it   V.A. Per Worker
US$ Bin.               Z          Nil.             u US$   : of National Average
Agriculture                      52.5                  35.9       172.7    70.6    304         51
Industry                         34.5                  23.6        31.6    12.9   1092        183
Services                         59.2                  40.5        40.3    16.5   1469        2.6
TotalAverage                     146.2                100.0       244.6   100.0    596        100
GOVEFRIMT FINANCE
General Goverment e/                             Central Government
Ra. s1n.           Z of GDP                  Rs. Din.          Z oE GDP
1983/84     1983/84   1979/U0-1983/B4        1983184    1963/8&    t979/80-1983/84
Current Receipts                 378.54        19.3           19.5            201.67        10.3           10.3
Current Expenditurs              397.12        20.3          19.4             225.42       11.5            10.9
Current Surplus/DefIdit         -18.58         -1.0           0.1             -23.75       -1.2            -0.6
Capital Expenditures f/         149.66          7.7           8.0             114.12        5.B             5.8
External Assistance (net) d/     19.16          1.0           1.1
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES        1970/71  1975176  1978/79  1979/80  1980181  1981182  1982183  1983184 January 1984 January 1985
(Rs BIllIon outstanding at end of Period)
oney and Quasi Money             109.8    224.8   401.1   472.3   557.7   627.5   728.7   860.9          835.1         993.9
Bank Credit to Covernment (net)   54.6    106.3   159.3   200.1   257.2   306.3   353.8   407.7          403.1        483.9
Bank Credit to Cosserclal Sector  64.6    156.2   255.3   310.1   366.4   434.6   517.1   612.7          575.5        685.0
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                      April-Jan B384   April-Jan 84/85
Honey and Quasi Mony as a 2
of CDP                         27.3      30.3    41.1    44.1    43.7    42.5    44.5    44.0
Wholesale Price Index
(1970171 - 100)               100.0    173.0   185.8   217.6   Z57.3   281.4   288.6   315.2           313.6           336.7
Annual Percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index             7.7      -1.1      -       17.1    18.2      9.4      2.6     9.2        9;2             7.4
Bank Credit to Govcrnment (nec)   15.0     22.7    16.0    25.6    28.5    19.1    15.1    15.3           16.9 R/         23.2 b/
Dank Credit to Comerclal Sector  19.4      22.7    20.3    21.5    18.2    18.6    17.7    18.7           13.8 T/         15.6 hl
a/ The per capita GNP estimte Ls at market prices. using World Bank Atlas methodology. base period 1981-83.
All other conversions to dollars ia this table are at the average exchange rate prevaliLng during the period covered.
bi  Quick Estimates. Central Statistical Organlxatlon.
cI Coqauced from trend line of GNP at factor cost series. inclqding one observation before first year end one observation after
lest yer of listed period.
d/ World Bank estimtes of net disbursement of concessinal aid and IIRD.
e/ Transfers between Centre and States have been netted out.
ff All loas and advances to third parties have been netted out.
gI  Percentage cbsge fro  end-M&rch 1983 to end-Jan.84.
b/ Percentae chane frm end-March 1984 to end-Jan.85.
T/ Total Labor Force and percentage breakdown from 1981 Census. Excludes data for Assm.



PgE 5 of 5
BALANE OF PAYMEN                      1931182    1982/_3     1983/84     194185       tMERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 196081-1983/4) g
(USS KIDi.)                                                                                                            aSs Kin. K
Exports of Goods if                     B.519      8.290       8.355       8,726       Engineering Goods               1115      13
Imports of Goods gl                   -15.301   -14.290      -14.040     -14,501       Toe                              469       6
Trade Blance                          - 6.782    - 6,000     - 5,685     - 5,777       Gems                            1009      12
NFS (nat)                               1.002        935         948       1.098       Clothing                         683       8
lether and Loether Products    343         4
Resource Balsnce                      - 5.7B0    - 5.065     - 4.737     - 4,673       Jute Manufactures                269       3
Iron Ore                         600       5
Interest Incme  (net) kI                  350    -   302     -  664      -   785       Cotton Textiles                  316       4
Net Transfers 1/                        2,317      2.504       2.880       2.930       Sugar                            104       1
Others                          3704      44
Balance on Current Account            - 3.113    - 2.863     - 2.521     - 2.533
Direct Investment                          10         65          62          61
Total                           8617     100
Offical Loans . Grants (net)            1.681      1.901       1.961       1.944
Gross Disbursements                     2,269      2.513       2.578       2.585       EMRNAL DEBT MRCH 31. 1984
Amortization                              588        612         617         641
USS bilion
Private Borrowing (net)                   338        366         52B         844
Outstanding and Disbursed                 21.5
Non-Resident Deposits                     260        578         903         600       Undisbursed                               10.4
Transaction with IMF (net)                690      1.980       1.295          70       Outstariitg including Undiabursed         31.9
All other Items ol                    - 2.264    - 1.522     - 1.347       - 683
Increase in Reserves (-2                2.398    -   504     -  882        - 303       DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1983/84 j1 n/      13.6 per cent
Gross Reserves (end year) p/            4.461      4.965       5.847       6.150
Net Reserves (end year) m/              3.497      2.089       1.697       2.250
Fuel and Related materials                                                             IBRD/IDA LENDING. MURCH 31, 1985 it
LS S million
Imports (Petroleum) gi                  5.553      4,614       2.983       3.026                                            IBRD      WDA
of which: Crude                       3.921      3.139       2.183      -1.015
Products                    1.632      1.475         800       2.010       Oustanding and Disbursed             2.158    8.902
Undisbursed                          4.326    3.748
Outstanding including Undisbursed    6,484   12.650
RATE OF EXCHA;NGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971        US1.00 - Rs ?.50
Rs 1.00 - USSO.13333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972:  USS1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Rs 1.00 - US50.137376
After end-June 1972                   Floating Rate
Spot Race end-March 1984              USS 1.00 - Rs 10.7181
Rs 1.D0 - 'S50.0933
Spot Rate end-March 1985              USS 1.00 - Rs 12.3457
Rs 1.00 - USS0.0810
Estiated
T1  Figures given cover all investment income (net). Major payments are interest on foreign loans and charges paid to Dr.
and major receipts is interest earned on foreign assets.
11 Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance which is included within official loans
and grants, and non-resident deposits which are shown separately.
m/ Exclude net use of [MF credit.
n/ Amortization and interest payments on foreign loan as a percentage of total current receipts.
C           0/  Includes exchange rate adjustments to the valuation of reserves and financing of imbalances in rupee trade.
fl Vxcludins sgld.
gl Net of petroleum exports



,ANNE I I
Page 1 of 4
TEE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1985)
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                (Net of Cancellationa)
Credit Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                        Bank        IDA         Undiabursed ,I
52 Loans/                                             2,379.0         -              -
96 Credits fully disbursed                                -       5,589.2            -
482-IN    1974     Karnataka Dairy                       -          30.0           6.06
610-IN    1976     Integrated Cotton Developmpnt         -          18.0           0.01
1251-IN    1976     Andhra Pradesh Irrigation           145.0         -            14.17
1273-IN    1976     National Seeds I                     25.0         -             3.66
680-IN    1977     Kerala Agric. Development             -          30.0           8.05
682-IN    1977     Orissa Agric. Development             -          20.0           1.32
690-IN    1977     West Bengal Agricultural
Extension & Research               -           12.0          6.34
1394-IN    1977     Gujarat Fisheries                    14.0         -             1.90
747-IN    1918     Second Foodgrain Storage              -         107.0          32.50
761-IN    1978     Bihar Agricultural
Extension & Research              -           8.0           4.85
1511-IN    1978     IDBI Joint/Public Sector             25.0         -             1.37
1549-1N    1978     Third KorbaTrombay Thermal Power         105.0         -             0.02
788-IN    1978     Karnataka Irrigation                  -         117.6          30.30
793-IN    1978     Korba Thermal Power                   -         200.0          23.31
806-IN    1978     Ja m-Kashmir Horticulture             -          14.0           9.12
815-IN    1978     Andhra Pradesh Fisheries              -          17.5           7.91
816-IN    1978     National Seeds II                     -          16.0           2.29
1592-IN    1978     Telecommunications VII              120.0         -             7.21
824-IN    1978     National Dairy                        -         150.0          27.26
842-IN    1979     Bombay Water Supply II                -         196.0         119.03
844-IN    1979     Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                      -         190.0          14.50
848-IN    1979     Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage        -          38.0           3.70
855-IN    1979     National Agricultural Research        -          27.0          11.99
862-IN    1979     Composite Agricultural Extension    -            25.0           0.40
871-IN    1979     National Cooperative Development
Corporation                        -          30.0           0.18
874-IN    1979     Ramag-andam Thermal Power             -         200.0           0.06
1648-IN    1979     Ramagundam Thermal Power             50.0         -            45.98
889-IN    1979     Punjab Irrigation                     -         129.0          26.82
899-IN    1979     Naharashtra Water Supply              -          48.0           0.45
911-IN    1979     Rura;l Electrification Corp. II       -         175.0           3.25
954-IN    1980     Maharashtra Irrigation II             -         210.0          25.86
961-IN    1980     Gujarat Community Forestry            -          37.0           2.70
963-IN    1980     Inland Fisheries                      -          20.0          14.41
981-IN    1980     Population II                         -          46.0          23.27
1003-IN    1980     Tamil Nadu Nutrition                  -          32.0          16.81
1011-IN    1980     Gujarat Irrigation II                 -         175.0          84.89
1012-IN    1980     Cashewnut                             -          22.0          14.74
1027-IN    1980     Singrauli Thermal II                  -         300.0         124.04



P g 2 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                 (Not of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approvgl        Purpose                        Bank        IDA ||      Undisbursed V
1028-IN    1980     Kerala Agricultural Extension         -           10.0          6.28
1033-IN    1980     Calcutta Urban Transport              -          56.0          15.71
1034-IN    1980     Karnataka Sericul.ure                 -          54.0          24.87
1046-IN    1980     Rajasthan Water Supply & Sewerage   -            80.0          44.81
1843-IN    1980     Irdustry DFC XIII                    99.2         -             3.96
1053-IN    1980     Parakka Thermal Power                 -         225.0          75.02
1887-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Power                25.0         -            25.00
1897-IN    1981     Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                  30.0          -           18.40
1072-IN    1981     Bihar Rural Roads                     -          35.0           9.75
1078-IN    1981     Mahanadi Barrages                     -          83.0          35.99
1082-IN    1981     Madras Urban Development II           -          42.0          19.31
1108-IN    1981     M.P. Medium Irrigation                -         140.0          74.08
1112-IN    1981     Telecomunications VIII                -         314.0          71.66
1116-IN    1981     Karnataka Tank Irrigation             -          54.0          33.13
1125-IN    1981     Razira Fertilizer Project             -         399.1          77.24
1135-IN    1981     Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.         -          23.0           8.96
1137-IN    1981     Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.          -          28.0          14.27
1138-IN    1981     M.P. Agricultural Ext. II             -          37.0          23.98
1146-IN    1981     National Cooperative
Development Corp. II               -         125.0          62.87
1172-IN    1982     Korba Thermal Power Project II        -         400.0         243.01
1177-IN    1982     Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation       -         220.0         140.86
2050-IN    1982     Tamil Nadu Newsprint                100.0         -             8.60
1178-IN    1982     West Bengal Social Forestry           -          29.0          18.21
1185-IN    1982     Kanpur Urban Development              -          25.0          13.31
2051-IN    1982     icici XIv                           150.0         -            44.73
2076-IN    1982     Ramagundam Thermal Power II         300.0         -           264.07
1219-IN    1982     Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Ext.    -             6.0           4.36
2123-IN    1982     Refineries Rationalization          200.0         -            76.58
2165-IN    1982     Rural Electrification III           304.5         -           248.98
1269-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                    -          60.0          25.13
2186-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                   20.3         -            20.00
1280-IN    1983     Gujarat Water Supply                  -          72.0          57.11
1286-IN    1983     Jammu/Kashmir and
Haryana Social Forestry            -           33.0         22.45
1288-IN    1983     Chambal Madhya Pradesh                -           -
Irrigation II                      -          31.0          17.87
1289-IN    1983     Subernarekha Irrigation               -         127.0         101.25
2205-IN    1983     Krishna-Godavari Exploration        165.5         -           121.55
1299-IN    1983     Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                     -          200.0        167.25
2210-IN    1983     Railways Modernization &
Naintenance II                   200.0          -          197.04
2241-IN    1983     South Bassein Gas Development       139.3         -           133.71
1319-IN    1983     Haryana Irrigation II                 -         150.0         100.78
1332-IN    1983     U.P. Public Tubewells II              -         101.0          87.73
1356-IN    1983     Upper Indravati Hydro Power           -         170.0         142.99
2278-IN    1983     Upper Indravati Hydro Power         156.4         -           156.01



AM= II
Page 3 of 4
US. sillion
Loan or  Fiscal                                                (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval       Purpose                         Bank        IDA j      Undisbursed ;/
1369-IN    1983     Calcutta Urban Develosent III        -          147.0        128.60
1383-IN    1983     Maharashtra Water Utilization        -           32.0         24.45
2308-IN    1983     Mbharashtra Water Utilization       22.7          -           22.64
2283-IN    1983     Central Power Transmission         250.7          -          250.07
2295-IN    1 _.    Himalayan Watershed Management       46.2          -           45.82
2329-IN    1983     Madhya Pradesh Urban                24.1          -           23.80
1397-IN    1984     Orissa Irrigation II                 -          105.0         76.24
1424-IN    1984     Rainfed Areas Watershed Dev.         -           31.0         29.14
1426-IN    1984     Population III                       -           70.0         65.63
1432-IN    1984     Karnataka Social Forestry            -           27.C         21.93
2387-IN    1984     Nhava Sheva Port                   250.0          -          247.92
2393-IN    1984     Dudhichua Coal                     151.0          -          150.62
2403-IN    1984     Cambay Basin Petroleum             242.5          -          241.90
2415-IN    1984     Madhya Pradesh Fertilizer          203.6          -          200.18
1483-IN    1984     Upper Garga Irrigation               -          125.0        116.47
1496-IN    1984     Gujarat Medium Irrigation            -          172.0        145.22
2417-IN    1984     Railways Electrification*          280.7          -          280.70
2442-IN    1984     Farakka II Thermal Power*          300.8          -          300.80
2416-IN    1984     Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric*      157.4          -          157.4D
SF-20-IN  1984      Indira Sarovar Hydroelectric*        -          129.8        129.80
2452-IN    1984     Fourth Trombay Thermal Power*       135.4         -          135.40
1454-IN    1984     Tamil Nadu Water Supply              -           36.5         34.99
SF-12-IN   1984     Tamil Nadu Water Supply              -           36.5         34.99
1468-IN    1984     Periyar Vaigai II Irrigation         -           17.5         16.46
SF-16-IN   1984     Periyar Vaigai II Irrigation         -           17.5         16.46
1502-IN    1984     National Cooperative
Development Corporation III        -         220.0         205.99
1514-IN    1985     Kerala Social Forestry               -           31.8         30.33
1523-IN    1985     National Agric. Extension Ii         -           39.1         39.10
1544-IN    1985     Bombay Urban Development*            -          138.0        138.00
Total                                   6,818.3    12,934.1
of which has been repaid              1.269.9       194.6
Total now outstanding                   5,548.4    12,739.5
Amount Sold                    133.8
of which has been repaid    1.33.8        -           -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 2/       5,548.4    12,739.5
Total undisbursed (excluding t)         2,575.90    3,333.48
jJ IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their
US dollar equivalents, as established at the time of Credit negotiations and as
subsequently presented to the Board.
2/ Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived from cumulative
disbursements converted to their US dollar equivalents at the SDRKUS dollar
exchange rate in effect on March 31, 1985.
J Prior to exchange adjustment.
* Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1985)
Amount (US$ million)
Fiscal
Year                    Company                      Loan     Equity    Total
1959            Republic Forge Company Ltd.           1.5        -        1.5
1959            Rirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.            0.8        -        0.9
1960            Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                1.4        -        1.4
1961            X.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                     0.2        -        0.2
1963-66         Precision Bearings India Ltd.         0.6       0.4       1.0
1964            Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.          0.8       0.4       1.2
1964-75-79      Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.        11.8       1.3      13.1
1964            Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.            1.0       0.3       1.3
1967            Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.               1.1       0.1       1.2
1967            Indian Explosives Ltd.                8.6       2.9      11.5
1969-70         Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.            15.1       3.8      18.9
1976            Escorts Limited                       6.6        -        6.6
1978            Housing Development Finance
Corporation                           4.0       1.2      5.2
1980            Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.       7.5       1.2      8.7
1981            Coromandel Fertilizers Limited       15.9        -       15-9
1981            Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0         -      38.0
1981            Mahindra, Mahindra Limited           15.0        -       15.0
1981            Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.           2.9       0.3       3.2
1981            Nagarjuna Signode Limited             2.3        -        2.3
1981            Nagarjuna Steels Limited              1.5       0.2       1.7
1982            Ashok Leyland Limited                28.0        -       28.0
1982            The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.            18.8        -      18.8
1982            Bharat Forge Company Ltd.            15.5        -       15.5
1982            The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.           8.1        -       8.1
1984            The Gwalior Rayon Silk Manu-
facturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.      3.5         -       3.5
1985            Bihar Sponge                          8.9       0.8      9.7
1985            Bajaj Auto Ltd.                      20.5        -      20.5
1985            Modi Cement                          12.0        -       12.0
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS       251.9       12.9    264.8
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales           139.1       6.2    145.3
Now Held                   112.8        6.7    119.5
Undisbursed                 72.8        0.8     73.6
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ -



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
MARARASETRA COMPOSITE IRRIGATION III PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
About two years.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
The Government of Maharashtra.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Association and
date of first mission to consider the project
May 1984.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
August 30, 1984.
Ce) Date of completion of negotiations
February 1985.
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness
October 1985.
Section II:     Special IDA Implementation Actions
None



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Section III:    Special Conditions
The GOI would:
(a) issue authorization and permits required for purchase
and operation of radio and telecommunication equipment
for the project (para. 53); and
(b) authorize GOM to nominate a CADA Administrator and
to establish four new subcommands by December 31,
1985 (para. 59).
The COK would:
(a) make adequate arrangements for recovery of the costs
of landshaping activities (para. 50);
(b) prepare special technical services work plans by
December 31, 1985 (para. 54);
(c) by December 31, 1985, submit a work plan for the various
investigations, training and studies (para. 55);
(d) agree with COI on strengthening of CADA by nominating a
CADA Administrator and establishing four subcommands
(para. 59);
(e) ensure adequate quality control (para. 60); and
(f) establish a steering committee for promoting
agricultural development by August 31, 1985 (para. 62).



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 1
INDIA
NAHARASHTRA COMPOSITE IRRIGATION III PROJECT
PROPOSED PROCUREMENT METHODS
(US$ Millions)
Project                                 Work                                 Total
Category              ICB      LCB      Order /a   Department /a   NA        Cost
Major Works /b        25.0   111.3        19.3          39.0          0      194.6
(13.5)  (57.0)    (10.5)          (19.0)        (0)   (100.0)
Equipment              5.1      0.7       0              C            0        5.8
(4.3)    (.5)      (0)            (0)          (0)     (4.8)
CADA Works /c          0       45.4      13.3           24.6          0       83.3
(0)    (25.4)      (7.5)         (15.3)        (0)    (48.2)
Special Dev.           0        0         0              0           7.3       7.3
Distributaries        (0)      (0)        (0)           (0)         (4.4)    (4.4)
Technical Services    0         0         0              0           2.7       2.7
(0)     (0)        (0)            (0)         (2.6)    (2.6)
Engineering &          0        0         0              0          29.0      29.0
Administration        (0)      (0)       (i)           (0)          (0)       (0)
TOTAL                30.1    157.4       32.6           63.6        39.0    322.7
(17.8)   (82.9)    (18.0)          (34.3)       (7.0)  (T1f60T
Percentage           11        52         11            21.5         4.5    100
/a Maximum permitted.
/b Split between ID Construction Wing and PWD.
/c Split between CADA and MLDC.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by the Credit and
the Loan.



.    r   b   s   ur  @  N  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ID tUA
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA COMPOSITE IRRIGATION III PROJECT
AURANGABAD                                                                    [..SI.* vain C"l   ;rZ
S.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ W
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,I }               _
lee                          ar 7               ,0                                hotlC S7.R U*Nz...._.  .kikUng Do
Ei   t   4X.eoo  W  rl"X, D -r  lll * / 9*i t *~~~~~~~~~~~Do""twoL f7N DE m
3 ewip;> aorgr 0*             "      t                           :111111
-~~~~~ W> 1-                                                   I
J A L N A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WMT1






