LOAN NUMBER 715 TA
Guarantee Agreement
(Kidatu Hydroelectric Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED DECEMBER 14, 1970


﻿LOAN NUMBER 715 TA
Guarantee Agreement
(Kidatu Hydroelectric Project)
BETWEEN
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED DECEMBER 14, 1970


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 14, 1970, between UNITED REPUBLIC
OF TANZANIA (hereinafter called Tanzania) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) by a development credit agreement of even date herewith,
the Kingdom of Sweden has agreed to make available to Tanzania a credit in a
principal amount of sixty-three million Swedish Kronor (SKr63,000,000) equivalent
at present parity rate as nearly as possible to twelve million dollars ($12,000,000)
on the terms and conditions set forth in the said agreement;
(B)   by an agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and Tanzania
Electric Supply Company Limited (hereinafter called the Company) which said
agreement is hereinafter called the Loan Agreement, the Bank has agreed to make
to the Company a Loan in various currencies equivalent to thirty million dollars
($30,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but
only on condition that Tanzania agrees to guarantee the obligations of the Company
in respect of such Loan as hereinafter provided;
(C)   by an agreement of even date herewith between Tanzania, the Kingdom
of Sweden, the Bank and the Company, which said agreement is hereinafter called
the Joint Financing Agreement, the parties thereto have agreed on the allocation,
withdrawals and use of the proceeds of the said credit and Loan and on the
execution of the project to be financed thereby, as well as on other matters; and
(D)   Tanzania, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan
Agreement with the Company, has agreed to gUarantee the obligations of the
Company;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Guarantee Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth


﻿4
in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Guarantee Agreement, unless the context
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in
Section 1.02 and Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Bonds; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, Tanzania hereby unconditionally
guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual
payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan and
the Bonds, the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan or the redemption
of the Bonds prior to their maturity and the punctual performance of all the other
obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the Loan Agreement, the Bonds
and in the Joint Financing Agreement.
Section 2.02. Tanzania shall endorse, in accordance with the provisions of
the General Conditions, its guarantee on the Bonds executed and delivered by the
Company. The Minister of Tanzania for the time being responsible for finance
and such other person or persons as he shall appoint in writing are designated
as authorized representatives of Tanzania for the purposes of Section 8.10 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. Tanzania shall duly perform all its obligations as set forth in
the Joint Financing Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) It is the mutual intention of Tanzania and the Bank that
no other external debt shall enjoy any priority over the Loan or the Bonds by
way of a lien on governmental assets.
(b)  To that end Tanzania (i) represents that at the date of this Agreement
no lien exists on any governmental assets as security for any external debt except


﻿5
as otherwise disclosed in writing by Tanzania to the Bank, and (ii) undertakes
that if any such lien shall be created, it will ipso facto equally and ratably secure
the payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan and
the Bonds and in the creation of any such lien express provision will be made
to that effect. Tanzania shall promptly inform the Bank of the creation of any
such lien.
(c)   The foregoing representation and undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security
for payment of the purchase price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in
the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets" means assets of
Tanzania, of any of its political subdivisions, of any agency of Tanzania or of
any such political subdivision, and assets of the Bank of Tanzania or any institution
performing the functions of a central bank for Tanzania.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation and Information
Section 4.01. Tanzania and the Bank shall cooperate fully to assure that
the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To that end Tanzania and the
Bank shall from time to time, at the reauest of either party: (i) exchange views
through their representatives with regawd to the performance of their respective
obligations under the Guarantee Agreement and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Loan; and (ii) furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of the Loan. On the part
of Tanzania, such information shall include information with respect to financial
and economic conditions in the territories of Tanzania, including its balance of
payments, and the external debt of Tanzania, of any of its political subdivisions
and of any agency of Tanzania or of any such political subdivision.
Section 4.02. (a) Tanzania shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan or the maintenance of the service thereof.
(b)   Tanzania shall afford all reasonable opportunity for accredited
representatives of the Bank to visit any part of the territories of Tanzania for
purposes related to the Loan.


﻿6
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan
and the Bonds shall be paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes
imposed under the laws of Tanzania or laws in effect in its territories; provided,
however, that the foregoing shall not apply to taxation of payments under any
Bond to a holder thereof other than the Bank when such Bond is beneficially
owned by an individual or corporate resident of Tanzania.
Section 5.02. This Agreement, the Loan Agreement, the Joint Financing
Agreement and the Bonds shall be free from any taxes that shall be imposed under
the laws of Tanzania or laws in effect in its territories on or in connection with
the execution, issue, delivery or registration thereof.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan and the Bonds shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls
or moratoria of any nature imposed under the laws of Tanzania or laws in effect
in its territories.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of Tanzania; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Tanzania for the time being responsible for
finance is designated as representative of Tanzania for the purposes of Section
10.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
For Tanzania:
Principal Secretary
The Treasury
P. 0. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam, Tanzania
Cable address:
Treasury
Dar es Salaam


﻿7
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Intbafrad
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By /s/ G.M. Rutabanzibwa
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


