Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22135-TVN
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF EUROS 23.8 MILLION (US$ 21.3 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
May 25, 2001
Rural Development, Water and Environment Department
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EUQIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 17, 2001)
Currency Unit = Tunisian Dinar (TNhD)
TND I = US$0.69
US$1 = TND 1.45
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFD            French Development Agency
ANPE           Environmental Protection Agency
APIA           Agricultural Investment Promotion Agency
APL            Adaptable Program Loan
ASIL           Agricultural Sector Investment Loan
ASIL2          Second Agricultural Sector Investment Loan
AVFA           Agricultural Extension and Training Agency
BCT            Central Bank of Tunisia
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CNEA          National Agricultural Economics Study Center
CQ             Consultant Qualification Selection
CRDA           Regional Commissariats for Agricultural Development
DGFE           Directorate General of Finance and Promotion
DGPA           Directorate General of Agricultural Production
DGPDIA         Directorate General of Planning
DGPAQ          Directorate General of Fisheries and Aquaculture
DGPV           Directorate General of Plant Protection/Direction generale de la protection des vegetaux
DGSA           Directorate General of Animal Health/Direction generale de la sante animale
EA             Environmental Assessment
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
FARAH          Financial Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook
FMS            Financial Management System
GDA            Agricultural Development Group
GIC            Collective Interest Group/Groupement d'Intert collectif
GIP           Inter-Professional Organizations
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
IRESA          Institute of Agricultural Research and Higher Education
IRVT           Tunisian Veterinary Research Institutellnstitut de la recherche veterinaire de Tunisie
LIL            Learning and Innovation Loan
LSDP           Letter of Sector Development Policy
MOA            Ministry of Agriculture
NCB            National Competitive Bidding
NPMU           National Program for Modernization and Upgrade
OEP            Livestock and Rangeland Organization/Office de l'elevage et des paturages
ONAGRI         National Agriculture Observatory/Observatoire national de l'agriculture
PMU            Project Management Unit
QCBS           Quality and Cost Based Selection
SBD            Standard Bidding Document
SOE            Statements of Expenditures
TOR            Termns of Reference
URAP           Regional Producers Union
UTAP           National Producers Union
WSIL           Water Sector Investment Loan
Vice President:  Jean Louis Sarbib
Country Director:  Christian Delvoie
Sector Director:  Doris Koehn
Task Team Leader: Christopher S. Ward



TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       8
3. Benefits and target population                                                      9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      10
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         13
3. Lessons leamed and reflected in proposed project design                            14
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   15
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        16
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           16
2. Financial                                                                          17
3. Technical                                                                          17
4. Institutional                                                                      18
5. Environmental                                                                      19
6. Social                                                                             22
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 25
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     25
2. Critical risks                                                                     26
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     27



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                         27
2. Other                                                                            27
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       28
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      29
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                       30
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  38
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                      43
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary        44
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  45
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                     51
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   65
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                67
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                68
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          70
Annex 11: Letter of Sector Development Policy                                          72
MAP(S)
No. IBRD 28811



TUNISIA
AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Region
MNSRE
Date: May 25, 2001                               Team Leader: Christopher S. Ward
Country Manager/Director: Christian Delvoie      Sector Manager/Director: Doris Koehn
Project ID: P005750                              Sector(s): AR - Research, AY - Other Agriculture
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data                                          _          __-
[X] Loan     [ ] Credit   [ j Grant    [ Guarantee      [1 Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $21.33
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 6.5                        Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.85% for first five years, 0.75%
thereafter
Financing Plan (US$m): Source                              Local         Foreign        Total
BORROWER                                                     14.68           2.01         16.69
IBRD                                                          8.62          12.71         21.33
OTHER FOREIGN SOURCES (UNIDENTIFIED)                          1.69           2.74          4.43
Total:                                                       24.99          17.46         42.45
Borrower: GOV'T OF TUNISIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Address: 30, rue Alain Savary, 1002 Tunis
Contact Person: Mr. Abdallah Mallek, Director General, DGFE
Mr. Badr Ben Ammar, Director General, DGPDIA
Tel: 216-1-842-687               Fax: 216-1-784-447                Email: mag@ministeres.tn
216-1-890-904                      216-1-785-764
Other Agency(ies):
Ministere de la Cooperation Internationale et de l'Investissement Exterieur
Address: 98, Avenue Mohamed V, 1002 Tunis-Belvedere
Contact Person: Mr. Kamel Ben Rejeb, Director General
Tel: 216-1-798-522             Fax: 216-1-769-845               Email: Multilaterale@mci.gov.tn
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
[  FY      2002       2003       '004      2005       006       2°0_
Annual     2.00       3.00       4.00      5.00       4.00-     3.30 _
Cumulative    2.00       5.00       9.00      14.00     18.00     21.30
Project implementation period: 2002-2006
Expected effectiveness date: 01/01/2002  Expected closing date:  06/30/2007
QCS PAD F-m R. Mth, 20



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project is the first phase of a longer term (ten year) program that aims at improving production quality,
competitivity and market access, particularly for smaller and medium scale producers. To this end, the
project objectives are to:
1. develop, on a pilot basis, organizational structures for producers that represent their needs and interests,
2. improve the institutional capacity and quality of agricultural services delivered by public and private
institutions and producer organizations
3. improve the flow of information for all sector stakeholders
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
For objective 1, the key indicators will be: (i) that about 75 producers organizations in three govemorates
develop to give smaller and medium scale producers access to advice, inputs and market facilities; (ii) that
new market niches begin to open and new Tunisian products begin to penetrate international markets; and
(iii) that Tunisian produce increasingly conforms to norms and standards on both domestic and
international markets.
For objective 2, the key indicators are: (i) improvement in the capacity of smaller and medium scale
producers in six pilot govemorates, to the level where their production is increasingly competitive
internationally; (ii) a more competitive production system evolves; and (iii) lower losses to pests, disease
and spoilage.
For objective 3, the key indicators are: (i) improved organization, investment and production choices based
on better knowledge; and (ii) improved risk management through information and greater awareness of risk
and behaviors.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R 2000-46         Date of latest CAS discussion: 4/27/2000
The CAS sets agriculture sector policy and programs in the context of the economic importance of the
sector (13% of GDP) and of the challenges from liberalization and natural resource constraints. The CAS
also underlines the higher rural poverty rate (14% compared to 4% in urban areas). With this background,
CAS priorities are to help improve the competitiveness of agriculture, to support sector reforms in natural
resource management, and to provide support to rural living standards. The proposed project is a vehicle of
choice to support this program as it will support sustainable growth of incomes in rural areas through the
development of producer organizations and of services to competitive agriculture during the period of
transition to a less protected economy.
-2 -



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Sector Issues
The Agriculture Sector. Tunisia's agriculture sector has grown strongly (average 3% per year since
1979) thanks to favorable policies, high investment and the adoption of cash crops and productive
technology. This has created an improvement in rural living standards when set against the declining
population growth rate (currently 1.4%). Sector development was promoted first by an administered
organization which protected producers but dulled growth. In recent years this has evolved to a generally
market-based policy, which nonetheless provides support for investment and a measure of protection on
grounds of social policy. Today, agriculture remains a major economic sector (13% of GDP) and the
leading employer (22% of the work force). Women are particularly prominent in the agricultural labor
force. The sector is quite diverse, and commercial, semi-commercial and quasi-subsistence farms each
have their own characteristics. The livestock sector is also important. Agricultural exports are valuable,
earning Tunisia nearly $200 million a year
Growth Perspectives. Productivity improvements, particularly in market garden produce, milk and
potatoes, have contributed to sector growth. Technical and economic potential for further growth exists for
many crops and systems, particularly in the irrigated sector. The perspectives are less promising for the
quasi-subsistence farms and the poultry and dairy sectors - if and when producer protection is phased out,
cereals are likely to decline under most husbandry systems, the dairy and poultry sector will suffer a shock,
and rainfed crops in general will see a poor outlook. Adjustment will have to be phased and support
measures carefully planned.
Current challenges. Government has set high growth targets for agriculture of 4.3% 1997-2001, then
2.9% up to 2010 (the lower figure for the next decade reflects the likely impact of liberalization on part of
the sector). To achieve this, Tunisia is moving further toward market orientation and integration in the
world market. This confronts agriculture with three challenges of modemization. First the sector has to
adjust to the opening of markets and competition both with imports and with other exporters trying to
access the European market. The sector will have to cope with the phasing out of remaining protection and
to seek new areas of comparative advantage. This will require continued investment, market development,
new technology, and a quantum leap in the skills and knowledge of producers. Second, poorer farmning
systems have been an important means of absorbing labour and maintaining rural living standards.
However, their productive potential and their capacity to adapt to a fully liberalized trade regime are
limited. There will be inevitable trade offs in the rural economy between competitive agriculture and social
protection. Third, the sector is already at the extensive margin of its resource development, particularly in
irrigation. The key challenges will be to avoid overexploitation of groundwater, forests and rangeland,
whilst ensuring improvements in productivity.
Government Strategy
The approach Tunisia has adopted in face of these challenges is to put in place three linked strategies.
First, a growth strategy in areas of agricultural potential. As expressed in the current (9th) plan, this
targets: "upgraded" production capability to face competition from imports as extemal liberalization
proceeds; diversified product range and improved quality to increase export competitiveness; and improved
productivity of existing (now limited) factors.
- 3 -



This growth strategy is linked to a parallel strategy for marginal areas, where some measure of protection
is maintained for the time being, combined with rural development programs to improve living standards in
marginal areas. Finally, a program of natural resource management is aimed at the conservation and
sustainability agenda.
Government is pursuing these strategies through three inter-related programs. The growth strategy will be
supported by policy change, by private sector development and by the modernization of agricultural
services. The needs of marginal areas will be targeted by rural development and welfare programs. The
resource conservation and productivity agenda is being addressed under a program of policy reform and
investment, notably that for the water sector supported by the Bank-financed Water Sector Investment
Loan (WSIL). Government sees strong linkages between the productivity agenda supported under the
proposed services project and the conservation agenda supported under the WSIL, with the common theme
of enhancing productivity and incomes sustainably from limited but better managed natural resources.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The sector issue to be addressed by the project is the challenge of growth in areas of agricultural potential
in the face of the opportunities and risks of liberalization.
Agricultural services are vital to achieve growth. The development of new markets, the development and
transfer of new technology, human resource development for a modernized agriculture, the protection of
both plants and animals from disease, the oversight of international agreements and quality standards, and
prudent investment are all essential factors in the growth of a competitive commercial agriculture in
Tunisia. The link between services and productivity is confirmed by the needs assessment carried out
during pre-appraisal, where producers expressed the strongest needs for: (1) timely and relevant
technology, advisory services and training to improve productivity and reduce costs, and thereby increase
revenues; (2) information and advice on market outlets and requirements; and (3) producer and industry
organization to ensure service delivery, to improve marketing and to represent and defend producers
interests.
To date, agricultural services have been "supply driven" and of inadequate quality, and evaluation studies
to confirm links between service supply and production response have been weak. The challenge is to
improve the quality of services and make them relevant to the challenges of modem agriculture and at the
same time to begin the switch to a "demand driven" approach in which producers themselves set the
agenda. Although the transition will inevitably take time, ultimately as producers increasingly drive the
system - and begin to pay more for it - service supply and demand will approximate more and more to a
market and will automatically adjust to meet demand in areas of economic profitability. This will establish
the link between services and growth.
Some agricultural services are "essentially public", but many can be provided privately. Since the late
1980s a process has been underway in Tunisia in the direction of demand-driven services and increasing
private financing and provision. Government has been pursuing a strategy of decentralization, privatization
of parastatal functions and public/private partnership, promotion of producer organizations, and improving
efficiency of public services. This prograrn has proceeded quite slowly and the country at present is in a
transitional phase between state provision and private sector involvement.
Strategic Choices
At the beginning of the identification process for the project, a work shop at Sidi Thabet developed five
-4 -



"approaches" that were agreed to be necessary to reorient and complete the reform program for agricultural
services in pursuit of the growth strategy. These approaches have been refined during preparation and
adopted by Government as a series of "strategic choices" as follows:
1. targeted approach - Given that the larger commercial sector is already largely
self-sufficient, the public agenda for targeting producer services is: (i) to focus on improving
the productivity and market access of medium and smaller but commercially-oriented
producers; and (ii) to provide rural development, alternative employment creation and social
protection services to marginal rural areas. Govermment's choice is to use the present project
to target the first group, medium and smaller commercially oriented producers, and to use
parallel programs on the model of ODESYPANO for the marginal areas.
2. regional and integrated approach - as elsewhere in the world, Tunisian agricultural
services have suffered from a "top down" approach and from weak synergy between different
services offered. Government's strategy is that services will move close to producers, with a
more "hands on" approach, integrated, and responsive to demand and problem solving. This
will involve decentralizing budgets, decisions and services as far as possible, and
progressively involving producers in resource allocation decisions. Implications are that
services will need to be organized in a way more geographically fitted to the different
agoecosystems; that there has to be better working together of extension (working from the
bottom up) and research working both at producer level and from the top down; and that
better local synergy will be needed within and between public services and producer
institutions.
3. producer organizations - at present few   producers are members of producer
organizations, and the national level organizations such as the "interprofessional
organizations" (GIPs) are weak. The provision of efficient and demand-responsive services
and the development of markets requires improved organization of demand through promotion
of all forms of producer organizations and of participatory mechanisms, and the development
of national capacity of producers to penetrate higher value markets. Government strategy
therefore supports the development and strengthening of producer organizations at both local
and national level.
4. sustainable approach - sustainability of service provision requires improving the cost
effectiveness of services and getting much more producer and private sector participation,
responsibility and cost sharing, including the transfer of some services. Government's choice
is to continue and complete the ongoing program of improving efficiency, seeking increasing
cost sharing and progressively handing over services wherever possible.
5. strengthening of essentially public services - for those essentially public services where
private provision or financing is not possible, a strategy of reinforcement and a drive to ensure
that all services are efficient and cost effective is required.
Based on these choices, Government has worked out the following action plan for agricultural services over
the next decade:
*      Support the development of organizational structures for smaller and medium scale producers and
their capacity to represent producers' interests and to provide services to their members
- 5 -



*      Reorganize, decentralize and reequip research, training and extension services to deliver more
relevant and cost effective services
*      Support to the maximum participation, privatization and private financing and delivery wherever
possible. Specifically, options for more demand-drive and participation will be explored for all services.
according to the following scheme:
Direction of change     Who sets the agenda?          Who pays            Who provides the
service
Current situation        Top down                 Government/donors        Public sector
Transition               Shared/participatory     Cost sharing             Public/private
partnership
Final goal               producer decides          User pays               Private sector
*      Reinforce and develop essentially public services where these have a strong economic justification
such as disease prevention, protection and monitoring, and improve the provision of aids to good planning
and decision making in the sector
Implementation of the action plan.  Regarding implementation of this action plan, Government has
made the choice to carry it out in two phases, with a break point to assess progress and correct as needed.
In the first phase, the emphasis remains on the supply side in an effort to modemize services. The
complementary effort to develop an institutional structure on the demand side is vital but will inevitably
take longer to bear fruit. The balance of effort is expected to shift to the demand side in the second phase.
This two phase approach is similar to that adopted recently for the water sector and supported by the
Bank-financed Water Sector Investment Loan. For agricultural services, Government has also opted for
external support for the process and has requested Bank support for this first phase project. Government
has set out the whole program in a letter of sector development policy (LSDP) that accompanies the first
project. The letter sets out the first phase program and gives indications of what is likely to be in the second
phase (subject to review) and of what is expected to be the end result of the process. This letter is
discussed in more detail below (section C2).
Instrument for the first phase.  For the first phase, Government originally opted for a single
Bank-financed project vehicle to help implement the action plan, rather than several projects (and possibly
several donors). The reasoning was practical - a single project is easier to supervise and control, and the
relations between the reform process and the accompanying project are clear. A single project with several
components also respects the integrated and coordinated nature of Government's approach.  This
integration operates at several levels. At the local level, producer services should become operationally
integrated, with research, training, extension, livestock and plant protection working as a service team with
producer groups (this approach is piloted initially in six govemorates under the Project). At the national
level, there is a need for operational synergy between the reform programs being undertaken for research,
extension, livestock etc, and a need to follow the common principles of demand driven approach,
participation and privatization, and improvement of internal efficiency. Finally, Government saw the
program as an upgrading for all agricultural services, and for the sake of efficiency and completeness and
- 6 -



to avoid fragmentation, wanted to see it carried out as a single program
The exceptions to this choice of a single project vehicle are the agricultural higher education sector and
agricultural professional training. In the case of higher education, after discussions during preparation,
Govermnent decided that the linkages with the rest of the program were relatively weak and the needs of
higher education would be better served through a free standing support program. That component was
therefore removed from the project. In the case of agricultural professional training, Government decided
during the appraisal process to request the Agence Francaise de Developpement (AFD) to finance the
component as a parallel project within the overall program on the grounds that the component was
relatively free-standing and AFD has strong experience in the training sector.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
In line with the development objectives (see Al above) the project will focus on strengthening producer
organizations, on improvement of services (especially on their responsiveness and their cost-effectiveness,
and on cost recovery and progressive privatization) and on developing markets and assisting the sector to
perform under international standards such as those in use in the EU. The components of the project are:
Component 1: Building the capacity of agricultural producers and inter-professional organizations:
(1) a pilot project to strengthen the capacity of local and regional producer organizations (including
cooperatives and the new "agricultural development groups" GDAs) to demand, manage and provide
services; and (2) support to national "inter-professional organizations" (GIPs) to improve product quality
and develop new markets and brand images for Tunisian produce.
Component 2: Strengthening the supply of research, training and farming advisory services: (1)
strengthening and regionalization of agricultural research including introduction of a selective or
competitive grant system, creation of a unified research institute and regional research centers, user
participation in setting the research agenda, and creation of an information clearing house on agricultural
technology; (2) a pilot project to improve producer access to training and farming advice, in particular
through setting up a demand-driven advisory service teams in six pilot areas and reinforcement of women's
extension; and (3) strengthening agricultural training.
Component 3: Livestock and animal health: support for improved services in animal production and
health, including improved diagnostic services, support for animal identification, training, further transfer
of services to the private sector, and increasing the share of producers in paying for certain services.
Component 4: Plant protection and seed and plant certification: strengthening capacity for plant
protection and seed certification, by expanding the pesticide residue and seed testing capacity, development
of monitoring and surveillance on trade in plant products; and improving awareness and practices about
cost effective and sustainable pest control and integrated pest management.
Component 5: Strengthening public interest services and project management support: (1)
agricultural statistics and information; and (2) project management support.
- 7 -



Indicative            Bank-      % of
Component                  Sector        Costs     % of    financing   Bank-
_          _       _       _                        USM      Total      (US$M)   financing
1. Building the capacity of agricultural  Institutional          0.0                 0.0
producers and inter-professional  Development
agricultural organizations
- producer organizations pilot                      1.80       4.2       1.32      6.2
- Quality improvement and GIPs                      3.46       8.2      2.65       12.4
2. Research, training and farming  Agricultural                  0.0                 0.0
advisory services                 Extension
- Agricultural research                             7.62      18.0      5.60      26.3
- Training                                          6.79      16.0      0.09       0.4
- Farming advisory services                         2.41       5.7      1.26       5.9
3. Livestock and animal health    Other Agriculture   8.74      20.6      3.28      15.4
4. Plant protection and seed and plant  Other Agriculture  6.44  15.2     4.62      21.7
certification
5. Public interest services and project  Institutional           0.0                 0.0
management support                Development
- Agricultural statistics and                       3.37       7.9      2.13       10.0
information
- Project management support                        1.61       3.8       0.17       0.8
0.0                 0.0
0.0                 0.0
0.0                 0.0
Total Project Costs                 42.24      99.5     21.12      99.0
Front-end fee                   0.21       0.5       0.21       1.0
Total Financing Required                  42.45      100.0     21.33     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Reforms supported by the project.  The project will support the implementation of the first phase of a
ten year program. It is expected that the accompanying reforms will also be done in two stages. The key
first round reforms that would be supported by the project are set out in the letter of sector development
policy accompanying the project. They include:
targeting of agricultural services
*      the mandate of research and extension will focus on the target group of medium and smaller
producers with commercial potential
*      gender targeting will be improved through specific allocations of research funding to gender related
topics, a reinforced women's extension effort, and a gender sensitive and targeted agricultural training
program
-8 -



regional and integrated approach
*      regionalization of research will begin through the creation of two regional research centers and the
creation of regional committees to set and supervise the research agenda
*      services will be integrated in six pilot areas that bring together applied research, extension, training
and producer organizations under the supervision of a governorate level steering committee.
agricultural producers organizations
*      producer organizations will be promoted through the private sector in three pilot governorates and
Government role will be focussed just on supervision and inspection
*      capacity building of the interprofessional groups (GIPs) will be undertaken, together with
strengthening of their autonomy, initially through contrats programme (see Annex 2)
sustainability of service provision
*      a network of private agricultural advisers will be encouraged
*      cost sharing leading to cost recovery over time will be practiced for selected livestock services
(animal identification, diagnosis)
*      outsourcing in the livestock sector will be promoted and generalized (disease monitoring,
inspection, vaccination) and privatization of artificial insemination will be completed
*      cost sharing of selected public services in plant protection and seed certification will be introduced
strengthening of essentially public services
*      the agricultural research institutes will be unified in order to facilitate regionalization and increase
efficiency
*      a selective or competitive research grant system will be developed
*      an open access information system on agricultural developments, policies and technologies will be
set up
Second phase reforms and situation at the end of the reform program. The reform program supported
by this five year project will continue into a second phase. The letter of sector development policy provides
a general outline of the second phase reforms, which would complete those begun in the first phase and
generalize the results of the pilot programs, adjusted as necessary. The objective is to have completed the
reforms within ten years. The letter spells out the situation expected at the end of the reform program in
which: producer organizations will be independent and capable of setting their own agenda and financing
many of their own services; the interprofessional groups (GIPs) will be autonomous bodies with broad
mandate, resources and skill to develop their respective subsectors; research will be regionalized,
demand-driven and partly financed by the sector; "extension" will have upgraded to "farm advisory
services" and be largely driven and financed by producer organizations; livestock and plant protection
services will be largely delivered and managed outside the public sector; and Government's statutory and
regulatory responsibilities will be fulfilled efficiently at least cost.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits
It is expected that the project would generate significant economic benefits by increasing productivity of
factor use, by improving quality of produce and thereby net revenues, and by increasing the volume of
produce marketed, with particular increases in higher value added markets, including export markets.
-9-



Increased value added is expected to be reflected in increased employment. The project would help to
achieve these benefits by improving producer services, including producer organization, marketing,
technology development and transfer, human resource development, animal and plant health, and
information.
Target Population
Based on the farming typology and analysis of potential carried out during preparation, agricultural
services to producers can result in increased sector growth from commercial large farms, from the irrigated
sector, from market-oriented medium and small farms in general, and from significant parts of the livestock
and fisheries sectors. For quasi subsistence small farms the economic case is weaker, as potential for
improved productivity is less strong and the systems are generally dependent on protection.
The needs assessment carried out at pre-appraisal concluded that larger commercial producers usually meet
their own need for services from the market. Given the relatively poor economic prospects of poor and
marginal farming systems, the target population for the project is defined as medium to small producers
who have a market orientation and the potential to improve their productivity. The major focus of project
activities will be in six "pilot govemorates".
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Institutional and implementation arrangements would be based on those established for ASIL, ASIL2 and
the recently effective Water Sector Investment Loan. These arrangements have proved to be fully
satisfactory.
Project Coordination Committee.    A  coordination committee (comite de coordination  inter
departementale) would be created by ministerial decision before Loan effectiveness. The committee would
be chaired by the Minister of Agriculture and would comprise the heads of each of the executing units,
representatives of other involved ministries (Intemational Cooperation, Finance, Economic Development,
Professional Training, Secretariat for Scientific Research), and producer representatives. The coordination
committee would review and approve annual work programs and budgets, end of year reports and financial
accounts and audits, and supervise execution through periodic reports, including a mid term review report.
Regional coordinating committees would also be set up in each of the six pilot govemorates.
Project Coordination. Day to day coordination among the executing units would be assured by the
DGFE (Direction Generale du Financement et des Encouragements) within the Ministry of Agriculture.
DGFE has a specialized project coordination department that coordinates implementation of all extemally
funded projects. Within this department, a Project Management Unit (PMU) would be set up to take
specific responsibility for this project. The PMU would be established by ministerial decision before Loan
effectiveness. Staffing would comprise: a coordinator, a financial management specialist and a monitoring
and evaluation specialist. Consultants would be recruited as needed. The PMU would act as secretariat to
the project coordination committee and would ensure that decisions of the coordination committee were
implemented. The PMU would also consolidate all reports and information relating to the project,
supervise procurement, keep the accounts, oversee environmental assessments, carry out monitoring and
evaluation, commission and supervise the mid term review, which would be done with consultant support,
and act as the principal counterpart for supervision missions. The PMU would prepare a procedures
manual (to form part of the project implementation plan) to be followed within the project. A draft of this
manual, based on the manuals already in use for previous Bank-financed projects, has been prepared.
- 1 0 -



Project Implementation. The Ministry of Agriculture would be the overall executing agency for
implementation of the project. Implementation would be carried out by twelve implementing units, all of
which are within the ministry or report to it (DGFE, APIA, IRESA, AVFA, OEP, DGSA, IRVT, DGPV,
DGPA, DGPDIA, DGPAQ, ONAGRI).
Within each implementing unit, a coordinator will be designated. Where more than one implementing
agency is involved in any component, one unit will take the lead and coordinate the implementation of the
whole component. Detailed implementation arrangements are set out in the project implementation plan. In
summary they are as follows:
* Component 1. Building the capacity of farmer organizations: DGFE will implement the
component, working with a coordinating committee including farmer representatives.  In the
govemorates, the CRDAs will implement the component on the basis of work programs and budgets
agreed with and supervised by DGFE.
*   Component 1. Quality improvement and GIPs: APIA will implement the component, agreeing and
supervising the work program of the GIPs. A coordinating committee including representatives of both
private and public sectors will review annual work programs and budgets and follow up
implementation.
* Component 2. Strengthening the supply of research: IRESA will implement the component. For
research grants, implementation would be on the basis of a research grant management manual which
will set out the eligibility criteria, the approval procedures and the channeling of funds. For
regionalisation, implementation will be on the basis of a plan and procedures manual.
*   Component 2. Training: AVFA will implement the component
*   Component 2.    Farming advisory services: AVFA will implement the component, passing
conventions with the training centers for implementation in the govemorates. The women's extension
subcomponent will be implemented by AVFA on the basis of conventions with the CRDAs in the
govemorates. Supervision will be by AVFA assisted in each govemorate by a local coordinating
committee.
* Component 3. Livestock and animal health: DGSA will coordinate irnplementation of the component
and implement all sub-components except for animal identification (OEP) and diagnostic capacity
(IRVT).
* Component 4. Plant protection and seed and plant certification: DGPV will implement the
component.
*   Component 5. Agricultural statistics and information: DGPDIA will coordinate the implementation
of the component and implement the statistics sub-component. DGPA and DGPAQ will implement the
crop and fish harvest forecasting sub-component.  ONAGRI will implement the agricultural
information sub-component.
Each implementing unit would work within the program agreed for the component(s) for which it is
responsible. It will also be responsible for conducting environment assessments as described in the
environmental management plan and project implementation plan. Each year the implementing units would
- 11 -



present their proposed work program and budget through the PMU to the steering committee, and
subsequently be responsible for implementing the approved program, following the procedures set out in
the project implementation plan. All procurement would be carried out by the implementing units, under
the supervision of the PMU and the coordination committee.
Financial Management. The financial management system in place in the Ministry of Agriculture follows
public law for governmental agencies. Accounts are kept on a cash basis according to budget heads
defined in the Public Accounting Code. The system in place provides adequate safeguards, but needs an
improved management infonnation system. This is expected to be in place under a nationwide upgrading
program (the National Program for Modernization and Upgrading, NPMUJ) by December 2002. In the
meantime and in order to have in place a complete and sound financial management system, DGFE is
setting up special arrangements for the Water Sector Investment Loan and these arrangements will also be
applied to the proposed Project. These financial management arrangements are detailed in annex 6 and
summarized below. The application of these arrangements to the Project and an action plan covering
financial management and reporting were agreed at negotiations.
Accounting and financial reporting. Each implementing unit will be responsible for managing and
accounting for its own "counterpart budget" representing the national share of project financing. Each unit
will request payment from the Bank Loan through DGFE. DGFE will maintain project accounts covering
both the national and the Bank share of financing. The Special Account will be maintained by the Central
Bank of Tunisia.
The PMU would be responsible for submitting to the Bank a semi-annual project management and
monitoring report, beginning at the end of the first semester after Loan effectiveness. The PMU would also
be responsible for issuing a simplified financial report and sending it to the Bank on a quarterly basis.
Audits. An auditor acceptable to the Bank, will be appointed to carry out an annual audit according to the
Intemational Standards of Auditing as issued by the Intemational Federation of Accountants, the Bank's
Guidelines (as set out in the Financial Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook, "FARAH") and
specific terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. The auditor will express a professional opinion on the
annual project financial statements. The annual audit report will be made available to the Bank within six
months of the close of each fiscal year.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements, and mid-term review.  The PMU would be responsible,
with inputs from all implementing units, for monitoring of financial and physical progress, for progress
reporting on the execution of policy measures, and for monitoring and evaluating outcomes and
development impacts. Monitoring and evaluation parameters have been drawn up. The PMU would also
be responsible for coordinating the mid- term review, which would take place by June 30, 2004.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Poverty target group - alternative rejected. At the time of identification the target group for the project
had not been clearly defined, and the PCD reflects an ambiguity about serving both the smaller and medium
scale producers with commercial potential and the " social agriculture" needs of the marginal producers.
During preparation, it was agreed with Government that the proposed project would concentrate on the
smaller and medium scale producers with potential for commercial agriculture and that the needs of the
marginal areas would be dealt with separately through rural development operations (a follow up to the
- 12 -



Bank-financed ODESYPANO is under preparation) and through social support programs. The reasoning
was that agricultural services targeting growth cannot be easily mixed with poverty reduction programs for
marginal areas. This choice also simplified the proposed Project. The choice removes poverty reduction as
a first round project objective but does not, of course, eliminate all poverty reduction impact of the project
(see below, E6).
Alternative vehicles to an investment project - alternatives rejected. During the preparation and
pre-appraisal process a number of alternative vehicles to the proposed investment project were considered
and rejected. These included: (1) a non-project loan, which could have matched the proposed institutional
reform program with financing for the sector investment program. Alternatively the program could have
been implemented under the national 'programme de mise a niveau" designed to promote efficiency
improvements in the civil service. However, Government and Bank agreed that a regular investment
project is preferable to these alternatives because it matches the implementation of the reform program with
specific accompanying investments, so that reforms and investment proceedparipassu. (2) an APL, which
is consistent with the ten year program and possible two project approach that is proposed. However, the
Tunisian Government preferred two successive loans accompanied by a letter of sector development policy,
as they did for WSIL, on the grounds that this would allow flexibility to adapt the program in the light of
experience. (3) one or several LILs, which could be suitable particularly for services where the strategic
choices remain not fully clear and where there is a need to test approaches through pilot projects, for
example in extension. However, Bank and Government agreed that the bulk of the program is ready to go
forward to full scale implementation and does not need piloting, and that the advantages of detaching the
pilot elements (such as the agricultural advisory and training pilot) would be outweighed by the loss of
synergy and coherence which provides the rationale for a single project (see B3).
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
1    Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                (PSR) Ratings       3
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Reform of research and extension  Research and Extension Project  S            S
(Ln. 32176, $17 million,
completed)
Sustainable resource use, poverty  Natural Resource Management    S            S
reduction                        Project (Ln. 4162, ongoing)
Sector policy adjustment and     ASIL (Ln. 3661, completed)       S            S
investment
Sector policy adjustment and     ASIL2 (Ln.4278, ongoing)         S            S
investment
Water resource management and    WSIL (Ln. 7025, ongoing)         S            S
conservation
Natural resources                Second Forestry Project(Ln.      S            S
3601, ongoing)
Other development agencies
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 13 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons from the Research and Extension Project
The overall evaluation of the ICR of the Research and Extension Project was that the outcome was
satisfactory. However, a number of lessons learned needed to be taken into account in the design of the
proposed Project (lessons are in italic, followed by how they are taken into account in the Project):
*      Change in producer services requires a longer time horizon than five years.  The Project
supports the first phase of a program over a ten year period.
*      Monitoring and evaluation have to be given priority up front - they were neglected, particularly
in the research component, so that there is no impact data. Provision is made for monitoring and
evaluation in the Project, including a dedicated staff member, technical assistance and a base line study.
The technical and economic impact of research will be a particular focus.
*      Budget availability has to be assured, as its lack threatened sustainability of the project
developments. Fiscal analysis has been conducted. The Project will initially create an extra charge for the
public purse, but this will decline over time as cost recovery and privatization become generalized.
*       Inter-agency cooperation (particularly between research and extension) was notoriously weak.
Structures, programs and incentive systems all have to be mobilized to enforce cooperation . Inter-agency
cooperation will be promoted by regionalization of research, by the research projets federateurs, by the
agricultural advisory and training pilot etc.
*      producer organizations should play a bigger role in providing and financing services, and there
is in general a need to promote producer organizations. Producer organizations will be actively
promoted, initially on a pilot scale, at both local, regional and national levels so that they can become
effective partners. In a parallel action, Government has set up programs (the 21:21 program and other
similar programs) to provide matching grants for the recruitment of specialists, and some producer
organizations may be able to benefit from this to hire advisers. However, under government's programs, no
training is provided to help producer organizations manage the assistance. The experience with these
programs will be evaluated at mid-term review and some complementary support could then be envisaged.
In addition, under the project, GIPs will be able to access resources to finance research themes that they
themselves identify.
*      The key challenges for the next phase of services development are to be able to help producers
respond to new markets, to respond to the diversity offarming systems and clients, and to begin the shift
from supply-driven to a new division of public and private responsibilities in services. The Project will
foster the change towards a market-oriented and demand-driven approach, with the accent on reorganizing
the responsibilities between public, private and cooperative providers.
Findings on the research component
*       tRegionalization was begun but was weak and needs to be supported by decentralization of
personnel, of research management authority, and of budgets. The Project will support a phased
decentralization, including the creation of two regional research centers.
*      There is a need for a revamped system of incentives and career development that supports a
- 14 -



producer-oriented approach rather than classical publication-oriented research, and enforces a
multidisciplinary team approach, economic and social inputs and farmning system analysis, all of which
remain weak. The Project will support a system of competitive grants and contracts, and evaluation of the
research results under the contracts. This system will reward good performance and impose through the
funding mechanisms a multi-disciplinary/multi-institutional approach. A practical problem-solving
approach will also be promoted through the systematic inclusion of producer representatives and extension
staff in the regional and national research conunittees, which identif,v the research themes relevant for a
region.
Findings on the extension component
*      The lack offormal status and adequate incentives for extensionists reduces performance. The
Project will support the development of simple extensionists into agricultural advisers, beginning with the
pilot agricultural advisory and training component.
*      Certain programs do better than others and hence should be prioritized - for example, mass
media programs and women's extension program. Mass media and women's extension are supported
under the Project.
*      There is a need for an extension strategy that takes account of the diversity offarming systems,
of sustainability and offurther involvement ofproducers and the private sector. The Project will support
the strategy of integrated training and advisory services close to producers and their problems. The Project
will also help develop the profession of private farming advisers.
Lessons learned from other projects
The following are the lessons learned from other projects:
*      There is a need for extensive consultation where reform processes are being proposed (lesson of
WSIL).  During identification, preparation and appraisal, consultation with producers, officials and
decision makers at all levels was broad and constant (see E6 below). Both officials and farmer
representatives will be represented on the coordination committee. In addition, IRESA will conduct an
ownership-building consultation process regarding the reforms for research.
*      Extension and other services are best delivered through a structure ofproducer groups (lesson of
ODESYPANO). Producer organizations are the instrument of choice in Govemment policy and will be
supported as an essential part of the Project. Producer organizations will have access to facilities to recruit
their own advisors.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Governnent is fully committed to the Project and to the strategy that underlies it. This commitment is
evidenced by: (1) the request to the Bank in 1997 to seek a PHRD grant for preparation; (2) the long and
thorough identification and preparation process (1998-2000) conducted by Government, its consultants and
the FAO Investment Center; (3) the numerous workshops and seminars organized by Governnent with all
stakeholders to set the strategy, build consensus and work out the specifics of the Project; (4) the formal
request by Government to the Bank to finance the Project; and (5) the letter of sector development policy
that sets out the long tern vision and the action steps to achieve the vision.
- 15 -



5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The value added for the Borrower of Bank support to the Project stems from:
*      the Bank's good worldwide and regional experience in agricultural services reform
*      the Bank's long and successful track record in the sector in Tunisia
*      strong Government appreciation of the value added of Bank involvement, because of its broad
international expertise, the Bank's ability to link both backward and forward in time and across a broad
range of sector interventions, the Bank's privileged position vis-A-vis other donors, the intellectual capital
of the Bank's analytic capability and sector work, and the rigor of the Bank's approach to issues that are
difficult to arbitrate at the national level.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
1.     Economic
The project is expected to contribute to increases in the value added of agricultural production, mainly
through productivity increases, quality improvement and shift towards production for which Tunisia has a
competitive advantage. Important secondary benefits would be enhanced gender equity and income security.
Thus the project is expected to increase total income, improve income distribution and reduce income
variability.
As benefits from institutional development and capacity building are difficult to quantify, a break-even
analysis has been conducted for the project as a whole in line with best practice for agricultural services
projects. Under this approach, the minimum benefits that must be generated by the project to justify costs
are determined and the feasibility of obtaining these benefits is assessed. It is assumed that project benefits
would materialize through an increase of agricultural GDP. This is a conservative approach, since other
benefits can be expected, such as social benefits. Under these assumptions, to obtain an overall rate of
return of 12%, agricultural GDP growth would have to increase by +0.02% p.a. compared to the without
project scenario. This is equivalent to an aggregate incremental 2.9% growth over 20 years. This
increment in growth rates is small and attainable in relation to historical growth rates that averaged 3.4%
p.a. during the period 1989-99.
Effect of economic analysis on project approach
The lack of specific ERR analysis at the level of the overall project makes it very important to ensure that
economic considerations are factored in to decisions at the implementation and micro levels. Two
important measures will be observed:
(1) wherever relevant, decisions on research, extension, training, animal health, plant protection etc
will be driven by economic criteria, putting producers' bottom line as the target and linking producer
profit from the technology or the service to cost of the service
- 16 -



(2) cost effectiveness will be observed for all service provision, and will increasingly be producer
monitored, as cost sharing imposes a "value for money" requirement on the service provider.
The litmus test of economic benefit to producers under the project will be their participation in the program
- active group fonnation, setting the agenda for agricultural services and progressively paying for and
providing services. Thus the monitoring and evaluation system will concentrate on these "participation
rates" as a key index of project economic perfonnance.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Project costs total US$ 42.2 millions, of which US$ 33.3 mnillions (79%) are investment costs and US$ 8.9
millions (21%) are incremental recurrent costs. Project costs would be borne by the public budget (40% of
project costs); the Bank Loan (50% of project costs) and a cofinancier for the training component (10%).
Taxes are US$ 8.3 millions (19% of project cost). Over the 5-year implementation period of the project,
Government would provide US$ 17 million counterpart funds, an average of US$ 3.4 millions a year.
Fiscal Impact:
The project fiscal impact is expected to be relatively small. Both investment and incremental recurrent
costs are small when compared to the ministry's total budget and the increase in operating costs is partially
balanced by the some transfers of activities to the private and professional sectors. In addition, transfer
payments in the form of taxes represent 19% of the project cost.
Over the 5-year implementation phase of the project, private sector participation in the provision and
financing of agricultural services will be relatively modest, while government's capacity to ensure its
essential public functions will be strengthened. It is during the second phase (2007-2011) that private
sector participation will really expand, and a positive impact on government's budget could be expected.
On the benefits side, and in the medium and long term, increase in farm household spending as a result of
higher incomes would have a positive impact on tax revenues. In addition, higher farm incomes will allow
producers to pay a greater share of services, making possible and sustainable user participation in the
provision and financing of services.
3. Technical:
The project will not be implemented in the most marginal areas, where the prospects for agricultural growth
are extremely limited. A companion project will be prepared for these zones, as a follow-up to the
ODESYPANO project already in place for the marginal areas of the Northwest. However, even outside the
most marginal areas, the opportunities for productivity growth and diversification in semi-arid
environments without irrigation are scant. Agricultural services are limited in what they can offer in these
areas, where farmers and herders cannot afford to take risks. Indeed, due to climatic variability in the
marginal areas, the risks implicit in investing in technology are quite high. In such areas, small-holders
may benefit more from the indirect effects of the project on agricultural forward and backward linkages and
from increased off-farm economic opportunities as a result of the project tnan from adopting improved
agricultural technologies. This technical and risk assessment confirms the project choice to concentrate on
areas with potential for commercial agriculture (see section Dl above).
- 17 -



In terms of the research themes, through the selective and competitive grant system, the Project will
emphasize research on post-harvest technologies and agro-processing which have not received enough
attention in the past, as well as marketing and economic research, research to improve the quality of
products either at the production or marketing stage, research on biological production and integrated pest
management using biological control methods.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Ministry of Agriculture would be the executing agency. Detailed institutional and executing
arrangements are presented in Section C: Project Description Summary.
4.2 Project management:
Implementation capacity. Capacity for implementation of extemally financed projects is adequate within
the Ministry of Agriculture. Despite the relatively large number of implementing units, the Project does not
present an over-complex implementation challenge. The Ministry of Agriculture has a generally very
successful track record in implementation, including projects that have had more than thirty implementing
units.  Most of the twelve implementing units for the Project have experience in implementing
Bank-financed projects, and are implementing the project as part of their regular scheduled development
program. For those that have less experience, a start up workshop would provide hands on training and the
PMU within DGFE would provide permanent coaching. DGFE has long experience in guiding
implementation, and the project implementation plan and the accompanying procedures manual provide
clear guidance for implementing units.
Monitoring and evaluation capacity. DGFE has a good track record in input and output monitoring, but
less so for impact monitoring and evaluation. The PMU for the Project would include a monitoring and
evaluation specialist, and resources have been provided under the Project for consultant support for
methodology, for a baseline survey and for a mid-term review to be conducted with consultants that will
include an interim evaluation of impacts and outcomes.
Regarding financial monitoring, DGFE is in the process of implementing a new computerized system for
the Water Sector Investment Project signed in June 2000 and declared effective in January 2001. This
project has been selected as pilot for the implementation of a fully computerized project accounting and
reporting system including budgeting and monitoring and evaluation. The installation of the selected
software at the central level has been successfully implemented and the same technology solution will be
used by DGFE for all the other projects managed under its responsibility including the proposed Project.
The extension of the above-mentioned software to the regional level (CRDA), is planned during 2002.
Legal aspects. In order to implement the program, government has drawn up a list of legal texts to be
issued and adapted. The list includes the issue of texts to create a new unified research institute and the
regional research centers, amendments to the texts to adapt the mandate of several other institutions, and
the issue of various texts regarding the revised regulatory framework for animal health, plant protection
etc. A timetable for the issue of these texts, many of which are on the "critical path" for project
implementation, has been prepared and is included in the project implementation plan.
Impact on Ministry staffing. The personnel implications relative to project-supported programs have
been analyzed. The implementation of the program will require changes in the profile of niinistry staff and
this will be reflected in the creation of 250 new posts. Most of these posts will be filled by existing staff,
- 18 -



through retraining and reassignment. Some extra staff cost may be incurred, particularly in the research
sector where about 100 new recruitments are envisioned. The decision on the research posts has already
been taken by Government, in line with national policy to raise expenditure on R and D to 1% of GDP. The
plan provides for no redundancies (staff reductions being effected through retirements). At negotiations,
assurances were received that Government will implement the plan and ensure that staff required under the
program are in place as scheduled.
Effective "regionalization".  A key objective is to bring services closer to producers by regionalization
of services like research that are currently centrally organized. This regionalization would be supported
under the Project. There is risk that regionalization would undermine existing research capacity and at
appraisal a progressive and step by step approach was agreed, concentrating resources in a few viable
regional research centers, rather than scattering them over all the regional centers. Measures are also
needed to ensure not just the nominal regionalization of the past (as with the poles regionaux de la
recherche) but real "hard" regionalization of budgets, staff and management authority. These measures
will be managed through the research regionalization plan, agreement on which is a condition of
disbursement for the related investments.
4.3 Procurement issues:
See Annex 6.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The existing financial management system described above (Section C4) is generally satisfactory,
especially with the improvements being introduced under NPMU. Further improvements are being
introduced under a time bound action plan agreed for the Water Sector Investment Loan including mainly
installation of a fully computerized accounting and reporting system specific to the project. This action if
successfully implemented would mitigate the risk related to the identified insufficiencies in the reporting
system. An action plan to ensure that financial management and reporting are adequate was agreed at
negotiations.
5. Environmental:                 Enviromnental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
In the past few years, Tunisia has taken important steps in towards sustainable agricultural practices and
pest management. Government has started to review the adequacy of present legislation, has created a new
center for ecological farming, and is promoting the link between quality products and sustainable farming
practices. The project further mainstreams these initiatives.
The project is not expected to have negative/adverse impact on the environment. There are, however, a
number of minor risks and uncertainties that require fiurther assessment and oversight. Consequently this
project is categorized as a "B". An environmental impact study (EA) carried out during preparation of the
project found that the project contributes in a positive way to environmental sustainability and public
health. The EA has provided a more detailed assessment of the minor risks. The EA recommended
improving environmental standards and, subsequently, the sustainability of agricultural practices.
Activities that may pose minor environmental risk, if not carried out well, include:
(i)   the construction of diagnostic and research laboratories, proposed under a number of components,
might lead to possible minor environmental disturbance during construction. Also, waste disposal at these
- 19 -



laboratories may pose risks to municipal waste disposal system, and surface water.
(ii)   extension of the quarantine laboratories and construction of a fumigation facility in the port of
Rades with possible minor environmental disturbance during construction, and including a small waste
disposal facility (incinerator) as well as the use of potentially risky fumigants;
(iii)  support for competitive agricultural research. This research could include small projects with
minor environmental risks (use of pesticides, disturbance of land leading to run-off etc.)
(iv)  inadequate advice and improper use of farm inputs such as water, fertilizer and pesticides.
Government's  environmental  assessment  has,  where   needed,     proposed   environmental
management/mitigation of potential environmental risks.  These suggestions, mainly relating to
construction/design of new facilities, have been adopted in the project design.
With respect to pest management the project adheres to the OP 4.09 requirements. The project does not
finance the procurement of pesticides, and supports a number of actions that aim to promote sustainable
agriculture and integrated pest management. However, the OP 4.09 applies as the project includes a Plant
Protection component.
The project also aims to increase the efficiency of pest control, improve the forecasting, lower pre- and post
harvest crop losses, and enhance export acceptability of agricultural products. These criteria will be
measured in the monitoring and evaluation of the project, as will the uptake of sustainable pest control
methods in particular IPM and biological control and the market share of biologically produced fruits and
vegetables. As such, the project is a good example of demand driven improvement in pest control practices
through feedback from market to farm.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The following specific mitigating actions are foreseen:
(i)    construction of diagnostic and research laboratories (under various project components) will adhere
to local environmental regulations and oversight. The individual EA's required for each new construction,
under Tunisian law, will review and address these risks, including the proper handling and separation of
laboratory waste, and adequate storage of laboratory chemicals, reagents and biological materials. The
veterinary laboratory has already initiated the establishment of a biohazard committee with representation
of the municipal authorities as well as the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Public Health;
(ii)    extension of the central quarantine laboratories and construction of a fumigation facility in the
container port of Rades with possible minor environmental disturbance during construction, and including a
small waste disposal facility (incinerator) as well as the use of potentially risky fumigants. The method of
disposal and treatment will be subject to a specific EA which will be conducted in accordance with
Tunisian regulations and acceptable to the Bank.
(iii)  support for agricultural research which may include sub-projects with mninor environmental risks
(use of pesticides, disturbance of land leading to run-off etc.). Before initiating the research grants
program, a manual will be prepared that will describe the grant preparation and award process. This
manual will include guidelines on a brief evaluation of the environmental risks and (if any) their mitigation.
Each study will require a brief statement, and where necessary independent review, of the environmental
risk impact.
Under the research, training and farming advisory services (extension and farTner organization) component
the project also promotes the mainstreaming of integrated pest management (IPM) through research on
sustainable pest management, training of extension staff, and by building links to producer organizations.
- 20 -



With respect to pest management, the Plant Protection component aims to:
a.     review and update pesticide legislation and regulations with the objective of aligning the
relevant legislation with EU standards, in order to remove impediments to the export of Tunisian
products;
b.     strengthen the pesticide quality control and monitoring (see description of component IV);
c.     provide training to agricultural staff (especially in DGPV and AVFA) and farmners about
sustainable pest management and IPM. The training program will be designed with substantial
input of the Ecological farming Center.
d.    improve the storage and recording of chemicals and biological products, especially
pesticides.
(iv)  improvement in the storage and recording of chemicals and biological products, especially
pesticides;
(v)    inadequate advice, and improper use of farm inputs such as water, fertilizer and pesticides.
Improvement of the quality of advice to producers, and better understanding of the proposed use and
handling of farm inputs are among the major objectives of the project. Specifically, the development and
transfer of technology, advice on natural resource management, plant and animal protection measures, and
sector planning help provide the instruments that will improve natural resource management and
conservation. The project will also support training of extension and plant protection staff in integrated pest
management.
The above measures are adequate.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: May 14, 2001
The initial draft was received and reviewed during appraisal
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
During preparation, consultations were organized with affected interested groups, in particular producer
groups and cooperatives. Further consultations were held during pre-appraisal with focus groups, as well
as with national and govemorate officials, including the Ministry of Environment, the Environmental
Protection Agency (ANPE), and the National Agricultural Economics Study Center (CNEA) attached to
the Ministry of Agriculture.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The EA suggested ensuring appropriate waste separation and treatment in the design of the planned
construction; this has been incorporated in the project as part of the building design. The project evaluation
includes indicators relating to environmental awareness and the adoption of environmentally acceptable
(agricultural) practices
The EA report specifically recommends actions by component and activity, and will be used as a baseline
for monitoring and evaluation during project implementation. Progress on these actions will be reported
annually. As no major risks are anticipated, the monitoring will be carried out during supervision after
year 1 and midtermn, using the EA as a guiding tool.
- 21 -



Each implementing agency will be responsible for conducting EAs where required and the PMU will be
responsible for advising on and coordinating EA preparation, monitoring and follow-up. Bank supervision
missions will include environmental specialists and pest management specialists as needed and the Mid
Term Review will assess progress towards achieving the mitigating measures identified in individual EAs.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Social assessment.   A social analysis was carried out during identification and preparation, which
included a typology of Tunisian producers. During pre-appraisal this analysis was verified by a social
assessment in six govemorates which used focus groups and individual key informant interviews,
completed by discussions with producer organizations and representatives in Tunis. The assessment also
consulted agricultural service organizations in both the public and the private sector, and policy makers.
The assessment concluded that Tunisian agriculture is predominantly market-oriented, and that even small
producers are likely to market at least part of their produce. The assessment also confirmed a strong
demand for services to improve the productivity of agriculture, and revealed widespread dissatisfaction
with the current method and quality of service provision. Larger producers usually meet their own need for
services from the market. The assessment thus confirmed the basic premise of the project that services need
to be reworked on a demand-driven basis for a target population of medium to small producers who have
market orientation and the potential to improve their productivity.
Social Issues
The key social issues identified for the project are:
Personnel adjustments in the public service. The modemization of agricultural services that Tunisia is
undertaking is expected over time to lead to fewer low level jobs in the public service, as producers demand
increasingly sophisticated advice and services. The process will also lead to trimming of public sector staff
in the interests of cost effectiveness and efficiency, and to the transfer of some services to the private
sector, with consequently smaller staff needs in the public service and more recruitment in the private
sector. Thus the project carries the potential for negative impacts for public sector staff. In practice,
Government has decided to handle the matter through natural attrition (with retirements in the Ministry of
Agriculture now generally exceeding recruitments), through a systematic retraining and transfer operation
(in the context of the project several hundred potentially redundant staff are expected to be retrained and
transferred to new posts that are being created), and by helping the transfer of staff from the public to the
private sector (e.g. through financing of certain activities of private veterinarians, secondrnent of public
extensionists to producer groups etc.). There is not expected to be any redundancy created by the project.
Gender. Despite the success of some pilot programs (for example that supported under the Bank-financed
Research and Extension Project - see Section D3 above), gender-directed approaches have not up to now
been mainstreamed in agricultural services. During the preparation process of the project, an effort was
made to factor in more attention to gender. As a result, gender aspects are systematically considered
throughout the project, including: (1) inclusion of gender as a theme for the organization of producer
groups and for the quality improvement component; (2) inclusion of gender as a priority theme for
research, requirement that all research proposals systematically discuss the gender relevance (or not) of the
work proposed, and the allocation of a specific percentage of the research program budget to gender related
research; (3) integration of gender into the pilot project to improve producer access to training and farming
advice in six govemorates, including the requirement that one in five of all advisers retained be women, and
the establishment of mobile advisory and training activities that bring services to women, as women may
- 22 -



not travel so readily to the centers; (4) reinforcement of the existing female extension pilot operation in six
govemorates with the intention of constituting a group of well qualified female farming advisers and of
ensuring, in the long run, that gender aspects are mainstreamed throughout producer services (the approach
will include the establishment of peer-to-peer learning groups for women producers); (5) practical study
and curriculum development in the training component to develop courses both for trainers and trainees on
gender aspects, including courses of direct relevance to women producers; (6) inclusion of gender related
aspects in the livestock component; (7) the inclusion of systematic gender disaggregated data in the
statistics and information component; (8) the monitoring and evaluation of gender disaggregated indicators;
and (9) support given to the gender unit at both ministry level and the AVFA. The ministry level gender
unit will have responsibility for working with the PMU to ensure that gender issues are properly treated
under the project, and the issue of gender is included in the project implementation plan.
Poverty and marginal producers. The decision not to target poverty or marginal producers is discussed
above (Section D 1). However, there will be benefits for marginal producers under the project, for
example, through some productivity improvements to be gained in marginal farms, particularly where those
farms are scattered amongst higher potential farms, and through increased employment opportunities as
Tunisia moves to higher value production. In addition, cost recovery to be introduced under the project will
be phased in, with smaller producers paying less, or in some cases being exempted.
Social development outcomes
The principal social development outcomes are expected to be:
*      Increased rural incomes from agricultural sources and hence improved social well being, stemming
from relevant and responsive local producer services
*      Greater integration of rural people into the modern economy through increased participation in
markets with strong forward and backward linkages
*      Increased access of women to farming and marketing advice and hence improvement in their social
and economic status
*      Improved producer participation in development planning and resource allocation through the
strengthening of representative producer organizations at both local, regional and national levels
*      Enhanced confidence of the private and cooperative sector due to the changes in the balance of
public/private responsibility under the project, leading to improved business performance
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Producer participation.     Participation during identification included extensive consultation with
men and women producers on needs, and this process continued with a needs assessment at pre-appraisal.
Producers' organizations have been consulted throughout, including local level cooperatives and
associations, the regional chambres d'agriculture, the regional and national producers' union
(URAP/UTAP), and the interprofessional groups (GIPs).
During implementation, producers will participate in the project at all levels. Producer associations will
progressively set the agenda for research, training and extension. Producers will be represented on the
regional coordination committees in each of the six govemorates in the pilot program, and in the regional
- 23 -



and national research committees. Two components (producer organizations, and quality improvement)
will work directly to improve producer organization and interaction between producers and private and
public services. Finally, producers' representatives will sit on the project coordination committee.
Participation of decision makers and service providers. The participation of officials and service
providers from both the public and the private sector, and of the representatives of structured user
organizations was systematic throughout the identification, preparation and appraisal process, and three
major and well attended workshops were held. The social assessment conducted during pre-appraisal
supported the process. Key decision makers will be represented on the project coordination committee.
The power of open information. A key medium to enhance participation at all levels (both in the project
and in the dynamic of the agricultural economy) will be the information and statistics component, which
will provide the widest possible target audience with all relevant information on a free access basis.
The challenge of producer organizations.
The key factor in the participatory approach under the project is the development of producer associations.
Government's stated intention is to support the development of organizational structures for producers and
this is provided for under the project. Existing producer organizations in Tunisia are quite diverse: at the
base there are the associations (GICs, GDAs etc); at the level of common services locally there are the
cooperatives; at regional level there are the URAPs and the chambres d 'agriculture; and at national level
there are UTAP and the groupements interprofessionnels. The following transitional provisions have been
made during the project period: (a) for producer associations, cooperatives etc, the services of promotion
and development currently provided directly by government will be provided by private agents (initially on
a pilot basis in three govemorates), and Government will assure directly just the supervisory and regulatory
functions, which will be strengthened; (b) the role of the chambres d'agriculture will be reviewed and a
restructuring undertaken designed to ensure more representation of producers; and (c) the autonomy of the
GIPs will be encouraged through an initial three year contrat programme that will allow them substantial
managerial and financial autonomy. Progress of these processes will be monitored and subsequently
decisions will be taken on how to continue the process in the light of the experience.
The viability of producers' organizations also depends on the producers' interest to form groups that will
access services, and eventually share costs. Significant changes piloted under the project in the way of
doing business make producers' adherence more likely than in the past, including a more flexible legal
framework (the GDA), the private sector approach to promotion, and the simultaneous efforts to improve
the supply side (of services) to make group formation more economically attractive. In addition, the project
will begin with the improvement of existing groups, so have a foundation from which to work. The study
to be carried out under WSIL of lessons learned in GIC successes and failures will also generate lessons
and guidance.
Although Government commitment to the above approaches is firm, Government wishes to proceed
cautiously. For producer organizations, a pilot will be conducted initially in just three govemorates and
evaluated at mid-term review. For the GIPs, initially young professionals will be recruited, and the
development of new capacity will therefore inevitably take time. The progress will again be assessed at
mid-term review.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
See above on producer organizations. In addition, consultations will be undertaken regularly with
- 24 -



representatives of women's groups to help track progress on gender aspects.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The institutional set up to ensure the development of producer institutions is part of the pilot component
design and in particular the division of responsibility between public regulatory functions and private
promotion roles (leading ultimately to capacity within the producer association movement)
The project gender outcome is also provided for specifically in the design of several components (see
above). In addition, the gender coordination roles in AVFA (extension and training organization) and in the
Minister of Agriculture's office will be strengthened under the project.
The relevance of producer services - and hence the income objective - is also supported by component
design and by accompanying institutional changes, including: regionalization of research to improve local
responsiveness, and the integrated approach to producer services adopted in the pilot project.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The project monitoring and evaluation system will include a baseline sample survey on such parameters as
incomes, market participation, gender disaggregated access to services, producer organizations and
participation rates etc. Social development outcomes will be tracked through the periodic monitoring of
these parameters and through a mid-term and final evaluation.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7 1 Do anv of the folloving safeguard policies apply to the proiect9_
____                   Policy                                    Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      * Yes O No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                             0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)         0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The details of the actions to comply with OP4.01/BP4.01/GP4.01 are described in Section E 5 above.
The details of the mitigation and monitoring program address the issues related to OP4.09 are included in
the Environmental Assessment Report.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability would be obtained at three different levels:
At producer level: actions will promote the development of producer groups at local level on a pilot basis
- 25 -



(in three govemorates) and of crop and sub-sector representative groups at national level, and give these
groups responsibility in the setting of the service agenda.
At service provider level, project actions will help develop more cost-effective and performing services
within both the public and private sectors. The project will put special emphasis on the development of
private service providers wherever possible, together with a sustainable pattem of user payment that will
progressively make private services viable. This is matched with the willingness of Government to assure
an efficient level of financing to services, both during the period when user contributions are growing, and
thereafter for functions that are "public service" in their nature.
At the economic level, the project will promote new cropping patterns and technologies linked to profitable
new markets, that will create sufficient extra income to allow producers to pay a greater share of the cost of
services.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
There could be a wavering of the national  M        Extensive national consultation has taken place.
commitment to encouraging the                       Letter of sector development policy spells out
development of autonomous producer                  clear commitment. Stakeholders will all be
groups, and commitment to cost recovery             represented in the project coordination
and developing private sector service               committee.
providers could diminish.
Resistance to reorganization (especially of  M      Consultations are being held with research staff.
research) and to staff changes brought               Training and reconversion programs are
about by the change program.                        planned, and will be announced before launching
the change program.
From Components to Outputs
Implementation delays and shortcomings     M        Project implementation arrangements are well
may arise, given the breadth of the                  set out in the project implementation plan. All
program and the fact that the                        concerned implementing units are represented in
implementing units may have different               the coordination committee.
implementation pace
The legal and regulatory framework         M         A time bound action plan is included in the
cannot be amended in time to allow the              project implementation plan.
proposed innovations
The MOA may find it difficult to identify  S         The MOA is committed to the required staffing.
and assign staff for the 260 new posts              A time bound action plan is included in the
project implementation plan.
- 26 -



Government's request for parallel           M         The agency has indicated its commitment and its
financing of the training component by                intention to get financing effective in early 2002.
another agency (see B3 and E2 above)                  Government has agreed to underwrite the
may not be accepted or the component                  component with national financing until extemal
may be delayed while appraisal takes                  financing is in place.
place
Overall Risk Rating                         M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
*      The Borrower has established within DGFE the Project Management Unit, on the basis of the
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank
*      The Borrower has submitted the Project Implementation Plan to the Bank, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank; and
*      The Borrower has established the Coordinating Committee on the basis of institutional
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Disbursement conditions
*      The submission of a research regionalization plan, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank
would be required prior to any disbursements for the regionalization of research investments.
*      The submission of a research grant management manual, in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, would be required prior to any disbursements for research grants.
Covenants.
*      Before June 30, 2003, the Borrower will present to its Chamber of Representatives a draft law in
substance satisfactory to the Bank for the establishment of a single agricultural research institute and take
all measures required on its part, including regulatory measures, to revise the mandate of IRESA.
*      Before June 30, 2002, the Borrower shall take all measures required on its part, satisfactory to the
Bank, to grant adequate administrative and financial management flexibility to IRVT laboratories.
*      The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program, the
- 27 -



Project Implementation Plan, the Accompanying Measures, the Environmental Assessment and the
Environmental Management Plan.
No Research Sub-project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless the
Borrower is satisfied that the Research Sub-project meets the eligibility criteria, procedures, terms and
conditions specified in Sections C and D of the Loan Agreement and the provisions set forth in the
Research Grant Management Manual.
Financial
*      Accounts and audits - the Borrower will assure that the annual audit reports, with an opinion on
the statements of expenditure used for certain disbursements and on the special account, are sent to the
Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year of the Borrower.
*      The Borrower will open and manage a special account in Euros.
*      Action Plan - The Borrower shall carry out a time bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for the
strengthening of the financial management system in order to enable the Borrower, not later than June 30,
2002, to prepare semi-annual Project Management Reports.
*      Monitoring, review and reporting - Upon the completion of the time bound action plan the
Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not
later than 45 days after the end of each calendar semester, a semi-annual Project Management Report for
such period.
Management Aspects
*      Regional coordinating committees on the basis of institutional arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank will be established before June 30, 2002, as the local counterparts of the national coordinating
committee, in the six govemorates where the pilot advisory services and training components will be
implemented.
*      A mid- term review would take place by June 30, 2004.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[O] 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
Z 1. b) Not applicable.
Z 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
C 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 28 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
i 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Christopher S. Ward               Doris Koehn                       Chris   del voie
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director           Country Manager/ rector
-29 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
TUNISIA: AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Key Perfornance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation     Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Competitive efficient      The adoption of innovative  National accounts
sustainable high value added  technologies in agriculture
agriculture with :mproved                            National accounts
market access, particularly for
smaller producers
Increase in farm productivity  Agricultural census and
and profits                monitoring (supported under
the project)
Project Development       Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Support organizational     Smaller and medium        Project reports, national  Smaller producers organized
structures for producers   producers (men and women in accounts data, project   in groups can at least
(initially on a pilot basis) that three pilot governorates) are  monitoring and evaluation  maintain their incomes as
represent the producers' needs organized and supervised to  data etc            protection
and interest, and have    be able to access advice,
capacity to improve market  inputs and market facilities
access and to provide, manage that increasingly improve the
and finance services to their  quality and competitivity of
members                   their agricultural production
in response to local and
international market
requirements
New Tunisian products
(saveurs de Tunisie) are
increasingly known and
competitive on local and
international markets, and
new market niches open
Produce increasingly
conforms to norms and
standards on both domestic
and international markets
- 30 -



Support efficient and      The capacity of small      Project reports, national  Policies of private sector, open
accountable public,        producers (men and women)  accounts data, project     market, export promotion, are
cooperative and private   to produce high quality and  monitoring and evaluation  maintained and will improve
services that deliver relevant  high value added produce for data etc            competitivity and market
and cost effective producer  market starts to improve to                         penetration of Tunisian
services focused on increasing the level where their                             products
quality, value added and   production is internationally
market access, and with    competitive                                           Both large farm sector,
particular attention to the                                                      medium farm sector and all
needs of specific target groups A production system starts to                    irrigated farms can improve
(notably smaller producers,  evolve that is competitive, and                     their productivity and increase
women producers and young  better able to face foreign                           their sales whilst avoiding
producers)                 competition, in- and outside                          over-rapid mining of
Tunisia.                                              resources
Lower losses to pests, disease
and spoilage.
Maximize the coverage,     Improved organization,     Project reports, national
reliability and availability of  investment and production  accounts data, project
statistics and information for  choices based on better  monitoring and evaluation
all parties having to make  knowledge of natural      data etc
choices affecting the      resources, weather, markets,
agriculture sector.        prices, cropping opportunities,
technology etc
Improved risk management
through information and
greater awareness of risk and
behaviors
- 31 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators         Monitoring & Evaluation     Critical Assumptions
Output from each          Output Indicators:        Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Subcomponent 1.1  Support
to agricultural producers
organizations
20 CAS and 55 GDA have a  Project reports, national  Political will and
A total of 75 producer    development plan and      accounts data, project     organizational capacity exist
organizations in three    working accounting system.  monitoring and evaluation  to encourage the development
governorates are capable of                         data etc                   of viable and autonomous
providing information and or Level of participation of                         producer groups. In
services to producers     members                                              particular: (1) Govemment
does not seek to promote
The public inspection     Range of services provided                           GDAs as an administrative
function, initially in six  and their quantitative growth                      process and to set numerical
govemorates, is efficiently                                                   targets; (2) Govemment
carried out by DGFE (and is  Changes in farming systems                        respects the division of
separated from the promotion  and practices of members.                       responsibilities between
function carried out outside                                                   promotion (private) and
govemment)                Development of supervision                           supervision (Govemment);
effectiveness.                                       and (3) a distinction is
observed between the
mandates of obligatory and
voluntary groups.
Subcomponent 1.2 Quality
improvement
A "quality team"of young  List of quality norms, brand  Project reports, national  Political will and institutional
professionals is set up and  or label of "saveurs de Tunisie accounts data, project  mechanisms are developed
trained as the basis for a "  " developed and market  monitoring and evaluation  that allow GIPs to develop
quality network" to provide  niches identified.     data etc                  increasing managerial and
advice within the integrated                                                  financial autonomy,
chain from producer to    Number of producers who                              beginning with autonomy
consumer                  produce for these market                             within a three year contrat
niches (turnover in quantity                        programme and leading
The saveurs de Tunisie brand  and value).                                      ultimately to control over
image                                                                         revenues from the sector itself
GIP autonomy increased and                           (FODECAP).
A facility to help producers  they each have a development
and exporters to develop their plan.                                           Tunisian agriculture, with
business                                                                       help under the project, can
meet EU quota requirements
(quantity and quality)..
- 32 -



Subcomponent 2.1
Agricultural research
A flow of knowledge and   Number of research results  Project reports, national  Technology and know how
technology that is evaluated  published, considered as  accounts data, project  can be developed that have a
by producers as relevant for  relevant and worth    monitoring and evaluation  real impact on productivity -
their needs and worth     disseminating by producers or data etc              and profitable markets exist
disseminating             processors                                          for the production
A cost effective research  Number of producers,                               Regionalization of research
program driven by the needs  processors, exporters actually                   can be implemented gradually
of producers and their    using the repertory of research                     without undermining existing
markets                   results                                             research momentum or
spreading research resources
% private financing of                              too thinly to be effective.
research
Reorganization into a unified
Equipment and infrastructure                       institute and the
shared by different units in                       regionalization process can be
the system                                          managed without a decline in
researcher commitment.
% of research projects
implemented by                                      The measures under the
multi-institutional teams                           project will tum research
around into a demand-driven
Computerized documentation                          activity.
network set up and used by
researchers
Subcomponent 2.2 A pilot
proiect to improve producer
access to training and fanning
advice
Training and advice are   strength of demand as shown  Project reports, national  Political will and enabling
available to meet producers'  by participation rate  accounts data, project   environment exist for
needs, with special focus on                        monitoring and evaluation  development of private
six pilot governorates.   number of producers adopting data etc               advisors, and the "market" of
the advice                                          supply and demand for private
advisors grows.
impact on production for
participating producers, and
the spin off impact on
production for non
participating producers
- 33 -



Subcomponent 2.3
Agricultural trainine
The national strategy for  Match of the curriculum with  Project reports, national
agricultural training is  identified demand         accounts data, project
efficiently delivered and meets                     monitoring and evaluation
the needs of producers in the  Access of women and young  data etc
increasingly competitive  people
environment
Six training centers in six  Improvement in the ratio of
governorates are upgraded  students graduating to
and provide training that is  students enrolling (male and
demand-driven and relevant  female)
to local conditions
Improvement in the ratio of
students graduating to
graduates finding employment
(male and female)
- 34 -



Component 3 Livestock and
animal health
A national identification  Number of animals tagged,  Project reports, national  Political will exists to allow
system established         cost per animal, producers'  accounts data, project   growing private sector
share in costs, ability of  monitoring and evaluation  delivery of animal health, cost
Government agencies to     data etc                   recovery, subsidy reduction
monitor animal movement,                              and privatization
producer satisfaction.
A surveillance system and  Surveillance networks in                              Producers are willing to pay
improved diagnostic ability in place, % of coverage of the                       their share of costs for
place                      national herd, quality and cost                       services, subject to the quality
of the surveillance system,                           of services..
producer satisfaction
Improved quality standards  New diagnostic labs
set up, a certification system  operational, demand for
and international          services, % cost recovery, turn
accreditation of laboratories  around time of samples
obtained                   Amount of milk marketed
and priced based on quality,
improvement in feed and
fodder quality
Coverage of cattle breeding
A system of zootechnical  through Al
services that is more
sustainable and paid by the
beneficiaries, partly provided
by private entrepreneurs or by
cooperatives or producers
groups
Number of private
A largely privatized, well  practitioners, increased
trained and self-financed  quality of veterinary services
animal health service that  (measured by user survey,
largely executes public sector reports on diseases and
managed epidemic disease   condition diagnosed and
control programs.         treated; reduction of losses on
the farm and improved
performance of domestic
animals); reduction in
veterinary costs to producers
- 35 -



Component 4:       Plant
protection and seed and plant
certification               Surveillance networks in   Project reports, national   Government is committed to a
place, increased quality of  accounts data, project    change in the role of the state
Effective phytosanitary     produce (expressed in higher  monitoring and evaluation  from executing pest control
controls at the border and  prices and increased market  data etc                  programs to encouragement of
within the country          share).                                                sustainable agriculture.
Modernized pesticide        Efficiency of pest control
regulatory framework and    (lower pre- and post harvest
laboratory testing function,  loss, lower pest control costs
including IPM               and reduction in the use of
chemicals, accuracy of pest
Efficient seed and plant    forecasts), client satisfaction.
certification working on a full
cost recovery basis         Number of tests carried out by
laboratories; % cost recovery,
reduction in residues found,
efficiency of system (cost per
sample), producer
satisfaction.
Uptake of sustainable pest
control methods in particular
IPM and biological control;
market share of biologically
produced fruits and
vegetables.
Subcomponent 5.1
Agricultural statistics and
information
A complete characterization  Reliability and punctuality of  Project reports, national  Government is committed to
of agricultural production  data, rapidity and reliability of accounts data, project  an open information policy.
(broken down where relevant distribution of information,  monitoring and evaluation
by gender)                  satisfaction of users      data etc
(ascertained by user surveys),
A reliable "just in time"   cost effectiveness
system of tracking agriculture
sector developments during
the growing season
A system of information
sharing based on rapid
availability, reliability and
maximum openness to all who
need to know
- 36 -



Key Performance      1
Hierarchy of Objectives         Indicators         Monitoring & Evaluation     Critical Assumptions
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                         Outputs)
COMPONENT 1: Building the
capacity of agricultural
producers organizations
Subcomponent 1.1  Support Total cost $ 1.80 million  Project reports, national  Quality private staff can be
to agricultural producers                           accounts data, project    hired.
organizations capacity to                           monitoring and evaluation
demand, finance and provide                         data etc
services
Subcomponent 1.2  Quality  Total cost $ 3.46 million  Project reports, national  Young professional staff can
improvement and capacity                            accounts data, project    quickly become effective
building for Interprofessional                      monitoring and evaluation  through on the job training.
Organizations (GIPs)                                data etc
COMPONENT 2:
Strengthening the supply of
research, training and farming
advisory services
Subcomponent 2.1          Total cost $ 7.62 million  Project reports, national
Agricultural research                               accounts data, project
monitoring and evaluation
data etc
Subcomponent 2.2  A pilot  Total cost $ 2.41 million  Project reports, national  Good advisory staff can be
project to improve producer                         accounts data, project    found within both public and
access to training and farning                      monitoring and evaluation  private sectors.
advice                                              data etc
Subcomponent 2.3          Total cost $ 6.79 million  Project reports, national  Managers and staff will
Agricultural training                               accounts data, project    accept the new approaches.
monitoring and evaluation
data etc
COMPONENT 3:              Total cost $ 8.75 million  Project reports, national  The legal and regulatory
Livestock and animal health                         accounts data, project    framework can be amended to
monitoring and evaluation  allow the proposed
data etc                 innovations
COMPONENT 4:      Plant   Total cost $ 6.44 million  Project reports, national
protection                                          accounts data, project
monitoring and evaluation
data etc
COMPONENT 5:
Strengthening public interest
services and project
management support
Subcomponent 5.1          Total cost $ 3.37 million  Project reports, national  Different departments will
Agricultural statistics and                         accounts data, project    work together to pool
information                                         monitoring and evaluation  information in a cost effective
data etc                  way
Subcomponent 5.2  Project  Total cost $ 1.61 million  Project reports, national
management support                                  accounts data, project
monitoring and evaluation
data etc
- 37 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
TUNISIA: AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
A.     Project Goal and Objectives
Goal
The project is the first phase of a longer term program that aims at improving production quality,
competitivity and market access, particularly for smaller and medium scale producers.
Objectives
To this end, the project objectives are to:
1.     develop on a pilot basis organizational structures for producers that represent their needs and
interests;
2.    improve the institutional capacity and quality of agricultural services delivered by public and
private institutions and producer organizations;
3.     improve the flow of information for all sector stakeholders.
B.      Summary Project Description
Project Background
Producer services are vital to achieve agricultural growth in Tunisia. The development of new markets, the
development and transfer of new technology, human resource development for a modernized agriculture,
the protection of both plants and animals from disease, the oversight of international agreements and
quality standards, and prudent investment are all essential factors in the growth of a competitive
commercial agriculture in Tunisia.
Government has worked out the following action plan for agricultural services over the next decade:
Support the development of organizational structures for small-to-medium scale producers and
their capacity to represent producers' interests and to provide services to their members
*      Reorganize, decentralize and reequip research, training and extension services to deliver more
relevant and cost effective services
*      Support to the maximum participation, privatization and private financing and delivery wherever
possible.
*      Reinforce and develop essentially public services where these have a strong economic justification
such as disease prevention, protection and monitoring, and improve the provision of aids to good planning
and decision making in the sector
- 38 -



Thus the priority is to improve the cost effectiveness and quality of services, and further implement gradual
transfer to producers and the private sector. This will be the task for the next ten years. The first five year
phase will be supported by the proposed project. A possible second phase project would complete the
process.
Summary of Components
The project would have five components and a number of sub-components as follows:
Component 1: Building the capacity of agricultural producers organizations and inter-professional
organizations
Pilot support to producer organizations capacity to demand, manage and provide services - total cost
$ 1.80 million
Quality improvement and export development - total cost $ 3.46 million
Component 2: Strengthening the supply of research, training and agricultural advisory services
Agricultural research - total cost $ 7.62 million
A pilot project to improve producer access to training and farning advice - total cost $ 2.41 million
Agricultural training - total cost $ 6.79 million
Component 3: Livestock and animal health - total cost $ 8.75 million
Component 4: Plant protection and seed and plant certification - total cost $ 6.44 million
Component 5: Strengthening public interest services and project management support
Agricultural statistics and information - total cost $ 3.37 million
Project management support - total cost $ 1.61 million
The overall total cost is $42.23 million excluding the front end fee. The components and sub-components
are described in the following paragraphs. More detail is given in the Project Implementation Plan.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$ million
Component 1: Building the capacity of agricultural producers organizations and Inter-professional
Organizations (GIPs)
The component would support organizational structures for producers (both local and national)
that represent the producers' needs and interests, and have capacity to improve market access
and to provide, manage andfinance services to their members. The component would also
- 39 -



strengthen the DGFE in its monitoring and inspection function
Subcomponent 1.1: Pilot support to producer organizations capacity to demand, manage and provide
services - total cost $ 1.80 million. Implementing Agency : DGFE
The subcomponent will develop producer organizations and their capacity to facilitate access of
small-to-medium producers (men and women) to services. It will also strengthen Government (DGFE)
capacity to monitor and supervise producer organizations. The component will be implemented initially in
three pilot governorates and subsequently, after mid-term review, three further governorates may be
considered. By the end of the project a total of 75 producer organizations in the three governorates would
be capable to provide information and/or services to producers. The public inspection function in six
govemorates would be efficiently carried out by DGFE and be separated from the promotion function
carried out outside government.
Activities would be: (1) promotion and capacity building for producer organizations, implemented by "a
promotion team" of private consultants under contract with DGFE; and (2) reinforcement of DGFE's
capacity to monitor and inspect producer organizations, implemented through DGFE
Subcomponent 1.2:   Quality improvement and export development, including capacity building for
Inter-professional Organizations (GlIPs) - total cost $ 3.46 million. Implementing Agency: APIA
The subcomponent will set up and train a quality team of young professionals to reinforce GIPs and APIA
to (i) identify and develop new local and export market niches for Tunisian agricultural products; (ii)
improve links between production and market to adapt Tunisian agriculture to the requirements of new
markets; (iii) ensure rapid diffusion of information between producers, service agencies, processors and the
market; and (iv) develop and promote norms and standards for Tunisian agricultural products ("saveurs de
Tunisie ") for local and international consumers
Activities will be: (1) establishment of a quality network; (2) conducting a quality inventory and creating
the brand "saveurs de Tunisie"; (3) setting up quality standards; (4) developing integrated quality
operations; (5) establishment of an "agriculture gateway"; and (6) setting up a research budget for quality
and export development.
Component 2: Strengthening the supply of research, training and agricultural advisory services
The component would support accountable public, cooperative and private services that deliver
relevant and cost effective producer services focused on increasing quality, value added and
market access, and with particular attention to the needs of specific target groups (notably smaller
producers, women producers and young producers).
Subcomponent 2.1: Agricultural research - total cost $ 7.62 million. Implementing Agency : IRESA
(and from 2004, the new unified institute)
The subcomponent will help agricultural research in Tunisia to provide knowledge and technology to meet
the goals of improving quality and value added and increase market access. The subcomponent will also
help improve internal efficiency and cost effectiveness of agricultural research through a better use of all
human, physical and financial research resources existing in the country.
- 40 -



Activities would be: (1) setting up two regional research centers and supporting existing regional research
poles; (2) carrying out priority research activities financed under a competitive grant system basis and
contractual arrangements; (3) supporting regional and national commissions for programming and
evaluating research programs; (4) a user accessible rolling repertory of usable research results; (5) an
agriculture science data base; (6) external evaluation of research programs; and (7) setting up a unified
research institute.
Subcomponent 2.2: A pilot project to improve producer access to training and farming advice - total
cost $ 2.41 million. Implementing Agency: AVFA
The subcomponent will give producers access to training and advice that they need to produce higher
quality, higher value added produce and sell it to the most profitable markets.
Activities would be: (1) setting up training and advisory teams in each of six training centers in six pilot
govemorates (Thibar/Beja; Chott Mariem/Souss; Degueche/Tozeur; Boughrara/Sfax; Bouchrik/Nabeul;
Mahdia peche/Mahdia; (2) strengthening of women's extension in five governorates (Siliana, Kairouan,
Mannouba, Zaghounan and Sidi Bouzid; and (3) a mass media campaign through technical documentation,
newspapers, radio and television.
Subcomponent 2.3: Agricultural training - total cost $ 6.79 million. Implementing Agency : AVFA
The subcomponent would improve the relevance and value of training, particularly for target groups (small
producers, women producers, young producers). It would help to implement the national strategy for
agricultural training. It is linked with the pilot project for extension (subcomponent 2.2), i.e. the same
training centers are targeted.
Activities would be (1) setting up a permanent system to measure traininig needs and demand; (2)
remodeling of the national curriculum and training materials, and training of trainers; (3) upgrading of the
six training centers in the pilot govemorates; and (4) monitoring and evaluation of the implementation and
impact of the changes.
Component 3: Livestock and animal health - total cost $ 8.75 million. Implementing Agencies: OEP
(activity # 1); DGSA (activities # 2, 3 and 5); DGPA (activity #4)
As for component 2, this component would support efficient and accountable public, cooperative
and private services that deliver relevant and cost effective producer services to livestock
producers, with particular focus on improving quality of services and their sustainability through
progressive transfer and cost recovery.
The component will aim at improving all parameters of livestock production through enhanced services,
including: efficiency and quality of production, quality and sustainability of services and their
responsiveness to producers' need, and market access and value added. At the end of the project, there
should be improved productivity and quality standards, and a system of partly private services that is more
sustainable and partly paid by the beneficiaries.
Activities are: (1) introduction of a national identification system for cattle and a monitoring/tracing system
of animal movements; (2) establishment of a disease monitoring and control program
-41 -



(epidemio-surveillance); (3) improved diagnostic capability in animal health, in animal feed quality control,
and in the safety of animal and fish products; (4) improvement of zootechnical services; and (5)
development and monitoring of quality private veterinary and livestock services.
Component 4: Plant protection and seed and plant certification - total cost $ 6.44 million.
Implementing Agency: DGPV
This component would aim at protecting Tunisian produce from plant diseases and predators, and
at protecting consumers from pesticide residues, and thereby increase the value and market access
ofproduce.
The component would lead to safer and higher quality products and improved acceptance by local and
international markets; to lower losses to pests, disease and spoilage; and to better informed producers and
consumers, especially in sustainable and "green" agriculture and horticulture.
Activities will be: (1) improvement of the capacity to monitor and test the quality of farm inputs, in
particular pesticides and new seeds and plants; (2) development of monitoring and surveillance on internal
trade and on imports and exports; and (3) awareness and understanding among technical staff, extension
staff and producers about cost effective and sustainable pest control and integrated pest management.
Component 5: Strengthening public interest services and project management support
The component would aim at maximizing the coverage, reliability and availability of statistics and
information for all parties making choices affecting the agriculture sector. It would also support
project management.
Subcomponent 5.1     : Agricultural statistics and information - total cost $ 3.37 million.
Implementing Agencies: DGPDIA (activity # 1); DGPA and DGPAQ (activity # 2); and ONAGRI
(activity # 3).
The subcomponent will develop agricultural statistics and information so that producers and others can
make informed choices based on better knowledge of natural resources, weather, markets, prices, cropping
opportunities, technology etc. The subcomponent would allow improved risk management. It will produce
a complete characterization of agricultural production, a reliable "just in time" system of tracking
agriculture sector developments during the growing season, and a broader system of information sharing
based on rapid availability, reliability and maximum openness to all who need to know.
Activities will be: (1) strengthening of agricultural statistics; (2) upgrading of the annual crop forecasting
system; and (3) strengthening of the agricultural information system ONAGRI to make its coverage
broader (with special attention to international market developments and to agriculture policies
internationally) and to allow maximum access to all relevant information.
Subcomponent 5.2: Project management support - total cost $ 1.61 million. Implementing Agency:
DGFE.
The subcomponent will provide resources to DGFE to help it in coordinating project implementation,
including resources for consultants for monitoring and evaluation and the mid-tem review.
- 42 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
TUNISIA: AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Local    [  Foreign        Total   1
Project Cost By Component                US $million  US Smillion  US Smillion
1. Building the capacity of producer and inter-professional  0.00      0.00         0.00
organizations
Producer organizations                                  1.02         0.44          1.46
Quality irnprovements and Interprofessional Organizations  1.84      1.18         3.02
2. Research, training and farning advisory services       0.00         0.00         0.00
Agricultural Research                                   3.01         3.73         6.74
Pilot project - producers access to training and advice  1.35        0.77         2.12
Training                                                3.14         2.70         5.84
3. Livestock and animal health                            5.24         2.05         7.29
4. Plant protection                                       2.67         2.89          5.56
5. Public interest services and project management support  0.00       0.00         0.00
Agricultural statistics and infornation                 1.63         1.36         2.99
Project management support                              1.18         0.12         1.30
Total Baseline Cost                                      21.08         15.24        36.32
Physical Contingencies                                   1.16         0.77          1.93
Price Contingencies                                      2.75          1.24         3.99
Total Project Costs             24.99         17.25        42.24
Front-end fee                    0.21         0.21
Total Financing Required              24.99        17.46        42.45
Local       Foreign   1    Total
_ ___      Project Cost By Category_               US $million  US $million  US $millon
1. Investment costs                                         0.00          0.00         0.00
Civil Works                                              3.29          1.78         5.07
Vehicules and other equipment                            4.91          8.71         13.62
Studies, surveys and publications                        1.80          2.05         3.85
Training, workshops and seminars                         1.54          2.00         3.54
Research grants                                          0.84          0.21         1.05
International consultants                                0.19          0.77         0.96
Local consultants                                        3.76          0.02         3.78
Administrative costs                                     1.36          0.03          1.39
2. Incremental recurrent costs                              7.30          1.68         8.98
Total Project Costs    24.99          17.25        42.24
Front-end fee                    0.21         0.21
Total Financing Required     24.99         17.46        42.45
Detailed cost tables are available in the project files.
Assumptions:
Project costs were estimated based on the following assumptions:
- Exchange rate: 1 USD = 1.45 DT
- Price contingencies are calculated assuning project start in January 2002. Projected local and foreign
inflation rates are World Bank estimates (Country Assistance Strategy (draft, 2000) and Long-termr MUV
- 43 -



Index forecast (Commodity Price Forecasts, November 2000)
2001         2002          2003         2004         2005          2006
Local inflation                   3.8          3.7          3.7           3.7          3.6          3.6
Foreign inflation                 2.5          2.5          2.5           2.5          2.5          2.5
Identifiable taxes and duties are 8.3 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 34.15 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 62.46%/o of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 44 -



Annex 4
TUNISIA: AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Background information
The program's overall goal is to promote a productive, efficient and sustainable agriculture that will
contribute to improving the standards of living of producers, strengthen Tunisia's position on the
international market and help government achieve its agricultural growth targets (4.3% for 1997-2001 and
2.9% up to 2010). In the context of liberalization of the economy, farms and agricultural enterprises will
have to adjust to the new economic context by increasing their competitiveness on national and
international markets through increased productivity and improved quality of their products (Analyse de la
competitivite du secteur agricole tunisien, Study Engineering, 1996).
To this end, the project will support the reform of agricultural services that was initiated at the end of the
1980's and should be completed within a ten-year time horizon. The reform aims at increasing the
relevance and responsiveness of services to the sector needs, by increasing private participation in provision
and financing and re-focusing government's services on essentially public functions, such as policy
formulation, planning, regulation and control, monitoring and evaluation etc.
Over the 5-year implementation phase of the project, private sector participation in the provision and
financing of agricultural services will increase, while government's capacity to ensure its essential public
functions will be strengthened. The government will continue to provide many agricultural services to
producers until the appropriate institutional and regulatory framework is in place and while the capacity of
producer organizations and the commercial private sector is building up. In a possible second phase
(2007-2012), private sector participation will continue to expand.
The project would: (i) strengthen producers organizations and so facilitate their access to the services and
markets they need to increase and secure their incomes; (ii) strengthen inter-professional organizations to
help them identify and develop new local and export niches for Tunisian produce, and to develop and
promote norms and standards for local and international consumers.  Market differentiation and
development will allow producers to sell more at a better price; (iii) Improve plant protection services.
This would protect Tunisian produce from plant diseases and pests and protect consumers from pesticides
residues and thereby increase the value and market access of produce. (iv) Reform research, training,
farming advice and livestock services. The introduction of a demand-driven approach will improve the
relevance of services to the producers constraints (production, quality, marketing), and thereby their impact
on the ground.
Beneficiaries
Project beneficiaries are the medium and smaller but commercially-oriented producers, with a special focus
on women and young producers. This group of producers is the one for whom improved agricultural
services bring the greatest potential for agricultural growth, and thus the highest economic benefit. Larger
commercial producers have already access to the services they need, whilst poor producers or producers
located in marginal areas are supported by parallel programs on the model of the ODESYPANO. The
strategy for the marginal areas is not so much to enhance agricultural growth (although this may sometimes
be possible) as to sustain rural development through job creation and social protection services.
-45 -



Economic Benefits
The project is expected to increase the value added of agricultural production, mainly through productivity
increase, quality improvement and shift towards production for which Tunisia has a competitive advantage.
Important secondary benefits are the improvement of gender equity and income security. Thus the project
is expected to increase total income, improve income distribution and reduce income variability. According
to the farming typology and analysis of potential carried out during identification and preparation,
agricultural services to producers can result in increased sector growth from commercial large farms, from
the irrigated sector, from market-oriented middling and small farms in general, and from significant parts of
the livestock and fisheries sectors. For quasi subsistence small farms the economic case is less strong, as
potential for improved productivity is less strong and the systems are generally dependent on protection.
The challenge in performing the economic analysis of such a project is to measure these benefits and to link
them to specific investments in agricultural services. That poses several problems:
(i)    benefits from institutional development and capacity building are difficult to quantify;
(ii)  the project supports an ongoing reform that started in 1988 and is expected to finish in a 10-year
time horizon. It is difficult to  dissociate benefits of the proposed project from the rest of the
reform process.
(iii)  the projects aims at improving a wide range of complementary services. Conducting the economic
analysis of each component  individually is problematic.
Many ex-post studies have shown that agricultural services investments yield high rates of return. A
comprehensive 1998 report by the Intemational Food Policy Research Institute (Alston and others 1998)
reviewed 294 studies providing 1,858 separate estimates of rates of return on investment in agricultural
research and development (including extension). After eliminating the extremes, the estimated rates of
return average 73% - 88% for research only and 45% for research and extension combined. The lower
estimate for research and extension combined might be due to these studies capturing more of the total
costs of the technology generation process. The study found no evidence of decline in rates of return in
recent years.
Even if no ex-post or ex-ante analysis is available for Tunisia, there is no reason to believe that economic
returns to agricultural services investments in Tunisia would be substantially below the level of historic
returns. Substantial evidence, such as the technical and economic potential of many crops and systems,
supports the potential for good returns to investments in agricultural R&E in Tunisia.
A break-even analysis
Since benefits from project activities are difficult to estimate ex-ante, a break-even analysis has been
conducted for the project as a whole. Under this approach, the minimum benefits that must be generated by
the project to justify costs are determined and the feasibility of obtaining these benefits is assessed. It is
assumed that project benefits would materialize through an increase of agricultural GDP. This is a
conservative approach, since other benefits can be expected such as social benefits. To take into account
the slow process of institutional reform and capacity building, it is assumed that benefits would start
materializing in PY5 and reach full potential by PY8. The lifetime of the project is assumed to be 20 years.
Economic investment and recurrent costs were obtained from the project cost tables after removing taxes
and financial contingencies. The shadow exchange rate is assumed to equal the market exchange rate.
-46 -



Detailed calculation of economic input and output prices are available in the project files.
Under these assumptions, to obtain an overall rate of return of 12%, agricultural GDP growth would have
to increase by +0.03% p.a. compared to the without project scenario.
Comparison to historical growth rates
Agricultural growth averaged 3.4% p.a. during the period 1989-99, and 4.1% between 1976 and 1994..
Between 1976 and 1994, increase in total factor productivity explained about half of the growth (2% p.a.)
while the other 2.1% was explained by an increase in the use of production factors (Lachaal, L. (1996),
"Les sources de la productivite dans l'Agriculture Tunisienne", Actes des 3emes Journees Nationales sur
les Acquis de la Recherche Agronomique, Veterinaire et Halieutique, Nabeul 29 Nov. - ler Dec. 1996..
This strong performance over a long period of time is the result of large public and private investments,
accompanied by a favorable policy environment and development of a broad range of services to producers.
Traditionally, about 20% of public investments have been allocated to the agricultural sector and private
investments were encouraged through subsidies and tax exemption, in addition to a favorable price policy
and the provision of services to technology development and transfer, animal health, plant protection etc.
The casefor investing now in technology and human capacity
In the past, a large share of public investments was allocated to irrigation development and soil and water
conservation projects; while private investment were used for mechanization, livestock, arboriculture, and
fisheries development. As a result, physical resources (land and water) are now almost fully developed and
future growth will have to come from increased factor productivity and increased value added of
agricultural products through the mobilization of human capital employing technology, know how and
managerial skills. This emphasizes the economic case for investing in technology and human capacity for
intensifying factor productivity, and for conservation of the resource base, .
Potentialfor growth exists
Substantial productivity gains are still to be tapped (i.e. utilization rate of irrigation perimeters,
intensification, water use efficiency, better use of inputs and improved cultural techniques on annual
crops). This is illustrated by important variability in technical and economic performance in the same
agro-climatic zone from one farm to another (CNEA/COMETE Engineering, identification report,
2000). And the scope for increasing value added of agricultural products (e.g. improved quality, better
marketing, shift to higher value crops) is also important.
Links between growth and services
Improving agricultural services and strengthening producers and inter-professional organizations are vital
to tap into these potential and to achieve government's growth targets. Intemational experience has shown
that improving agricultural services has gone hand-in-hand with higher growth. The link between services
and productivity in Tunisia is confirmed by the needs assessment carried out during pre-appraisal, that
showed the strongest needs for: (1) timely and relevant technology, advisory services and training to
improve productivity and reduce costs, and thereby increase revenues; (2) information and advice on
market outlets and requirements; and (3) producer and industry organization to ensure service delivery, to
improve marketing and to represent and defend producers interests.
- 47 -



Conclusion on economic viability
Given the potential for improvement in agricultural services perfornance (provision of services), producer
organizations (access to services, inputs and markets) and inter-professional organizations (quality,
marketing, export) and the technical and economic potential for further growth for many crops and
systems, an increment of at least 0.03% of AgGDP growth does not seem unrealistic to reach even with the
conservative approach taken in this analysis. The economic viability of the project is thus justified.
Effect of economic analysis on project approach
The lack of specific ERR analysis at the level of the overall project makes it very important to ensure that
economic considerations are factored in to decisions at the implementation and micro levels. Two
important measures will be observed:
(1) wherever relevant, decisions on research, extension, training, animal health, plant protection etc will be
driven by economic criteria, putting producers' bottom line as the target and linking producer profit from
the technology or the service to cost of the service
(2) cost effectiveness will be observed for all service provision, and will increasingly be producer
monitored, as cost sharing imposes a" value for money" requirement on the service provider.
Monitoring and evaluation of economic performance
The litmus test of economic benefit to producers under the project will be their participation in the prograrn
(active group formation, setting the agenda for some agricultural services and progressively paying for and
providing some services). Thus the monitoring and evaluation system should concentrate on these
(participation rates) as the key index of project economic performance.
- 48 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
TUNISIA: AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Years Ending
2002-2006
-           IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
Year I  | Year 2      Year 3  | Year 4  r Year r   l Year 6   I Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            8.5        9.9        6.6       4.4        3.9        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.9        1.3        1.9        2.3        2.5       0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs           9.4       11.2        8.5       6.7        6.4        0.0       0.0
Front-end fee     0.1        0.1                                        0.0       0.0
Total Financing               9.5       11.3        8.5       6.7        6.4        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                   4.0        6.2        5.0        3.2        2.9       0.0       0.0
Government                 3.4        3.4        3.3        3.3        3.3       0.0       0.0
Central                 0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              2.1        1.7        0.2        0.2        0.2       0.0       0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries    0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing      9.5       11.3        8.5        6.7       6.4       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
Detailed tables are available in the project files.
Project costs total US$ 42.2 million, of which US$33.3 million (79%) are investment costs and US$9.0
million are incremental recurrent costs. Project costs would be bome by the public budget (40% of project
costs) and the loan (50% of project costs) together with a cofinancier for the training component (10%).
Over the 5-year implementation period of the project, the Government would provide US$16.7 million
counterpart funds, an average of US$3.3 million a year.
The project fiscal impact is expected to be small in the short and medium terms. Both investment and
incremental recurrent costs are small when compared to the ministry's total budget and the increase in
operating costs is partially balanced by some transfers of activities to the private and professional sectors.
Government's annual contribution to investment costs totals less than 1% of the ministry's 2000-investment
budget (excluding external sources).Annual operating costs average under US$2 million a year and peak at
year 5 at US$2.1 million (constant price 2000), that is less than 2% of the Ministry's 2000-operating
budget (Titre I), and about 5% of the operating budgets of the services concerned by the project.
Over the 5-year implementation phase of the project, private sector participation in the provision and
financing of agricultural services will be relatively modest, while government's capacity to ensure its
essential public functions will be strengthened. The government will continue to provide and finance
agricultural services to producers until the appropriate institutional and regulatory framework is in place
and producer organizations and the commercial private sector are ready to take over. It is therefore during a
possible second phase (2007-2011) that private sector participation will really expand, and a positive
-49 -



impact on government's budget could be expected.
On the benefits side, and in the medium and long term, increase in farm household spending as a result of
higher incomes would have a positive impact on tax revenues. In addition, higher farm incomes will allow
producers to pay a greater share of services, making possible and sustainable user participation in the
provision and financing of services.
- 50 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
TUNISIA: AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
Procurement
Guidelines
1.      Procurement for the proposed project will be carried out in accordance with the World Bank"
Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published in January 1995 (revised in
January /August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999, and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", published in January 1997 and as revised September 1997 and
January 1999,and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement. National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
will be carried out with procedures acceptable to IBRD which allow: (a) an explicit statement to bidders of
the evaluation and award criteria; (b) national advertising with public bid opening; (c) sufficient time for
bidders to submit bids (four weeks usually); (d) no preference margin to domestic contractors or
manufacturers; (e) foreign bidders to participate in NCB if they so wish; and (f) contract award to be made
to the bidder whose offer is substantially responsive and lowest evaluated. The methods to be used for the
procurement under this project, and the estimated amounts for each method, are summarized in Table A.
The threshold contract values for the use of each method are fixed in Table B.
2.     The Tunisian procurement legislation is generally in line with the Bank's guidelines and reflects
adequate capacity of implementing agencies to handle procurement, and adequate control organizations in
the country. Tunisian implementing agencies would apply the Bank's procedures, in particular conceming
the following issues:
(i) the use of two envelopes in bidding for works and goods: the envelopes containing the
administrative and technical documents, and the envelope containing the financial offer, will be
opened simultaneously in public and in one single stage, and prices are announced in the same
session; and
(ii) services of consultants: open competitive bidding will not be used. In accordance with the
Bank's procedures, the Borrower addresses a request for proposals to a predetermined short list.
For consultants, the envelopes containing the financial proposals will be opened in public in a
second stage, only after the technical evaluation is completed.
Project Management
3.     The proposed five-year project objectives are to support the national program for the development
of agricultural services. The project would represent the first half of a ten year program, and is expected to
have five components, as mentioned in the project description.
Procurement of works and goods and the selection of consultants would be carried out by twelve
implementing units, most of which have experience in implementing Bank-financed projects. Each
implementing unit will be responsible for launching and supervising its own work program. To ensure
smooth project implementation the Project Management Unit (PMU) will be within the Ministry of
Agriculture and administered by the DGFE, which has a long experience in dealing with Bank-financed
procurement under the previous ASIL, the on-going ASIL 2, and the recently effective Water Sector
Investment Loan. The PMIU coordinator has already been appointed and has substantial experience in
-51 -



handling procurement in accordance with Bank procedures. In addition to the coordinator, the PMU will
have a financial management/procurement specialist, and a monitoring and evaluation specialist. The
recruitment of the two specialists will be subject to the Bank's approval. During project implementation, the
PMU will have, when required, to utilize the adequate resources in procurement within the Direction
Generale du Financement et des Encouragements and the Ministry of Agriculture in general. The PMI will
provide for the less experienced executing units support through hands-on training and permanent coaching.
A Project Implementation Plan is being prepared which will include, in addition to the procurement
procedures, the Standard Bidding Document to be used for each procurement method. It is however
anticipated that the project would not be eligible for PMR-based disbursement in particular during the first
year.
Civil Works
4.     Civil works to be financed under the project will cover mainly the construction and rehabilitation of
laboratories and will be scattered across the country. These works are relatively small and would add up to
an aggregate of US$5.07 million equivalent. They will be carried out in accordance with National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures. Contracts estimated to cost below US$30,000 may be awarded on
the basis of comparing quotations from at least three contractors.
Goods
5.     The project would finance vehicles, office equipment and computers as well as miscellaneous
equipment for implementing units. The total value of goods is estimated at US$13.63 million equivalent. To
the extent possible and practicable, goods and equipment to be purchased under the project would be
combined into packages worth at least US$400,000 and will be procured through ICB. The Bank's
Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs) would be used for all International Competitive Bidding - ICB - for
goods. NCB may be used for contracts estimated to cost US$30,000 or more, but less than US$400,000.
National or international shopping based on price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers can be
used for small quantities of goods, provided that the value of the goods does not exceed US$30,000 and the
aggregate amount does not exceed US$500,000.
Services
6.     Services will consist of: studies (US$ 1.78 million equivalent) ; surveys (US$ 1.54 million
equivalent); training (US$ 3.54 million equivalent); publications and teaching materials (US$ 0.53 million
equivalent); national and international consultants (US$ 4.73 million equivalent). Consultant services with
an estimated contract amount exceeding US$200,000 will be advertised in the United Nations Development
Business and in at least one national paper, seeking expressions of interest. For such contracts, the Bank's
Standard Request for Proposals will be used, and the selection of consultants will be addressed through
competition among qualified short-listed firms in which the selection will be based on Quality and Cost
Based Selection (QCBS). In the case of assignments to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent, the short-list
of consultants may comprise entirely national consultants if a sufficient number of qualified firms are
available at competitive costs. However, if foreign firms expressed interest, they will not be excluded from
consideration. The selection method of consultants will be based on quality and cost (QCBS) for all
contracts above US$100,000 equivalent for firns and US$50,000 for individuals. Below these thresholds,
and with the exception of the employment of consultants through single source for reasons critical to the
project, the selection method may be on the basis of Consultants' Qualification Selection (CQ).
The training programs would be subject to the Bank's prior review and approval, as would be
- 52 -



workshops.
Procurement Plan: The Borrower will develop, before the start up of the project, a procurement plan for
the first year of the project implementation, acceptable to the Bank. A similar plan will be prepared by the
Borrower and approved by the Bank for the next following years.
Research Sub-Projects
7.     The research sub-projects (US$1.05 million- given in table A "Miscellaneous- other") will take
place in accordance with the Research Grant Management Manual, which will be subject to Bank approval
and be in effect by March 31, 2002. The Manual will set out the obligations and eligibility and
performance criteria, and will include provisions that (1) each sub-project shall be financially and
technically viable; (2) each sub-project shall comply with the standards set forth in the applicable laws of
the Borrower relating to health, safety and environmental protection as well as the Bank's related
applicable guidelines; (3) financing to be on a grant basis; (4) each sub-project to be carried out with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound environmental, agricultural, technical, financial, and
managerial standards, with adequate accounting records; (5) the right of inspection, review and information
for the Borrower and the Bank; and (6) the right for the Borrower to terminate for non-compliance with the
rules. The grant program will be managed by Ministry of Agriculture through IRESA.
- 53 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category       _     C8             NCB          Other'        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                            0.00            4.10          0.97          0.00        5.07
(0.00)          (2.50)        (0.30)        (0.00)     (2.80)
2. Goods                            5.20             7.01          1.42         0.00        13.63
(4.46)          (4.03)        (0.00)        (0.00)     (8.49)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00          12.12         0.00        12.12
(0.00)          (0.00)        (8.96)        (0.00)     (8.96)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00             0.00          1.05         10.37       11.42
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.87)        (0.00)     (0.87)
5. Front-end fee                    0.00            0.00           0.21         0.00        0.21
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.21)        (0.00)     (0.21)
Total                             5.20           11.11         15.77         10.37       42.45
(4.46)          (6.53)        (10.34)      (0.00)      (21.33)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes small works and goods to be procured through national or international shopping, consulting
services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance
services, and incremental operating costs related to managing the project.
The amount of US$870,000 to be financed by the Bank Loan, under Miscellaneous (other) corresponds to the costs
of carrying out research sub-project in accordance with the Research Grant Management Manual.
- 54 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                               Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Category      (US$ thousands)   ,        Method               (US$ millions)
1. Works                       <5,000                  NCB              All contracts above US$
500,000
2. Goods                       >=400                    ICB                 All contracts
<400                   NCB                 First contract
3. Services: Firms              >100                   QCBS                 All contracts
<100                    CQ                     None
Services: Individuals           >=50                see Section V     All (TORs, Short List, CV,
of Consultant Guidelines      Contract)
<50                 see Section V
of Consultant Guidelines      TORs only
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  US$8.7 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
'Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 55 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$iFinancing Percentage
1. Works                                   2.67                         80%
2. Goods                                   8.06           100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory), and 80%
of local expenditures for other items
3. Services, workshops, seminars,         8.51                         100%
training
4. Grants for research sub-projects        0.82                         100%
5. Unallocated                             1.06                         100%
[Total Project Costs                       21.12
Front-end fee         0.21
Total                                      21.33
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursement Arrangements
The proceeds of the IBRD loan would be disbursed against 100% of eligible foreign or ex factory tax
exempt expenditures on goods; 100% of all expenditures on consultant services, studies, research programs
and training; and 80% on goods and civil works procured locally.
As projected by Bank's standard disbursement profiles, disbursements would be completed four months
after project closure. Disbursements would be made against standard IBRD documentation.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursement of eligible expenditures for works, goods and services, the Government will open
a special account in the Central Bank of Tunisia to cover part of IBRD's share of eligible expenditures to
be managed and administered by the Central Bank of Tunisia. The authorized allocation of the special
account would be EUR 1,400,000 (equivalent of US$ 1,250,000), covering an estimated 4 months of
eligible expenditures financed by IBRD. However, the initial authorized allocation would be limited to
EUR 800,000 (equivalent to US$ 750,000) until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan, plus
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments equal EUR 5,000,000 (the equivalent of US$
4,500,000). The Central Bank of Tunisia will be responsible for submitting monthly replenishment
applications with appropriate supporting documentation for expenditures incurred and will retain and make
the documents available for review by IBRD supervision missions and project auditors. To the extent
possible, all of IBRD's share of expenditures should be paid through the special account. All expenditures
eligible for IBRD financing of less than US$ 100,000 equivalent would be paid from the SA.
The Special Account will be replenished through the submission of Withdrawal Applications on a monthly
basis and will include reconciled bank statements and other documents as my be required
- 56 -



Use of Statement of Expenditure (SOEs): All applications to withdraw proceeds from the credit will be
fully documented, except for: (i) expenditures for contracts with an estimated value of US$ 400,000 each
or less for goods, US$ 500,000 for civil works, and US$ 100,000 for consulting firms; and (ii) US$
50,000 or less for individual consultants, training and individual research grants, which may be claimed on
the basis of certified Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Copies of documentation supporting
expenditures claimed against SOEs will be retained by the PMU and will be available for review when
requested by IBRD supervision missions and project auditors. All disbursements will be subject to the
conditions of the Loan Agreement and the procedures defined in the Disbursement Letter.
Financial Mananement.
The Financial Management System (FMS) in place at the Ministry of Agriculture (implementing agency
for the project) is based on principles and procedures defined by the legal framework applicable to the
pubic sector and more specifically to governmental institutions. The main characteristics of this system are
the following:
Accounting system. An accounting system based on the cash basis and the outline of budget components is
operational and reflected on legal books according to the regulation described in the Public Accounting
Law. In parallel the information system is quite developed and allows, through numerous applications, to
generate the necessary information for the management of operational activity.
Budgeting system. Based on the programs and actions to be undertaken, the MOA issues an annual budget
for commitments. The annual budget is submitted for approval to the Ministry of Finance, structure in
charge of a close control through its specialized units. In tenus of sources of funds, the general budget
includes the GOT's contribution as well as funds allocated by different donors for the implementation of
specific projects. The budget execution is also subject to authorization for payment on a transaction level.
This specific authorization process aims at ensuring that the expense to be paid has been budgeted, and to
issue the official instruction to make the payment. This process is supported by a computer system called
ADAB". All the technical ministries use this system at the central level to commit expenditures and to
insure that all commitments are covered by the annual approved budget.
National disbursements procedures. At the regional level, payments through the govemmental budget
involving decentralized agriculture activities are processed by the CRDAs. Based on the authorization of
payments, the Tresorerie Generale (TG) transfers the needed funds on a quarterly basis. With regards to
transactions totally or partially financed by intemational donors, payments are centralized for the eligible
portion. The process involves four parties with the following specific roles : (i) the CRDA is responsible
for implementation and issuing of the applications for withdrawal, (ii) the technical department involved is
responsible for reviewing the technical aspects and the consistency of the supporting documentation, (iii)
the DGFE is responsible for the review of the eligibility of the expenditures to the specific financing; and
(iv) the Central Bank of Tunisia (BCT) which plays the role of manager of the special account and is acting
as MOF representative for the replenishment of this account.
Control of the budget execution. A fiduciary responsibility of control of budget execution and monitoring is
assigned to MOF through a specialized audit department "Contr6le General des Finances" (CGF) and to the
Audit Court (Cour des Comptes) that has a judiciary role of supervision of public finance and the authority
to deliver final approval ("quittus") of the management and accounts of public funds. For managing the
extemal debt, MOF has implemented in 1996 a new computerized system called "SIADE".
- 57 -



Project Monitoring. The official structure responsible for the project monitoring and reporting in the MOA
is DGFE. This unit is responsible for issuing periodical reports combining physical implementation data as
well as financial information related to commitments and disbursements from the loans. The system in
place is satisfactory in terms of use of funds but still incomplete in terms of reporting as required by the
Bank. In fact, DGFE still has to handle periodically several sub reports issued by the technical departments
that often don't have the needed coherence to allow for an easy aggregation of data. This method of
operating involves delays and extra workload related to the needed checks and reconciliation of data before
issuing the consolidated semi-annual reports. This could also affect the accuracy and reliability of data
since new entries have to be done at the level of DGFE in order to present an overview of project
implementation. An improvement is actually expected through implementation of an accounting and
reporting system for the Water Sector Investment Project.
General Assessment and Scope for Improvement
General Assessment. The overall financial management system used by MOA and related structure, is from
the institutional and accountability point of view satisfactorv. In fact the system is presenting the needed
level of control in order to reduce the risk of misuse of funds at an acceptable level. However in terms of
Management Information System there is still scope for improvement. The main areas are related to:
harmonization of the procedures, introduction of technology solution, hiring of qualified financial
management staff, monitoring of the cumulative date related to sources and uses of funds, and
reconciliation of data as shown in ADAB, SIADE with the periodic reports. It should also be noted that
MOA is in the process of addressing several of these issues mainly through the National Program for
Modernization and Upgrade (NPMU).
Scope for improvement. In terms of specific efforts, DGFE is in process of implementing a new
computerized system for the Water Sector Investment Project signed in September 2000 and declared
effective in January 2001. This project has been selected as pilot for the implementation of a fully
computerized project accounting and reporting system including budgeting and monitoring and evaluation.
The installation of the selected software at the central level is actually in process and could be considered
successfully implemented. Thus the same technology solution could be used by DGFE for all the other
project managed under its responsibility including the proposed Agriculture services project. The extension
of the above-mentioned software to the regional level (CRDA and other involved agencies), would be
considered during FY 2002.
Financial Management System for the Project. DGFE would be the general coordinator of the project and
where the PMU will be located and headed by a project coordinator. The coordinator will be responsible
for a close monitoring of the project and evaluation of physical performance, including procurement,
finance, budgeting, and accounting duties, and for the establishment of an acceptable financial management
system. A qualified financial and accounting specialist will assist the coordinator. The PMU team will be
expected to demonstrate a reasonable knowledge and understanding of World Bank procurement,
disbursement, project accounting, financial reporting and auditing guidelines and procedures. DGFE and
MoA permanent structures will also be involved in the project implementation as for the current activity.
The PMU team should play a role of official vis a vis for the project implementation and thus is responsible
for producing consolidated financial data and progress reports.
The technical departments and agencies would be overall responsible for implementation of the actions.
Each involved implementing unit (IU) will designate officially a coordinator responsible for issuing
sub-project accounts and sub-Project Management Reports as well as disbursement duties.
- 58 -



At the regional level, CRDA and training centers, would be responsible for the management of the project
components within the govemorate. A govemorate level coordination committee (GCC) would be created
and would be headed by the CRDA head. An accountant within the CRDA would be responsible for
accounting and disbursement fields including periodic transmission of analytical sheets (transactions related
to commitments and disbursements ) and supporting documents to the technical department at the central
level.
The main actions to be implemented during a period of 13 months and by no later than June 30, 2002. are
the following:
*      Appointmnent of the Project Management Unit (PMU) headed by a project coordinator for the
project. An official list should be issued and would include all the staff involved in all the structures at the
central and regional level.
*      Hiring of a short-term consultant to develop the Financial Management Manual
*      Acquisition of the needed hardware for the project team.
*      Implementation of a specific accounting and reporting software.
*      Appointment of an accounting and financial management specialist
*      Development of training program.
Financial and accounting policies for the project have to be developed. These policies are crucial for
ensuring transparency, providing clarity regarding financial aspects to the various stakeholders and finance
staff, ensuring uniformity, and enforcing accountability. These policies inter-alia cover the following
aspects: (i) expenditures which, would be treated as project expenditures including their classification; (ii)
expenditures, which would be eligible for reimbursement from Bank Loan; and (iii) project accounting
policies. These policies would be gradually expanded and refined to include aspects such as efficient
management and deployment of funds, intemal control policies, etc.
Project Accounting System. The IU involved in the project implementation would maintain accounting
records for the components they manage, prepare, and disseminate sub-project accounts and sub-financial
management reports. They would also ensure timely transmission of these documents to the PMU.
Within each IU, a coordinator will be designated. Where more than one implementing agency is involved
in any component, arrangements will be made as follows to coordinate the overall component for
accounting and reporting purposes:
(i) Component 1: Building the capacity of producer organization. DGFE would lead component activities
for producer organizations and would define a relationship with all involved entities, according to the
institutional framework. This should allow trnsferring project funds through agreed contract ("Contrats
programme"). APIA would implement the quality and export component, largely through work programs
agreed with the GIPs.
(ii) Component 2: Strengthening the supply of research, training and fanming advisory services. IRESA
(for research) and AVFA (for extension and training) would lead component activities with the support of
the regional centers.
(iii) Component 3 : Live stock and animal health. DGSA would lead component activities and define
- 59 -



relationship with other involved parties through memorandum of understanding defining the role and
responsibility during project implementation.
(iv) Component 4: Plant protection. DGPV would lead component activities.
(v) Component 5 : Strengthening public interest services and project management support. DGPDIA would
lead components activities.
Each component coordinator would be held during project implementation to maintain sub project accounts
and sub reports reflecting all transactions managed under their responsibility.
The Project Coordinator would be responsible for the aggregating, processing and issuing of: (i) the annual
project financial statements (PFS), and (ii) the quarterly financial Management Report, and their
submission to the Bank.
The overall principles for project accounting are outlined below:
(i) Project accounting would cover all sources of project funds, and all utilization of project funds. This
would include payments made and expenditures incurred. All project-related transactions (whether
involving cash or not) would be taken into accounts in the reporting system. Disbursements made by the
World Bank and the transaction processed through the Special Account maintained by BCT would also be
included in the project accounting system. Funds received from different sources would be identified
separately.
(ii) Project-related transactions and activities would be distinguished from other activities. This distinction
would be reflected at the data-capture stage. A trial balance for the project capturing all projects receipts,
expenditures, and other payments under the project would be prepared. CRDAs and regional agencies
would be required to transmit on a monthly basis, separate progress statements (spread sheets summarizing
transactions committed and /or disbursed) with all supporting documents to the involved IU at the central
level. This will allow them to maintain a computerized sub project accounts and sub project reports. These
would be consolidated on a monthly basis at the level of PMU
A Chart of Accounts for the project has to be developed by the consultant responsible of the issuing of the
financial management procedures manual. The Chart of Accounts should conform to the classification of
expenditures and sources of funds as indicated in the project documents (Project Implementation Plan,
Project Appraisal Document, COSTAB). The Chart of Accounts should allow data to be captured in a
manner to facilitate financial reporting of project expenditures by: (i) project components; (ii) expenditure
allocation; and (iii) disbursement categories.
(iii) A system of reconciliation between the Project Financial Statements /financial reports and the legal
records (mainly ADAB, SIADE, approved financial statements for the independent entities) has to be
defined.
(iv) Key performance indicators would be defined and customized during implementation of the
computerized reporting system in order to allow issuing of analytical tables reflecting physical
implementation. Each technical department and agency would be required to comment on the periodic
results.
Information Flow for Accounting Purposes
- 60 -



The information flow will be as follows:
*      Payments from state budget would be the responsibility of CRDA and regional centers at the
regional level, and of the IUs at the central level. This consist of disbursement approval and payment
through "Tresorerie Generale" accounts and sub accounts.
*      Payments from Bank's funds would be processed exclusively at the central level. lUs and agencies
would play a role of control and approval and would transmit all request to DGFE to be proceeded.
*      DGFE would be held to review supporting documents and attest eligibility of expenditures before
transmission of the documents to the Central Bank and the bank when direct payments are requested.
Request for replenishment as well as disbursement forecast would be the responsibility of DGFE.
*      Central Bank would be responsible of payments from special accounts and issuing of monthly
statements and their transmission to PMU.
Intemal Controls . The project financial management system should include the following internal control
mechanisms:
(i)    operation of a budgeting system, and regular monitoring of actual financial performance with
budgets and targets;
(ii)   adoption and operation of simple, clear and transparent financial and accounting policies which
would govern financial management of and accounting for the project (as described earlier). These policies
and procedures have to be included in the Financial Management Procedures Manual.
(iii)  at the transaction level, establishment and operation of policies, procedures and systems for
ensuring standard internal controls such as checking of expenditures, appropriate documentation, levels of
authorization, segregation of duties, periodic reconciliation, physical verification, easy access to supporting
documents etc. These policies and procedures would be reviewed and updated periodically;
(iv)   Central Bank and Budget Department of the MOF will provide PMU on a monthly basis, with
statement of accounts for both Special Account and project account. The financial and accounting
specialist will do a monthly reconciliation of balances and will ensure to explain any detected difference
between accounting records and statements.
(v)    establishment and operation of a comprehensive aggregation mechanism, including the issuing of
sub-project accounts and sub-PMRs at the level of each IU and the project's consolidated financial
statements and quarterly PMRs at the level of the PMU.
Financial Management Reports
Project financial and monitoring reports for the project would be generated from the computerized
financial management system. These reports would be management-oriented (i.e., summaries rather than
transactional details) and would be used for the monitoring and implementation of the project by each
technical department designated coordinator and by PMU at DGFE level.
PMU would be responsible for issuing of the following reports:
- 61 -



Semi annually project monitoring and management report which, should include the following:
(i) Financial Statement that include:
*      Summary of sources and uses of funds
*      Uses of funds by project activity
*      Project balance statement of affairs
*      Cash withdrawal
*      Cash forecast
*      Special account statement
(ii) Progress statement that include
*      Output monitoring report using contact management information, or
*      Output monitoring report using unit variance as monitoring indicator
(iii) Procurement management report that includes:
*      Contract expenditure report - Goods and works
*      Contract expenditure report - Consultant
*      Procurement management report - Goods and works
*      Procurement management report - Consultant
Formats of the reports should be part of the Financial Management Procedures Manual. The selected
software should allow the issuing of such tables on an automatic manner.
Annually, audited Project Financial Statements (PFS) would be submitted to the Bank. PFS would include
(i) a statement of sources and utilization of funds or Balance Sheet, indicating funds received from various
sources, project expenditures, and assets and liabilities of the project; (ii) schedules classifying project
expenditures by components and expenditure categories; (iii) a Special Account Reconciliation Statement;
and (iv) a Statement of Withdrawals made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). Audited PFS
would be submitted to the Bank not later than 6 months after the end of the Fiscal Year.
Audit Arrangements
MOA will appoint an auditor acceptable to the Bank to carry on an annual audit. The auditor will perform
the audit according to: (i) the International Standards of Auditing as issued by the International Federation
of Accountants, (ii) Bank's Guidelines (e.g. Financial, accounting, reporting and auditing handbook, "
FARAH"), and (iii) specific Terms of Reference (TORs) acceptable to the Bank. The auditor will express a
professional opinion on the annual project financial statements and will submit to the Bank an annual audit
report within 6 months after the end of each government fiscal year
The audit would be comprehensive and cover all aspects of the project (i.e., all sources and utilization of
funds, and expenditures incurred). The audit will be carried out in accordance with International Standards
on Auditing. Terms of Reference (TORs) for this assignment should cover an audit of financial transaction,
and an assessment of the financial management system, including review of internal control mechanisms.
All the involved IUs at the central and regional levels would provide the auditor with access to
project-related documents and records, and information required for the purposes of the audit. The Auditor
would carry out a concurrent audit during the fiscal year, to bring to management's attention any issue,
which needs to be addressed. This would strengthen internal controls, and would also facilitate early
- 62 -



completion of the annual audit.
Readiness for Implementation
Assuming a Board presentation in June 2001, DGFE would be required to implement the following action
plan over a period of 13 months and by no later than June 30, 2002.
Action                          Output              Responsibility  Effective date
1.  Organization of the project  Organization  chart  DGFE         June 30, 2001
team and definition of          and job description
qualification/function of the
involved staff
2.  Issuing of the terms of     Terms of reference  DGFE           July 31, 2001
reference for hiring a consultant to  and  detailed
assist the DGFE in the          implementation
implementation of the financial  planning
management system
3.    Selection of the consultant  Contract   and  DGFE/           October 31, 2001
and launch of the assignment    assignment schedule  Consultant
4.  Issuing of the financial    Financial           DGFE/          December 31, 2001
management procedures manual    management          ConsultantlIUs
(general organization, accounting  procedures  manual  and PMU
and financial systems, intemal  and  technical file
control guidelines) and the     for the selection of
technical characteristics of the  the software
needed accounting and reporting
software    Organization of the
PMU
5.   Acquisition of the needed  Reception of        DGFE/          January 31, 2002
hardware (procurement procedures  equipment         Consultant/LUs
have to start on August 2001)                       and PMU
6.   Implementation of a        Set-up of the system  DGFE/        December 15, 2001
software                        and testing         Consultant/IUs
and PMU
Next steps.
Upon implementation of the financial management system, the PMU and concemed departments will work
together to improve effectiveness of reporting and monitoring system over a period of six months.
- 63 -



Action                            Output               Responsibility   Effective date
7.   Program of Training of the   Program: content and  PMU      with   February   28,
Project staff                    timetable             DGFE/            2002
Consultant
8.  Implementation of the financial  Work shop for the  PMU/IUs   and   March 15, 2002
management procedures manual and  presentation  of the  consultant
accounting system                 manual   and   the
software
9.   Implementation of the full   Customization   of   PMU/IUs     &    March 15, 2002
reporting system                 format and content of  Consultant
the PMR
10.  Training program            Training performance  Consultant      April 30, 2002,
report                                to June 30, 2002
11.  Issuing of the First PMR    PMR as of June 30,   PMU              August 15, 2002
2002
12.  Evaluation of the financial  Financial           WB               September   30,
management system                 management                            2002
assessment report and
recommendations
- 64 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
TUNISIA: AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
'Project Schedule                                  Planned          1          Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      6                            6
First Bank mission (identification)             10/01/97                     10/01/97
Appraisal mission departure                     04/01/2001                   04/01/2001
Negotiations                                    05/10/2001                   05/14/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   01/01/2002
Prepared by:
Ministry of Agriculture with input from FAO Investment Center, consultants (financed by PHRD) and the
World Bank
Preparation assistance:
PHRD Grant
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Christopher Ward                  Lead Operations Officer, Team Leader, MNSRE
Marie-Helene Collion              Senior Agricultural Services Specialist, MNSRE
Marie-Laure Lajaunie              Economist, MNSRE
Pierre Rondot                     Senior Farner Organizations Specialist, RDV
Christian Fauliau                 Senior Institutions Specialist, AFTRC
Tjaart Schillhom van Veen         Senior Livestock Specialist, ECSSD
Petros Aklilu                     Sector Manager, Rural Development, MNSRE
Maurice Gress                     Principal Procurement Specialist, Reviewer for Procurement, MNA
Hovsep Melkonian                  Senior Disbursement Officer
Hassine Hedda                     Disbursement Analyst
Nadia Gouhier                     Procurement Analyst, MNSRE
Laurent Msellati                  Senior Livestock Specialist, MNSRE
Madani M. Tall                    Senior Economist, Tunisia Cluster Leader, MNSRE
Samia Msadek                      Financial Management Specialist, Reviewer for Finance, MNSRE
Salah Darghouth                   Sector Manager, Water and Environment, MNSRE
Doris Koehn                       Sector Director, MNSRE
M-F How Yew Kin                   Tunisia Cluster Team Assistant, MNSRE
Arbi Ben-Achour                   Senior Social Scientist, MNSRE
Dominique Bichara                 Counsel, Reviewer for Legal Aspects, LEGOP
Sherif Arif                       Principal Environmentalist, Reviewer for Environment, MNSRE
Nicole Glineur                    Senior Environmentalist, MNSRE
Stephanie Brackman                Environmentalist, MNSRE
Marisa Femandez-Palacios          Portfolio Adviser, MNCAS
Auguste Kouame                    Tunisia Country Officer, MNCO1
- 65 -



Willem Zijp                        Principal Agricultural Services Specialist, Peer Reviewer, AFTQK
Daniel Moreau                      Senior Agricultural Institutions Specialist, Peer Reviewer, AFTRC
Keith Rennie                       Senior Social Scientist, reviewer for Socical Issues, MNSRE
- 66 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
TUNISIA: AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
*      PCD - October 2000
*      Pre-Appraisal Mission: BTO and aide memoire dated March, 2001
*      Appraisal Mission : BTO and aide memoire dated April 2001
*      Various technical notes
C. Other
*      Identification Report, Phases 1, 2 and 3, 1998-2000, CNEA/Comete for Ministry of Agriculture
*      Preparation Report, February 2001, FAO Investment Center for Ministry of Agriculture
*      Water Sector Investment Loan - WSIL, May 10, 2000, PAD Report no. 20422-TUN
*      Second Agricultural Sector Investment Loan-ASIL2, December 30, 1997, PAD Report no.
17208-TUN
*      Agricultural Sector Investment Loan-ASIL, October 29, 1993, Staff Appraisal Report no.
12229-TUN
*      Environmental Assessment, May 2001
*      Social Review, March 2001
*Including electronic files
- 67 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
TUNISIA: AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
May-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions                             disbursements
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                     IBRD         IDA                  GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig   Frm Rev'd
P064082       2001 TRANSPORT SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT              37.60      0.00                  0.00      0.00     36.57       0.00      0.00
P035707       2000 TN-WATER SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT              103.00       0.00                 0.00      0.00     103.86     -1.06      0.00
P050945       2000 TN-Educabon PAQSET I                             99.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     98.01       1.01      0.00
P055814       1999 TN-EXPORT DEVELOPMENT                            35.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     27.55      10.79      0.00
P005741       1998 HIGHER EDUC. II                                  80.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     60.66      24.57      0.00
P043700       1998 TRANSPORT SECTOR INV                             50.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     20.73      23.65      0.00
P005746        1998 TN-HEALTH SECTOR LOAN                           50.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     30.88      23.35      0.00
P050418        1998 TN-ASIL2                                        42.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00      11.53     13.73      0.00
P005736       1997 NATURAL RESOURCE MGM                             26.50      0.00                  0.00      0.00      17.14     13.01      0.00
P046832       1997 MUNICIPAL DEV. II                                80.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00      3.34       2.92      0.00
P005731       1997 TN-GREATER TUNIS SEWERAGE                        60.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     44.87      19.93      0.00
P040208       1996 TN-INDUSTRY SUPPORT INSTITUTION                  38.70      0.00                 0.00       0.00     25.15      23.90      0.00
P005745        1996 2ND EMPL. & TRG.                                60.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     25.45      20.05      1.25
P005720       1995 TN-RURALFINANCE                                  65.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00     19.19      19.19     15.86
P005589        1995 SOLAR WATER HEATING                              0.00      0.00                 4.00       0.00      2.20      -0.69      0.00
P005680        1995 TN-WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE                    58.00      0.00                 0.00       0.00      13.20     10.87      0.00
P005743       1995 SECONDARY EDUCATION                              98.30      0.00                 0.00       0.00      17.70     24.13     20.60
P005749        1995 RURAL ROADS                                     51.50      0.00                 0.00       0.00      1.75      -1.49      0.00
P005733        1994 DEV.OF MTS NW REGION                            27.50      0.00                 0.00       1.48       1.10      2.04      1.04
P005725        1993 SECOND FORESTRY DEVELOPMENT                     69.00      0.00                 0.00      18.87      7.72      29.71      0.91
P005726        1992 HIGHER EDUCATION                                75.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00      16.19     22.68     22.02
Total:     1206.10       0.00               4.00       20.36     584.80     282.31     61.69
- 68 -



TUNISIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Porffolio
May-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Commifted                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1998/00            BIAT                          0.00    0.29    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.29    0.00    0.00
1993               Ideal Sanitaire               0.00    1.02    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.02    0.00    0.00
1995               Maghreb IM Bank               0.00    0.33    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.33    0.00    0.00
1986/92/98         SITEX                         0.00    0.77    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.77    0.00    0.00
1973/75            Sousse-Nord                   0.00    0.59    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.59    0.00    0.00
1998               Tuninvest                     0.00    4.57    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.84    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:         0.00    7.57    0.00    0.00     0.00   6.84     0.00   0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Comnmitment:       0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
- 69 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
TUNISIA: AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
M. East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            & North   middle.
Tunisia     Africa  Income       Development diamond'
1999
Population, mid-vear (millions)                        9.5       291      2.094                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method. US$                   2100       2.060     1,200
GNP (Atles method. US$ billions)                       19.9      599      2.513                       T
Average annual growth. 1993-99
Population (%)                                          1.4       2.1       1.1
Labor force (%                                          2.8       30        12      GPe                              Gross
per             -        -      primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                               capita                       enroUment
Povertv t% of population below national povertY fine)   7 6
Urban population (% of total Population)                65        58        43
Life exDectancv at birth (vears)                        72        68        69
Infant mortalitv (per 1,000 live births)                2$        45        33
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               9         15        15               Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)        ..       71        86
Illiteracy t% of population ape 15.)                    30        36         16
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-stoe population)  118       95        114              Tunisia
Male                                                 122       102       114               Lower-middle-income group
Female                                               114        88       116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998      1999
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ biions)                            7 2      101       20.0      21.0
Gross domestic investmont/GDP                29 4     23 9       27.5      27.8                     Trd
Exports of poods and services/GDP            39.0     44.3       42.4      42.0                      rade
Gross domestic savinrstGOP                   26.4     20,6       24.3      24,9
Gross national savinqs/GDP                      .     20.8       23.9      24.9                       T
Current account balance/GOP                   -4.1    -3.1       -3.4      -2.9     Domestic
Interest Davments/GDP                         2 4      3 7        2.4       2.8     S   etic -                   Investment
Total debttGOP                               47.3     69.1       55.5      56.5
Total debt service/exports                   12.1     21.5       15.0      11.3
Present value of debt/GDP                      ..       ..       53.6
Present value of debtlexsorts                                   1 ..  114,3
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1998       1999   ¶S99-03
(averoeo annual growth)
GDP                                  3.5      4.7      5.0        6.2       5.8         -      Tunisia
GNP per capita                       0.7      2.9      4.1        5.0       4,6               Lower-midd/e-income group
Exports of qoodJs and services       4.3      4.9      3.9        4.2       5.2
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999     Growth of investment and GOP I%)
(% of GDP)                                                                          12
Agriculture                                  13.5      12.9      12.4      12.9       T
Industrv                                     28.9     31.1       28.4      28.2 6
Manufacturinq                               11.6     17.0      18.2      18.2      o
Services                                     57.6     55.9       59.1      59.0     -6-     4 / 95     96   97    98   99
Private consumption                          58.4     62.1       62.7      59.4    -12
General qovernment consumption               15.2     17.3       13.0      15.6              -   GDI       _   GDP
Imports of qoods and services                42.0     47.7       45.6      44.8
1979-89  1989-99      1998      1999      Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annua/ growth)
Agriculture                                   2.3       3.4      -1 0      11.0    15 T
Industry                                      3.3      4.4        4.9       5.1      -
Manufacturing                                5.3      3.9       3.8       6.0
Services                                      3.8      5.4        6.5       6.8
Private consumption                           3.5      4.8        5.0       5.9       _      _ _ -     -
General government consumption                4.5       1.3       4.7       4.9            94    95         57    98    99
Gross domestic investment                     -2.5     4.3        5.5      11.6    ,9 I
Imports of qoods and services                 1.1      3.7        4.2       6.4                  Ep Frorts  O*  Imports
Gross national Product                        3.3      4.7        5.4       6.3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-qroup averaqe. If data are missinq, the diamond will
be incomDlete.
- 70 -



Tunisia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                             1979     1989      1998     1999     Inflation (%)
(% change)
Consumer prices                               ..      7.7       3.1       2.7
Implicit GDP deflator                       10-4      8.8       3.6       3.3        -
Govemment finance                                                                2
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                              o        
Current revenue                               ..     27.0      29.3      23.9           94    96     96    97    98    9
Current budget balance                                1.0        4.5      3.6              -  GDP deflator  O CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..     -5.3      -2.4      -3.1
TRADE
1979     1989      1998     1999       Export and import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                         1,788   2,931     5,722     6,050     10,000
Fuel                                       868      585       367       392
Agriculture                                 65      197        193       ..      7500
Manufactures                               809     2,099     3,804
Total imports (cif)                        2,846    4,372      7,872    8,595 sco          4 d    iiiii
Food                                       369      578       655       573      2 59**
Fuel and energy                            490      380       375       451
Capital goods                              687      836      1,814    2,293
Export price index (1995=100)                                    92                     93   94   95   96   97  98   9
Import pnce index (1995=100)                                     95        .                    Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                        97
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1979     1989      1998     1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services              2,802    4,546     8,481     8,824     0
Imports of qoods and services              3,161    4,882     9,080     9,428
Resource balance                            -359     -336      -598     -604
Net income                                  -266     -479      -858     -878       i         ,
Net current transfers                        331      503       776      869        l
Current account balance                     -295     -312      -680     -614     s6
Financing items (net)                        452      409       493     1,011
Changes in net reserves                     -158      -97       187     -397
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        ..       ..      1,852    2,271
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)             0.4      0.9       1.1       1.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                    Composition of 1998 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       3,399    6,974     11,078   11,877
IBRD                                       232    1,154     1,458     1,486               G: 1,040     A: 1.458
IDA                                         67       61        43       41
Total debt service                           378    1,101      1,402    1,108                                 C c e 431  |
IBRD                                        33      190       268      258                                -t
IDA                                          1        2         2        2       F:     / 2653
F: 2,653            '       ' 
Composition of net resource flows                                                                  .    8D1,98 
Official grants                             30       88        61       85
Official creditors                         188      329      -137        7
Private creditors                          313     -142         4        2
Foreign direct investment                   49       79       650      409
Portfolio equity                             0        0        40        0                      E: 3,767
World Bank program
Commitments                                 99      373       222      194      A - IBRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                               56      259       142      209      B - IDA  D- Other mulUlateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                        14      104       180      168      C-IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                   42      155       -39       41
Interest payments                           20       88        91       92
Net transfers                               22       67      -129      -51
Development Economics                                                                                              9/12/00
- 71 -



Additional
Annex 11
Letter of Sector Development Policy
TUNISIA: AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT
REPUB1.IQUE TIINISIENNE                          Tunis, le 21 mai 2001
NI1NISTEIZE DE l 'AGRICULTURE
Monsieur le President de la
Banque Internationale pour la
Reconstruction et le Developpement
Objet: ltrete de rpulitique du secteur des services d'appui i P'agriculture&
R4ffrencet Turusi: . Pr&t d'investissernent pour le renforcemem: des services Yappui 
I'agrcu1tLtre
Mnnsieur le President,
L'ag ClLhure tunssienne joue un r6le inportant sur le plan 6conomiquc, social et
environniernenmai et une grande attention lui est confirie dans la politique de
developpetnent econonique et social. En effet, le secteur agricole contribue a
concurnence dwuni moycnne de 13.5 % dans le PIB et procure de r'ordre de 10 %
des recttes totales d'exportation. Par ailleurs, I'agricultre drame 15 % des
investissctnefl;s globaux et contribue pour 22 % dans 1'emploi, ce qiii lui cornfere
un r5Le inmportant dans le maintien de la population en milieut rural et dais la
limitadion de V'etode rural, en plus de sa contribution  r'effort national de
developpement regional.
La polittqiue de restruncrration du secteur agricole entamec par l¶Etat a eu des
r6percusiionls positives sur son developpement. Les r6alisaiions ont etc
multiples er ont concem6 pratiquement toutes les activit6s agricoles.
UTaugmenration de la production agricole s'est accompagnee dune nette
amnlioratton de la productivite et de la comp6titivitE des principales filiers, at
ces r6sulats s: sont tradits par une evolution fiavorable de la baLance
commeroialc alimentaire qw a rcalisc un taux de couverture annuel moyen de 83
° au cwurs des annees 90 contre 49 % seulernent comme moyenne des antces
go.                           - 72 -



2
I,e secteur agricole est donc sorti renforce dune phase dtajustement, mais reste
toutefois confronle a dc nouveaux defis sc rapportant essentiellement a la
poursulte de la liba6ralisation des marchds et l'intgration de l'conomie
nisienne dans son ensemble dans Ic processus de mondialisation. Ceci
implique lai mise en cuvre d'autres mesures d'ajustement afin que le secteur
puisse afironter avec l'efficacit6 n6cessaire les futurs rendez-vous d'apres V'an
2000. Ces defis ont trait essentiellement a la necessit6 de passer a un palier
superieur te croissance qui penuettra au secteur agricole de jouer pleinement
son r6le dans to processus de d6veloppernent ecotiomique et social du pays, de
consolider la securite almientaire du pays, et de faire face a l'ouverture sur les
marches extrneurs et la lib6ralisation du tnarche interieur suite a la conclusion
des accords du GATT, l'adh6sion de la Tunisie a l'OMC et la cr6ation d'uine
zone de lhbre echange avec I'Union Europ6enne qui couvrira eventuelleinent le
secteur agricole a horizon 2006.
La strateoic i long termc
L'objectif global recherche par le Ministere de l'agriculture est de promouvoir
one agrcudturc productive, efficace et durable contribuant i faciliter l'insertion
de la Tunisie dans le contexte 6conormque international et a ameliorer le niveau
de vie des agiculteurs. Le secteur agricole continuerait a augmeniter la creation
de valeur-s ajoutecs, a foun2ir un emploi a un nombre consequent d'actif; de par
ses effers d'etitrainement sur les activites ixes a I'agriculture, aL assurer la
securite alirnentaire du pays et a contribuer au maintien des equilibres globaux
de 1 cconomie et au developpement r6gional.
Lapproche adopree par la Tuiisie face a ces enjeux consiste a mettre en place
une straidgie ayant pour objectif d'am6liorer la position de I'agriculture
turiisienne face a la concurrence sur le marche local et les marches d'cxportation,
en: (i) amelhorant la qualit6 des produits, (ii) accroissant la productivite des
facreurs de production, et (iii) en 6tendant la gamrne des produits. Cette
stratagie tible aussi l'agricalture de subsistance et les zones marginales a travers,
entre autres, des programmnes de d6veloppement rural int6gr6 destines i
ameliorcr les conditiotis de vie dans les zones marginales et un programme de
gestion des ressmurces naturelles visant la preservation de renvironnement.
Les seriices agricoles sont une composante essentielle a la realisation de la
croissance awricole en Tumisie. Le developpement de nouveaux march6s, la
- 73 -



3
propagation ct Ie trnsfert des technologies nouvelles, le perfectioxinement des
ressources hunaines en vue d'une modemisation de l'agriculture, la protection
des plantes et des anirmnaux contre les maladies, le contr6le des accords
internationaux et des normes de qualite et des investisseinents cibles constituent
tous des facteurs qLu contribuent a la croissance d'une agriculture commerciale
compititive en Tu'nisie. Ces actions contribueront egalcment au d6veloppement
des zones mnarginales. et ainsi a la promotion de la population qui depend de
l'agriculture dasns ces zones.
Pour ariculer les objectifs retenus, des approches adaptees seront mises en
aCrUITe:
1. Approche ciblec - Par souci d'equilibre regional et d'equite sociale, les
services serorit cibles en fonction des caracthristiques et des besoins des
diffdrentes cat6gories d' agriculteurs (agnculteurs commerciaux, petits et iuoyens
agnitltet.rs).  Des programmes specifiques seront mis en ceuvre en faveur
d'autres groupes dont notanmment les femmes nrales et les jeunes agriculteurs.
2. Approche regionale - La misc en aruvre des differentes actions tiendrait
compte et renforcerait l'integration des activites de diff6rentes structures
r6gionales. autour de plates-formes regionales de concertation et de
collaboration, de maniere a assurer la synergie entre les diffircntes activit6s. En
effet, c est au nivteau regional que des initiatives doivent 6te prises pour
renforcer les liens entre recherche et vulgarisation (liens ascendants
d'identification .de' besoins en recherche et liens descendants do transfert de
technologie) et encourager la concertafion avec les orgarxisations agricoles et le
operateurs pries locaux.
3.   Organisation sectorielle - Dans les annees a venir la strategie de
developpement reposera   sur une   plus  grande  professionnalisation  de
!'agniculture. *L'6tat producteur et tuteur cedera sa place a uin 6tat regulateur,
garant de Virn6rCt g6niral, du bon fbnctioinement des marches et de la stabilite
des revenus". LI'accent sera tms sur I'amelioration de l'organisation de la
deinande des services au moyen de la promotion de toutes formes d'organisation
des exploltamrs et des mecanismes participatifs.
4. Approche durable - la TLmisie prendra toutes les mesures necessaires
visaft a assurer la durabilite de la prestation des services a travers l'instauration
- 74 -



4
de nmaniere progressive de mecanismnes de participation, de responsabilisation,
de pnvatisation. ct de partage de cofits avec les beneficiaires une fois les
conditions necessaires reunies, surtout lorsqu'il s'agit d'une agriculture
commnerciale. Pour ce qui conceme les services publics, et en fonction des
objectifs assip6s- le Gouvemnement maintiendrait un riiveau consequent de
financernent afin d'assurcr I'adequation eitre les moyens et les r6sultats
aitendus en termes de qualit6 des services, de couverture, et plus g6n6ralernent
de d,6eloppcamnnt durable de l'agnculture et de conservation du patrimoine
naturel.
S. Services publics essentiels - Une attention particuliere sera accordee a la
mise eni oeuvre d'actions specifiques visant l'amelioration de la qualit des
services publics dans les domaines pour lesquels la prestation ou le financement
dui seceur p'v6 ne sont pas encore envisageables comme les informations
statistiques. Ie syst6me de contr6le phytosanitaire et le systeme de protection
des consomnmateurs en matinre d1hygine alimentaire.
Ces approches seronit retenues dans le cadre de l'ex6cution d'7tm programme de
diX ans cn deu. phases. Le premier train de reformes cles qui seraient appuyees
par le proict de i cnforcernent des services d'appui i l'agricultuzre compoiterait lJs
actions suivantes
ApproclAe ciblee
o le inandat de la recberche et de la vulgarisation tiendra compte des imperatifs
d'unc agriculte perfornmante, avec une attention particuliere aLx petits et
mnoyens agriculteurs, particuli6rement ceux ayant utn potentiel conmmercial,
* le ciblage du genre sera ainiliore au moyen d'affectations specifiques de
fianaicement de la recherche sur des themes lies au genre, un effort intensifie
de vulgarisation A F'intention des fenmnes e. un programme de fomnation
agricole cible et tenant compte du geare.
Appreche regionale et approche intigrie
* la r6gionalisation de la recherche d6marrera avec la cr6ation de centres de
rechercho regionaux et la cr6ation de comites regionaux pour 6tablir et
superiser les programmes de recherche,
* dans des zones pilotes, les services a I'agriculture seront integres,
rassomblaat la vuLJgarisation, la formation, la recherche-developpenient et la
- 75 -



5
promotion des organisations de produicteurs de base, avec la participation des
bene fici arcs;.
Organisation sectorielle
* la promotion dcs organisations de producteurs sera assur6e dans des
gouvemorats pilotes avee la participation du secteur pn've,
*   es consciflcrs agrcoles pnrves seront recrutes par les agriculteurs de pointe ct
les organiSations de producteurs avec des incitations financieres de l'Etat au
denarage. dans le cadre des encouragements du Code des Iwvestissements et
de ceux dci Foads N;ational de l'Emploi 21-21,
a le renforccment de la capacite des groupements interprofessionnels sera
entrepns r 3vcc le renforcement de leur autonomie, initialement par le biais de
contrats prngranxme.
Approche durable
* Wi reseau de cotnseillers agricoles prives sera developpe,
* le partage des codrs menant a un recouvrement des coits avec le temps, sera
appliqu: a certains services d'elevage et pout 6tre diffe-rent selon les
catigorzes d'Ievveurs (identification, diagnostic et inspection des animaut),
*  la sous-traatance des services du secteur de l'elevage et la privatisation des
services - et6rinaires a caractere concurrentiel seront encouragees (contr6le
des maladlies. vaccination, privarisation de 1'insemination artificielle),
le partage des coats de services publics selectionnds potu Ia protection des
vegetaux et la certification des semences sera introduit progressivement chez
certaines categories d'agriculteurs.
Renforcemetr de services essentiellement publics
* Ies instituts de recherche agricole s'orienteront vers tm institut unique pour
accroitre I'efficacit6 et garantir une meilleure coordination,
* un systemne de se)ection sur base d'appels d'offres sera mis en place pour le
financemenm de certaines activites de recherche,
u nm systraic d infornmtion sur le secteur et les politiques agricoles i acces
Ouvert sera uuie
- 76 -



6
Rerormes de la deuxiEme phase. Le prograrmre de reforrne se poursuivra
dans une deuxieme phase. Les r6fonnes de la deuxi6ine phase, qtu seraient
ajustees au fii- er a mnesure de 1'expinence acquise au titre de )a premiere phase.
porteraieric sur l'extension des operations pilotes engag&es au cours de la
prerrurc phase et qui auraient et concluantes, et l'introductionl de r6forrnes
additiotxnesiles qui respecteraient la phiosophie des refonTnes de la premi6re
phase.
Situation a la fin du programme de reforme. L'objectif est d'avoir tenminc
les refoinnes en dix ans.  A Ia fin de cette peiode, les organisationis de
producteisrs dIeiraient etre plus independantes et en mesure d'etablir leur propre
programnme ct de financer la majorit6 de leurs propres services ; les groupements
iuterprofessionnels devraient etre des entit6s autonomes, dotees de fonctions.
ressourcet er capacites suffisantes pour ddvelopper leurs sotus-secteilrs
respectifs.. la recherche devrait etre suffisamrnent regionalis6e, induite par la
demandt± el Lo-financee par le secteur; la ((vulgarisation )) devrait etre
lTansfonnee ezi (4 services de conseil agricole )> pour les exploitantons agicoles a
caractere cOmTnercial et devrait etre largement induite et co-financee par les
organisazionl.  de producteurs; les services d'4levage et de protection des
vi:getaux .6t caract6re individuel devraient etre assur6s et geres par le secteur
pnre ; v:t 1' Ftat devrait s'acquitter de ses responsabilitis statutaircs et
roglemrntaircs a une rmaniere efficace et au moindre cout.
Progranixne de miise a niveau des services d'appui a IPagriculture
A la lurnt6re de la strategie retenue, le Gouvemement vise tine m.ise a niveau des
services d'appui A l'agriculture. Cette mise A niveau, entam6e a travers une
premiere phase soutenue par le projet des services agricoles avec la participation
de la Banque Mondiale, sera consolidee an cours de la deuxieme phase.
Les acquis de In premniere phase, les resultats des actions pilotes ainsi que les
dif&rente% etudes qui seront realis&es dans le cadre du projet "scrvices d'appui a
I'agriculnure- p¢rmettront de mieux identifier les actions futures a entreprendre au
cours de la delLxieme phase. Ces actions seront concues dans le cadre de la
philosophie g6nirale du programme de mise a niveau des services d'appui a
l'agriculturc dont la premiere partie aurait 6te mise en c!uvre A travers Ic projet
avec Ia Banclue Mondiale.
EI1 mettant en a:uvre ce projet, la Tunisie vise la consolidation du bond qualitatif
que conniir le secteur agricole depuis la mise en aeuvre des reformes entreprises
- 77 -



7
tans le cadre du p1an d'ajustement sectoriel agricole et qui a et 'i',. :   par
une croissance soutenue du secteur. 11 est attendu 6galenment quc t   aration
des differents services d'appUi Qontribue a l'amelioration de la ci. :;. 'vite du
secteur et facilitc son ancrage a l'econorie nationale et interuation;o;
Le Mini              I ture
f             ,,AdkR  U
, 78 -SdokRA?i
-78 -



Republic of Tunisia
- Ministry of Agriculture
Tunis, May 21, 2001
To the President of the World Bank
Subject: TUNISIA: Loan for the reinforcement of agricultural support services - Policy
Letter
Mr. President:
Tunisian agriculture plays an important economic, social and environrnental role, and great
attention is paid to the sector in overall economic and social development policy. In fact, the
agriculture sector contributes 13.5% to GDP and generates some 10% of total export
revenues. Moreover, the sector attracts 15% of total investment and accounts for 22% of
jobs, which ensures the sector an important role in maintaining the rural population and
avoiding rural to urban migration. The sector also has an important role to play in the
national objective of ensuring regional development.
The adjustment policies pursued to date have had positive results on sector development.
Achievements are many and various, covering practically all branches of the sector. A rise in
sector production has been matched by a clear improvement in productivity and competitivity
of principal crops. These results are reflected in the positive development of the balance of
trade in food products, where 83% of national needs were covered from national production
in the 1990s against an average of only 49% in the 1980s.
Thus the agriculture sector has emerged strengthened from an adjustment phase. Nonetheless
it is still faced with new challenges largely concerning the completion of market
liberalization and the overall integration of the Tunisian economy in the globalization
process. This implies implementation of further adjustment measures in order that the sector
can meet future challenges efficiently in the new millennium. These challenges refer
essentially to the need to reach a higher growth plane that will allow the agriculture sector to
play its role fully in the process of economic and social development of the country, to
reinforce national food security, and to face up to the opening of external markets and
liberalization of internal markets following the conclusion of the GATT agreements,
Tunisia's entry into the WTO, and the creation of a free trade area with the European Union
which will probably cover the agriculture sector by the year 2006.



Long term strategy
The overall objective sought by the Ministry of Agriculture is to promote a productive,
efficient and sustainable agriculture that helps the integration of Tunisia in the world
economy and improves the standard of living of farmers. The agriculture sector will continue
to improve value added, to offer jobs to a large work force, not least through second round
employment creation in businesses linked to agriculture, to assure national food security, and
to contribute to keeping overall economic and regional development balance.
The approach Tunisia has adopted in face of these challenges is to put in place a strategy
designed to upgrade production capability to face competition from imports and to increase
export competitiveness through better quality, a diversified product range and improved
productivity. This growth strategy is linked to a parallel strategy for subsistence agriculture
and marginal areas through rural development programs to improve living standards and a
program of natural resource management aimed at conservation of the environment.
Agricultural services are vital to achieve agricultural growth in Tunisia. The development of
new markets, the development and transfer of new technology, human resource development
for a modernized agriculture, the protection of both plants and animals from disease, the
oversight of international agreements and quality standards, and prudent investment are all
essential factors in the growth of a competitive commercial agriculture in Tunisia. These
actions will also contribute to the development of marginal areas and to improving living
standards for farners in those areas.
To attain these objectives, a series of approaches will be implemented, as follows:
1.  targeted approach - For regional balance and social equity, services will be
targeted according to the characteristics and needs of the different categories of
fam-ers (commercial farmers, small and medium farmers etc). Specific programs
will be introduced for other groups, notably women and young farmers.
2.   regional approach - Irnplementation will take account of the integration of
activities at the regional level through mechanisms of coordination and joint
implementation in order to ensure synergy. There has to be better working
together of research and extension at the regional level (working from the bottom
up to identify research needs and from the top down to transfer technology); and
better local synergy will be needed within and between public services and
farmer and private sector institutions.
3.   sector organization - In the next few years, sector strategy will depend on
increasing farnner organization and responsibility. The role of the state will shift
from that of guardian and producer to that of regulator, protecting the public
interest, ensuring the working of markets, and putting in place the framework for
stable incomes. Priority will be given to improved organization of demand
through promotion of all forms of fanner organizations and of participatory
mechanisms.



4.   sustainable approach - Sustainability of service provision requires
improving the cost effectiveness of services and getting much more farmer and
private sector participation, responsibility and cost sharing, including the transfer
of some services. Government's choice is to continue and complete the ongoing
program of improving efficiency, seeking increasing cost sharing and
progressively handing over services wherever possible.
5.   essential public services - For those essentially public services where
private provision or financing is not possible (such as agricultural statistics,
phytosanitary control and food hygiene), a strategy of reinforcement and a drive
to ensure that all services are efficient and cost effective will be pursued.
These approaches will be implemented under a ten year plan. The key first round reforms
that would be supported by the project are:
Targeting of Agricultural Services:
  the mandate of research and extension will focus on the target group of commercial
potential medium and smaller farmers
*  gender targeting will be improved through specific allocations of research funding to
gender related topics, a reinforced women's extension effort, and a gender sensitive and
targeted agricultural training program
Regional Approach and Integrated Approach
* the regionalization of research will be started through the creation of regional research
centers and the creation of regional committees to set and supervise the research agenda
* services will be integrated in pilot areas that bring together extension, training, applied
research and farmer organization, with farmer participation.
Farmer Organizations
*  private capability will be developed for promotion of farmer organizations in pilot
govemorates.
*  farming advisers will be recruited by progressive farmers and farmer organizations on a
cost sharing basis, as part of national programs under the Investment Code and the
National Employment Fund "21:21".
*  capacity building of the interprofessional groups will be undertaken, together with
strengthening of their autonomy, initially through program contracts.



Sustainability of Service Provision
*  a network of private agricultural advisers will be developed
*  cost sharing leading to full cost recovery over time will be practiced for certain livestock
services (animal identification, diagnosis and inspection) according to the category of
farmer.
*  contracting out of service provision in the livestock sector and privatization of
competitive veterinary services will be promoted (disease monitoring, vaccination,
privatization of artificial insemination)
*  cost sharing in selected public services for plant protection and seed certification will be
introduced progressively for certain categories of farmer.
Essentially Public Services
* the agricultural research institutes will merge into a single institute in order to reduce
overlap and increase efficiency and ensure better coordination.
*  a competitive research grant system will be developed for certain research programs.
*  an open access information system on agricultural developments and policies will be set
up
Second Phase Reforms.     The reform program supported by this five year project will
continue into a second phase. The second phase reforms will be adjusted in the light of
experience in the first phase. They would include the generalization of successful pilot
efforts from the first phase, and completion of the reform program begun under the first
phase.
Situation at the end of the Reform Program. The objective is to complete the reform
within ten years. At the end of that time, it is expected that farmer organizations will be
independent and capable of setting their own agenda and financing most of their own
services; that interprofessional groups will be autonomous bodies with broad mandate and
skill to develop their respective subsectors; that research will regionalized, demand-driven
and partly financed by the sector; that "extension" will have upgraded to "farrn advisory
services" - at least for commercial farmers - and be largely driven and financed by farmer
organizations; that livestock and plant protection services (other than public service
functions) will be delivered and managed outside the public sector; and that Government's
statutory and regulatory responsibilities will be fulfilled efficiently at least cost.



Upgrading of Farmer Services
In the light of the strategy adopted, farmer services will be upgraded. The upgrading, to be
supported in the first phase of the proposed project, will be completed in the second phase.
The achievement of the first phase and the results of pilot actions and studies to be
undertaken under the project will allow better definition of the actions for the second phase.
Those actions will continue the general thrust of the program supported by the first phase
project.
With the implementation of this project, Tunisia is aiming at completing the "qualitative
leap" the country has been engaged in since implementing structural reforms in the sector and
experiencing the resulting growth. It is likewise expected that improved support services will
increase the competitivity of the sector and ensure its place in the economy, both domestic
and export.
Signed
The Minister of Agriculture






IBRD 28811
.~~~             ~    *,a 0, '--.                           Gulf of
Irulf  --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GufO
MEDITERRANEAN              B,----_ze'rie  Tunt,s
Li                                               ____> iSEA
--~~0,rs.1J                 'BI II'ETE -1 ~ -
T l'N I~ *i 
ALGERIA                            JENDOU
LIBYA                              BJ
ALGERIA  36 O  { 'Jendouba             AR   S
\   / ~~~~X\.\ -36   .~~~~~~~X >Zaghou~~~~ag          o/beul
MALI    NIGEReCHAD
NIGER       CHAD                   (         Siliana               Gulf cl Harrmomet
.        2 ~~~~~EL KEF     3   A         o                   36°
Kairouan            m8 '  Mbnaslir
+-   \             @    -.. )'~~I  MOL4STIR
' 1KAIROUAN   ,   J 
35                                                                                   35
ALGERIA     ~    ~   )    ASEIE       <{-                  l   tMhi
A L G    E R I A           j                Sidi Bou  D     
SFAX BOU  S   r .~ ;Kerkenah
d  Q  Gafsa  >xIDrv rL,,                    Miskor
!CII  GA~FSA                                            C)
j  gi F A J - <Guli of  Ashtart
34
1 Chatt el I Gabes
Tzur    E -                              Gabes
+      /  C~~~hott erl ., Gbell.  GABES  s.    ; 
*  vr,    ~~Jerid                                 '. 
\TV ;iZs  I alll #S  g  S   J<2Medenin V ,-
33                          \.\         GBELLI                   Tataouine   5      '-i
TUNISIA              K                  '
SECOND AGRICULTURAL             \.                  TATAOUINE
SECTOR INVESTMENT                 \N.
PROJECT                                                                  32
| | SALT LAKES
LACS SALES
GOVERNORATE CAPITALS               \
3    CAPITALES DES                                       /     0   25  50  75
GOUVERNORATS
KILOMETERS
GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
-  FRONTI~RES DES
GOUIVERNORATS                     ~Tlis map was produced
by the Map Unit of
teWorld Bank.  31
NATIONAL CAPITAL                      \The boundaries, colors,
CAPITALE DU PAYS                       '                  denominations and any
/ other information shown
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                  iyn othis mae do nof
FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES              ;           /        The World Bank Group
\      slotus  of  any  territory,
\   ,       ~~~~~or acceptance of such
80~~~~~~~ 9'                      boundaries.
a.              9°     j,/     10°             11
JULY 1997



