Report No. PID9580
Project Name                     Tunisia-Agricultural Support Services Project (@)
Region                           Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                           Research; Other Agriculture
Project ID                       TNPE5750
Borrower(s)                      GOV'T OF TUNISIA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Address: 30, rue Alain Savary, 100 Tunis
Contact Person: Mr. Abdallah Mallek, Director General,DGFE
Mr. Badr Ben Ammar, Director General, DGPDIA
Tel: 216-1-842-687
Fax: 216-1-784-447
Email: 216-1-891-852 216-1-785-764
Ministere de la Cooperation Internationale et
de l'Investissement Exterieur
Address: 98, Avenue Mohamed V, 1002
Tunis-BelvedOre
Contact Person: Mr. Kamel Ben Rejeb,
Director General
Tel: 216-1-798-522
Fax: 216-1-769-845
Email: Multilaterale@mci.gov.tn
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                May 15, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         April 1, 2001
Projected Board Date             June 12, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Sector IssuesThe Agriculture Sector. Tunisia's agriculture sector has
grown strongly (average 3t per year since 1979) thanks to favorable
policies, high investment and the adoption of cash crops and productive
technology. This represents improvement in living standards when set
against the declining population growth rate (currently 1.4%). This
evolution was promoted first by an administered organization which
protected producers but dulled growth. In recent years this has evolved
to a generally market-based policy, which nonetheless provides support for
investment and a measure of protection on grounds of social policy.
Today, agriculture remains a major economic sector (13% of GDP) and the
leading employer (one third of the work force). Women are particularly
prominent in the agricultural labor force. The sector is quite diverse,
and commercial, semi-commercial and quasi-subsistence farms each have
their own characteristics. The livestock sector is also important.
Agricultural exports are valuable, earning Tunisia nearly $200 million a
yearGrowth Perspectives. Productivity improvements, particularly in market
garden produce, milk and potatoes, have contributed to sector growth.
Technical and economic potential for further growth exists for many crops



and systems, particularly in the irrigated sector. The perspectives are
less promising for the quasi-subsistence farms and the poultry and dairy
sectors - if and when producer protection is phased out, cereals are
likely to decline under most husbandry systems, the dairy and poultry
sector will suffer a shock, and rainfed crops in general will see a poor
outlook. Adjustment will have to be phased and support measures carefully
planned.Current challenges. Government has set high growth targets for
agriculture of 4.3w 1997-2001, then 2.9w up to 2010 (the lower figure for
the last decade reflects the likely impact of liberalization on part of
the sector). To achieve this, Tunisia is moving further toward market
orientation and integration in the world market. This confronts
agriculture with three challenges of modernization. First the sector has
to adjust to the opening of markets and competition both with imports and
with other exporters trying to access the European market. The sector will
have to cope with the phasing out of remaining protection and subsidies,
and to seek new areas of comparative advantage. This will require
continued investment, market development, new technology, and a quantum
leap in the skills and knowledge of producers. Second, poorer farming
systems have been an important means of absorbing labour and maintaining
rural living standards. However, their productive potential is limited
and the economics of their farming is threatened by the prospect of the
elimination of subsidies. There will be inevitable trade offs in the
rural economy between competitive agriculture and social protection.
Third, the sector is already at the extensive margin of its resource
development, particularly in irrigation. The key challenges will be to
avoid overexploitation of groundwater, forests and rangeland, whilst
ensuring improvements in productivity.Government StrategyThe approach
Tunisia has adopted in face of these challenges is to put in place three
linked strategies. First, a growth strategy in areas of agricultural
potential. As expressed in the current (9th) plan, this targets:
"upgraded" production capability to face competition from imports as
external liberalization proceeds; diversified product range and improved
quality to increase export competitiveness; and improved productivity of
existing (now limited) factors.This growth strategy is linked to a
parallel strategy for poorer producers and marginal areas, where some
measure of protection is maintained for the time being, phasing out over
time, combined with rural development programs to improve living standards
in marginal areas. Finally, a program of natural resource management is
aimed at the conservation and sustainability agenda.Government is pursuing
these strategies through three inter-related programs. The growth
strategy will be supported by policy change, by private sector development
and by the modernization of agricultural services. The needs of poorer
systems and people will be targeted by rural development and welfare
programs. The resource conservation and productivity agenda is being
addressed under a program of policy reform and investment, notably that
for the water sector supported by the Bank-financed Water Sector
Investment Loan (WSIL). Government sees strong linkages between the
productivity agenda supported under the proposed services project and the
conservation agenda supported under the WSIL, with the common theme of
enhancing productivity and incomes sustainably from limited but better
managed natural resources.
2. Objectives
The project is the first phase of a longer term (ten year) program that
aims at improving production quality, competitivity and market access,
-2 -



particularly for smaller and medium scale producers. To this end, the
project objectives are to: 1. develop organizational structures for
producers that represent their needs and interests, on a pilot basis2.
improve the institutional capacity and quality of agricultural services
delivered by public, private and producer organizations3.     improve the
flow of information for all sector stakeholders
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The value added for the Borrower of Bank support to the Project stems
from: n the Bank's good worldwide and regional experience in agricultural
services reformn the Bank's long and successful track record in the sector
in Tunisian strong Government appreciation of the value added of Bank
involvement, because of its broad international expertise, the Banks
ability to link both backward and forward in time and across a broad range
of sector interventions, the Bank's privileged position vis-a-vis other
donors, the intellectual capital of the Bank's analytic capability and
sector work, and the rigor of the Bank's approach to issues that are
difficult to arbitrate at the national level.
4. Description
In line with the development objectives (see Al above) the project will
focus on strengthening producer organizations, on improvement of services
(especially on their responsiveness and their cost-effectiveness, and on
cost recovery and progressive privatization) and on developing markets and
assisting the sector to perform under international standards such as
those in use in the EU. The components of the project are: Component 1:
Building the capacity of producer and inter-professional organizations:
(1) a pilot project to strengthen the capacity of local and regional
producer organizations (including cooperatives and the new "agricultural
development groups" GDAs) to demand, manage and provide services; and (2)
support to national "inter-professional organizations (GIPs) to improve
product quality and develop new markets and brand images for Tunisian
produce.Component 2: Strengthening the supply of research, training and
farming advisory services: (1) strengthening and regionalization of
agricultural research including introduction of a selective or competitive
grant system, creation of a unified research institute and regional
research centers, user participation in setting the research agenda; and
creation of an information clearing house on agricultural technology; (2)
a pilot project to improve producer access to training and farming advice,
in particular through setting up a demand-driven advisory service teams in
six pilot areas and reinforcement of women's extension; and (3)
strengthening agricultural training.Component 3: Livestock and animal
health: support for improved services in animal resources, including
improved diagnostic services, support for animal identification, training,
further transfer of services to the private sector, and increasing the
share of producers in paying for servicesComponent 4: Plant protection:
strengthening capacity for plant protection and seed import and
registration, by expanding the pesticide residue and seed testing
capacity, development of monitoring and surveillance on internal trade and
on imports and exports; and improving awareness and practices about cost
effective and sustainable pest control and integrated pest
management.Component 5: Strengthening public interest services and project
management support: (1) agricultural statistics and information; and (2)
project management support.
-3-



1. Building the capacity of producer and inter-professional organizations
- producer organizations
- Quality improvement and GIPs
2. Research, training and farming advisory services
- Agricultural research
- Training
- Farming advisory services
3. Livestock and animal health
5. Public interest services and project management support
- Agricultural statistics and information
- Project management support
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost 43.6
6. Implementation
Institutional and implementation arrangements would be based on those
established for ASIL, ASIL2 and the recently effective Water Sector
Investment Loan. These arrangements have proved to be fully
satisfactory.Project Coordination Committee. A coordination committee
(comite de coordination inter departementale) would be created by
ministerial decision before Loan effectiveness. The committee would be
chaired by the Minister of Agriculture and would comprise the heads of
each of the executing units, representatives of other involved ministries
(International Cooperation, Finance, Economic Development), and producers
representatives. The coordination committee would review and approve
annual work programs and budgets, end of year reports and financial
accounts and audits, and supervise execution through periodic reports,
including a mid term review report. Regional coordinating committees
would also be set up in each of the six pilot governorates.Project
Coordination. Day to day coordination among the executing units would be
assured by the DGFE (Direction Generale du Financement et des
Encouragements) within the Ministry of Agriculture. DGFE has a
specialized project coordination department that coordinates
implementation of all externally funded projects. Within this department,
a Project Management Unit (PMU) would be set up to take specific
responsibility for this project. The PMU would be established by
ministerial decision before Loan effectiveness. Staffing would comprise:
a coordinator, a financial management/procurement specialist and an
accountant. Consultants would be recruited as needed. The PMU would act
as secretariat to the steering committee and would ensure that decisions
of the steering committee were implemented. The PMU would also
consolidate all reports and information relating to the project, supervise
procurement, keep the accounts, oversee environmental assessments, carry
out monitoring and evaluation, commission and supervise the mid term
review, which would be done through consultants, and act as the principal
counterpart for supervision missions. The PMU would prepare a procedures
manual (to form part of the project implementation plan) to be followed
within the project. A draft of this manual, based on the manuals already
in use for previous Bank-financed projects, has been prepared.Project
Implementation. The Ministry of Agriculture would be the overall executing
agency for implementation of the project. Implementation would be carried
- 4 -



out by twelve implementing units, all of which are within the ministry or
report to it (DGFE, APIA, IRESA, AVFA, OEP, DGSA, IRVT, DGPV, DGPA,
DGPDIA, DGPAQ, ONAGRI). Within each implementing unit, a coordinator will
be designated. Where more than one implementing agency is involved in any
component, one unit will take the lead and coordinate the implementation
of the whole component. Detailed implementation arrangements are set out
in the project implementation plan. In summary they are as
follows:Component 1. Building the capacity of farmer organizations: DGFE
will implement the component, working with a coordinating committee
including farmer representatives. In the governorates, the CRDAs will
implement the component on the basis of work programs and budgets agreed
with and supervised by DGFE. Component 1. Quality improvement and GIPs:
APIA will implement the component, passing conventions with the GIPs. A
coordinating committee including representatives of both private and
public sectors will review annual work programs and budgets and follow up
implementation.Component 2. Strengthening the supply of research: IRESA
will implement the component. For research grants, implementation would
be on the basis of a research grant management manual which will set forth
the eligibility criteria, the approval procedures and the channeling of
funds. For regionalisation, implementation will be on the basis of a plan
and procedures manual.Component 2. Training: AVFA will implement the
component.Component 2. Farming advisory services: AVFA will implement the
component, passing conventions with the training centers for
implementation in the governorates. The women's extension subcomponent
will be implemented by AVFA on the basis of conventions with the CRDAs in
the governorates. Supervision will be by AVFA assisted in each
governorate by a local coordinating committee.Component 3. Livestock and
animal health: DGSA will coordinate implementation of the component and
implement all sub-components except for animal identification (OEP) and
diagnostic capacity (IRVT).Component 4. Plant protection: DGPV will
implement the component.Component 5. Agricultural statistics and
information: DGPDIA will coordinate the implementation of the component.
DGPA and DGPAQ will implement the crop forecasting sub-component. ONAGRI
will implement the agricultural information component.Each implementing
unit would work within the program agreed for the component(s) for which
it is responsible. It will also be responsible for conducting environment
assessment as described in the environmental management plan and project
implementation plan. Each year the implementing units would present their
proposed work program and budget through the PMU to the steering
committee, and subsequently be responsible for implementing the approved
program, following the procedures set out in the project implementation
plan. All procurement would be carried out by the implementing units,
under the supervision of the PMU ans steering committee.Financial
Management. The financial management system in place in the Ministry of
Agriculture follows public law for governmental agencies. Accounts are
kept on a cash basis according to budget heads defined in the Public
Accounting Law. The system in place provides adequate safeguards, but
needs an improved management information system. This is expected to be
in place under a nationwide upgrading program (the National Program for
Modernization and Upgrading, NPMU) by December 2002. In the meantime and
in order to have in place a complete and sound financial management
system, DGFE is setting up special arrangements for the Water Sector
Investment Loan and these arrangements will also be applied to the
proposed Project. These financial management arrangements are detailed in
annex 6 and summarized below. The application of these arrangements to
- 5 -



the Project was confirmed at appraisal and an action plan covering
financial management and reporting was prepared and will be agreed at
negotiations.Accounting, and financial reporting. Each executing unit will
be responsible for managing and accounting for its own "counterpart
budget" representing the national share of project financing. Each unit
will request payment from the Bank Loan through DGFE. DGFE will maintain
project accounts covering both the national and the Bank share of
financing. The Special Account will be maintained by the Central Bank of
Tunisia.The PMU would be responsible for submitting to the Bank a
semi-annual project management and monitoring report, beginning at the end
of the first semester after Loan effectiveness. The PMU would also be
responsible for issuing a simplified financial report and sending it to
the Bank on a quarterly basis, beginning at the end of the first trimester
after Loan effectiveness. Audits. An auditor acceptable to the Bank, will
be appointed to carry out an annual audit according to the International
Standards of Auditing as issued by the International Federation of
Accountants, the Bank's Guidelines (as set out in the Financial
Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook, "FARAH") and specific terms
of reference acceptable to the Bank. The auditor will express a
professional opinion on the annual project financial statements. The
annual audit report will be made available to the Bank within six months
of the close of each fiscal year.Monitoring and evaluation arrangements,
and mid-term review. The PMU would be responsible, with inputs from all
implementing units, for monitoring of financial and physical progress, for
progress reporting on the execution of policy measures, and for monitoring
and evaluating outcomes and development impacts. Monitoring and
evaluation parameters have been drawn up. The PMU would also be
responsible for coordinating the mid- term review, which would take place
by June 30, 2004.Appraisal and negotiations. The above proposed
arrangements are based on successful implementation and management
safeguards under previous Bank projects. They have been agreed with
Government during appraisal and will be confirmed at negotiations.
7. Sustainability
Sustainability would be obtained at three different levels:At producer
level: pilot actions will promote the development of producer groups at
both local (in three governorates) and national level, and give producers
responsibility in the setting of the service agenda.At service provider
level, project actions will help develop more cost-effective and
performing services both within the public and private sector. The
project will put special emphasis on the development of private service
providers wherever possible, together with a sustainable pattern of user
payment that will progressively make private services viable. This is
matched with the willingness of Government to assure an efficient level of
financing to services, both during the period when user contributions are
growing, and thereafter for functions that are public service in their
nature.At the economic level, the project will promote new cropping
patterns and technologies linked to profitable new markets, that will
create sufficient extra income to allow producers to pay a greater share
of the cost of services.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Lessons from the Research and Extension ProjectThe overall evaluation of
the ICR was that the outcome was satisfactory. However, a number of
lessons learned needed to be taken into account in the design of the
- 6 -



proposed Project (lessons are in italic, followed by how they are taken
into account in the Project):n Change in producer services requires a
longer time horizon than five years. The Project supports the first phase
of a change program over a ten year period.n Monitoring and evaluation
have to be given priority up front - they were neglected, particularly in
the research component, so that there is no impact data. Provision is
made for monitoring and evaluation in the Project, including a dedicated
staff member, technical assistance and a base line study. The technical
and economic impact of research will be a particular focus.n Budget
availability has to be assured, as its lack threatened sustainability of
the project developments. Fiscal analysis has been conducted. The
Project will initially create an extra charge for the public purse, but
this will decline over time as cost recovery and privatization become
generalized. The fiscal outlook will be reviewed further at appraisal. n
Inter-agency cooperation (particularly between research and extension) was
notoriously weak. Structures, programs and incentive systems all have to
be mobilized to enforce cooperation . Inter-agency cooperation will be
promoted by regionalization of research, by the research projets
federateurs, by the agricultural advisory and training pilot etc.n
producer organizations should play a bigger role in providing and
financing services, and there is in general a need to promote producer
organizations. Producer organizations will be actively promoted,
initially on a pilot scale, at both local, regional and national levels so
that they can become effective partners.    In a parallel action,
Government has set up a program to provide matching grants for the
recruitment of specialists, and some producer organizations may be able to
benefit from this to hire advisers. However, no training is provided to
help producer organizations manage the assistance. The experience will be
evaluated at mid-term review and some complementary support could then be
envisaged. In addition, under the project, GIPs will be able to access
resources to finance research themes that they themselves identify.n The
key challenges for the next phase of services development are to be able
to help producers respond to new markets, to respond to the diversity of
farming systems and clients, and to begin the shift from supply-driven to
a new division of public and private responsibilities in services. The
approach of the Project is market-oriented and demand-driven, with the
accent on reorganizing the responsibilities between public, private and
cooperative providers. Findings on the research componentn Regionalization
was begun but was weak and needs to be supported by decentralization of
personnel, of research management authority, and of budgets. The Project
will support a phased decentralization, including the creation of two
regional research centers. n There is a need for a revamped system of
incentives and career development that supports a producer-oriented
approach rather than classical publication-oriented research, and enforces
a multidisciplinary team approach, economic and social inputs and farming
system analysis, all of which remain weak. The Project will support a
system of competitive grants and contracts, and evaluation of the research
results under the contracts. This system will reward good performance and
impose through the funding mechanisms a
multi-disciplinary/multi-institutional approach. A practical
problem-solving approach will also be promoted through the systematic
inclusion of producer representatives and extension staff in the regional
and national research committees, which identify the research themes
relevant for a region and allocate the resources.Findings on the extension
componentn The lack of formal status and adequate incentives for
-7 -



extensionists reduces performance. The Project will support the
development of simple extensionists into agricultural advisers, beginning
with the pilot training and agricultural advisory component.n Certain
programs can do better than others and hence should be prioritized - for
example, mass media programs and women's extension program. Mass media
and women's extension are supported under the Project.n There is a need
for an extension strategy that takes account of the diversity of farming
systems, of sustainability and of further involvement of producers and the
private sector. The Project will support the strategy of integrated
training and advisory services close to producers and their problems. The
Project will also help develop the profession of private farming
advisers.Lessons learned from other projectsThe following are the lessons
learned from other projects:n There is a need for extensive consultation
where reform processes are being proposed (lesson of WSIL). During
identification, preparation and pre appraisal, consultation with
producers, officials and decision makers at all levels was broad and
constant (see E6 below). In addition, IRESA will conduct an
ownership-building consultation process regarding the reforms for
research.n Extension and other services are best delivered through a
structure of producer groups (lesson of ODESYPANO). Producer
organizations are the instrument of choice in Government policy and will
be supported as an essential part of the Project. Producer organizations
will access to funding to recruit their own advisors.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The project is not expected to have
negative/adverse impact on the environment. There are, however, a number
of minor risks and uncertainties that require further assessment and
oversight. Consequently this project is categorized as a B. An
environmental impact study (EA) carried out during preparation of the
project found that the project contributes in a positive way to
environmental sustainability and public health. The EA has provided a
more detailed assessment of the minor risks. The EA recommended improving
environmental standards and, subsequently, the sustainability of
agricultural practices. Activities that may pose minor environmental risk,
if not carried out well, include:(i) the construction of diagnostic and
research laboratories, proposed under a number of components, might lead
to possible minor environmental disturbance during construction. Also,
waste disposal at these laboratories may pose risks to municipal waste
disposal system, and surface water.(ii) construction of a quarantine
center, including a fumigation facility, in the port of RadOs with
possible minor environmental disturbance during construction, and
including a small waste disposal facility (incinerator) as well as the use
of potentially risky fumigants;(iii) support for competitive agricultural
research. This research could include small projects with minor
environmental risks (use of pesticides, disturbance of land leading to
run-off etc.)(iv) inadequate advice, and improper use of farm input such
as water, fertilizer and pesticides. Government's environmental assessment
has, where needed, proposed environmental management/mitigation of
potential environmental risks. These suggestions, mainly relating to
construction/design of new facilities, have been adopted in the project
design.
-8-



11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Christopher S. Ward
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
(202) 473-7076
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending May 18, 2001.
-9-



