Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7063-TUN
Loan Agreement
(Agricultural Support Services Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 2, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 7063-TUN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 2, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A)
 the Bank has received a letter dated May 21, 2001 from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to develop 
organizational structures for agricultural producers, reinforce the institutional 
capacity and quality of agricultural services and improve information dissemination 
for agricultural sector stakeholders (the Program) and declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the said Program;
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans" of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Page  2
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Accompanying Measures" means the policy and institutional measures 
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, aimed at implementing the Program and 
supporting the activities under the Project to which they are linked; 
(b)
"Beneficiary" means a research operator eligible to a Research Grant (as 
this term is hereinafter defined) for a Research Sub-project (as this term is 
hereinafter defined) prepared under Part B.1 (a) of the Project; 
(c)
"Central Bank of Tunisia" means the Borrower’s Central Bank (Banque 
Centrale de Tunisie) established and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 
58-90 dated September 19, 1958, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(d)
"Coordinating Committee" means the Project coordinating committee to be 
established by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Section 6.01 (c) of 
this Agreement, as referred to in paragraph 1, Section A of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement; 
(e)
"CRDA" means Commissariat Régional au Développement Agricole, a Regional 
Commissariat for Agriculture Development, established and operated as an 
administrative public institution (établissement public à caractère administratif) 
pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 89-44 dated March 8, 1989, and its related 
implementing decrees;
(f)
"DGFE" means Direction Générale du Financement et des Encouragements, the 
General Directorate of Finance and Incentives within the MOA (as this term is 
hereinafter defined);
(g)
"Eligible Categories" means categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in 
the table of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(h)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(i)
"Environmental Assessment" means the environmental assessment, acceptable 
to the Bank, prepared by the Borrower, dated May 2001, including, inter alia: (i) the 
identification and assessment of the potential environmental impact of activities to 
be carried out under the Project; (ii) an evaluation of alternatives; (iii) the 
definition of appropriate mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures to be 
implemented with a view to ensuring compliance of the activities referred to in 
sub-paragraph (i) above with said measures; and (iv) the Environmental Management Plan 
(as this term is hereinafter defined);
(j)
"Environmental Management Plan" means the plan, acceptable to the Bank, 
detailing the mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures referred to in the 
Environmental Assessment and required for the implementation of the Project, with a 
view to eliminating adverse environmental and social impacts, offsetting such impacts, 
or reducing such impacts at acceptable levels; 
(k)
"Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any of 
the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on December 
31 in each calendar year; 
(l)
"IRESA" means Institution de Recherche et de l’Enseignement Supérieur 
Agricoles, the Borrower’s Institute for Agricultural Research and Higher Education;
(m)
"IRVT" means Institut de la Recherche Vétérinaire, the Borrower’s 
Veterinary Research Institute; 
(n)
"MOA" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture established and 
operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 87-779 dated May 21, 1987, as amended 
by the Decree No. 88-1101 dated June 9, 1988, and as it may be further amended from 
time to time;
(o)
"ONAGRI" means Observatoire National de l’Agriculture, the Borrower’s 
National Agricultural Observatory; 
Page  3
(p)
"Project Implementation Plan" means the plan, to be prepared by the 
Borrower and submitted to the Bank in accordance with the provisions of Section 6.01 
(b) of this Agreement, which sets out the principles and procedures governing the 
implementation of the Project, such plan to, inter alia: (i) define the respective 
roles and responsibilities of the agencies involved in the implementation of the 
Project; (ii) set forth the timetable of actions required under the Project including 
the timetable relating to the appointment of personnel required pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraph 2, Section A of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; (iii) identify 
the procedures to be used for monitoring and evaluating progress towards the 
achievement of the objectives of the Project; (iv) detail the financial management 
procedures for the Project, including, inter alia, the auditing, accounting and 
financial reporting arrangements for the Project; and (v) include the Environmental 
Assessment; 
(q)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(r)
"Project Management Unit" means the project management unit to be 
established by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of Section 6.01 (a) of 
this Agreement; 
(s)
"Research Grant" means any funding provided through a Research Grant 
Agreement (as this term is hereinafter defined) to a Beneficiary under Part B.1 (a) of 
the Project;
(t)
"Research Grant Agreement" means any agreement entered into between the 
Borrower and a Beneficiary pursuant to the provisions of Sections C and D of Schedule 
5 to this Agreement;
(u)
 "Research Grant Management Manual" means the manual to be prepared by 
the Borrower and submitted to the Bank in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
3 (c) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, 
in cooperation with and with the consent of the Bank, and such term includes any 
schedules to the Research Grant Management Manual; 
(v)
"Research Regionalization Plan" means the plan to be prepared by the 
Borrower and submitted to the Bank in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 
(b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(w)
"Research Sub-project" means a specific research project to be carried 
out by a Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a Research Grant; and
(x)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to twenty three 
million eight hundred thousand Euros (EUR 23,800,000), as such amount may be converted 
from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.09 of this Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) amounts 
paid (or if the Bank shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by the Borrower on account of 
withdrawals made by a Beneficiary under a Research Sub-project to meet the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Research Sub-project in respect of which 
the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; (ii) expenditures made (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; 
and (iii) in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar 
payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Euros a special deposit account in the Central Bank of Tunisia on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Page  4
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2007 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to two hundred thirty eight thousand Euros (EUR 238,000). The Borrower agrees 
that on or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one percent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period 
at the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay 
interest on such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semi-annually in 
arrears on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate 
to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a "Conversion", as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions 
of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c)
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium 
be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any 
premium payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to 
the amount allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall, through 
MOA, carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, economic, engineering, environmental, financial, 
management, technical and agricultural practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services, personnel and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Page  5
Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Project Implementation Plan, the Accompanying 
Measures, the Environmental Assessment and the Environmental Management Plan.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall, at all times, maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Page  6
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph 
(a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than June 30, 
2002, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare semi-annual Project 
Management Reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the period covered by said report, and (B) shows 
separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
during the period covered by said report;
(ii)
describes physical progress in the implementation of the Project 
for the period covered by said report; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar semester a semi-annual Project Management Report for such period.
Section 4.03. In order to achieve the objectives of Part B.1 of the Project, the 
Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 2003: (a) submit to its Chamber of 
Representatives a draft law, in substance satisfactory to the Bank, for the 
establishment of a single agricultural research institute; and (b) take all measures 
required on its part, including regulatory measures, to revise the mandate of IRESA 
accordingly. 
Section 4.04. In order to achieve the objectives of Part C of the Project, the 
Borrower shall take all measures required on its part, satisfactory to the Bank, 
including regulatory measures, to, not later than June 30, 2002, grant adequate 
administrative and financial management flexibility to IRVT laboratories.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has established within DGFE the Project Management Unit, on 
the basis of terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank;  
(b)
the Borrower has submitted the Project Implementation Plan to the Bank, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank; and
(c)
the Borrower has established the Coordinating Committee on the basis of 
institutional arrangements satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 6.02. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of International Cooperation and Foreign Investment 
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Page  7
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of International Cooperation 
  and Foreign Investment
98, Avenue Mohamed V
1002 Tunis-Belvedere
Republic of Tunisia
Telex:
Facsimile:
18060
216-1-799-069/845
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI); or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
By /s/ Hatem Atallah
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
Regional Vice President
Middle-East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
  Amount of the
% of
  Loan Allocated
Expenditures
Category
(Expressed in Euros)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works:
80%
(a)  Part B.1 (c)
200,000
of the Project
(b)  Other civil works
    2,800,000
Page  8
(2)
Goods:
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory costs);
and 80% of local
expenditures for other 
items procured locally
(a)  Part B.1 (c)
   2,700,000
of the Project
(b)  Other goods
   6,300,000
(3)
Consultants' Services 
and Training
   9,500,000
100%
(4)
Research Grants for
Research Sub-projects  900,000
100% of amounts 
disbursed
(5)
Fee
     238,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
   1,162,000
(7)
Premia for Interest
Amount due under 
Rate Caps and
Section 2.09 (c) of 
Interest Rate Collars
 0
this Agreement
TOTAL
23,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "Foreign Expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "Local Expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures: (a) prior to the date of this 
Agreement; (b) under Categories 1 (a) and 2 (a) unless the Borrower shall have first 
submitted to the Bank a Research Regionalization Plan, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, such plan to set out, inter alia: (i) the measures required 
to transform regional research poles into regional research centers; (ii) the 
respective domains of research for at least two of the regional research centers 
referred to in sub-paragraph (i) above, including the identification of resources 
required for the proper functioning of said centers; and (iii) the identification of 
resources required for the proper functioning of regional research poles during 
Project implementation; and (c) under Category 4 unless the Borrower shall have first 
submitted to the Bank the Research Grant Management Manual, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, such manual to detail the criteria, terms and conditions for 
Research Grants set forth in Sections C and D of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for: (a) civil works under contracts not exceeding 
$500,000 equivalent each; (b) goods under contracts not exceeding $400,000 equivalent 
each; (c) services under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each for 
consulting firms; (d) services under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent 
each for individual consultants; and (e) Research Grants for Research Sub-projects in 
an amount not exceeding $50,000 equivalent each, all under such terms and conditions 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in implementing its 
national program for the development of agricultural services and to support the 
growth of a high quality, high value added and sustainable agriculture, through 
improved market access and strengthening of agricultural producers organizations and 
Page  9
services.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Capacity Building of Agricultural Producer and Inter-professional 
Organizations
Provision of technical advisory services, training and acquisition of equipment 
to support organizational structures for agricultural producers to:
1.
Strengthen, on a pilot basis, the agricultural producers organizations' capacity 
to design, finance and provide services, including: (a) promotion and capacity 
building activities for agricultural producers organizations; and (b) the 
strengthening of DGFE's capacity to monitor and supervise agricultural producers 
organizations.
2.
Strengthen inter-professional organizations to improve product quality and 
develop new markets, including: (a) the establishment of an agricultural products 
quality network; (b) the strengthening of agricultural producers and exporters’ 
capacity to develop their business; (c) the development of quality standards and 
brands; and (d) the strengthening of research and development activities.
Part B:
Strengthening the Supply of Research, Training and Farming Advisory 
Services
Provision of technical advisory services and training, carrying out of works and 
acquisition of equipment to improve public, cooperative and private agricultural 
producer services, with a particular focus on the needs of smaller agricultural 
producers, women agricultural producers and young agricultural producers, consisting 
of:
1.
Strengthening and regionalization of agricultural research, including: (a) the 
provision of Research Grants for the carrying out of priority Research Sub-projects; 
(b) the establishment of a unified research institute; (c) the establishment of two 
regional research centers and support to existing regional research poles; (d) the 
strengthening of the capacity of regional and national commissions in charge of 
programming and evaluating research activities; (e) the creation of repertory of 
usable research results accessible to users; (f) the setting-up of a computerized 
network connecting the various documentation centers; and (g) the carrying out of 
external evaluation of research programs.
2.
Design and implementation of a pilot project to improve agricultural producers 
access to training and farming advice, including: (a) the setting-up of training and 
advisory service teams within the regional agricultural training centers; (b) the 
reinforcement of women’s extension; and (c) the carrying out of information 
dissemination activities.
3.
Improvement of training design and quality, including: (a) the establishment of 
a permanent training demand and needs assessment system; (b) the review of the 
national training curriculum and materials; (c) the upgrading of training centers; and 
(d) the carrying out of monitoring and evaluation activities.
Part C:
Livestock and Animal Health
Provision of technical advisory services and training, carrying out of works and 
acquisition of equipment to improve public, cooperative and private services for 
livestock farmers, including:
1.
Improvement of diagnostic capacities of public laboratories and inspection 
services in animal health, animal feed quality control and in the safety of animal and 
fish products.
2.
Introduction of a national identification system for cattle and a 
monitoring/tracing system of animal movements.
3.
Establishment of an animal disease monitoring and control program (système 
d'épidemio-surveillance).
4.
Strengthening of zootechnical services.
Page  10
5.
Development and monitoring of private veterinary and livestock services.
Part D:
Plant Protection and Seed and Plant Certification
Provision of technical advisory services and training, carrying out of works and 
acquisition of equipment to strengthen the Borrower's capacity for plant protection 
and seed and plant certification and thereby facilitate market access of produce, 
including:
1.
Improvement of quality monitoring and testing capacities for farm inputs, in 
particular for seeds, plants and phytosanitary products.
2.
Development of monitoring and surveillance systems on domestic trade and 
import/export activities.
3.
Carrying out of training for MOA technical and extension staff, and awareness 
campaigns for agricultural producers on pest control and integrated pest management.
Part E:
Strengthening Public Interest Services and Project Management Support
1.
Provision of technical advisory services and training and acquisition of 
equipment to promote the dissemination of agricultural statistics and information, 
including: (a) the improvement of the Borrower's agricultural statistics system; (b) 
the upgrading of the crop and fisheries forecasting system; and (c) the strengthening 
of the agricultural information system of ONAGRI.
2.
Strengthening the capacity of DGFE in coordinating the implementation of the 
Project, through the provision of technical advisory services and training and the 
acquisition of equipment. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2006.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1.
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share). If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn 
as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by 
the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as 
of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies.
Installment Share
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
November 15, 2001
 0%
May 15, 2002
 0%
November 15, 2002
 0%
May 15, 2003
 0%
November 15, 2003
 0%
May 15, 2004
 0%
November 15, 2004
 0%
May 15, 2005
 0%
November 15, 2005
 0%
May 15, 2006
 0%
November 15, 2006
 0%
May 15, 2007
 0%
November 15, 2007
 0%
May 15, 2008
13%
November 15, 2008
13%
May 15, 2009
 0%
November 15, 2009
 0%
May 15, 2010
 0%
November 15, 2010
 0%
May 15, 2011
    10.5%
Page  11
November 15, 2011
 0%
May 15, 2012
    11.5%
November 15, 2012
    10.4%
May 15, 2013
    10.4%
November 15, 2013
     7.8%
May 15, 2014
     5.2%
November 15, 2014
     3.9%
May 15, 2015
     2.6%
November 15, 2015
     2.6%
May 15, 2016
     2.6%
November 15, 2016
     3.9%
May 15, 2017
 0%
November 15, 2017
 0%
May 15, 2018
     1.6%
November 15, 2018
 1%
2.
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the 
Original Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all 
remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after 
such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of  withdrawal.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the 
Loan to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that 
shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate 
that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank 
under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank 
so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate 
component of the Screen Rate.
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
Page  12
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $6,000,000 equivalent, and goods estimated to cost less 
than $400,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$8,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National or International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national or international shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $420,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$500,000 or more, and with respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $400,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Page  13
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services, estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Certain services under the Project may be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Page  14
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
A.
Project Implementation and Coordination
1.
The Borrower shall ensure overall Project coordination among the executing units 
through the DGFE and the Coordinating Committee. The Coordinating Committee, chaired 
by the Minister of Agriculture, shall be maintained within the MOA and shall comprise 
representatives from various ministries and agencies of the Borrower and agricultural 
producers organizations. The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 2002, establish 
regional sub-committees to assist the Coordinating Committee in coordinating and 
overseeing Project progress. Day-to-day coordination of all Project activities shall 
be carried out by the Project Management Unit which shall, at all times during Project 
implementation, be maintained with professional staffing in adequate number, whose 
qualifications and experience shall be acceptable to the Bank. The Project Management 
Unit shall be headed by a Director, appointed by the Borrower on the basis of terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank, and shall comprise a financial specialist and a 
monitoring and evaluation specialist.
2.
The Borrower shall vest MOA with the overall responsibility for Project 
implementation. To this end, the Borrower shall take all measures required on its part 
to provide personnel in adequate number, as required for the proper implementation of 
the Project. At the regional level, CRDAs shall be responsible for the identification, 
implementation and coordination of Project activities across MOA’s regional technical 
units. All Project activities shall be selected and carried out in accordance with the 
criteria and provisions set forth in the Project Implementation Plan.
3.
Without limitation upon the provisions of the preceding paragraphs 1 and 2, the 
DGFE, through the Project Management Unit, shall have additional specific 
responsibility for: (a) monitoring of financial and physical progress of the Project, 
including progress evaluation of the achievement of the Accompanying Measures and the 
measures set forth in the Environmental Management Plan; (b) progress evaluation of 
the achievement of the Program; (c) coordination of procurement, disbursement and 
audit activities, including the preparation of Project Management Reports; (d) 
preparation of the mid-term review referred to in Section B of this Schedule; and (e) 
acting as secretariat of the Coordinating Committee. 
B.
Mid-Term Review
The Borrower shall, through the MOA:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the Accompanying Measures and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about March 31, 2004, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the Accompanying Measures and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by June 30, 2004, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
C.
Eligibility Criteria for Research Sub-projects
No Research Sub-project shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Loan unless the Borrower is satisfied that the Research Sub-project meets the 
eligibility criteria specified below, the procedures, terms and conditions specified 
in Section D of this Annex and the provisions set forth in the Research Grant 
Management Manual, which shall include, inter alia, the following: 
(a)
the Research Sub-project shall be financially and technically viable and 
shall meet the criteria specified in the Research Grant Management Manual; and
Page  15
(b)
the Research Sub-project shall comply with the standards set forth in the 
applicable laws of the Borrower relating to health, safety and environmental 
protection, as well as with the Environmental Assessment and the Bank’s applicable 
guidelines. 
D.
Terms and Conditions of Research Grants made for Research Sub-projects 
Research Sub-projects shall be carried out pursuant to Research Grant Agreements 
to be concluded between the Borrower and the Beneficiary under terms and conditions 
set forth in the Research Grant Management Manual and satisfactory to the Bank which, 
inter alia, shall include the following:
(a)
financing to be on a grant basis;
(b)
the obligation to carry out the Research Sub-project in accordance with 
the Research Grant Management Manual, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
accordance with sound environmental, agricultural, technical, financial, and 
managerial standards and to maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance with 
sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of 
the Research Sub-project;
(c)
the right of the Borrower to inspect by itself, or jointly with the Bank, 
if the Bank shall so request, the equipment, experimentation plots and laboratories, 
sites, services and training included in the Research Sub-project, the operations 
thereof and any relevant records and documents;
(d)
the right of the Borrower to obtain from the Beneficiaries all 
information as the Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request regarding the 
administration, operation and financial conditions of the Research Sub-project; and
(e)
the right of the Borrower to suspend or terminate the right of the 
Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Research Grant for the Research Sub-project 
upon the failure by the Beneficiary to perform any of its obligations under its 
Research Grant Agreement, such failure to be determined by internal and external 
evaluations carried out in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Research 
Grant Management Manual. 
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to EUR 
1,400,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to EUR 800,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of EUR 5,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
Page  16
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
Page  17
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
