                                      Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR00001113



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-70630)



                                        ON A

                                        LOAN

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF 23.8 EUROS MILLION

                       (US$21.3 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA

                                       FOR AN

                AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT SERVICES PROJECT



                                  June 30, 2009




Sustainable Development Department
Maghreb Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective: December 31, 2008)

                      Currency Unit = Tunisian Dinar (TD)
                              TD 1.00 = US$ 0.77
                             US$ 1.00 = TD 1.30

                                   FISCAL YEAR

                              January 1 ­ December 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFD      Agence française de développement
APIA     Agence de promotion de l'investissement agricole
ASSP     Agricultural Support Services Project
AVFA     Agence de vulgarisation et de formation agricole
CAS      Stratégie de coopération
CRDA     Commissariats régionaux pour le développement agricole
DGEDA    Direction générale des études et du développement agricole
DGFE     Direction générale du financement et des encouragements
DGPA     Direction générale de la production agricole
DGPAQ    Direction générale des pêches et de l'aquaculture
DGPDIA   Direction générale de la planification, du développement et
         des investissements agricoles
DGPV     Direction générale de la protection des végétaux
DGSA     Direction générale de la santé animale
EPST     Établissement public à caractère scientifique et technique
EU       European Union
FAO      Food and Agriculture Organisation
GDA      Groupement de développement agricole
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GIC      Groupement d'intérêt collectif
GIP      Groupement interprofessionnel
GOT      Government of Tunisia
IPM      Integrated Pest Management
IRESA    Institution de la recherche et de l'enseignement supérieur agricole
IRVT     Institut de la recherche vétérinaire de Tunisie
KPI      Knowledge Performance Indicator
MA       Ministère de l'Agriculture
MOA      Ministry of Agriculture
M&E      Monitoring & Evaluation
OEP      Office de l'élevage et des pâturages
OMC      Organisation mondiale du commerce
ONAGRI   Observatoire national de l'agriculture
ONH      Office National de l'Huile
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDO      Project Development Objective
PISEAU   Prêt d'investissement au secteur de l'eau
PMU      Project Management Unit
PO       Producers' organisations

SMSA     Sociétés Mutuelles de Services Agricoles
TA     Technical assistance
TOR    Terms of reference
UCP    Unité de coordination du projet
UE     Union européenne
UTAP   Union tunisienne de l'agriculture et de la pêche

             Vice President:               Daniela Gressani
             Country Director:             Mats Karlsson
             Sector Manager:               Luis Constantino
             Project Team Leader:          Marie-Hélène Collion
             ICR Team Leader:              Nabil M. Chaherli
COUNTRY
Project Name



CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  B. Key Dates ................................................................................................................... v
  C. Ratings Summary ....................................................................................................... v
  D. Sector and Theme Codes .......................................................................................... vi
  E. Bank Staff .................................................................................................................. vi
  F. Results Framework Analysis .................................................................................... vii
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................. viii
  H. Restructuring (if any) .............................................................................................. viii
  I. Disbursement Profile ................................................................................................. ix
  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 9
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 19
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 20
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 25
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 27
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 29
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 37
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 38
  Annex 5. Borrower's Project Completion Report ........................................................ 40
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 50
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 57
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 59
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 60
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                          AGRICULTURAL
Country:                Tunisia                 Project Name:             SUPPORT SERVICES
                                                                          PROJECT
Project ID:             P005750                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-70630
ICR Date:               06/30/2009              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:                 GOV'T OF TUNISIA
Original Total
                        USD 21.3M               Disbursed Amount:         USD 23.7M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Agriculture, Environment and Water Resources
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:       09/15/2000     Effectiveness:                              02/02/2002
Appraisal:            04/02/2001     Restructuring(s):                           05/22/2007
Approval:             06/26/2001     Mid-term Review:        05/16/2005          05/09/2005
                                     Closing:                06/30/2007          12/30/2008

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                          Government:         Satisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory
                        Moderately         Implementing
Quality of Supervision:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory     Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank            Moderately         Overall Borrower
                                                               Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:            Unsatisfactory     Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                             None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agricultural extension and research                                   65                  38
Agricultural marketing and trade                                      19                  36
Animal production                                                     15                  19
Central government administration                                      1                     7


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Rural markets                                                         50                  39
Rural policies and institutions                                       25                  52
Small and medium enterprise support                                   25                  9

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Daniela Gressani                     Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:          Mats Karlsson                        Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager:            Luis F. Constantino                  Doris Koehn
Project Team Leader:       Nabil M. Chaherli                    Christopher S. Ward
ICR Team Leader:           Nabil M. Chaherli
ICR Primary Author:        Tom Pomeroy
                           Franz M. Schorosch
                           Joanne S. Nickerson




                                                 ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project objectives are to:

  1. Develop on a pilot basis, organizational structures for producers that represent their
needs and interests.

 2. Improve the institutional capacity and quality of agricultural services delivered by
public and private institutions and producer organizations.

  3. Improve the flow of information for all sector stakeholders.


Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
  Not applicable.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally       Actual Value
                                               Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                approval          Target        Completion or
                                               documents)         Values        Target Years
                All targeted institutional changes have been achieved
Indicator 1 :
Value
quantitative or 0                          215 points                           164 points
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/31/2002                   12/31/2008
                 The aggregate score reflects the following scores: (i) 19/25 for the producer and
                inter-professional organizations; (ii) 85/85 for the research and extension
Comments
                component; 37/75 for the livestock and animal health component; 23/30 for the
(incl. %
                plant protection and seed and plant certification component. There were 8
achievement)
                original outcome/impact indicators in the PAD. These were not monitored or
                evaluated.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                            Values (from                          Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                              Revised
                                               approval                         Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                              documents)                         Target Years
Indicator 1 :   All investments are achieved (infrastructure, goods and training) and being used.
Value
                                           all investments
(quantitative   No investments                                                 90%
                                           achieved
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/31/2002                   12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                            Actual
        Date ISR
No.                          DO                         IP              Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                        (USD millions)
  1    06/29/2001       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.00
  2    02/19/2002       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     0.21
  3    09/25/2002       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     1.04
  4    03/26/2003       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     1.66
  5    04/01/2003       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     1.66
  6    06/13/2003       Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory                    2.14
  7    12/10/2003       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     2.17
  8    05/06/2004       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     4.02
  9    11/14/2004       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                     5.04
 10    04/27/2005   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory              7.00
 11    07/01/2005   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory              7.63
 12    03/08/2006       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   10.43
 13    06/02/2006       Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   11.34
 14    11/14/2006   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            12.56
 15    05/30/2007   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            13.77
 16    07/19/2007   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            14.75
 17    03/24/2008   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            17.23
 18    07/18/2008   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            18.97
 19    12/08/2008   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory            22.02


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
 05/22/2007               MS     MS          13.77
I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

At appraisal, Tunisia's agricultural sector was important for employment, income
generation, export earnings, and for social stability by slowing the rural exodus.
Agriculture was a major economic sector carrying 13% of GDP and was the leading
employer at 22% of the work force. The sector was quite diverse, and commercial, semi-
commercial and quasi-subsistence farms each had their own characteristics. The
livestock sector was also important. Agricultural exports were valuable representing
7.5% of total exports for the period 2000-2004 down from 10% in the 1990s.

Major challenges for the sector stemmed from economic liberalization and resource
constraints and Government's attempts to (i) attain high growth targets for agriculture
(2.9% p.a. for 2002-2010), (ii) modernize Tunisian agriculture to be able to competitively
export to world markets and compete with imports, (iii) phase out some aspects of
protection and seeking new areas of comparative advantage. To address these challenges,
Government placed priority on expansion of investments, technology and producer skills,
while avoiding the over-exploitation of groundwater and other natural resources.

The Government of Tunisia (GOT) adopted several strategic policy choices during the
formulation of this project, among them:
(1) targeting medium and smaller commercially oriented producers, as well as
implementing parallel programs for the marginal areas;
(2) using a regional and integrated approach to move services closer to producers,
which were more integrated and responsive to local demand and decentralizing budgets,
decisions and services to match producers' needs;
(3) developing and strengthening producer organizations at both local and national
levels;
(4) evolving a more efficient and sustainable approach to service provision by
progressively privatizing services and seeking cost sharing arrangement with users; and
(5) strengthening of essential public services.

These policy choices were reflected in the two-phase GOT Action Plan for agricultural
services (2001-2010). This project was intended to implement the integrated and
coordinated reform process envisaged in the Action Plan. The project would lead the
way to upgrade agricultural services to targeted agricultural communities in the country.

Rationale for Bank Assistance. The Bank's CAS priorities were to help improve the
competitiveness of agriculture, to support sector reforms in natural resource management,
and to provide support to increase rural living standards. The Agricultural Support
Services Project (ASSP) is in line with the objectives of the CAS as well as a
continuation of several of support to the agricultural sector development in Tunisia. The
project supports a program of sustainable growth in agriculture sector in terms of (a)
services to help enhance the competitiveness of agriculture during the period of transition



                                            1
to a less protected economy and (b) improved incomes in rural areas through the
development of improved services and opportunities for agricultural producer
organizations.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators
The project objectives were:

1. To develop on a pilot basis, organizational structures for producers that represent their
needs and interests;

2. To improve the institutional capacity and quality of agricultural services delivered by
public and private institutions and producer organizations; and

3. To improve the flow of information for all sector stakeholders.

Key Outcome/Impact Indicators
For objective 1, the key indicators were: (i) that smaller and medium scale producers are
organized and supervised to be able to access to advice, inputs and market facilities; (ii)
that new market niches begin to open and new Tunisian products begin to penetrate
international markets; and (iii) that Tunisian produce increasingly conforms to norms and
standards on both domestic and international markets.

For objective 2, the key indicators were: (i) improvement in the capacity of smaller and
medium scale producers in six pilot governorates, to the level where their production is
increasingly competitive internationally; (ii) a more competitive production system
evolves; and (iii) lower losses to pests, diseases and spoilage.

For objective 3, the key indicators were: (i) improved organization, investment and
production choices based on better knowledge; and (ii) improved risk management
through information and greater awareness of risk and behaviors.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification


In monitoring and evaluating achievements towards the PDO and implementation
progress, the borrower and the Bank supervision team faced the following difficulties: (i)
the original indicators could not be aggregated in a way that would give an overall picture
of how the project was progressing; (ii) some of the indicators that were set up at the time
of project preparation were more indicators to monitor progress of a CAS than indicators
to monitor the progress of the project itself. As a result of these difficulties, new key
indicators were introduced in March 2007 based on a new monitoring framework
consisting of (i) a simplified matrix of implementation indicators, (ii) a balanced
scorecard of envisaged institutional changes, (ii) a beneficiary survey and (iv) a revised
results framework. The PDO indicator targets "all institutional changes have been
achieved" out of a total score of 215 points with an intermediate outcome indicator as




                                             2
"all investments are achieved" with progress in investments expressed as a percentage
rate.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The target population for the project was defined as medium and small producers who
had a market orientation and the potential to improve their productivity. The major focus
of project activities was in six "pilot governorates".

1.5 Original Components
Component 1: Building the capacity of agricultural producers and inter-
professional organizations (US$5.26 M).            This included: (a) a pilot project to
strengthen the capacity of local and regional producer organizations (including
cooperatives and the new "agricultural development groups" (GDA, Groupements de
developpement agricole) to demand, manage and provide services; and (b) support to
national "inter-professional organizations" (GIPs, Groupements interprofessionnels) to
improve product quality and develop new markets and brand images for Tunisian
produce.
Component 2: Strengthening the supply of research, training and farming advisory
services (US$16.82 M). This included: (a) strengthening and regionalization of
agricultural research including introduction of a selective or competitive grant system,
creation of a unified research institute and regional research centers, user participation in
setting the research agenda, and creation of an information clearing house on agricultural
technology; (b) a pilot project to improve producer access to training and farming advice,
in particular through setting up a demand-driven advisory service teams in six pilot areas
and reinforcement of women's extension; and (c) strengthening agricultural training.
Component 3: Livestock and animal health (US$8.74 M). This included support for
improved services in animal production and health, including improved diagnostic
services, support for animal identification, training, further transfer of services to the
private sector, and increasing the share of producers in paying for certain services.
Component 4: Plant protection and seed and plant certification (US$6.44 M). This
was to strengthen capacity for plant protection and seed certification, by expanding the
pesticide residue and seed testing capacity, development of monitoring and surveillance
on trade in plant products; and improving awareness and practices about cost effective
and sustainable pest control and integrated pest management.
Component 5: Strengthening public interest services and project management
support (US$4.98M). This included: (a) agricultural statistics and information; and (b)
project management support.

1.6 Revised Components
The project was not formally restructured.

1.7 Other significant changes

Although not formally restructured, the project did undergo a number of changes. After
the mid-term review in March 2006, the scope of several components changed. Under
Component 4, the following activities were added: (a) for fertilizer analysis, equipment
was added to an existing pesticide lab to analyze chemical inputs; (b) equipment was


                                             3
added to the laboratory for detection of genetically modified proteins; (c) equipment for
pesticide analysis; (d) equipment of laboratories and stations including seed analysis,
viral control, and a catalogue station. Other outputs such as three fumigation stations and
construction of three regional stations were abandoned in favor of less expensive
mechanisms to accomplish the same tasks

Another important change came under Component 2, where it was agreed to eliminate
the dated covenant related to the creation of the unified research institute (Institut
unique), through an amendment to the Loan Agreement in November 2004. This measure
was originally meant to improve internal efficiency and cost effectiveness of agricultural
research through better use of all human, physical and financial research resources. .
Under the unified research institute, three existing research institutes were to merge. In
the end, the Council of Ministers decided not to implement the merger during the project,
because the benefits of this massive institutional change was not perceived as
outweighing the institutional and social costs.

Cancellation/reallocation. In March 2006 2.6 million Euros (11% of the original Loan
amount) were cancelled, leaving a total loan amount of 21.2 million Euros. The
cancellation was necessary due to cost savings related to exchange rate fluctuations, and
the costs for TA and training were overestimated at appraisal. As part of the changes in
scope and cancellation, the allocations among disbursement categories were revised.

Extension of Loan closing date. Finally, due to implementation issues discussed in Key
Factors below, the Loan closing date was extended by a total of 18 months, from June 30,
2007 to December 31, 2008. The extension allowed for the completion of construction of
laboratories and procurement of the needed equipment, completion of several studies on
improving the quality of agricultural products, and completion of several TAs. This
extension was deemed essential to satisfactorily achieving the second PDO related to
capacity building. A reallocation of funds was conducted to reflect (i) the increase in
funds for civil works for the research component (extension of the Chott Mariem research
center and upgrading for the Mornag and Oued Beja research poles); (ii) an increase in
the "goods" category to equip the P3 bio-security Lab following the avian flu crisis, and
to purchase additional lab equipments required following an assessment by the EU
aiming for laboratory accreditation and scientific equipment for post-harvest requested by
the GIPs; (iii) a decrease in consultant services due to coverage by the EU of initially
envisioned TA; and (iv) removal of "research sub-projects" since GOT was financing
these activities through its own budget.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Project identification started well with a strong project preparation report by the Food and
Agriculture Organization (FAO) and with an intensive dialogue between the Borrower
and the Bank regarding GOT's agricultural services strategy. The outcome of these
discussions was reflected in the agricultural policy letter provided in Annex 11 of the



                                             4
PAD. The plans to move toward more private sector services and control of production
and marketing represented an important paradigm shift in the nature of service delivery.

Quality of design

1.      The project had some design features that were particularly important in the
process of upgrading the agricultural economy of Tunisia. The project built on a series of
earlier studies and projects on research and extension, water investment and natural
resource management. By focusing on upgrading key agricultural services, the project
responded well to GOT's priorities to improve product quality, increase productivity of
factors of production and expand the set of agricultural products available in the market.
2.      The urgent need to (i) develop new markets for Tunisian food products, (ii) spread
the adoption of new technologies, (iii) improve the capacity of farmers, (iv) protect plants
and animal from diseases, (v) abide by international agreements related to norms and
standards had been highlighted in the sector studies and in the CAS.
3.      The project was structured in a way to begin a shift from supply driven to a new
division of public and private responsibilities by focusing on (i) having producer
organizations decide on their needs, (ii) initiating a new culture of "cost-sharing
arrangements for agricultural services, and (iii) having public and private partnerships in
service delivery.
4.      The project recognized the importance of combining hardware and software in
agricultural services and addressed infrastructure and capacity building gaps jointly and
simultaneously.
5.      The project gave a concrete meaning to the delivery of services in an agro-
ecologically consistent fashion by adapting research and extension services to the local
context.
6.      However, he project was hindered by certain design features that persisted
throughout its life. Problems included the following:
a)      Developing a pilot under the first PDO cannot be a DO for a project as a pilot is a mean
towards an end; But even framed in the broader context of improving POs' capacity, this
first PDO paid insufficient attention to existing private sector marketing organizations
and made unrealistic assumptions about the rapidity with which representative producer
organizations could develop or expand activities and outreach to farmers (also see
paragraph below on the use of cooperatives to reach farmers);
b)     The project's KPIs were not all quantifiable, some were too broad, and others
were not well related to the PDOs; Instead, the Project Team abandoned them and
replaced them with some numerical measures of output
c)     No baseline data was available to determine the project's starting point and no
annual targets or project completion targets were available on which to assess progress;
and
d)     Lack of a stand-alone M&E component for a project as complex as this one was a
major shortcoming. The project's various pilots were not evaluated until loan closing, by
which time it was too late to make corrections.




                                               5
These basic design issues made it exceedingly difficult to determine if the project was on
track to meet its PDOs or not, and important opportunities to make corrections to
nonperforming activities were lost.
Other quality problems include the following:
7.      Risk identification was not rigorously undertaken during Entry and
implementation mitigating measures were inadequate. For example, the PAD cites the
possibility of implementation delays given the breadth of the program and the fact that
different agencies would implement their activities at different paces. However, this risk
is rated only "moderate" and the proposed mitigating measure is simply that the project
implementation arrangements are well set out in the project implementation plan. There
is no mention of targeted TA to assist agencies with capacity issues. Overall the risk
rating for this extremely complex project is only "moderate", whereas "substantial"
would have been more appropriate.

8.      The PAD does not contain a very substantial definition of the activities to be
carried out under each component, making final evaluation of outputs more challenging.
Some "activities" are not activities at all, such as "awareness and understanding" (PAD,
p. 42).

9.      The PDO in the Loan Agreement and the one in the PAD do not match. The Loan
Agreement states the objective as "to assist the borrower in implementing its national
program for the development of agricultural services and to support the growth of a high
quality, high value-added and sustainable agriculture, through improved market access
and strengthening of agricultural producers' organizations and services." These should
have been consistent.

10.    On the use of cooperatives to reach farmers, the Project Preparation Team did not
conduct a thorough analysis of how best to reach farmers, but rather assumed that
cooperatives were the best way. It assumed that new cooperatives would function with
very modest help and ignored the private sector value chains that marketed products from
most crop farmers and many livestock farmers. Additionally, there were too few viable
cooperatives to successfully mount a multi-commodity national extension pilot program.

11.     For the pilot operation to strengthen the existing cooperatives and GDAs, the
Project Preparation Team should have carried out a structural assessment of the
cooperatives as well as an assessment of their business needs before finalizing the TA.
The TA could have been much better tailored to the situation, thus increasing its
effectiveness.


2.2 Implementation

Procurement difficulties led to long delays were largely responsible for the project's
very slow start-up. These delays were the result of weak procurement capacity among
the various implementing agencies and a lack of related TA. Two years after Board, only
$3.3 million of the loan had been disbursed or 45% of the appraisal estimate for that date.


                                            6
By June 2003, the Bank had downgraded Implementation Performance to unsatisfactory.
Procurement delays were the main reason to the need to extend the loan closing date by
18 months.

Project management. The Project Management Unit (PMU) was located within one of
the MOA Directorates and therefore had no authority over the other executing agencies
within MOA. It had too few staff, notably no specialists in procurement or M&E, to
assist the executing agencies. As designed, it could not play a proactive role in
coordination, procurement, or M&E.

Market changes. During the project, the European Union, Tunisia's main export market,
introduced substantially more restrictive import requirements. The EU's requirements
demanded traceability and residue analysis, and in response Tunisia's plant and animal
health authorities made adjustments crucial to maintaining exports. European regulatory
counterparts recommended new laboratory capabilities in mid project, and in response,
such capacity was added under the plant protection component. In research, it became
possible to effectively reach out across offices in, and attached to, MOA for interaction
and advice, and to move research toward farm applications. Thus market changes
inspired some very successful outcomes.

Due to hiring restrictions imposed by the Ministry of Finance as a part of a major civil
service reform program, MOA was unable to recruit or redeploy some of the specialized
staff it needed (particularly statisticians but also extension agents) in a timely manner.
This led to significant implementation delays, especially concerning the pilot operations.
Also the pilots were not evaluated for learning and/or possible scale-up.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design of M&E was unsatisfactory. For such a complex project, with five components
and 12 executing agencies, M&E design should have received much more attention.
Indeed, M&E should have been a prominent part of the project management support
component or even a separate component. There were no quantitative indicators and no
baseline data at start-up. Without more meaningful indicators, it was difficult to assess
progress toward meeting the PDOs, and to determine whether corrective measures were
necessary. At closing it was challenging to evaluate the achievement of PDOs.

Implementation of the M&E system. At the launch workshop, output indicators were
reviewed and revised, and the Bank recommended that a five-day M&E workshop be
held with the support of one international and one national consultant. This workshop
was never held and MOA never hired any M&E specialists for the PMU. The ISRs made
reference to the fact that there was no M&E in place. The Bank brought a specialist with
expertise in M&E during the midterm review in 2005 to make recommendations. During
the supervision mission of June 2007, a long list of 29 institutional (qualitative) indicators
and over 100 quantitative indicators were developed, covering 13 pages of tables. These
output indicators show the extent to which agreed upon activities were carried out.



                                              7
However, they do not tell the extent to which the project achieved its overall PDOs and
what the outcomes/impacts of the project were. They were of little value in determining:
(a) the theory of change (who sets the agenda for the private sector, who pays for services,
and who provides the service); or (b) whether the causal logic of the project was sound or
in demonstrating whether the various pilots (e.g., training and farming advice,
strengthening the capacity of local and regional producer organizations) were
systematically achieving the project's objectives.      Coming up with qualitative and
quantitative indicators for project outcomes and impacts is challenging for a project
covering as many different topics as this one. The solution found was late and not very
effective in measuring effectiveness of the project.

Utilization. M&E was not well developed as discussed above; therefore, it is not
possible to evaluate current utilization of M&E.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguards. The project was classified as environmental category "B" (partial
assessment) and also touched on integrated pest management (IPM) issues. An
environmental impact study (EA), carried out during preparation, found that the project
would contribute in a positive way to environmental sustainability and public health. The
Bank's safeguard policies were complied with during implementation. The construction
of diagnostic and research laboratories adhered to environmental regulations and
oversight, and individual EA's addressed these risks, including the proper handling and
separation of laboratory waste, and adequate storage of laboratory chemicals, reagents,
and biological materials. No pesticides were procured under the project and on the
contrary, biological control measures are being researched and introduced in farmers'
fields. New markets for organic agricultural products are being developed. Finally, a
major thrust of the project was to improve consumer food safety.

Fiduciary. Financial audits were conducted annually, delivered on a timely basis, and
revealed no particular accounting issues. Financial management generally was
satisfactory though some weaknesses were noted such as the absence of automatic
transmission of contract awards to the PMU by the implementing agencies. The latter
informed the PMU about new contract signing only when they were submitting requests
for payment on the Special Account, several months after contract commitment
("engagement"). The same situation occurred when contracts had been canceled. This
situation did not help the PMU in establishing reliable statements on the state of contracts
for all implementing agencies.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Most activities supported by the project constituted institutional strengthening of the
different departments of MOA to enable them to carry out their planning, regulatory and
control functions more efficiently and effectively.

Continuation of the improved planning, regulatory and control function achieved under
the project needs to be continued after the project and these activities will undoubtedly


                                             8
continue, their scope depending on resource allocations. GOT's regular budget will
finance normal animal and plant protection and research and the FODECAP fund (over
20 million TD annually from agricultural marketing taxes) will finance some of the GIP
work, including the salaries of the 15 quality experts. Also requirements from the
European Union concerning safety standards and "traceability" back to farms for food
exports provide strong incentives to ensure that regulatory and control functions are
carried out with professionalism. The desire to protect the local consumer and tourists
against health hazards stemming from plants and animals will encourage MOA to
vigorously pursue its regulatory functions. The continuation of the quality network
created under the Agricultural Investment Promotion Agency (APIA) is likely and there
is a desire to upgrade the quality cells in the GIPs. The decentralization and
regionalization of agricultural research are gaining momentum and the regional
horticultural/organic research center, in Chott Mariam for example, expects to expand
regionally focused research projects in 2009.

The key areas of the project where insufficient progress was achieved were the
strengthening of producer organizations (cooperatives/SMSAs, GDAs) and the
development of a new national strategy concerning agricultural extension. The pilot
operations in these two areas were not successful, and although lessons can be drawn
from the failures, GOT has not decided how to help producers organize and how to
improve agricultural extension, and more generally, how to improve the country's
agricultural production knowledge system in appropriate value chains from producer to
market. This project was conceived as the first phase of a ten year program, and follow-
on initiatives are under discussion with various donors. It seems likely that at least some
follow-up activities (completion of labs, certification, legal texts on appellations of origin
control, etc.) will proceed.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Relevance of the PDOs is judged satisfactory. The PDOs remain as relevant and
important at completion as they were at the beginning of the project. As Tunisia moves
further toward world market orientation and integration (especially through the new trade
agreements for agricultural products with the EU), it is imperative that Tunisia be able to
satisfy regulatory requirements for agricultural exports to the EU and other markets,
many of which will respect EU product approval systems. At the same time, the country
needs to be able to protect its own consumers and tourists from major disease outbreaks
linked to farm animals and plants. Stronger producer organizations can help some of the
atomized, small and medium-sized producers to improve their access to input and output
markets. Finally, without reliable statistics and a vibrant flow and exchange of
information between the public and private sector concerning conditions of the
agricultural economy, agricultural policy formulation would be carried out in the dark.

The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for 2005-08 proposed to assist GoT to
address three challenges: (i) strengthen the business environment; (ii) enhance skills and



                                              9
employability of graduates and labor force in a knowledge economy; and (iii) improve
the quality of social services through enhanced efficiency of public expenditures. The
ASSP was particularly relevant to the first challenge on competiveness as a specific CAS
outcome sought to reach improved competitiveness of agriculture while ensuring that
social and environmental concerns are properly addressed.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Objective No. 1: To develop on a pilot basis, organizational structures for producers
that represent their needs and interests. Rating: Marginally Satisfactory

The first activity under this objective was strengthening of the GIPs through the
development of a network of quality specialists, and this was satisfactory. An attempt
was made at the end of the project to develop quantitative and qualitative measures of
performance, some of which are included below. As Table 1 below shows, the key
quantitative indicators were mostly achieved (success rate of 66% and over), except for
the number of operators having started a quality procedure with a 49% success rate. The
quality specialists received substantial training in Tunisia and Europe on what constitutes
a quality product. Pamphlets and strategies on quality systems for their commodities
were produced and distributed in French and Arabic. Officially recognized, controlled
origin brands for a number of high-value plant and animal products were provisionally
approved. The GIPs and ONH studies evaluated value chains and quality issues and
made recommendations for improving market access for most of the exports and high-
value commodities.

The heightened recognition of the importance of quality to MOA activities and farm
incomes has shifted GOT's focus from quantity to quality, and the new focus on quality
is likely to result in improved regulatory and decision-making by policy-makers, in
research, extension and marketing regulations and programs. The next step will be to
establish a system for reaching out to private sector value chains to see how a mixture of
private sector and public sector actions can improve revenues to farmers based on
improving quality.

Table 1: Selected achievements under the GIP strengthening sub-component
                      Indicator                         Target   Achievement   Success rate
 Number of operators having started a quality
                                                        5000        2452          49%
 procedure

 Number of persons/day training sessions organized      3500        2486          71%

 Number of persons/day training sessions organized
                                                        3000        1974          66%
 for professionals (quality, marketing and exports)
 Number of persons/day training sessions organized
 for civil servants (quality, marketing and exports)     500        512           100%

 Number of studies on quality improvements and
 marketing promotion                                     21          21           100%




                                                   10
The pilot operation to support representative producer organizations (POs) by
strengthening existing cooperatives through economic and technical assistance (TA)
provided by private consulting firms was an important objective. TA was provided to 44
cooperatives and 32 GDAs to help them with accounting and financial controls, financial
diagnostics and to provide general management advice and strategic investment planning.
However, most of the TA was not useful for several reasons. First, most of the
cooperatives did not truly represent the needs and interests of producers. Second, many
cooperatives were not financially viable and were not adequately staffed to be able to
benefit from the TA offered. Third, the financial and managerial advice provided often
did not respond well to the needs and priorities of most of the cooperatives and the GDAs.

With respect to GDAs, in 2004, a law was passed that restricted their legal authority
mostly to managing water systems so that they were no longer permitted to market
agricultural products. The content of TA to assist GDAs, however, was not modified in
accordance with their new legal status.

Unfortunately, the progress and results of the pilot were not monitored, and the pilot
which was launched late in the project was not evaluated until Loan closing. In
retrospect, the pilot focused too much on technical training rather than on the actual
activities of the cooperatives and how to resolve issues of competitiveness. The few
cooperatives that were viable owe some part of their success to subsidies. Overall, the
pilot did not substantially address the wider question of whether and how to provide TA
to expand cooperatives for various products, and to offer a wider array of services useful
to farmers. MOA may have a better understanding of why most cooperatives do not
work well, but there is a long way to go to define a successful strategy to encourage
effective representative producer organizations that can identify services useful to
farmers and that can compete with the increasingly successful privately owned marketing
firms buying from farmers. Table 2 below, shows selected achievements under the PO
strengthening sub-component. Only half of the POs did have a majority participation in
coordination committees, i.e. the other half is still dominated by public sector
representatives. In addition, as pointed out above, the indicators for this sub-component
were not well chosen, as they do not throw light on key questions and issues regarding
POs, especially cooperatives. While many of the activities planned were carried out,
some of them, such as the development plans for the producer organizations in most
cases were not implemented and thus the indicators do not provide a real indication of the
success of the project.

Table 2: Selected achievements under the PO strengthening sub-component
                        Indicator                      Target   Achievement   Success rate
 Majority participation of POs in coordination
                                                         6          3            50%
 committees
 Number of POs in 6 governorates having a
 development plan approved by the follow-up             76          76           100%
 committee.
 Number of POs in 6 governorates having a accounting
                                                        75          70           93%
 system approved by DGFIOP



                                                 11
Objective No. 2: To improve the institutional capacity and quality of agricultural
services delivered by public and private institutions and producer organizations.
Rating: Satisfactory

The institutional capacity and services targeted here were agricultural research, extension
services, plant and seed protection and certification, and livestock and animal health.
Except for the pilot extension services, the improvements made in these areas are deemed
satisfactory.

Agricultural research was both decentralized (in terms of decision-making and budget
authority) and regionalized (making research content regionally specific). Now research
planning procedures respond better to farmers' needs. Research results are better
documented, put on the intranet of MOA, and are shared with producer groups that advise
on research priorities. Information on new varieties and techniques are reaching some
farmers through on-farm trials and agricultural information days. As the selected
indicators in Table 3 shows, activities under the research component had a very high
success rate. While the number of research actions prior to the end of the project was not
huge, the reorientation of research activities represented a substantial success, with new
outreach across organizational lines to GIP's and CRDA's for their advice on research
needs and the sharing of information on the intranet throughout the Ministry of
Agriculture as researchers sought to reorient their activities to be more useful to farmers.

Table 3: Selected achievements under the agricultural research sub-component
                      Indicator                         Target   Achievement   Success rate
 Number of consultations per year with the research
                                                        50000      40000          80%
 database BIRSA
 Number of research results included in the research
                                                         104        104          100%
 achievements library

 Research actions                                        149        149          100%




For extension, the pilots concerning the development of private extension advisory
services (contracts between individual private advisors and training centers on one hand
and GIPs on the other) were poorly designed and executed and had little impact. (See
Annex 2 for more detail). Conversely, the training of extension agents and farmers
improved services significantly, and the pilot to strengthen extension services for women
farmers worked well. However, no serious monitoring and evaluation took place, so it is
difficult to assess the impact of the training and extension services. Table 4 shows the
indicators that were used by successive supervision missions and the results obtained.
While most activities show a high success rate, it must be pointed out, that they do not
cover key aspects such as: adoption rates, changes in farmers' income, and number of
public extension agents being recruited by farmers as private extension agents. Thus,
while extension activities were launched as planned and some new materials developed
for farmer outreach, they had little impact during the project.


                                                   12
Table 4: Selected achievements under the extension sub-component
                        Indicator                        Target   Achievement    Success rate
 Number of contracts signed with POs, SMVDA and
                                                           8           7            88%
 large farmers (2 by team)
 Number of farmers benefiting from services provided
                                                          380         380          100%
 by private extension advisors

 Number of training days for rural women in 10 zones
                                                          170         170          100%

 Percentage of CFPA graduates with a job obtained
 within a 6-month period (agriculture)                   50%         34%            68%

 Percentage of CFPA graduates with a job obtained
 within a 6-month period (fisheries)                     100%        100%          100%


 Number of extension documents produced per year          60          55            92%

 Number of training modules prepared on a demand
                                                           3           3           100%
 driven basis




With regard to plant protection, the plant protection and quarantine service developed
substantial new capabilities with a new phytosanitary station at the container port of
Radès, and extension of analytical laboratories for pesticides and equipment for three
regional stations. The lengthy process of getting international certification for
laboratories got underway during the project, with a twinning arrangement with the EU.
The project's activities led to getting a decree published for establishing user fees. It
established epidemiology systems for controlling pests in citrus, olives, dates, cereals and
vineyards, and it trained experts in integrated pest management. It also established an
information system to transmit and share data, which is very important in reacting
quickly to plant epidemics as they arise. Some of the lab certifications were not
completed by the end of the project and the full scope of using the new testing and
control capabilities was not yet implemented. Table 5 below shows that application of
the new capacities to seeds used by farmers and to imports was not as high as expected
prior to the end of the project. But in the general expectations of a two stage project ­
developing capacities in the first stage of the 10 year program and applying them to
farmers in the second stage, the project was quite successful in expanding plant
protection capabilities. Table 5 shows that initial hopes for farmer and business use of
the new capabilities within the project timeframe were overoptimistic. The Ministry still
needs to clarify what it wants to do, e.g. with new capabilities to test seeds for genetically
modified organisms, and to establish mandatory testing procedures for organisms and
residues that hopefully will not be excessively time consuming and expensive and will
use the new capabilities to protect agriculture and human health, while at the same
encouraging competitive agribusiness.




                                                    13
Table 5: Selected achievements under the plant protection sub-component
                        Indicator                         Target    Achievement   Success rate
 Capacity to respond to needs in terms of requests for
                                                          15000        8000          53%
 seed control analysis (number of requests)
 Capacity to respond to needs in terms of requests for
                                                           5000        4000          80%
 plants control analysis (number of requests)
 Capacity to respond to needs in terms of requests for
 quarantine analysis (number of requests for imports
                                                          10000        4500          45%
 and exports)


Finally, the project made much progress strengthening veterinary control systems.
Although mechanisms for the traceability of animals (source identification for recalls,
depopulation and other disease control measures) are not foolproof, installing private
veterinarians doing cattle vaccinations ("mandat sanitaire") and establishing an animal
epidemiology surveillance system are gaining momentum. While there were problems in
creating a traceability system for red meat, there was substantial success in other
livestock areas. The diagnostic capacity of MOA has been greatly enhanced through
completion of the animal identification network for dairy cows and poultry, through
improved computerization and communication of urgent problems and through expanded
laboratory analytical capability. The indicators below in Table 6 show that there were
substantial training and activities. But the figures do not present a complete picture. The
identification of dairy cattle was quite successful, the identification of poultry was
proceeding well, and the identification of bovine and ovine animals for meat was not
successful. The lack of linkage of OEP information to the Veterinary Service data base
was another problem that could be addressed in the future. Also, the indicators below do
not portray the quite successful program of switching to (subsidized) vaccination by
private veterinarians, which continues to expand in 2009 to cover much of the country.
The training of inseminators and milk control experts will enhance competitive
agriculture and be very useful to on-going dairy promotion and control programs of the
Government.

Table 6: Selected achievements under the veterinary control systems sub-component
                       Indicator                          Target    Achievement   Success rate
 Number of herders in the bovine identification
                                                          112000      77000          69%
 program

                                                          2042000     57286           3%
 Number of heads identified (traceability)

                                                           30%         68%          100%
 Identification by OEP

                                                           70%         32%           46%
 Identification by the private sector

 Training of identification agents (number of              300         313          100%
 participants)

                                                           225         231          100%
 Training of inseminators (number of participants)


                                                     14
                                                         240         247          100%
 Training of milk controllers (number of participants)



While a few activities were not realized as foreseen, there were major advances due to the
project in control systems of plant protection and veterinary services. Therefore, the
objective of improving institutional capacity was satisfactorily met despite the limited
successes of the pilot extension services.


Objective No. 3: To improve the flow of information for all sector stakeholders
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

This objective was achieved moderately satisfactorily through generation of better
statistics, through regular, internal MOA meetings, and through the creation of websites
that provide MOA offices and the GIPs access to agricultural information generated by
the agricultural research system, the Department of Statistics and Studies and other
ministry offices. However, the information flow could be expanded to private
entrepreneurs, many of whom could benefit by having detailed information on
commodity sectors. They could also provide crucial feedback on analysis and proposals.
Such interaction among knowledgeable people in the public and private sector could be
facilitated by publishing the quality studies on the internet information.

Some of the studies have been posted on the internet, such as the results of the sampling
survey on the structure of agriculture. It would also be desirable to have the research
summaries put on the internet of the National Agriculture Observatory (ONAGRI) and
the Institute of Agricultural Research and Higher Education (IRESA). The 22 quality
studies funded under the project should be placed on the website of the Agricultural
Investment Promotion Agency (APIA). Making the quality studies public would be
particularly important for examining commercial opportunities, and for discussing quality
marketing niches and the desirability of marketing regulatory changes. As new studies
are launched, or as foreign and domestic investors consider opportunities in Tunisia,
having easily accessible information would be invaluable. Also, policy-makers and
analysts (contracted or in-house) could more easily build on existing information if it
were shared on the internet.

As said in the Key Factors section, the KPI were not quantifiable, lacked relevance, and
were not used for monitoring purposes, and therefore are not discussed here. Changes
were introduced in June 2007 to assess progress in outputs. Target scores were given to
the different components based on indicators by inputs (reviewed in section 3.2): 25
points for the producer and inter-professional organizations; (ii) 85 points for the research
and extension component; 75 points for the livestock and animal health component; 30
points for the plant protection and seed and plant certification component. As of October
31, 2008, the revised PDO indicator "all institutional changes have been achieved" gave
a score of 163 points out of 215 and "90% of all investment has been achieved" as an



                                                    15
intermediate indicator. A full discussion of outputs achievements and problems for each
component is provided in Annex 2.

3.3 Efficiency

Efficiency could not be assessed in this ICR. There are likely to be some long-term gains
from work on quality and research into new varieties, but any near term results in terms
of production and value of marketed commodities were modest. There was some help
through the project to support other efforts helping private sector companies exporting
organic products, potatoes and other vegetables under GlobalGap requirements. Clearly
the project made important contributions to establishing systems essential to meeting
stringent new export requirements for a number of commodities (traceability, residue
testing) and for improving domestic monitoring and reaction to plant, animal and human
diseases and avoiding dangerous substances in milk meat and plant products. These
improved systems will have impacts on human health and on two major foreign exchange
sectors ­ exports and tourism.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Because of the presence of multiple objectives to achieve in the project, this evaluation
adopted a weighting scheme to reflect the priorities of the borrower. For GOT, upgrading
public services in view of the opening of the markets and EU requirements for export was
considered the most important aim in this project. The key components for the GOT
were: (i) Plant protection and quality control; (ii) veterinary services and animal product
quality control; (iii) traceability and commercial quality (GIP). This evaluation has taken
into consideration the share of costs by objective and has therefore allocated a weight of
25% for the objective of developing organizational structures for producers, 65% for
improving the institutional capacity of agricultural services and 10% for improving the
flow of information. Table 7 shows the contribution of the 3 objectives to the overall
score.

Table 7: Overall outcome rating and project objectives scoring
              Subcomponents                       Rating        Rating    Share in    Evaluation   Contribution to
                                                                Value    Total Cost    Weight      Overall Score
                                                                 (a)        (b)          (c)        (d) = (c)*(a)
Objective 1   Support to agricultural producers    MU             2         5%          10.0%            0.2
              organizations
              Quality improvement                   S             4        10%          15.0%           0.6
Objective 2   Agricultural research                 S             4        23%          20.0%           0.8
              Pilot project to improve producer    MU             2        7%           10.0%           0.2
              access to training and farming
              advice
               Livestock and animal health         MS             3        26%          17.5%          0.525
               Plant protection and seed and        S             4        19%          17.5%           0.7
              plant certification
Objective 3    Agricultural statistics and         MS             3        10%          10.0%           0.3
              information
              Overall Score                                                                                    3.325
Note: Rating value follows a 1-5 scale with 5=Highly satisfactory and 1=Unsatisfactory)




                                                           16
Relevance is rated satisfactory. The first objective related to building the capacity of
producers and inter-professional organizations needed to access services is rated
moderately satisfactory, the second objective related to improving the capacity of public
and private institutions to deliver services was satisfactorily achieved, and achievement
of the third objective of improving the flow of information was moderately satisfactory. .
Efficiency cannot be rated. Overall, the project is judged moderately satisfactory.



3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
 (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The main beneficiaries of the project were to have been small and medium-scale
producers. However, upon reviewing the project activities by component, it is clear that
the beneficiaries of the project were mostly the various directorates of MOA and related
agencies and institutions. The over-arching objective of improving production,
competitiveness and market access to smaller and medium scale producers was
challenging. The first order of business for this 10-year program was capacity building
within public services. There were activities aimed at improving agriculture for women,
such as extension agents who were trained to deliver services tailored to activities
traditionally carried out by women such as bee-keeping. However, as the project did not
contain any bona fide M&E activities, it was not possible to capture poverty and gender
impacts, or social development impacts, and therefore no reliable statement can be made
about the impact of the project in these areas.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The project contributed significantly to popularizing the notion that "quality of
agricultural products" -- for exports, but also for the domestic market ­ can be
more important than "quantity of output." Before the project, the debate focused
mostly on increasing raw production of agricultural commodities. Now, within
Government circles and especially MOA, there is a better understanding of what the
quality of agricultural products (generic and specific) means, and how it can be
promoted. Furthermore, there is now practical experience with coordinating actions on
several fronts necessary for achieving these quality objectives: regulatory changes,
laboratories that can test for pesticide residues, etc. and GIPs and private processors and
exporters that know what the market demands.

The Project helped Tunisia comply with international and especially EU food safety
standards and issues of traceability, without which the country's agricultural exports
would have been threatened. In addition, the project helped to improve food safety for
local consumers and the tourism industry that is very important to the country's economy.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The project has generated a wealth of knowledge products that will prove useful not
only for the internal and external services of the MOA but also for the private sector.


                                            17
However, to make use of the knowledge, MOA in particular must have the needed
competency to capitalize on those products and make them operational. GOT must
still define the appropriate balance between planning and regulatory and control functions
that only MOA can perform, and tasks that are better left to the private sector. Depending
on how these lines are drawn, MOA needs a more strategic staffing plan in terms of
numbers and competencies. For the time being, the number of MOA staff is shrinking
and whenever MOA wants to undertake studies or formulate policies for which primary
data are necessary, it has to call on private consulting firms. The use of consultants can be
valuable to establish a base line and to gain objective advice across organizational lines,
but if MOA staff is not closely involved in analysis and policy recommendations, relying
heavily on consultants may not be very cost effective. Excessive reliance on consultants
could reduce the resources and incentives for Ministry staff to do analysis, take advantage
of information gained through networking with other offices, and provide advice on new
program and policy directions.

As it contemplates the second part of this 10-year program, MOA needs to consider
strengthening its strategic planning, information management, market knowledge
and economic policy functions currently under DGEDA. Capitalization on the 23
quality studies, the DGEDA studies on farm structure and the upgrading farms ("mise à
niveau des exploitations agricoles"), the four major data collections efforts on farming
structures, typology of farms, fisheries and agricultural labor, evaluations of the pilot
projects on extension and OPB combined with strategic staffing and development of
human resources in information systems, marketing, economics and business at DGEDA
could help in the design of Tunisia's future strategy for improving its agricultural
competitiveness and access to markets.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Stakeholder Workshops

During the final supervision mission in November 2008, a seminar for all stakeholders
was organized. More than 100 people attended and the following topics were discussed:
a) achievements of the project, b) outcome of the evaluation of pilot activities, and c)
future perspectives for strengthening agricultural support services. Main outcomes of the
discussions are presented below.

What are the achievements of the project?
First, the project made a substantial contribution to raising awareness on the importance
of quality issues. Before the project, quality was limited to grading and physical
appearance of the produce, but now there are specific quality parameters to determine
product quality. However, quality has a cost and the current controls of price margins at
the wholesale and consumer level do not encourage operators to invest in quality.
Second, research has now a strong regional flavor and has started to be demand-driven.
Third, development of human capacity and training was significant and needs to be
reinforced.

Against these achievements, it was noted that the project had a slow implementation
pace in the beginning that significantly affected performance. Components were also too
fragmented with no real coordination (e.g. research and extension).


                                             18
What is the outcome of the evaluation of pilot activities?
1. Quality: Important information and knowledge systems on quality have been put in
place. Consciousness among producers and exporters of the importance of ensuring
quality of produce in order to ensure long-term market prospects for their products has
emerged. But quality improvements in Tunisia cannot be fostered if the right incentives
are not provided. Removing price controls, improving governance of the GIPs and better
coordination between public and private stakeholders are needed to move from quality
awareness to quality as a driver of competiveness.
2. Professional organizations: Mixed performances were achieved in the cooperative
sector. Financial sustainability of these structures is fragile because of indebtedness.
Serious governance gaps remain. It was recommended to assess the current financial and
accountability relations between the State and producer organizations. Empowerment of
these structures is needed if they are to remain viable institutions.
3. Training and advisory services to farmers. The concept of extension advisors has
been tested in four regions by hiring of young engineers and exploring complementarities
between training and extension. The experience was found to be positive in the sense that
it (a) yielded opportunities to employ young graduates, (b) improved coordination of
efforts at the regional level, and (c) fostered risk-taking by proposing innovative
entrepreneurship ideas for farmers. However, the experience was found to be limited in
its scope and approach because of (a) the type of salaried work (as opposed to private
entrepreneurship) undertaken by extension agents, (b) the low quality of advice given to
farmers, and (c) lack of structured training. On agricultural advisors, a suggestion was
made to train young agronomists in commodity technical centers for two to three years to
gain experience before sending them out as advisers.

What are the future perspectives for strengthening agricultural support services?
Delivery of agricultural services will have to take into consideration the structural
constraints faced in the development of the sector (small land size, ageing of farmers,
limited sources for financing agriculture beyond own-financing, vulnerability to climatic
risk, low level of integration of agro-industry into agriculture and limited contribution of
farm organizations in the marketing of produce. An upgrading program for small and
medium scale farms with a commercial potential is being designed. This program aims at
(a) providing direct support to farms and establishing national programs in various
thematic areas, and (b) improving the capacity of public agricultural services.


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The risks that the main achievements under the project, i.e., (a) institutional strengthening
of the different Directorates of MOA so that they can perform their planning, regulatory
and control functions in a satisfactory manner; (b) introduction of measures through
APIA and GIPs to improve the quality of agricultural products; (c) regionalization of
research; and d) better flow of information within MOA, will be lost or reversed are
considered moderate. The project provided the necessary equipment, training and



                                             19
technical assistance to enable permanent staff to continue these activities, based on
normal Ministry budget allocations.

In addition, for Tunisia, there are strong incentives to satisfy EU agricultural trade norms
as it seeks closer ties with the EU. The decentralization of research is widely accepted
and it seems likely that the trend in this direction will grow stronger as its positive farm-
needs results become more widely known. The pilot activities designed to strengthen
rural producer organizations (primarily cooperatives) and to create a private market for
agricultural advice were unsuccessful and critical rethinking about the relevant issues is
necessary, a process being undertaking by MOA as well as other donors.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory

The Bank's performance in identification was satisfactory. The project fully supported
the Bank's CAS. Its objectives were very relevant to the status of Tunisian agriculture at
identification and responded well to its challenges. It fostered a move from top-down
decision-making to a more participatory style. It moved from services paid fully by the
State to user-fees. Finally, it fostered the development of services provided not entirely
by the public sector but through private/public partnerships.
The Bank fielded well rounded preparation and appraisal missions. In addition to
technical specialists and economists, the Bank team also ensured compliance with
safeguards by including environmental specialists. Fiduciary aspects were adequately
handled by procurement and financial management specialists. Social and gender issues
were well covered by a sociologist.
The Bank's performance in ensuring quality at entry was moderately unsatisfactory, as
already discussed in the Key Factors section above. The first PDO paid insufficient
attention to existing private sector farmer-to-market value chains and made unrealistic
assumptions about the pace of development of representative producer organizations.
The project's KPIs were not quantifiable, were too broad, and were not well related to the
PDOs. The project lacked baseline data and performance targets, and the design of M&E
was unsatisfactory. Finally, important surveys were not carried out and capacity
assessments were not carefully considered.




(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory




                                             20
The Bank Project Team undertook substantial efforts to ensure successful execution of
the project, including 96 staff weeks of supervision between 2002 and 2008, reaching a
high point of 24 weeks in 2004. A project launch workshop was held, followed by
regular six-monthly supervision missions. Environment and integrated pest management
aspects were well supervised. Once it became apparent that the different MOA
directorates were ill-equipped to handle complex procurement of TA, specialists with the
Bank Project Team assisted in drawing up TORs and in identifying potential international
service providers.

During every supervision mission, considerable technical, economic, and fiduciary
expertise was mobilized. Considerable financial support for this project with two trust
funds enabled to finance 8 to 9 experts at each supervision mission, which would never
have been possible with only Bank supervision budget. This intensive technical expertise
played a significant contribution to the drafting of the TORs for all consultancies and
technical equipment procurement.

One shortcoming in team composition was the lack of sociologists or social development
specialists. This type of expertise should have been maintained to evaluate the
performance of the various pilots. A specialist should have followed up more closely on
the project's social aspects such as gender, producer participation, and membership of
producers in producer organizations. Bank missions provided only broad suggestions for
action in these areas. Consequently pilots were not evaluated until the end of the project
when it was too late to take action, and the project's social impact in terms of gender,
participation, etc., is not clear.

During the mid-term review, the Bank showed flexibility in adjusting to changing
priorities. For example, budgets were expanded for new laboratories and additional
equipment to test for residues and to control animal diseases such as avian influenza in
response to stricter EU import requirements. As a result of these additions, the Bank also
agreed to extend the Loan closing date to accommodate the procurement of these labs and
equipment. The Bank showed flexibility and understanding in agreeing to drop the dated
covenant related to the creation of the Unified Research Institute (see section 3.6 above).

The results of all supervision missions were documented in great detail, although candor
in ratings might have been better early in the project when implementation was delayed,
but still received satisfactory ratings. There was a constant flow of communication
between the Bank and the Borrower. At project completion, a workshop with all
stakeholders was held, where project achievements in terms of outputs were reviewed.

Quality of supervision is nevertheless judged only as moderately unsatisfactory because
of the Bank's failure on several key fronts. Supervision did not go beyond the
development of qualitative and quantitative output indicators by component. The Bank
did not undertake, or request from the Borrower, evaluations of the various pilots under
the project and missed opportunities to make important corrections. The mid-term
review was not used to clarify the relationship between the PDOs and the components
and to establish more quantifiable KPI. The new indicators agreed in 2007 were mere



                                            21
indicators of inputs and outputs. Also, the farm outreach activities were not adequately
supervised. There is no doubt that many of the activities financed under the project were
important and successful, yet it is impossible to quantify the project's overall benefits,
and economic efficiency cannot be determined. In short, the team focused too much on
monitoring physical and institutional aspects and not enough on whether the project's
PDO were being met or if the project was having the desired impact on its stated
beneficiaries ­ and in particular small and medium scale producers.
In retrospect, there is evidence that restructuring was indicated since the following
circumstances applied. First, project implementation up to MTR was deficient as indicated
by: (i) sub-par performance by the executing agencies and unsatisfactory execution of
primary project activities and components, (ii) excessively slow disbursements compared to
initial projections and difficulty in getting basic contracts and acquisitions underway.
Second, performance against Outcome Indicators or Intermediate Outcome Indicators (e.g.
improved competitiveness, Tunisian products better known, conformity to norms and
standards, lower losses, improved risk management, and improved organization, investment
and production choices) suggested that the project's original outcome targets were no longer
feasible or even quantifiable.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

There were important shortcomings in design though performance in identification and
preparation was satisfactory. Quality of supervision is moderately unsatisfactory.
Therefore, the overall rating for Bank performance is moderately unsatisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance. Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Government is lauded for being willing to use a loan with a commercial interest rate
to implement this program because it valued World Bank advice and because it
recognized the importance of reforms in supporting the agricultural sector. The project
represented a courageous step: changing farm management structures and regulatory and
entrepreneurial mentalities would be difficult in any country. Also, moving to more
private sector control, with GOT withdrawing to a more modest regulatory role, clearly
would challenge habits of market regulators and farming interests.

Many of the activities in the project such as changes in laboratory financial autonomy,
marketing conditions, and quality seals could be implemented only with new laws and
implementing regulations. The process of establishing new laws turned out to be very
time-consuming, extending beyond the Loan closing date in some cases. Actions such as
changing the authority of the GDAs (more restrictive on marketing) and the cooperatives
(less restrictive on marketing) were important for the project. The changing of the
commitment to have a unified research institute in MOA represented the loss of an
opportunity to reduce duplication in laboratory investments. But the regionalization of
laboratories worked well.




                                            22
Due to hiring restrictions from by the Ministry of Finance, MOA was unable to recruit or
redeploy some of the specialized staff it needed (particularly information systems
specialists but also extension agents) in a timely manner. This led to significant
implementation delays, especially concerning the pilot operations. The Coordinating
Committee worked at the outset when there were major problems.

Ideally, MOA could have done more by reaching out to all the private sector value chains
and recognizing that TA to GDAs would not be effective due to their changed legal
restrictions. GDAs were not allowed to market products after 2004. Generally, the
government was active and responsive, slow to act in some cases to adopt certain legal
texts, but was supportive of the project.

M&E arrangements have not been adequate. Even though arrangements were made to
"... include an M&E specialist and resources have been provided under the project for
consultant support for methodology, for a baseline survey and for a mid-term review to
be conducted with consultants that will include an interim evaluation of impacts and
outcomes..." (PAD, p. 18), the Project Coordination Committee should have taken the
necessary steps to implement those arrangements as provided by Article 3 of the Minister
of Agriculture Decision 772-2001.


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

Generally speaking, commitment to the project was high. The management and staff of
the agencies were enthusiastic, energetic and knowledgeable about implementing their
respective portion of the project, but many agencies experienced procurement difficulties
which delayed project implementation considerably early on.

APIA coordinated the recruitment and training of 15 quality experts and organized
monthly meeting with quality specialists. It coordinated 23 quality studies requested by
the GIPs and the Office of Olive Oil (ONH) and reached out to investors, exporters and
others. It has been competent and effective in undertaking its own tasks. Beyond
fulfilling their assignment, the APIA staff has shown strong commitment to the national
discussions on quality issues and to animating a forum on how to adapt Tunisian
agriculture to the requirements of new markets. APIA has been supportive to the
activities carried by the GIP.

IRESA successfully carried out its mandate by creating regional research centers,
expanding their capabilities, and communicating with other organizations (GIPs,
CRDAs) on the research needs of farmers.

The agencies carrying the statistics and agricultural information component (DGEDA,
DGPA, ONAGRI and DG/Fisheries) have been effective in undertaking the large
information gathering and processing activities. They made a good use of technical
assistance provided through this project and were driven by a desire to operationalize



                                           23
new methods and procedures to the fullest extent possible. They have also shown a lot of
openness in sharing information within MOA.

Improving its national agricultural extension system remains one of the biggest
challenges for GOT. AVFA has shown a strong commitment to coordinating the many
initiatives underway to improve extension primarily by better defining target populations
and extension approaches. However, AVFA attempted to cooperate with other
organizations in extension efforts, but local extension staff at the farm level report to the
CRDAs. AVFA sought cooperation with extension agents through the CRDAs but its
efforts under the project were not particularly successful.

The livestock and animal health implementing agencies (DGSV, OEP and IRVT) showed
high commitment to improving the quality of services in the sector. However, there were
significant delays and issues with procurement of goods and services. Institutional issues
did not allow successful implementation of some activities. IRVT could not secure
accreditation of its labs because of delays in changing its status to that of an EPST. Not
all decrees related to livestock have been passed. The budget of the veterinary services
was not sufficient to expand the sanitary mandate or to monitor fully the epidemio-
surveillance network,

DGFIOP was in charge of implementing the producers' organization (PO) component
and overall coordination of the project. It was committed to the exercise and showed
dedication to the technical assistance program delivered to the POs. However at the
outset, it showed little flexibility to adjust its program after it became clear that POs were
suffering from structural problems far more serious than the POs management
shortcomings that the TA addressed. DGFIOP was also supposed to conduct a survey of
beneficiaries within the last six months of the project. This activity never materialized,
suggesting the limited attention and commitment to an evaluation exercise so critical to
move to the second stage of the 10-year program. DGFIOP was not responsive to the
procurement problems faced by several executing agencies. It should have been more
pro-active in resolving those problems by providing assistance and hiring dedicated
procurement specialists.

The PMU was too low in the MOA hierarchy to help the implementing agencies sort out
problems. It had too few staff and did not have specialized staff in the areas of
procurement or M&E. Lack of evaluations of the various pilots undertaken under the
project was a common problem, so few lessons backed by empirical evidence were
learned.

In terms of financial management, there was a lack of communication and commitments
to the PMU by the executing agencies. A Financial Management Information System
financed through the loan was made available in the PMU but was not made operational
due to lack of adequate training on the system.




                                             24
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

Government performance is rated satisfactory and implementing agencies' performance
was moderately satisfactory, project outcome as moderately satisfactory was the
determining factor in the overall moderately satisfactory rating for borrower performance.

6. Lessons Learned

Outreach to farmers should not ignore private marketing chains. The project
concentrated too much on cooperatives as a vehicle to help farmers. It neglected private
marketing intermediaries, which were already providing some of the desired services
(advice and help on variety selection, inputs, cultivation, harvest, post harvest handling,
help on marketing, pest control, and in some cases credit). An analysis should have been
done to identify several value chains for each product. Then each sector should have
received assistance, beginning at the farm level, by looking to the end market and finding
out exactly what buyers would pay for. Farm level actions could have been subsidized in
part at the outset for newly created value chains, moving toward cost recovery after a
transition period for the private sector value chains as they became well established.

Creating a market for private extension advice requires carefully designed services,
provided by firms rather than individuals, and an appropriate incentive structure.
Farmers are willing to pay veterinarians for treatment of their animals. However, small
farmers are reluctant to pay individually for advice on general improvements in
cultivation practices, although an effective and viable group, earning income by
marketing farmers' products may be willing to pay for such advice. The transition to
paid advice was even more difficult because most public extension advice had been
available for free. Under these circumstances, first, pilot activities designed to introduce
and promote private extension advice need to be carefully designed, monitored and
supported in order to succeed. The details of how these pilots are set up are crucial: (i) the
right farmers (preferably already organized) interested in productivity increases have to
be chosen; and (ii) the right extension advisors need to be identified ­ people with
entrepreneurial spirit and willing to become independent consultants. Second, to
increase the chances of success, some extension advisors could be part of newly created
private consulting firms that can provide backstopping and a wide array of services
(technical, economic, financial, marketing, and accounting). Third, creation of such
advisory firms (consulting firms) would need to be encouraged, at the outset, by the
government with adequate incentives (subsidies) in the same way as is the case with
encouraging young university graduates to become farmers, or with encouraging the
installation of private veterinarians in the countryside with the help of the sanitary
mandate. Rather than moving directly to a privately run system, the State could provide
subsidies to the service providers or the marketing intermediaries (e.g. a cooperative or a
local processor) to pay for extension advisors during a transition period. Government
could encourage "ingenieurs agronomes" to become advisors following a practical on-
farm training program.




                                             25
Intangible aspects of information sharing (behavioral changes) are often more
difficult to modify than the hardware aspects. The project demonstrated the need for
a better two-way flow of information among the various players at the national level.
MOA now has greatly expanded capabilities in gathering and storing information, but
little outreach to farmers. This is linked to the weak public extension system. For the
next phase of the program, the following recommendations should be considered. First,
private providers of extension advice, the export promotion agency (APIA) and the GIPs
should work with MOA to provide information and advice to farmers. Second, MOA
should clarify the respective roles of the national extension agency (AVFA), GIPs,
processors, exporters and input/output dealers in this area. Third, unless information is
made freely available on the internet or other media, the full benefits of better statistics
and studies carried out under this project will not be realized. Fourth, private sector
processors and exporters could be a source of considerable additional information for
agricultural decision-making, especially concerning export possibilities and quality
requirements, with more consultation and trust among the different public and private
actors.

Quality and competitiveness can be achieved only when better and more efficient
service delivery to farmers is combined with a less restrictive marketing policy.
Competitiveness of Tunisian products is a matter of both quality and price. Quality
standards are now better controlled thanks to several activities of the project through
partnerships between importers and Tunisians processors, improved regulations, better
laboratory infrastructure and information management. The remaining challenge is to
maintain a price that is competitive for both the increasingly demanding local market and
the export market. However, the marketing of agricultural produce is currently
characterized by controls of some food prices at the wholesale level, administrative
controls of marketing margins and insufficient clarity in wholesale market transactions.
This environment does not provide the right incentives for producers to address quality
issues, as quality is often associated with higher costs that they might not be able to
recuperate. Unless the current marketing practices do not change, improvements in
quality as a result of better service delivery will not materialize.

A clear "Logical Framework" and measurable monitoring and evaluation indicators
need to be in place from the beginning and be owned by rather than imposed on the
borrower. The way the indicators are supposed to be collected, by whom, how often,
etc... needs to be clarified from the outset and in consultation with the Borrower and its
implementing agencies. Special attention has to be given to the relationship between
means and objectives in order not to promise more than can be delivered. A baseline
survey is indispensable even when public services are being upgraded. Without these
safeguards, a weak M&E system will inevitably compromise measurement of project
development objectives and outcome/impact indicators, and penalize the project at the
time                 of                                 project               completion.




                                            26
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                  Actual/Latest
                               Appraisal Estimate                    Percentage                        of
Components                                        Estimate      (USD
                               (USD millions)                        Appraisal
                                                  millions)
 1.1        SUPPORT        TO
AGRICULTURAL
                                        1.80                0.48            27%
PRODUCERS
ORGANIZATIONS
 1.2 QUALITY IMPROVEMENT                3.46                1.83            53%
 2.1          AGRICULTURAL
                                        7.62                7.90            104%
RESEARCH
 2.2 A PILOT PROJECT TO
IMPROVE             PRODUCER
                                        2.41                1.38            57%
ACCESS TO TRAINING AND
FARMING ADVICE
 3. LIVESTOCK AND ANIMAL
                                        8.75                4.57            52%
HEALTH
 4. PLANT PROTECTION AND
SEED         AND        PLANT           6.44                4.97            77%
CERTIFICATION
 5.           AGRICULTURAL
STATISTICS                AND           4.98                3.33            63%
INFORMATION

Total Baseline Cost                             35.46                  24.46                69%
Physical Contingencies
                                                 0.00                   0.00       0.00
Price Contingencies
                                                 0.00                   0.00       0.00
Total Project Costs                             42.24
Front-end fee PPF                                0.00                   0.00       .00
Front-end fee IBRD                               0.21                   0.21       .00
Total Financing Required                        42.45

Notes: (i) total baseline cost is original baseline cost of 42.24 USD millions minus 6.79 USD millions for
the agricultural training component financed separately by AFD; (ii) As of May 13, 2009, signed amount of
Euros 23.8 Million had a canceled amount of 2.6 Millions, a disbursed amount of 18.4 Millions and leaving
of 2.8 Millions undisbursed.




                                                   27
(b) Financing
                                                       Appraisal   Actual/Latest
                                         Type       of Estimate    Estimate      Percentage of
Source of Funds
                                         Cofinancing (USD          (USD          Appraisal
                                                       millions)   millions)
 Borrower                                              16.69       5.8           .00
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                      21.33        24.97        117%
and Development
 FOREIGN                   SOURCES
                                                      4.43         0.00         .00
(UNIDENTIFIED)




                                                28
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Building the capacity of agricultural producer organizations and
interprofessional organizations (US$5.26 million at appraisal; U$0.48 million at
completion)

Subcomponent 1.1: Pilot support to producer organizations (PO)

Outputs and activities. This component was to provide TA to 76 POs (44 cooperatives
and 32 GDAs) in six governorates. TA was to be provided by private consulting firms
and was to improve their management aspects, especially financial management, of these
organizations. For each PO, the TA performed the following services: (a) diagnosis of
the situation; (b) preparation of institutional development plans; (c) training of elected
leaders and hired managers; and (d) provision of advice on implementation of the
development plans. In all, only 72 POs received TA, mainly cooperatives for milk, fish,
poultry and vegetables.

Problems. The cooperatives and GDAs suffered from structural problems that went
well beyond the management shortcomings targeted by the TA. Cooperative principles
such as autonomy vis-à-vis the government, democratic elections, participation in internal
affairs, and annual meetings to present the PO's financial results were not respected.
Many cooperatives had fictitious memberships. A large number of cooperatives were
barely financially viable due to competition from the private sector. The cooperatives
also suffered from lack of access to credit and from farmers' perceptions that they were
instruments of government in rural areas, rather than being farmer representatives. The
TA proposed and carried out under the project did not address these core issues.

Cooperatives that were financially viable and actually had staff in place to train may have
benefited from the training and strategic planning, but it was not possible to substantiate
the benefit as there were too few experiences on which to form a judgment. Generally,
the TA made lists of weaknesses, and drew up development plans with proposed
investments where possible. Training covered topics such as management procedures,
information management, and how to recruit qualified managers, but these topics did not
necessarily represent the priority needs of the cooperatives. The leaders trained often did
not represent their constituents and few of the development plans were carried out. There
was very little follow-up of these plans, so sustainability is unlikely.

GDAs had a further problem. At appraisal, GDAs were subject to a 1999 law that
permitted them to engage in commercial activities such as selling the products of their
members. However, that law changed in 2004 to prohibit them from engaging in most
commercial activities. In spite of this legal change, the project continued with plans to
send TA to help GDAs with management and strategic planning without amending the
terms of reference.




                                            29
Subcomponent 1.2 Reinforce the capacity of GIPs to improve the quality of
agriculture

Outputs and activities. To increase the focus of MOA on the importance of commodity
quality, the project brought in 15 quality experts who were assigned to each APIA and
each GIP. They created pamphlets to explain quality specifications and procedures to
farmers and processors, and also worked on quality strategies within each GIP. Product-
specific training programs were held in Tunisia and Europe for quality experts and
technicians on food safety systems. Mobile laboratory equipment for quality control was
provided to several GIPs.

The project established a legal basis for appellations of origin and geographic indications.
The project also financed 23 commodity specific studies on quality with backgrounds and
recommendations.

Some quality actions, e.g., differentiating sheep milk from bovine milk, had an
immediate effect of doubling the price for high quality sheep cheese. Other legal actions
to designate quality segments of products are expected to have longer-term marketing
impacts. The AOC-IP Commission approved 11 quality seals, indicating geographic
origin for wine, dates, apples and grenadines. Decrees were published in 2008 on
appellations of origin, all specific to wine. Detailed regulations specifying the competent
authority and financing mechanisms for meat, cheese, fruits, vegetables and grains were
proposed and should be implemented soon.

Some concrete marketing successes were achieved under the project. GlobalGap
certifications were obtained for exports of 12,000 metric tons of potatoes, 3,000 metric
tons of geothermic tomatoes and 700 metric tons of artichokes. In all, the specific
activities planned for the quality cells were fully realized.

 Component 2: Strengthening the supply of research, training and agricultural
advisory services (US$10.03 million at appraisal; US$9.28 million at completion)
Rating Satisfactory

This component supported accountable public, cooperative and private services that
delivered relevant and cost effective producer services focused on increasing quality,
value-added and market access, and with particular attention to the needs of specific
target groups. Results by subcomponent are discussed below.

Subcomponent 2.1: Agricultural research (US$7.62 million at appraisal; US$7.90
million at completion) Rating: Satisfactory

Outputs and activities: The project was supposed: (a) to set up two regional research
centers and supporting existing regional research poles; (b) carry out priority research
activities financed under a competitive grant system basis and contractual arrangements;
(c) support regional and national commissions for programming and evaluating research
programs; (d) establish a user-accessible rolling repertory of usable research results; (e)



                                            30
set up an agriculture science database; (f) evaluate external research programs; and (g) set
up a unified research institute.

Two regional research centers -- Déguèche for oasis agriculture, and Chott Mariem for
organic agriculture -- were created. These regional research centers now enjoy a legal
status that gives them the necessary administrative, financial and budget autonomy to
function well. Existing regional research "poles" have also been given greater autonomy
with greater budget authority. The two research stations as well as the regional research
poles have been properly equipped and staffed. The decentralization and regionalization
of research are gaining momentum.

Research, with multi-disciplinary teams, responding to local needs has started on
experimental stations and in farmers' fields. The GIPs and the Regional Commissariats
for Agricultural Development (CRDAs) now participate in setting the research agenda,
and are contributing to funding research. Stakeholders (farmers, and organizations
representing farmers) visit all experimental sites, and results are distributed widely in the
form of publications, leaflets, etc. and via the mass media.

Improvements in the availability of scientific information were made. First, a repertoire
of agricultural research results was created based on an analysis of past and ongoing
research projects and by involving the users of research. A short summary "fiche" with
the results of each project was created and shared on the intranet with MOA staff and the
GIPs. The database facilities foster exchanges within MOA and with linked groups, such
as the GIPs in an expanded dialogue on the need for applied research pertinent to farming.

Five ad-hoc commissions to monitor and evaluate research and development programs
have been established.

Setting up a unified research institute was eliminated in November 2004 as formalized in
an amendment to the Loan agreement. The covenant was originally meant to improve
internal efficiency and cost effectiveness of agricultural research through better use of all
human, physical and financial research resources, including a merger of several research
institutes dealing with plant issues, in order to avoid duplication of facilities. In the end,
there was too much internal resistance by researchers in the various institutes to the
proposed institutional restructuring. A new Minister re-evaluated the program, and
eventually the Council of Ministers decided not to implement the merger. Nevertheless,
some of its key objectives, namely the better utilization of all human and material
resources within the different research institutes, were achieved indirectly. Changes in the
way regional research centers and regional research poles operate, especially giving them
greater budget autonomy, provided the necessary flexibility for success. Some sharing of
labs by Ministry groups for testing animal feed and other products was introduced.
While not all duplicative equipment was eliminated, substantial new capacity was
introduced and the regional research institutes are off to a good start, coordinating with
the center and increasingly considering farmers needs as they determine research
priorities.




                                             31
Subcomponent 2.2: Pilot project to improve producer access to training and
farming advice (US$2.41 million at appraisal; US$1.38 million at completion).
Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory

Outputs and activities. (a) test new approaches to extension while strengthening others;
(b) improve the quality and pertinence of the continuous training given by CFPA (Centre
de Formation Professionnelle Agricole); (c) better utilize research results; and (d)
rehabilitate six extension training centers.

Changes in the law concerning private extension agents allowed two new approaches to
agricultural extension to be tested: (a) a public-private partnership contract between GIP
and AVFA to provide extension advice by private contract extension agents (tree crops
and cattle fattening); and (b) teams of agricultural trainers and extension agents, working
from the CFPA.

In addition, traditional public extension methods towards women farmers were
strengthened by training and sending out four teams each with a vehicle, to support 34
new women extension agents working through CRDA's in 10 governorates. They
focused on bee-keeping and other useful income-generating activities for women. This
activity appears to have been successful, but no evaluation was ever conducted.

Continuous training for extension agents was improved by putting in place a system to
identify their training needs and by developing training courses that can lead to obtaining
a degree.

A communication strategy was developed to better utilize research results and that makes
use of mass media, but no M&E was done.

CFPA were renovated and newly equipped, but this was financed by AFD.

Extension issues during implementation. The two new approaches to agricultural
extension were conducted under sub-optimal conditions. Both pilots were delayed by
nearly three years, primarily because of difficulties of finding government employees
willing to participate in these pilots. Also, these pilots were carried out with only half the
extension staff estimated at appraisal. No formal evaluation of the first pilot was carried
out.

The initial public-private partnership contract between GIP Fruits and Agricultural
Extension and Training Agency (AVFA) to provide extension advice by private contract
extension agents seems to have worked fairly well. However, at loan closing, GIP Fruits
did not renew the contract, as its members were not willing to pay for the extension
advice. A formal evaluation of the second type of pilot to create teams of agricultural
trainers and extension agents based in CFPA was carried out at project completion. The
study concluded that the pilot allowed inter alia to prepare young university-trained
agriculturalists to work as private extension agents, to build good relationships between
the extension agents and the farmer organizations they worked for, and to carry out



                                             32
certain innovative extension techniques. However, the evaluation also pointed out that the
pilot suffered from the fact that the extension agents, who were supposed to become
private providers of extension advice, received monthly salaries under the project, and
this did not help prepare them for life in the private sector. The evaluation indicated that
training was insufficient and farmers in many cases were not happy with the advice
provided. Few if any of the extension agents involved in these two pilots will continue to
work as private extension agents. Hence the primary objective of these two pilots, namely
to develop a market for private extension advice, was not achieved.

Subcomponent 2.3: Strengthening agricultural training. This component was
financed by AFD and is thus not subject to review.

Component 3: Livestock and animal health (US$8.74 million at appraisal; US$4.57
million at completion). Rating: Moderately satisfactory

Outputs and activities: (a) introduction of a national identification system for cattle and
a monitoring/tracing system of animal movements; (b) establishment of a disease
monitoring and control program (epidemio-surveillance); (c) improved diagnostic
capability in animal health, in animal feed quality control, and in the safety of animal and
fish products; (d) improvement of zoo technical services; and (e) development and
monitoring of quality private veterinary and livestock services.

Reliable identification systems were put in place for traceability and food safety for fish,
poultry and dairy, with some 80% of cows identified with ear tags and records.

As a result of the project and coupled with new international market requirements and
interaction with other donors, there has been substantial progress in health, safety and
epidemiology controls. The dairy, poultry and fish control systems experienced very
important improvements due in part to the project and those gains are likely to be
permanent. Control systems were substantially improved for exported clams, generally
harvested by women and with substantial controls and treatments introduced to prevent
exportation of contaminated products. Sanitary and testing upgrades for milk collection
centers are well underway, and will be completed by the end of 2009 for milk collection
centers receiving subsidies.

The project trained 313 agents to help with animal identification, 231 technicians
performing artificial insemination, and training for 247 milk system controllers.

Regarding (e) above, in line with the general policy of MOA, the Veterinary Service
moved to more private sector services in 15 of the 24 governorates by 2008, particularly
with respect to subsidized vaccinations for foot and mouth disease, blue tongue and sheep
pox. Private sector veterinarians were given zones of operation. A veterinarian might
earn 1,000 TD/month from the vaccination program provided free to farmers, while also
providing other animal health services to farmers for additional privately paid fees.




                                            33
The Veterinary Service (coupled with the Veterinary Research Institute) is among the
most effective of government services in facilitating commerce (particularly for fish
exports, and health controls on domestic sales of milk and poultry). A new law
promulgated in June 2004 gave administrative flexibility to the veterinary research lab in
Tunis. The flexibility is important for quick action when imported reagents are needed
for lab tests. A microbiology lab was constructed in Sfax for veterinary service control
and existing laboratories were upgraded. Other equipment was provided to other regional
laboratories to expand their ability to handle samples.

A new livestock law promulgated in October 2005 helped redefine the role of the
Veterinary Service and the Office of Livestock (OEP, Office de l'elevage et des
paturages). The Veterinary Service strengthened a surveillance network to control
animal epidemics and expanded a sanitary mandate for free vaccinations to prevent
several highly infectious cattle and sheep diseases. For some diseases (avian influenza)
this was also important for human health. Disease threats in poultry production facilities
were controlled by government inspections of products and facilities to ensure
compliance with required measures. Poultry products in slaughterhouses were tested
periodically by the government for infectious diseases. Prohibition on home slaughter of
birds was introduced and is expected to be generally respected by 2010, helping to
control the threat of avian influenza. Stringent rules on testing and sanitary conditions in
milk collection centers are in place and will be fully implemented by the end of 2009.

Problems/Shortcomings:

Under (c) above, aspects of the project that were not completed included accreditation of
IRVT labs for fish and animal food products. The highly secure P-3 lab that the EU
recommended at mid-term, could have been useful in quick diagnosis and rapid control of
severely infectious diseases, but it was not completed because of a lack of trained
personnel and lack of legislative establishment of autonomy. The laboratory itself was
not completed due to constraints in the physical plant. A plan for hygienic control of
animal products to protect human health was not implemented due to lack of personnel.
Some official decrees to set the conditions for recruiting the necessary permanent
personnel needed for lab certification still remain to be issued, but the EU may provide
assistance to finish some of the labs that are essential to exports to Europe and
harmonization with European health control systems.

OEP set up a database for animal identification which has been operational since 2003.
There were plans to exchange data with the Veterinary Service from this database, but
these plans were not realized, reducing the value of the system for rapid quarantining of
herds to prevent the spread of infectious diseases. OEP failed to establish an
identification/registration system for red meat, because about half of meat animals were
slaughtered outside the official system.




                                            34
Component 4: Plant protection and quality control (US$6.44 million at appraisal;
US$4.97 million at completion). Rating: Satisfactory

Outputs and activities. (a) improvement of the capacity to monitor and test the quality
of farm inputs, in particular pesticides and new seeds and plants; (b) development of
monitoring and surveillance on internal trade and on imports and exports; and (c)
awareness and understanding among technical staff, extension staff and producers about
cost effective and sustainable pest control and integrated pest management.

The Plant Protection and Quarantine Service (DGPCQPA) had a number of important
accomplishments, most of which improved its diagnostic capabilities and created the
capacity for improving varieties, reviewing and approving imported seeds, dealing with
pests and diseases harming plants and humans. DGPCQPA's acquired knowledge of
residue control will be important to meet increasingly stringent EU residue and
traceability requirements and to promote good human health in Tunisia. DGPCQPA's
ability to perform analysis of pesticides and fertilizer can have immediate benefits for
farmers. Extension services can advise the farmers of the right fertilizers and pesticides
to buy, using products that are cost effective and do not leave harmful residues.

For Tunisia to benefit commercially, it is necessary to have certification of products by
private bodies, and MOA is in a better position now to help establish traceability and
monitoring systems and marketing rules, in cooperation with other Ministries controlling
markets. Similar traceability and control systems can help identify and prevent human
health problems such as limiting pesticide and other chemical residues, and avoiding
salmonella.

MOA has been expanding the use of environmentally friendly pest control techniques,
including traps (instead of chemicals) to kill some insects attacking fruit trees. Expanded
capabilities include a new plant pest (phytosanitary) analysis lab in Radès, the container
port of Tunis, expansion of laboratory capabilities equipping the seed and plant station,
expansion of pesticide analysis and a quarantine lab, and equipping four regional stations,
equipping the viral lab in Mornag, and purchase of equipment to improve capabilities and
performance of various other labs. Most of the lab capability and related work originally
planned was completed. Procurement related to plant protection and control of inputs
(pesticides, seeds, fertilizer) and strengthened product analysis (residues, contaminants)
was added after the 2005 mid term review of the project. Some mid-project proposals
based on EU recommendations were not fully completed, including accreditation of four
laboratories for seeds, plants, quarantine and a catalogue of viruses but certification
seems likely in the near future. An important improvement was a law passed on April 1,
2008, to allow fee collections for performing analyses or certifications. This will ensure
the sustainability of the services.

Substantial work was done under the project to introduce new techniques for IPM (Lutte
integrée) and other environmentally friendly pest controls consistent with organic
production. Plant protection officials have been encouraging IPM methods for citrus,
dates and olives, e.g., using mass traps instead of pesticides as one environmentally



                                            35
friendly way of killing insects. Recommendations of an IPM workshop led to
establishing of a national committee for integrated pest management and sub committees
for citrus, wine, potatoes, dates, cereals, and fruit trees.

Issues faced during implementation. European lab certifications require fairly stringent
conditions including appropriate equipment, training, procedures, and staffing, and
adequate financial autonomy - in some cases time consuming changes in legal authorities.
The lengthy process of certification was not complete for all labs but was proceeding and
certification is likely in the near future and exports are continuing during the transitional
period. There was a plan to have an Agricultural Production Directorate lab to analyze
feed, but the lab procurement was not done prior to the end of the project. But overall,
one important trend set is that user fees (being introduced) will help to sustain the large
network of labs financially for the longer term.

Component 5: Strengthening public interest services and project management
support (US$4.98 million at appraisal; US$3.33 million at completion)

Sub-component 5.1: Agricultural statistics and information. The project was
successful in increasing statistics and information systems on all the commodity sectors
of focus. MOA was able to make statistical improvements by hiring seven statisticians
on contract. They as well as other contractual field personnel did a sample survey of
farming using US-type sampling techniques. The survey physically measured the
production from sampled lands and also showed various aspects of land tenure. The
results of this program on the structure of Tunisian agriculture were compared with two
less comprehensive estimates done in 1961 and 1994/94, and were put on ONAGRI's
internet website. This sharing of information with the public was a laudable step that
may lead to the publication of other data and information. ONAGRI had plans to publish
information from wholesale markets and also to include surveillance reports on
agricultural markets but these plans were not realized.

Sub-component 5.2. Project management support. For a project that seeks inter alia to
modernize a Ministry and that has 12 executing agencies, the PMU was not given the
necessary coordination authority and was not strong and experienced enough to deal with
the fiduciary standards associated with Bank operations. The PMU was located within
one of the General Directorates (DG) of MOA which is at the same hierarchical level as
the other DGs and had only a staff of two people (one coordinator and one assistant). It
did not have special expertise in procurement and M&E and was therefore unable to
assist the implementing agencies, who tried to avoid the PMU by dealing directly with
the Bank on procurement matters. All major issues had to be brought to the attention of
the interdepartmental coordinating committee chaired by the Minister of MOA, a time
consuming process.




                                             36
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
n.a




                                    37
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                       Responsibility/
Names                    Title                                 Unit
                                                                       Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR

                                                                       Administrative
Marie A. F. How Yew Kin Language Program Assistant             MNSSD
                                                                       Support
Alexander Kremer         Sr. Sector Economist                  MNSSD   Ag. Economics
Sylvie Tillier           Consultant                            MNSSD   Ag. Economics
Ali Kissi                Consultant                            MNSSD   Ag. Research
Paul Ngoma Kimbatsa      Consultant                            MNSSD   Ag. Statistics
Franz Schorosh           Consultant/ICR                        MNSSD   Extension
Mohamed Medouar          Sr. Rural Development Specialist      MNSSD   Extension
                         Country      ManagerSr.     Financial         Financial
Siaka Bakayoko                                                 AFMGN
                         Management Specialist                         Management
                                                                       Financial
Moez Makhlouf            Consultant                            MNAFM
                                                                       Management
                                                               MNAF    Financial
Anas Abou El Mikias      Sr. Financial Management Specialist
                                                               M       Management
                                                               MNAF    Financial
Samia Msadek             Sr. Financial Management Specialist
                                                               M       Management
Rino Coppola             Consultant                            MNSSD   Fisheries statistics
Bernard Bridier          Consultant                            MNSSD   Law
 Philippe J. M. Blanc    Consultant                            MNSSD   Livestock
Jean Paul Boutonnet      Consultant                            MNSSD   Livestock
Hubert Devautour         Consultant                            MNSSD   Marketing
Tom Pomeroy              Consultant/ICR                        MNSSD   Marketing
Joanne Nickerson         Operations Analyst                    EASOP   Operations
 Amakeletch Teferi-Bel   Consultant                            MNSSD   Plant Protection
 Nadia F-Z. Gouhier      Procurement Analyst                   MNAPR   Procurement
Georges Khoury Haddad    Consultant                            MNAPR   Procurement
                                                                       Producer
Pierre Rondot            Sr. Sector Economist                  MNSSD
                                                                       Organizations
                                                                       TTL      and/     Ag.
Nabil M. Chaherli        Sr. Sector Economist                  MNSSD
                                                                       Economics
                                                                       TTL/               and
Marie-Helene Collion     Lead Agriculturist                    LCSAR   Agricultural
                                                                       Services




                                              38
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                               USD Thousands (including
                          No. of staff weeks
                                                     travel and consultant costs)
Lending
Total:                                  79                      633.54
Supervision/ICR
Total:                                  96                     1287.13




                                   39
Annex 5. Borrower's Project Completion Report

                                             SYNTHESE


1.      Rappel du contexte et des objectifs du projet

Le projet se situe dans un contexte d'ouverture progressive des marchés, notamment vis-à-vis de
l'Union Européenne, d'où la nécessaire mise à niveau du secteur. Il a constitué la première phase
du programme à long terme du Gouvernement tunisien dont l'objectif est d'améliorer la qualité
et la compétitivité du secteur et l'accès aux marchés (en particulier pour les petits et moyens
producteurs).

A cette fin les trois grands objectifs du projet étaient les suivants :

        Renforcer la capacité de service des organisations professionnelles de base (OPB) et des
        GIP pour, respectivement :
           o améliorer les services aux petits producteurs
           o améliorer la qualité des produits de l'agriculture tunisienne
        Améliorer les services à l'agriculture (publics ou privés)
        Maximiser la couverture, la fiabilité et la disponibilité des données et de l'information

La stratégie pour l'amélioration des services agrée par le GOT est de renforcer les services du
Ministère correspondant aux fonctions régaliennes et de le désengager progressivement des autres
fonctions, en testant le transfert aux opérateurs privés par des opérations pilotes et en transférant
des fonctions aux professionnels.

Pour atteindre ses objectifs, le projet a prévu d'associer de manière cohérente:

        La mise à niveau des infrastructures et équipements
        Le renforcement des capacités des ressources humaines
        Les réformes institutionnelles


2.      Les acquis et réalisations du projet

Les acquis du projet sont considérables et constituent une avancée substantielle dans la mise à
niveau du secteur. Dans ce qui suit, ils sont présentés de manière synthétique par grands objectifs
(Voir les détails en annexe, par composante).

Objectif 1.1 : Renforcer la capacité de service des organisations professionnelles de base
(OPB) pour améliorer les services aux petits producteurs. Pour atteindre cet objectif, une
opération pilote de renforcement de capacité, sous traité à des bureaux privés a été conduite
auprès de 44 coopératives et 32 GDAs dans 6 gouvernorats. afin d'améliorer leur gestion
administrative et financière. Les activités (diagnostic de la situation, plan de développement et
formation en gestion administrative et financière) ont été réalisées comme prévu. La


                                                   40
capitalisation des travaux des bureaux d'études a montré que cette action de renforcement de
capacité, pour pouvoir atteindre pleinement l'objectif initialement fixé, aurait dû être complétée,
ou plutôt précédée par une réforme en profondeur des coopératives et GDA afin de lever des
contraintes structurelles entravant le fonctionnement des organisations professionnelles de base.

Objectif 1.2. Renforcer la capacité des GIP pour améliorer la qualité des produits de
l'agriculture tunisienne.

Cette composante a pleinement atteint son objectif, et pour certains aspects, les réalisations ont
dépassé ce qui était prévu (par exemple, l'huile d'olive a été inclue dans une démarche de qualité
alors que cette filière n'était pas prévue dans le projet au départ, 4 études pour l'amélioration de
la qualité dans divers sous secteurs étaient prévues, 23 ont été réalisées). Mais surtout on peut dire
que maintenant la qualité s'impose comme une nécessité incontournable. Les principaux acquis
sont les suivants :

Evolution du cadre institutionnel

La publication de 3 décrets d'application de la Loi relative aux AOC et IP (juin 1999) constitue
une avancée institutionnelle majeure. Ces décrets portent sur :

            la contribution des bénéficiaires d'une AOC/IP (mars 2008)
            le registre (avril 2008)
            l'organisme de contrôle et de certification (mai 2008)

Cependant, ces textes sont par certains côtés inadaptés ou comportent des lacunes et devront être
complétés par des arrêtés. (Voir Annexe)

La Commission Nationale Consultative des AOC et des IP a été mise en place et a déjà
fonctionné en approuvant onze signes de qualité (voir ci-dessous).

Création d'un réseau qualité animé par l'APIA

        15 cadres commerciaux "qualité" formés ont été placés au sein des GIP, APIA et ONH.
        Neuf d'entre eux ont obtenu un diplôme master "qualité" dans le cadre du projet.

Création de signes de qualité

        Onze signes d'indication de provenance ont été approuvés par la Commission AOC-IP :
        sept AOC vignes, deux indications de provenance des dattes, une IP de pomme de Sbiba,
        une IP grenade de Gabès.

        Des marques collectives ou label sont en cours de créations pour la crevette royale, les
        conserves de sardine, l'agneau noir de Thibar.

        Un label qualité pour les embarcations de pêche


Traceabilité et amélioration de la commercialisation

        Système de traçabilité pour les dattes et les agrumes, mis en place de manière progressive



                                                 41
        Certification GLOBALGAP pour les producteurs exportateurs de pomme de terre, dattes
        et fruits.
        Segmentation du marché local des légumes par l'emballage
        Différenciation des laits de brebis dans la production fromagère.
        Certification de 3 abattoirs de viandes blanches
        Interdiction de la vente du poulet vif : le passage de 70% vifs et 30% abattus à 35% vifs
        et 65% abattus.
        Augmentation des quantités d'huile d'olive de qualité supérieure exportées de 30% à
        60% des quantités exportées.
        Création du fond de développement de l'huile d'olive conditionnée
        Exportation de produits certifiés GLOBALGAP: 12.000 t de pomme de terre, 3.000t de
        tomates géothermique, 700 t d'artichauts
        Mise à niveau de 223 centres de collecte de lait sur 282 (84%)

Agroindustries qualifiées ou certifiées: HACCP, ISO, BRC en particulier pour les dattes et les
produits de la mer.

Creation du portail de l'agriculture. Il s'agit d'un site internet          fédérateur réunissant les
informations des GIP, de l'APIA et de l'ONAGRI.

La composante a permis également de réaliser 23 études pour l'amélioration de la qualité dans
diverses filières, dont 17 ont débouché sur un plan d'action dont la mise en oeuvre reste à
concrétiser avec la profession, ainsi que des guides de bonne pratique pour diverses filières. Afin
que les mesures préconisées par ces guides soient adoptés par la majorité des intervenants, les
GIP devront poursuivre la sensibilisation et les formations surtout en ce qui concerne leur
adoption par les petits et moyens producteurs.

Objectif 2 : Améliorer les services à l'agriculture (publics ou privés)

Objectif 2.1 : La recherche : (i) Mieux répondre aux besoins en matière de recherche en
rapprochant la recherche         des acteurs ; (ii) Améliorer l'information scientifique; (iii)
rationnaliser le système de recherche.

Le premier objectif a été atteint avec la décentralisation et la régionalisation de la recherche :

        Création de deux centres régionaux : Deguèche (Agriculture oasienne) et Chott Meriem
        (Agriculture biologique). Un troisième centre régional est en cours de création (Sidi
        Bouzid).
        Plus d'autonomie aux pôles de recherche : Les chefs de pôle de l'IRESA ont obtenu le
        statut d'ordonnateurs secondaires et une régie d'avance.
        Mise à niveau des pôles et stations : (i) moyens humains (des chercheurs et techniciens
        ont été affectés aux stations, les chefs de station et techniciens ont été formés) ; (ii) des
        moyens : infrastructures et équipements ont été mis à disposition de Chott Mariem, Le
        Kef, Béja, Mornag et deux laboratoires ont été construits à l'Institut de l'Olivier

Le deuxième objectif a été atteint avec l'amélioration de l'information scientifique

        Le répertoire des acquis de la recherche a été créé à partir de l'évaluation des projets
        fédérateurs par des commissions impliquant les utilisateurs de la recherche



                                                  42
        Une base d'information et de recherche scientifique agricole (BIRSA) qui permet d'avoir
        accès à l'information scientifique en réseau interne aux instituts de l'IRESA.

Le troisième objectif a été supprimé, ainsi que sa clause datée, après que le Conseil des Ministres
ait décidé d'abandonner la création de l'Institut Unique, décision qui a été communiquée
officiellement à la Banque mondiale.

Objectif 2.2. La vulgarisation et la formation : (i) Tester de nouvelles approches de
vulgarisation, en renforcer d'autres ; (ii) Améliorer la qualité et la pertinence de la formation
continue ; (iii) Mieux valoriser les résultats de recherche ; (iv) Réhabiliter 6 centres de formation.

        Grâce à l'amendement de la loi sur le conseil agricole privé, deux nouvelles approches de
        conseil agricole ont été testées : (i) le partenariat public-privé : Convention GIP-AVFA
        pour fournir le conseil par des conseillers agricoles privés contractualisés (Agrumes,
        engraissement des veaux) ; (ii) les équipes de formation-conseil, opérant à partir des
        centres de formation agricoles. De plus, la vulgarisation « classique » par des
        vulgarisatrices à destination des agricultrices a été renforcée.
        La formation continue a été améliorée par la mise en place d'un système permanent
        d'identification de la demande de formation et l'adaptation des cursus de formation avec
        les modules de formation capitalisables en vue de l'obtention de diplôme
        Enfin, une stratégie de la communication valorisant mieux les résultats de la recherche et
        utilisant des supports multimédias a été établie.

Objectif 2.3 L'élevage et la santé animale.

La promulgation de la Loi sur l'Elevage (octobre 2005) constitue un acquis institutionnel majeur
même si tous les décrets d'application n'ont pas encore été publiés.

Trois entités étaient impliquées dans la mise en oeuvre de cette composante: les services
vétérinaires, l'IRVT et l'OEP, chacune avec des objectifs spécifiques.

Services vétérinaires. L'objectif était de renforcer les capacités et de recentrer les missions de la
DG/SV sur :
     La surveillance, le contrôle et l'inspection sanitaire des animaux
     Le contrôle de l'hygiène des denrées alimentaires animales

Dans le cadre du premier sous-objectif, deux réalisations majeures sont à souligner : la mise en
place du réseau d'épidémiosurveillance et celle du mandat sanitaire. Le réseau
d'épidémiosurveillance est opérationnel et améliore les capacités de détection des épizooties,
mais les effectifs et le budget insuffisants de la DGSV ne permettent pas une gestion et un suivi
adéquats, non plus qu'une exploitation optimale des données épidémiologiques et un retour de
l'information sur le terrain.

Le mandat sanitaire a été mis en place progressivement : 15 gouvernorats et 51 zones sur 350 en
2008. Pour 2009, le budget est déjà assuré pour étendre mandat à l'ensemble du pays, (100 zones
sur 350). L'efficacité du mandat et sa généralisation sont en outre dépendants d'une révision des
politiques de contrôle des maladies qui dépend en partie des données susceptibles de ressortir du
réseau d'épidémiosurveillance.




                                                 43
Le deuxième sous-objectif, celui de l'amélioration du contrôle de l'hygiène des denrées
alimentaires d'origine animale a été abandonné à mi-parcours du fait du manque de personnel au
niveau de la DG/SV dans ce domaine.

Institut de Recherches Vétérinaires (IRVT). L'objectif était d'améliorer les capacités d'analyse
et de contrôle en matière de santé animale; analyse des aliments bétail et sécurité alimentaire.

Les capacités de diagnostic ont été améliorées par des infrastructures et équipements :
construction et équipement du laboratoire de microbiologie, extension et équipement du
laboratoire de Sfax. Cette dernière activité a été décidée après la revue à mi-parcours, sur la base
de l'audit à blanc réalisé dans le cadre du Programme de Jumelage de l'Union Européenne, audit
qui en a montré la nécessité.

L'amélioration des infrastructures et équipements constitue une base pour l'accréditation des
laboratoires, accréditation nécessaire pour l'exportation des produits de la pêche vers l'UE.
Cependant, la formation du personnel aux nouvelles méthodologies d'analyse en vue de cette
accréditation n'a pas pu avoir lieu. De plus, la souplesse de gestion administrative et financière,
indispensable en vue de l'accréditation n'a malheureusement pas pu été obtenue au cours du
projet, bien qu'elle ait fait l'objet d'une clause datée. Il semblerait cependant que l'on n'en soit
plus très éloigné, avec la promulgation de la Loi sur les EPST (2006) et de son décret portant
organisation des EPST (février 2008). A partir de là, il reste le décret d'application spécifique à
l'IRVT. L'IRESA a soumis une proposition de texte de décret pour l'IRVT au Ministère de la
Recherche et de l'Enseignement Supérieur.

Le laboratoire de haute sécurité (P3) n'a pu être construit. Il s'agissait là d'une construction et
donc d'un appel d'offres complexe qui a été ajoutée au moment de la revue à mi-parcours, au vu
de l'évolution du contexte international (risque de grippe aviaire).

Office de l'Elevage et des Pâturages      L'objectif était la mise en place d'un système
d'identification des bovins et de suivi sanitaire du cheptel. Cet objectif n'a été que partiellement
atteint avec 30% du cheptel identifié. Il faut souligner que tant que l'identification des animaux
ne sera pas utilisée pour assurer la traçabilité des produits de l'élevage bovin, traçabilité qui sera
concrétisée par l'exigence de l'identification pour la circulation et l'entrée des animaux dans les
abattoirs, les éleveurs n'auront aucune obligation à faire marquer leurs animaux. Surtout,
l'utilisation du marquage des animaux pour constituer une base de données informatisée pour le
suivi sanitaire n'est pas encore possible du fait que l'échange d'information avec le réseau
d'épidémiosurveillence n'est pas encore opérationnel.

Objectif 2.4 La DG/PCQPA. Protection des végétaux

Objectifs: (i) Une meilleure efficacité du système de protection des végétaux et de contrôle des
intrants ; (ii) Une agriculture durable, protégeant environnement et consommateurs grâce à la
lutte intégrée

Il faut souligner tout d'abord que la protection des végétaux a été érigée en direction générale
(DG/PCQPA) avec le projet, pour répondre aux défis majeurs en matière de contrôle
phytosanitaire que le Ministère avait identifiés. Cinq acquis majeurs sont à mettre au crédit de
cette nouvelle direction

L'amélioration du système de contrôle phytosanitaire aux frontières et à l'intérieur du territoire
par le renforcement des capacités analytiques et de contrôle : Personnel (augmentation des


                                                 44
effectifs et amélioration des qualifications du personnel) et mise à niveau des infrastructures et
équipements: Cette mise à niveau a concerné trois stations régionales (Sfax, Sousse, Béja),
laboratoire au port de Radès, laboratoire de quarantaine

L'amélioration du système de contrôle, d'analyse et de certifications des intrants par :

        Le renforcement des capacités analytiques et de contrôle : Personnel (augmentation des
        effectifs et amélioration de ses qualifications), la mise à niveau des infrastructures et des
        équipements (laboratoires de semences, des pesticides, de virologie, et du catalogue à
        Mornag)
        L'introduction de nouvelles analyses (résidus, engrais, OGM)
        L'introduction d'éléments en vue de l'accréditation des laboratoires, notamment avec
        l'assurance qualité.

La mise en place d'une stratégie de lutte intégrée grâce à la formation du personnel, un système
de veille et de surveillance phytosanitaire progressivement mis en place, l'introduction de
méthodes de lutte alternatives.

Le recouvrement des services et transfert au secteur privé. Le décret pour le recouvrement des
coûts des services a été adopté et les domaines transférables au secteur privé ont été identifiés

Opérationnalisation du service de la législation de la qualité. Un cadre d'opération pour ce
service nouveau a été établi.

Il convient de noter que les objectifs de cette composante ont été non seulement pleinement
atteints mais même largement dépassés : une stratégie de lutte intégrée a été mise au point et est
maintenant progressivement mise en oeuvre, ce alors que le projet ne prévoyait initialement
qu'une sensibilisation des agriculteurs.        D'autre part, cette composante a réalisé des
aménagements et extensions de laboratoires et stations régionaux non prévus initialement dans
une perspective de décentralisation des activités d'analyse et de contrôle pour une meilleure
couverture du territoire et un rapprochement vers les utilisateurs. Enfin, elle a introduit des
activités supplémentaires au niveau des capacités d'analyse: analyses de résidus, des OGM et des
engrais, non prévues au départ. Cependant, il faudra pour cette composante, que le nouveau
Directeur général s'attelle à consolider les acquis.

Objectif 3. Maximiser la couverture, la fiabilité et la disponibilité des données et de
l'information

Cet objectif a été atteint avec quatre entités : la DG/EDA, la DG/PA, la DG/Pêche et l'ONAGRI

Les données publiées par le MARH sont maintenant plus fiables grâce aux réalisations suivantes:
     Typologie des exploitations agricoles et de pêche
     Recensement général de la pêche
     Enquête sur les structures des exploitations agricoles 2004-2005
     Enquête sur l'emploi agricole 2006/2007

Les informations sont maintenant disponibles à temps, avec :
     L'amélioration du dispositif de prévisions et de suivi des campagnes agricoles.
     La publication mensuelle d'AGRI-FLASH et du Bulletin Trimestriel de Conjoncture.




                                                45
Cependant, en ce qui concerne la pêche, l'objectif n'a pas été atteint du fait que le système de
suivi informatisé des campagnes de pêche n'a pas été mis en place.

La couverture a été améliorée grâce :

        Aux capacités de stockage des données et de l'accès à distance améliorées
        L'expansion du site Intranet du MARH aux statistiques
        Le Portail de l'agriculture, un site fédérateur issus de différentes sources d'informations
        (ONAGRI, APIA et GIP)

Cependant, les utilisateurs hors Ministère n'ont qu'un accès sélectif aux informations, du fait que
les données accessibles sur internet sont limitées.

3.      Les actions à compléter, consolider ou à initier

Les acquis et les réalisations du projet après 6 années de mise en oeuvre sont considérables et
indiquent que le projet a atteint la plupart de ses objectifs. Cependant des consolidations sont
nécessaires (certains acquis sont fragiles), des actions sont à compléter et certaines sont à initier.

Objectif 1. Renforcer la capacité de service des organisations professionnelles de base (OPB)
et des GIP pour, respectivement :
            o améliorer les services aux petits producteurs
            o améliorer la qualité des produits de l'agriculture tunisienne

L'accés des petits et moyens producteurs aux marchés et leur implication dans les démarches de
qualité. Tout d'abord, même si l'objectif général du projet soulignait « améliorer l'accès des
petits et moyens producteurs aux marchés », il faut reconnaître que peu d'actions du projet ont
visé de façon systématique cet objectif. En effet, les démarches de qualité ont été introduites avec
les GIP qui eux-mêmes n'ont pas tous les instruments pour « remonter » au niveau des
producteurs. On peut tout de même espérer que les petits producteurs ont bénéficié de la mise en
place d'un système de traçabilité sur les dattes et les agrumes, ainsi que des guides de bonne
pratique qui ont été élaborés et diffusés par les groupements ou par le paiement du lait différencié
pour le lait de brebis, etc...Cependant, il faudrait réfléchir à l'avenir à des approches pour faire
participer les petits et moyens producteurs aux chaines de valeur et les entrainer dans une
démarche de qualité.

Le renforcement de capacités des OPB. La capitalisation du travail des bureaux d'études dans le
cadre de la composante « renforcement des capacités des OPB » a montré que les CSA et GDA
n'ont pas seulement besoin d'appui en matière de gestion administrative et financière, mais
surtout d'une mise à niveau « stratégique ». L'amélioration de la gouvernance de ces structures et
la réhabilitation des principes de base de la coopération et de l'esprit associatif (autonomie,
représentativité, participation...) est un préalable pour que ces organisations professionnelles de
base puissent se restructurer et offrir de manière efficace des services à leurs adhérents pour
qu'ils améliorent leur compétitivité et soient en mesure de faire face à la globalisation.

Afin que la Tunisie puisse avoir un réseau d'organisations professionnelles de base efficaces,
pour mettre à niveau la majorité de ses 570,000 exploitations agricoles, il est proposé de :
    1. Poursuivre les efforts d'assainissement des OPB non viables
    2. Entreprendre une étude stratégique pour approfondir les axes de restructuration et
       élaborer un programme de mise à niveau des secteurs coopératif et associatif dans
       l'agriculture.


                                                 46
La professionalisation des GIP et des OPB. Cette question, ainsi que celle de l'allocation des
ressources du FODECAP était en filigrane des réflexions et des recommandations des diverses
missions de supervision, mais force est de constater qu'aucun progrès n'a été accompli dans ce
domaine, même s'il semblerait que la question soit mûre dans les esprits.

Les démarches qualité Le bilan des acquis ci-dessus a montré l'énorme travail accompli dans le
cadre de la composante « appui aux GIP pour une démarche de qualité ». Cependant, et la plupart
des interventions l'ont souligné durant l'atelier du 25 novembre, ces acquis sont fragiles. Le
soutien en matière de qualité demande à être pérennisé, notamment en ce qui concerne le réseau
« qualité » formé par les 15 cadres « qualité » et sa coordination par l'APIA. A l'heure actuelle,
les cadres du réseau ont été recrutés comme permanents dans les GIP, mais l'APIA n'a pas
encore vu son mandat confirmé pour l'animation du réseau. Egalement, des 23 études réalisées,
17 ont débouché sur des plans d'actions dont il faut maintenant promouvoir la mise en oeuvre
avec les professionnels. Egalement en ce qui concerne les signes de qualité, le cahier des charges
est souvent encore à l'état de discussion entre les professionnels pour sa mise en oeuvre. Il faut
donc poursuivre le travail.

Objectif 2. Améliorer les services à l'agriculture (publics ou privés)

Accréditation des laboratoires (IRVT/ DGPCQPA. Les mises à niveau réalisées par le projet ont
permis de bien avancer vers l'accréditation, mais il y a encore du travail de mise à niveau pour
que les laboratoires soient prêts pour être accrédités. Pour ceux de l'IRVT par exemple, il faudra
réaliser les formations et l'assistance technique qui n'a pu être réalisée, et obtenir le statut qui
octroiera la souplesse de gestion administrative et financière. Pour ceux de la DG/PCQPA, la
mise en place de l'expertise en métrologie est indispensable.

Système de lutte intégrée : Etendre et renforcer le système de veille phytosanitaire (Voir annexe)

Réseau d'épidémiosurveillance à consolider

Mandat sanitaire à généraliser

Identification du cheptel est à étendre, mais comme signalé ci-dessus, elle ne prendra tout son
sens pour les éleveurs que si l'identification des animaux devient partie d'un système de
traçabilité de la viande bovine, et donc nécessaire pour la circulation des animaux et leur abattage.
Il faut aussi pour cela que la base de données sur le suivi sanitaire à partir du marquage des
animaux devienne opérationnelle, incorporant les informations en provenance du réseau
d'épidémiosurveillance.

Hygiène des denrées alimentaires d'origine animale.       Le projet n'a réalisé aucune avancée
dans ce domaine.


Objectif 3. Maximiser la couverture, la fiabilité et la disponibilité des données et de
l'information

Egalement pour la DG/Pêche, la mise en place d'un système informatisé de suivi des campagnes
de pêche reste à réaliser.




                                                47
Pour l'ONAGRI, le système de collecte et de diffusion d'information sur les marchés
régionaux de gros n'est pas encore en place. Quant au système de veille et d'anticipation de
l'agriculture, tout reste à faire. Enfin, il faut diffuser les résultats des statistiques aux utilisateurs
(INTERNET).

Une question transversale : la pérennisation des ressources humaines: Le projet a permis le
recrutement de 55 cadres. La question se pose sur l'avenir de ces cadres contractés dans la
mesure où cette expertise est essentielle pour que le Ministère puisse continuer les activités
initiées par le projet. D'ores et déjà les 15 cadres du réseau qualité ont été intégrés aux GIP et à
l'APIA. Les cadres contractuels de la DG/PCQPA sont rémunérés et contractualisés sur les fonds
de concours. Mais il reste à assurer les contrats des autres cadres, en particulier ceux recrutés et
formés pour les statistiques agricoles et des pêches, cadres dont le Ministère a grand besoin.

4.      Rétrospective sur la mise en oeuvre du projet.

La difficulté principale de la mise en oeuvre du projet, reconnue par toutes les entités impliquées
dans le projet, a été la passation de marchés, cause des retards et du fait que toutes les activités
prévues n'ont pas été réalisées. Il faut rappeler que le projet était mis en oeuvre par 12 entités, la
plupart n'ayant aucune expertise en matière de montage de dossiers de passation de marchés
complexes (c'est-à-dire hors achat routinier et simple de voitures ou d'ordinateurs). Les entités
qui ont réussi à réaliser plus que prévu avait un chargé de passations de marchés qui maitrisait
parfaitement le montage des dossiers et savait les défendre auprès de la Commission
Départementale des Marchés, parfois bien tatillonne. Le projet aurait dû dès le début s'attacher
les services d'un consultant qui aurait aidé les différentes entités à monter les dossiers. Il faut
reconnaitre qu'au départ, ni la Banque mondiale ni le Ministère n'avait diagnostiqué ce problème,
se basant sur le fait que le Ministère avait réalisé beaucoup de projets sur financement Banque
mondiale et connaissait les procédures. Mais dans les projets antérieurs, sauf pour l'IRESA, ce
n'était pas les mêmes directions, et surtout, il s'agissait du recrutement d'entreprises pour par
exemple la réalisation de travaux d'irrigation, ou des plantations d'arbres, mais pas du montage
de dossiers et procédures pour de l'assistance technique ou pour des constructions complexes, de
type laboratoire P3. La Banque mondiale n'a mis le doigt sur le problème qu'après plus d'un an
de mise en oeuvre et a alors recommandé le recrutement d'un expert en passation de marchés,
mais le Ministère n'a pas suivi cette recommandation.

Avec le recul, on peut dire que l'autre aspect qui a manqué à ce projet stratégique pour le
Ministère, qui couvrait pratiquement toutes ses activités sauf l'irrigation et les ressources
forestières, a été une véritable coordination pour la mise en oeuvre, une coordination qui aurait eu
autorité sur les entités d'exécution. C'est en fait ce qui s'est passé lorsque les difficultés sur les
passations de marché bloquaient l'avancée du projet : le Ministre a décidé alors d'organiser des
réunions mensuelles de suivi de l'exécution du projet avec les directeurs des entités impliquées,
ce qui a eu un impact positif sur l'exécution. Mais cette attention à très haut niveau n'a pas été
poursuivie une fois que l'exécution s'est améliorée.

5.      La poursuite de la mise à niveau du secteur agricole

Comme souligné, les acquis du projet sont considérables. Cependant, ce projet concernait la
mise en oeuvre de la première phase d'une stratégie de mise à niveau à long terme du secteur
agricole. Ce chantier de longue haleine n'est donc pas achevé, et concerne un champ plus large
que la simple réalisation des activités signalées ci-dessus qui n'ont pas pu être complétées dans le
cadre du projet.



                                                   48
Pour la poursuite de ce chantier, l'objectif global, à savoir l'amélioration de la qualité et la
compétitivité du secteur et l'accès aux marchés (en particulier pour les petits et moyens
producteurs) reste tout à fait pertinent, conformément à l'objectif du Gouvernement d'atteindre
une efficacité économique comparable à celle des pays du Nord de la Méditerranée. Le contexte a
cependant évolué. Les objectifs spécifiques pourraient donc être focalisés sur :

         L'accès aux marchés porteurs pour les petits et moyens producteurs ce qui impliquerait
         les domaines d'activités suivants :
              o La restructuration des organisations professionnelles agricoles pour faciliter
                 l'accès aux intrants et aux marchés des petits agriculteurs
              o La mise au niveau des exploitations
              o En liaison avec la mise à niveau des exploitations, leur insertion dans les filières
                 et l'adoption de démarches qualité par la promotion de partenariats
                 groupements de producteurs/acheteur (incluant le conseil, l'innovation, la
                 participation au financement)
              o L'organisation de l'interprofession

         La poursuite du renforcement des capacités pour assurer la santé animale et la sécurité
         alimentaire (protection des végétaux, contrôle de qualité, réseau d'épidémio-
         surveillance, hygiène des denrées alimentaires d'origine animale)

         L'organisation des circuits de distribution et la mise à niveau des marchés de gros et des
         abattoirs (Projets des Ministères du Commerce et de l'Intérieur sur financement AFD)
             o L'organisation des marchés et des circuits de distribution
             o La mise à niveau des marchés de gros et des abattoirs

         La promotion des exportations agricoles.




                                                49
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

                  Projet de renforcement des services d'appui à l'agriculture

                                 Acquis du Projet et Perspectives

                           25 novembre 2008, Hôtel AFRICA - Tunis

                                   Compte-rendu du séminaire

Session 1 : « Les réalisations du PRSAA et les actions critiques pour pérenniser ses acquis »

La présentation sur les réalisations du PRSAA et les actions critiques pour pérenniser ses acquis,
s'est articulée autour du contexte général du Projet, de l'approche utilisée pour atteindre ses
objectifs, de son coût, de ses acquis et recommandations pour consolider et pérenniser ces acquis.

Les interventions, nombreuses et très riches, ont porté sur les principaux points suivants : la
qualité dans sa définition la plus large, les acquis thématiques dans le domaine de la recherche, de
la vulgarisation, de la santé animale, de la pêche...etc. De même que des sujets transversaux ont
été abordés tels que le développement des ressources humaines, la formation et l'implication des
producteurs en rapport avec les composantes du Projet.

Globalement, tous les intervenants ont souligné l'importance des acquis, mais aussi ont mis
l'action sur leur fragilité. A l'unanimité, ils pensent que la consolidation et la pérennité de ces
acquis doivent être assurées par un deuxième projet. Par ailleurs, la pérennisation des acquis
pendant la phase intermédiaire se pose avec acuité pour pratiquement toutes les composantes.

1.      La qualité des produits agricoles

La discussion sur les questions de qualité a occupé une place prépondérante dans les discussions.
Les intervenants, ont été unanimes qu'une dynamique réelle « qualité des produits » a été créée et
qu'une culture axée sur la qualité a été initiée. Auparavant la notion qualité se limitait à des
considérations en rapport avec le calibre et l'aspect extérieur du produit. Par contre, dans le
contexte développé par le PRSAA, des paramètres précis selon le type de produit ont été établis
pour déterminer la qualité.

Le « Réseau Qualité » a réalisé un travail considérable, notamment en matière de sensibilisation
des différents partenaires. En outre des résultats tangibles ont été obtenus sur la base d'études
pertinentes dont les résultats ont débouché sur des actions concrètes. Pour 17 des 23 études, des
plans d'action ont été élaborés avec la profession, qu'il convient maintenant de mettre en oeuvre.
Ils sont appelés à être valorisés d'avantage dans le futur. Au sein de ce réseau l'apport des cadres
et des techniciens contractuels recrutés a été particulièrement remarquable et l'avenir de ce réseau
avec son personnel hautement qualifié doit être assuré.

En effet on voit déjà un début d'affaiblissement du réseau, Son devenir dans une période de
transition avec un deuxième projet se pose avec acuité. En effet, comment maintenir l'élan dès
l'année 2009 ? Les activités doivent être maintenues, ne serait ce que la publication du bulletin
du Réseau et les réunions de concertation régulières entre les cadres qualité.



                                                 50
Un autre élément important mérite une attention particulière : les préoccupations en matière de
qualité doivent concerner aussi bien les produits commercialisés localement que les produits
destinés à l'exportation. De même que ces préoccupations doivent intéresser aussi bien les petits
producteurs que les moyens et les grands.

Plusieurs interventions ont mis en évidence :

        le manque d'implication des agriculteurs via leurs organisations professionnelles dans
        l'élaboration des démarches de qualité.
        la nécessité de répertorier les opérateurs (cas de la filière produits de la pêche et la datte)
        et les cheptels (identification bovine).
        le besoin que soient mieux définis les rôles respectifs de l'administration et des
        organisations professionnelles dans l'accompagnement des agriculteurs ou encore dans
        l'orientation et la conduite des programmes de recherche­développement.
        la nécessité d'une certaine autonomisation des organisations professionnelles dédiées aux
        différentes fonctions dans la gouvernance de la chaîne qualité.

Notamment dans le cas du lait, il reste encore beaucoup à faire pour promouvoir l'amélioration de
la qualité du lait et des performances du cheptel par des systèmes négociés de paiement des
éleveurs selon la qualité du lait. Les participants ont souligné le fait que le paiement du lait à la
qualité ne peut se faire sans l'implication de tous les professionnels intervenant dans la filière. La
question de l'organisation professionnelle de la filière et de son autonomisation est au coeur du
défi.

Enfin, l'absence d'une vision globale appuyée par des structures administratives appropriées, de
conception et de coordination a été relevée.

Par ailleurs, Il est à souligner que lors des discussions, les différents intervenants ont insisté sur
un aspect fondamental : la qualité a un coût. Les différents opérateurs d'une filière ne pourront
pas faire l'investissement dans la qualité, si leurs efforts ne sont pas rentabilisés par un meilleur
prix, celui de la qualité. D'où la question de la réglementation des marges et des prix dans les
circuits de commercialisation.

En conclusion, dans le domaine de la qualité, on se trouve au début d'une longue démarche. En
particulier, beaucoup reste à faire notamment aux niveaux du contrôle, de la réglementation et de
l'implication du petit producteur.

2.      La Recherche

Les principaux acquis sont d'ordre institutionnel avec la création des Centres régionaux et le
renforcement des Pôles. Par ailleurs, des processus en matière de programmation et de gestion
ont été initiés. Il s'agit en particulier de la régionalisation qui permet de rapprocher la Recherche
des clients et de la recherche contractuelle à la demande qui permet de répondre aux besoins
spécifiques des clients. En matière de gestion de la recherche, des approches de programmation,
de suivi et d'évaluation ont été conçues et/ou affinées. De même que des processus
d'identification des priorités de la recherche au niveau régional ont été initiés, notamment dans
les deux CRRA.




                                                 51
Cependant, là aussi, tous ces acquis restent fragiles et nécessitent d'être consolidés au cours d`une
prochaine phase du Projet. Dans cette deuxième phase, les aspects en relation avec la
gouvernance de la recherche au niveau central seront clarifiés.

3.      Le Développement des ressources humaines et formation

Le PRSAA a permis le recrutement d'un certain nombre de cadres contractuels absolument
nécessaire pour remplir les fonctions que l'on voulait renforcer, et ce au moment où
l'Administration ne recrutait pas. Cependant, la continuation de l'emploi de ces cadres reste
posée, et ce afin de continuer les actions initiées dans le cadre du projet

En outre, le projet a donné une place de choix à la formation et il est vivement souhaitable de
poursuivre et de renforcer les actions entreprises lors d'un deuxième Projet. Au cours de cette
phase, une meilleure coordination avec les Etablissements d'Enseignement Supérieur sera ciblée.
En effet, ces Etablissements sont en mesure d'adapter leur programme en fonction de demandes
spécifiques telle que la formation de compétences pour accompagner la profession dans l'accès
au marché.

4.      La Gestion du Projet

La mise en oeuvre de la plupart des composantes n'a pratiquement débuté qu'à partir de l'année 3
du Projet du fait que plusieurs activités dépendaient du recrutement de l'assistance technique et
du fait du caractère innovateur de ces activités. De sorte que les premiers acquis du projet n'ont
pu être obtenus qu'en année 4 ou 5 du projet. Ils sont parfois partiels et nécessitent le plus
souvent une consolidation. En outre, à l'évaluation à mi-parcours, plusieurs activités ont été
ajoutées au Projet, rendues nécessaires par l'évolution du contexte (ex. la grippe aviaire) et
certaines n'ont donc pas pu être achevées

La principale critique formulée par un grand nombre d'intervenants au sujet de la gestion du
Projet, consiste dans le fait que les différentes composantes ont été abordées d'une manière assez
fragmentaire, sans articulation (cas par exemple de la recherche et de la vulgarisation).

Une autre critique mérite d'être soulignée : une transparence jugée insuffisante au niveau de
certaines composantes, pour ce qui est de la diffusion de l'information en rapport avec les actions
du Projet.

5.      Conclusions de la première session

Une grande satisfaction se dégage à l'unanimité sur l'importance des acquis du projet. Mais ces
acquis, qui ont été obtenus assez tard dans la vie du Projet sont encore fragiles et méritent soit
d'être consolidés soit d'être complétés.

La nécessité de concevoir un deuxième Projet, déjà évoquée dans le discours d'ouverture de
Monsieur le Ministre, est partagée à l'unanimité. Même si un deuxième projet pourrait être acquis,
une grande appréhension concernant la gestion de l'étape intermédiaire a été ressentie à travers
les différentes interventions. Outre des actions nouvelles à définir, ce deuxième projet inclura la
capitalisation et la valorisation de l'information, et une implication plus grande de la profession,
aux niveaux national et régional. Ce deuxième projet mettra en oeuvre les nouvelles orientations
de la politique de développement agricole du pays, lesquelles orientations s'articulent autour de la
mobilisation et la conservation des ressources naturelles, l'amélioration de la compétitivité, la
promotion des exportations et la consolidation de la sécurité alimentaire du pays.


                                                 52
       Session II: Enseignements et Perspectives : Leçons des travaux de capitalisation


1.       Amélioration de la qualité des produits agricoles (Jean-Marie Bouquery)

Dès son introduction, le consultant souligne la nécessité essentielle d'un dispositif de
gouvernance cohérent sur l'ensemble des domaines de qualité agricole et alimentaire pour
l'exportation et le marché intérieur. En effet :

     les questions de qualité sont complexes, souvent conflictuelles.
     les solutions sont des investissements de long terme, pour une large part immatériels
     les qualités sont des facteurs compétitifs tant en « mise à niveau » que par leur potentiel de
     différenciation valorisante.
     l'investissement en qualité est anticyclique et c'est un instrument de sortie des crises
     structurelles car par nature innovant.

Les travaux réalisés dans la composante révèlent :

     une somme impressionnante et importante de connaissances sur l'ensemble et le détail des
     productions, des filières et des acteurs.
     des outils d'analyse et voies d'action opérationnelles pour le progrès des qualités.
     l'émergence interministerielle et trans-institutionnelle d'une culture de l'action-qualité et la
     réalité pratique et efficace d'un réseau-qualité de spécialistes, animé par l'APIA, enrichi par
     des recrutements et formations ad hoc.


De cet ensemble ressortent des propositions d'intérêt intersectoriel et transversal, principalement :

     la mise à niveau et la restructuration du système de gros physique et commercial, à
     accompagner d'une adaptation de la réglementation économique des prix et marges.
     des incitations, cohérentes avec les objectifs-qualité, pour la mise à niveau des exploitations,
     l'organisation économique (par exemple les groupements-qualité), la contractualisation dans
     les filières et l'adaptation des chaînes de transfert-conseil.

Il apparait aussi utile de développer information et concertation trans-sectorielles entre filières et
entre services d'appui :

                        -   des produits d'exportation
                        -   des produits de base
                        -   des produits spécifiques


Le rôle des GIP paraît de fait central et irremplaçable mais leur gouvernance et leurs moyens,
notamment humains, étaient encore en question au moment de l'étude. Or, il s'agit de consolider
et pérenniser ce qui a été capitalisé.

En conclusion, la recommandation stratégique et politique est cohérente avec la première analyse
et porte sur les trois dimensions de la gouvernance :



                                                  53
                       -    action législative et réglementaire
                       -    organe de pilotage trans-institutionnel y compris prospective et
                            évaluation des politiques-qualité
                       -    mise en place d'un institut de la qualité, unique et opérationnel. pour
                            l'ensemble des productions de type spécifique.

Il est à noter que la présentation n'a pas suscité de débat, les questions de qualité, en particulier
quant à leur liaison avec celles d'organisation, ayant été largement abordées lors de la session
précédente.

  2.        Renforcement des capacités des organisations professionnelles de base (Moncef
                                          Zghidi)


Le consultant a présenté les principaux résultats des diagnostics économique, financier et
organisationnel effectués par les bureaux d'étude sur les 76 OPB (44 CSA et 32 GDA)
synthétisés comme suit :

 -     De bonnes performances au niveau des coopératives laitières et de pêche, réalisées en
       grande partie grâce à la part prépondérante des non - adhérents dans les transactions et au
       non respect des limites territoriales;
 -      un environnement fortement concurrentiel entre les CSA et surtout entre celles-ci et un
       secteur privé en rapide progression,
 -     Des situations financières en général équilibrées mais fragiles du fait de l'accumulation des
       créances, et des dettes pour certaines,
 -     Des insuffisances dans la gestion et surtout dans la gouvernance (respect de la
       réglementation), et dans la fonction de contrôle,
 -     Des GDA gestionnaires de petits périmètres irrigués peu viables (salinité, absence de
       tradition, endettement des agriculteurs) ,
 -     Une situation financière précaire avec de bas niveaux des recettes et des impayés qui
       menacent la durabilité des infrastructures et du GDA,
 -     Des insuffisances au niveau de la gouvernance et du respect de la réglementation et une
       tutelle lourde des autorités locales.

Il a été recommandé d'entreprendre une étude stratégique de restructuration de ces institutions
pour leur permettre de s'adapter aux nouvelles exigences du marché. Des axes de restructuration
ont été suggérés comme suit :

 -     un préalable : renforcer les services de contrôle pour une application rigoureuse de la
       réglementation en la matière,
 -     revoir la taille des CSA par des fusions, groupements et/ou unions
 -     transformer les petites coopératives en groupements locaux avec une réglementation plus
       souple,
 -     pour les GDA peu viables, réfléchir à des contrats de gestion avec un exploitant du
       périmètre, avec garantie de l'accès à l'eau aux autres.

Un débat a ensuite été engagé (une dizaine d'interventions) et a tourné autour des principales
réflexions/propositions suivantes :
  - les performances et la viabilité des CSA sont aussi liées au management, d'où la nécessité
      de doter ces institutions d'un encadrement adéquat, et de délimiter les pouvoirs du président
      et du directeur en matière de gestion courante,


                                                  54
 -   les CSA n'ont pas bénéficié d'un soutien suffisant des services de l'Etat, et il faudrait
     réfléchir à un appui adéquat,
 -   Entre les GDA d'irrigation et des coopératives d'une certaine taille, il ya une place à des
     groupements ou associations à caractère local pouvant offrir des services de proximité à
     leurs membres,
 -   Des coopératives restructurées, des unions/fédérations pourraient contribuer au
     développement de filières et à des politiques de qualité,
 -   Réfléchir à la prise en charge par ces coopératives de plusieurs services insuffisamment
     assurés par l'administration (vulgarisation/ conseil... ),
 -   Réfléchir au rôle futur de l'état et de la profession en matière de développement d'une
     économie coopérative au service des producteurs,
 -   Donner plus d'autonomie à ces structures pour qu'elles interviennent en tant qu'entreprises
     économiques indépendantes mais respectant la réglementation en vigueur,
 -   Concernant les GDA, les GDA étudiés ne sont pas représentatifs de l'ensemble, et dans
     d'autres régions, il y a beaucoup de GDA performants, c'est donc la viabilité des périmètres
     qui est en cause.


      3.       Evaluation de l'opération pilote de formation conseil (Awatef Mabrouk)


La consultante a fait un exposé sur les perspectives du conseil agricole à partir des résultats
préliminaires de l'évaluation de l'action pilote de création d'équipes de conseillers formateurs.
Dans ce cadre, elle a rappelé les objectifs de cette opération, à savoir la préparation des jeunes
ingénieurs pour l'exercice privé et le renforcement de la complémentarité formation ­conseil et le
contexte de la vulgarisation. Elle a présenté la conception, la mise en oeuvre et la synthèse des
acquis de cette action pilote et elle a terminé sa présentation par la formulation d'un certain
nombre de recommandations (Voir copie présentation).

Apres cet exposé, le débat qui a suivi a permis de faire les observation/propositions suivantes :
.
                   Le projet a financé la mise en oeuvre de 2 opérations pilotes : la première
                   concerne la constitution d'équipes de formation conseil, objet de la présente
                   évaluation et la deuxième porte sur l'établissement de conventions avec les
                   GIP, pour le recrutement de CA, qui devait faire l'objet d'une autre évaluation,
                   Recueillir l'avis des bénéficiaires sur la qualité des services fournis par ces
                   équipes de formation conseil et étudier la faisabilité de son extension,
                   Intégrer les jeunes ingénieurs dans les centres techniques, pendant 2 ou 3
                   campagnes agricoles, pour leur permettre d'acquérir une expérience pratique,
                   avant de se lancer dans le métier de conseiller agricole privé,
                   Le recours à la vulgarisation privée/professionnelle est un choix stratégique,
                   surtout que le nombre de vulgarisateurs sera réduit a 360 personnes, d'ici la fin
                   du 11ieme plan de développement,
                   L'introduction de nouvelles approches de vulgarisation nécessite des
                   changements de mentalité des différents acteurs, d'où l'importance de la
                   promotion des programmes de renforcement des capacités,
                    Résoudre le problème du financement du conseil privé, en transférant les
                   moyens financiers que l'Etat consacrait a la vulgarisation, aux professionnels,
                   en prévoyant des prélèvements sur la production, ...,




                                                55
   Les CA doivent cibler les filières à forte valeur ajoutée, comme les agrumes, la
   vigne, ....,
   Prévoir des tests d'entreprenariat pour le recrutement des membres des équipes
   de formation conseil,
   Le recrutement de CA par les GDA permettra de créer des emplois.




                                56
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Ci-dessous les commentaires sur le rapport d'achèvement du Projet PRSAA (pret 7063-
TUN).


Monsieur le Directeur,
Suite à votre lettre citée en référence, j'ai l'honneur de vous faire parvenir nos
commentaires sur la version préliminaire du Projet de renforcement des services d'appui à
l'agriculture (prêt 7063-TUN) :

 Tout d'abord il faut signaler que ce rapport n'a pas mis suffisamment l'accent sur
                                                        certains aspects importants comme :

 -    L'importance de l'initiative engagée par le PRSAA, dans la mise à niveau de l'économie
     agricole à travers la réalisation des actions pour l'amélioration, de la qualité des produits
     agricoles, de la productivité des facteurs de production et de la sensibilisation des acteurs
     sur l'importance de l'investissement immatériel,

 -     Grâce à ce projet, plus de 44 coopératives ont assaini leurs situations financières et
     administratives, comme il a aidé ces organisations dans la préparation de leurs plans de
     développement, leur permettant ainsi de jouer un rôle plus important, surtout dans la
     commercialisation des produits agricoles. Ceci a eu lieu, malgré que la période de la mise
     en oeuvre du projet a concédé avec celle de la restructuration des organisations
     professionnelles de base (GIC en GDA et coopératives de services en sociétés mutuelles)
 -    Le projet a permis aussi de renforcer la fonction régalienne des services du ministère de
     l'agriculture et d'engager un début de transfert de certaines fonctions aux opérateurs privés
     à travers des opérations pilotes et la dynamisation de plusieurs services et acteurs.
 -    Certaines actions pilotes n'ont pas été suffisamment accompagnées à cause de l'absence de
     sociologue et de spécialiste de développement social parmi les membres des missions de
     supervision. Aussi à défaut de temps suffisant, l'accompagnement et l'assistance des
     organisations de base dans la mise en oeuvre de leurs plans de développement ont été
     insuffisants.

D'autre part, il faut préciser la complexité de la gestion de ce projet particulier qui s'est adressé à
un effectif élevé d'intervenants (12 entités d'exécution dans diverses domaines) et a concerné un
nombre important d'interventions et d'actions. Ce-ci nécessitait un effort de coordination que
l'unité du Projet en place n'a pas pu l'honorer à cause de son effectif réduit.

Enfin, il faut noter qu'il est difficile de porter des jugements sur les résultats de ce projet alors
que certaines actions viennent de prendre fin, surtout que les indicateurs de suivi du projet
n'étaient identifiés qu'une année avant la clôture du projet (juin 2007), et ces indicateurs n'ont
pas été quantifiés. Ce qui fait que plusieurs jugements portés dans le rapport d'achèvement ont un
caractère subjectif, et doivent être lus comme tel.

Cordialement
Mohamed Lamine TOUMIA
Ministère de l'Agriculture et des Ressources Hydrauliques


                                                  57
58
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

n.a.




                                    59
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Bouquery, Jean Marc, « Diagnostic et capitalization des actions d'amelioration de la qualite des
        produits agricoles », Rapport d'expertise, 6 Juin 2008.
Mabrouk, Awatef Mabrouk, Evaluation de l'action Pilote « Création d'équipes de formation et
        de conseil agricole », AVFA. December 2008.
Ministère de l `Agriculture et des Ressources Hydrauliques « Rapport d'achevement », Janvier
        2009 (differentes syntheses par composante).
World Bank, Aide mémoires, annexes, and ISRs and annexes (2001-2008). World Bank.
World Bank, Project Appraisal Document, Agricultural Support Services Project, May 25, 2001.
        Report No. 22135-TUN.
World Bank. Agricultural Sector Review, 2006.
Zghidi Moncef, « Projet de capitalization des missions d'assistance technique aux OPB ».
        DGFIOP, Ministere de l `Agriculture et des Resources Hydrauliques.




                                              60
