Zambia Copperbelt Environment Project
E539 Rev.
November 2002
Addendum to the Environment and Resettlement
Framework
on
Zambian Environmental Impact Regulations in EMF
Funded Sub-Projects
November 2002



This document is an addendum to the Copperbelt Environment Project (CEP)
Environment and Resettlement Framework. The framework is a public document
outlining how environment and resettlement issues will be handled in connection with
the sub-project funded from the Environment Management Facility (EMP) established
under the CEP.
This addendum complements section 5.2 of the Environment and Resettlement
Framework on Administration of Environmental Impact Assessment in Zambia (EIA)
by outlining specific procedures for addressing the Republic of Zambia regulations
for EIA during the sub-project cycle in EMF funded sub-projects. It was prepared by
the Environmental Council of Zambia (ECA) with support from the World Bank. It is
a public document.
This addendum makes references to detailed EIA guidelines spelled out in
EL4 Procedures Manual, v. 2, 1999. For details, please refer to this document,
available from ECZ.
The procedures described in the matrix hereunder will apply to a typical EMF
sub-project with significant environmental impact, requiring preparation of a Project
Brief or Environmental Impact Statement (EIS). For sub-project for which an
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) exists, ECZ will not require preparation of a
Project Brief or EIS. Rather, to avoid duplication of effort in preparation of
environmental assessment documents, it will review and approve the sub-projects
based on the existing EMPs. Similarly, for sub-projects for which and Environmental
Assessment (EA) or equivalent document has been prepared according to the World
Bank safeguard policies, ECZ will review and approve the sub-projects based on this
document.



Matrix of Procedural Requirements for Zambian Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Regulations in EMF Funded Sub-Projects
EMF Sub-Project Cycle    Key Processing Requirements and Responsible l'arty                                                            Kcy Documents
1. Sub-Project             ZECU:                                                                                                  Application
Identificatioii and        I. Ensures adequate expertise is involved in environmental and social screening and all subsequent steps in assessing
Application                   and mitigating environmental and social impacts;                                                     Existing and easily available
2. Ensures the environmental and social screening considers available information, including input from consultations  documents on environmental
with affected groups and field reconnaissance as appropriate;                                       and social conditions of the
3. Screens by examining the type, location and scale of the proposed project as well as the nature and magnitude of its  sub-project area and
potential impacts; and                                                                              anticipated impacts
4. Determines the significance of potential environmental and social impacts and the corresponding EIA instrument
according to the EIA Procedures Manual, v 2, 1999 as follows: (i) sub-projects with no significant impacts require  EIA Procedures Manual, v 2,
no further EIA consideration; (ii) sub-project with potential significant impacts falling under Schedule One of the  1999
EIA Procedures Manual require preparation of a Project Brief, and (iii) sub-project with potential significant
impacts falling under Schedule Two of the EIA Procedures Manual require preparation of an Environmental Impact
Statement'
ECZ:
1. Advises, if approached by ZECU, whether a Project Brief or an Environmental Impact Statement are required for a
particular sub-project.
2. Initial Review anid     EMF:                                                                                                   Application
Decision                   1. Revi ews the Application for adequate environmental and social screening, seeking independent expertise as
necessary
2. Approves sub-project for further processing                                                          Record of Decision
3. Sub-Project Preparation  For Sub Projects requiring Project Brief                                                              -Project Brief including an
and Detailed Design                                                                                                               outline of the environmental
mitigation2
ZECU:
To avoid preparation of duplicate environmental assessment documents, ECZ will consider, to the extent possible, the Environmental Analysis or the Environmental
Impacts Assessment documents described in the CEP Environment and Resettlement Framework in place of the Project Brief or the Environmental Impact Statement. ZECU
will prepare these documents in such a way as to ensure that they address all the issues that a Project Brief or Environmental Impact Assessment would normally address per
guidance provided in EIA Procedures Manual, v 2, 1999.
2 See EIA Procedures Manual, v. 2, 1999 for content of a Project Brief
2



I. Consults the selected stakeholders as set out in the EIA Procedures Manual, v. 2, 1999
2. Prepares draft Project Brief following procedures in section 2.2 of the EIA Procedures Manual, v. 2, 1999
3. Submits the Project Brief to ECZ for comment.
4. Finalizes the Project Brief based on the ECZ comments and submits it in 6 copies to ECZ for approval.
5. Pays the processing fee as set out in Schedule Five of the of the EIA Procedures Manual.
ECZ:
6 Collects the processing fee from ZECU.
7. Reviews the draft Project Brief for completeness and adequacy of public consultations, environmental analysis and
proposed mitigation measures.
8. Gives comments to ZECU for improving the Project Brief as necessary
9. Reviews the final Project Brief, engages relevant sectoral agencies as necessary, and approves the sub-project or
requests that a full EIS be prepared
For Sub Projects requiring Environmental Impact Statement
ZECU:
I. Consults the stakehiolders as set out in the EM Procedures Manucal, v 2, 1999 and sceks their views as an input in
the EIS preparation.
2.  Drafts TOR for the EIS following procedures in section 2 3 of the EIA Procedures Manual considering checklist of  Environmental Impact
issues in the Schedule Three of the Manual                                                           Statement3
3   Submits the TOR and a list of pre-qualified consultants for approval to ECZ.
4. Carries out an environmental impact assessment following guidelines in Schedule Four of the Manual including the
required public consultations.
5. Prepares a Environmental Impact Statement and submits it in 12 copies to ECZ for review.
6   Pays the processing fee as set out in Schedule Five of the of the EMA Procedures Manual
7. Obtains necessary licenses or permits as required by ECZ.
ECZ:
8. Reviews and approves the TOR for EIS.                                                                 Decision Letter from ECZ.
9. Collects the EIS processing fee and requisite licensing fees
10. Reviews the EIS following procedures in section 2 4 of the EIA Procedures Manual                     Necessary permits or licenses
I IConducts the disclosure and consultations on the document per requirements in the Manual and considers the  from relevant regulator
3See EIA Proceduires Manual, v 2, 1999 for content of an Environmental Impact Statement
3



comments received.                                                                                   agencies
12. Approves the sub-project and issues a Decision Letter as outlined in section 2 5 of the EIA Procedures Manual
13. Specifies conditions, e.g license, pennits or permissions that ZECU must obtain.
EMF:
14. Ensures the adequacy of financing arrangements for preparation of the EIS and implementation of its
recommendations.
15. Ensures that EIS recommendations are properly addressed in sub-project design and economic analysis.
4. Final Review/           EMF:                                                                                                     Legal Agreement /
Decision                   1. Reviews and approves the sub-project for funding.                                                     Record of Decision
2. Ensures that the record of decision / legal agreement between EMF and ZCCM reflects the recommendations of the
Project Brief or EIS.
5. Tender Procedures and   ZECU:                                                                                                    Tecinical Specifications,
Award of Contracts         1. Ensures that TOR and contracts are consistent with the recommendations of Project Brief of EIS.       Contract
6. Imiplemenitationt &     ZECU:                                                                                                    Progress Reports
Slupervision
1. Ensures that the sub-project is supervised by staff with adequate environmental and social expertise
2. Reviews sub-project implementation against environmental mitigation measures outlined in Project Brief or EIS
and records findings in periodic the progress reports.
3. Submits the report regularly to EMF
EMF:
4. Reviews progress reports from ZCCM
ECZ:
I. Regularly monitors the implementationi of thlc sub-project and compliance with the environmental mitigation
measures outlined in Project Brief or EIS.
7. Sub-Project Conipletiont,  ECZ:
Ilanfdover, Mainteiian,ce,  1. Regularly monitors the impacts of the sub-projects on the environment.                               ECZ monitoring and site
inspection reports
4



Martin Fodor
L \-AFTES\Zambia Copper\Safeguards framework\Zambian safeguards matrix 3 doc
November 26, 2002 2 27 PM
5



ENVIRONMENTAL COUNCIL OF ZAMBIA
Corner Suez and Church Roads                                         Telephone Numbers
P.O. Box 35131                                                Head Office: 254130/1, 254023
Lusaka, Zambia                                                               254059
E-mail necz@zamnet.zm                                               Fax. 254164, 250230
In reply please quote
16th December, 2002                                      ECZIPRO192109
No      .....
Mr Yves Prevost
Senior Environmental Specialist
Room J6-007, African Region Environmental Group
The World Bank, 1818H Street
N.W. Washington, DC, 20433
USA
Dear Mr Prevost
RE: COPPERBELT ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT: AMEMNDMENT TO THE
FRAMEWORK FOR HANDLING ZAMBIA EIA REGULATIONS IN EMF SUB-
PROJECTS
You may be aware that the text in the Resettlement framework regarding the
handling of Zambian EIA regulations in EMF sub-project has been finalised. This
is to ensure EMF sub-projects comply to regulations.
The documents presents how the Environmental Council of Zambia will review
the sub-projects in compliance with Zambia environmental regulations while at
the same time the projects comply with World bank safeguards.
I am now submitting an Addendum to the Environmental and Resettlement
framework on the "Zambia Environmental Impact Assessment Regulations in
EMF funded sub-project" and request for a no-objection.
Yours sincerely
PcssonN Dt            o~
Actio        cL~N
aPm  3434P 17 ki  ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    FIL (oIai   1 aIr #) tn/Cr GR/TF ES W col
Director 
ENVIRONMENTAL COUJNCIL OF ZAMBIA 



