Report No. 23700
Report No: I070962 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 02/13/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: ZAMBIA Project ID: P070962
Project: Zambia - Copperbelt Environment         Task Team Leader: Yves Andre
Prevost
Authorized to Appraise Date: January 22, 2002     IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: June 18, 2002     IDA Amount ($m): 40.00
Managing Unit: AFTES     Sector: VP - Pollution Control / Waste Management
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The Copperbelt Environment Project (CEP) proposes to help the GRZ address
environmental liabilities and obligations associated with the
privatization of mining asset that are incumbent on GRZ, in particular the
liabilities related to public health and safety. The CEP forms one of a
series of measures funded by the World Bank, to facilitate the successful
and sustainable privatization of Zambia's mining assets.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The 3 components of the Project are:
Component 1 - Consolidated long-term Environmental Management Plan (CEMP).
This component will focus on the preparation of an EMP consolidating the
EMPs prepared by investors and by ZCCM-IH for each privatized facility.
The CEMP will determine the cumulative impact of mining activities outside
of current mine license areas, including impacts on the Kafue River
watershed, on critical ecological processes and on neighboring
populations. It will establish the overall environmental management
priorities within the broader context of environmental and social
sustainability and indicate how these liabilities are to be addressed.
Component 2 - Establishment of an Environmental Mitigation Fund (EMF).
The EMF will serve as a mechanism to fund environmental and social
mitigation measures to mitigate the historical legacy of mining-related
environmental degradation, based on the priorities set within the CEMP.
Those measures that have high human health and safety implications will be
given the highest priority. Time-bound environmental and contractual
obligations to investors of an environmental nature will also be given
priority consideration.
Component 3 - Strengthening the regulatory framework for environmental
management in the mining sector. The CEP will help ensure full compliance
of the mining sector with national environmental regulations. For this
purpose, CEP will fund appropriate capacity building within Environmental
Council of Zambia (ECZ), Mines Safety Department (MSD) and delegated
agencies under the Environmental Protection and Pollution Control Act



(EPPCA), as well as universities and recognized training and research
institutions.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The Copperbelt region covers an area of 150 km by 50 km close to Zambia's
northern border with the Democratic Republic of Congo. The current
population of the Copperbelt is estimated to be 1.6 million (CSO, 2001) or
about 159 of the total Zambian population.    A majority of the population
on the Copperbelt is still dependent on mining and its related
activities.Approximately 90% of the region is drained by the Kafue River
and its tributary network (e.g., Kakosa stream at Konkola, the Mushishima
stream at Nchanga, Mufulira stream at Mufulira) (Figure 2). The Kafue
River bisects the Copperbelt in a south-southeasterly orientation, rising
from headwaters close to the Congo border, approximately 100 km upstream
of the Konkola Division. Discharges affected by mining occur along an 80
km length of channel extending from Konkola to Luanshya stream.
Kabwe is situated about 130 km north of Lusaka and provides a strategic
linkage between Lusaka and the northern region, including the Copperbelt,
Northern and Luapula Provinces. A town 180,556 persons (2000), is
strategically located at the centre of the country at the crossing of the
road leading to the Copperbelt and just north of the road connecting
Eastern and Western Zambia. As the major town in Central Province, Kabwe
continues to attract in-migration. This has resulted in some of the
largest unplanned settlements in the country. The terrain of the Kabwe
area is generally a gentle relief and is approximately 1180 m above sea
level. Streams to the west and southwest drain to the Kafue catchment
while those to the north and east drain to the Lunsemfwa. Surface drainage
from the Kabwe Mine is mainly into the Mine Canal, which flows eastwards
towards the Muswishi River into the Lunsemfwa drainage.
B. Check Environmental Classification: A (Full Assessment)
Comments: The overall objectives of the EA were to ensure that actions
proposed under the project do not cause negative environmental or social
effects, that the proposed measures to mitigate identified environmental
and social impacts are appropriate, and that the level of public
consultation and disclosure complies with national environmental
legislation and World Bank Safeguard policies.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)          Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    Yes
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)     Yes
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)       No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)         Yes
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)     No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)      Yes
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)       Yes
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
-2 -



Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The EA for the CEP evaluates mining hazards in the Copperbelt and Kabwe
from a risk-based perspective, focusing on the impacts on human health,
animals and plants. The primary environmental health issue in the
Copperbelt mining sector is exposure to sulphur dioxide and particulate
emissions in the towns of Mufulira, Kitwe and Chambishi. Other mining and
non-mining issues include:
Mining Related Issues
Environmental:
Kabwe health effects of lead contamination, primarily in soil and possibly
food.
Sulphur dioxide emissions from Mufulira, Nkana, Chambishi and Luanshya
smelters.
Siltation into streams
Localized accidents from residential access of mine sites
Social:
Possible resettlement of people currently in potentially unsafe areas on
ZCCM-IH land.
Loss of income generating opportunities based on using the sites
(scavenging or fishing) versus remedial measures to ensure long-term
stability of these sites and to protect users from potential hazards.
Increases in deforestation, vandalism of mine sites and mine site
accidents, with decline in mine security.
Non-Mining Related Issues
Environmental:
Rapid increase in deforestation and settlement in national forest reserves
and watershed areas in the Kafue basin.
Outdated, poorly maintained sewage treatment plants and direct discharge
of sewage into the Kafue River.
Increased levels of solid waste being disposed within neighbourhoods and
on ZCCM-IH lands, causing increased air pollution from burning waste and
breeding grounds for rats and malaria.
Theft of PCB-based oil from electricity transformers for use as cooking
oil.
Social:
Increasing tariffs for water, electricity, education, health care and
other services are felt most acutely by certain groups that have not
benefited directly from the recent growth in the mining sector. These
groups include municipal employees (many of whom have not been paid for
many months), public sector and university employees on fixed salaries,
residents of Luanshya who are dependent on the now non-functioning mining
sector, residents of Kabwe, retrenched miners with few skills, retired
miners, other already vulnerable groups such as widows and those affected
by AIDs.
Overtaxed public health facilities; increased fee payments and more
restricted access to mine hospitals mean that retrenchees, retirees and
others are overwhelming the already stretched public facilities in some
-3 -



towns. Compounding this problem has been the drain of medical personnel
reported to have left the country for more lucrative positions within the
past year.
Weak municipal governments unable to effectively collect tax revenues
from mining sector, yet needing to augment services.
Financing of urgent environmental mitigation measures. Following
completion of the privatization process, ZCCM established a list of
activities that required urgent attention. Given the need to deal
immediately with these issues and the speed and probable availability of
funding from various sources (e. g., ZCCM-IH's own funds, the IDA Project
Preparation Facility [PPF] advance, other donors), it was concluded
following discussions with Government and ZCCM-IH that the fastest course
of action was to amend the Subsidiary Loan Agreement for financing ZCCM's
Labor Reduction Program (LRP) to utilize surplus funds that are available
as a result of savings in the cost of retrenchments of the work force,
which are currently estimated at about US$ 7 million to fund the following
activities:
Actions specified in the Interim Environmental Management Plan agreed with
KCM. Lack of fulfillment of these liabilities may affect the capacity of
KCM to mobilize the funds required to develop the Konkola Deep Project,
the cornerstone of the privatization process. These obligations include:
- Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) for villagers that will be affected by
the Konkola Deep Project,
- Removal of scrap material,
- Demolition of defunct facilities, most particularly the High Grade Leach
Plant in Nchanga.
- Preparation of final EMP for historical liabilities associated with
assets taken over by KCM
The obligation to rehabilitate the Kansanshi mine, agreed to with Cyprus
Amax (now Phelps Dodge), as a prerequisite for mine redevelopment.
Failure to comply has already caused delays.
The stabilization of Tailings Dam 33C, south of the Nkana mine. This dam
breached in 1997, releasing an estimated 1 million tons of tailings into
the Chibuluma stream and damaging traditional farmlands. It is now the
rainy season in the Copperbelt, and unless the dam is stabilized within
the next few weeks it will most likely breach again.
Removal of PCBs. Part of the PCB stock accumulated by ZCCM is stored in a
brick shed at the Nkana plant. At least one barrel has spilled; PCBs have
seeped into the soil and are entering into one of the watersheds. The
ongoing rainy season will accelerate this process.
The implementation of the Resettlement Action Plan at Konkola constitutes
a priority social activity as expectations have been raised and agreements
made with villagers that will be affected by the Konkola Deep Project. A
resettlement action plan (RAP) was reviewed by IDA and a field visit by
Sr. Sociologist confirmed that the RAP was in compliance with Bank's
safeguards policies. Although some of the defunct facilities do not
appear to be a major environmental issue, their demolition and removal are
a priority because of contractual agreements reached with KCM, and because
of their impact on operations.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
Aside from sulphur dioxide, copper is the key element that is found in
excessive quantities immediately downstream from mine sites and downwind
- 4 -



of smelters in the Copperbelt.    Because of the  geology of the Kafue
River basin, there is little acid rock drainage (ARD), which limits the
availability of other elements, such as lead and arsenic, to pose a
significant health threat. Kafue River water is generally within World
Health Organisation (WHO) water quality guidelines for copper. However,
water sources closer to mine sites can, in certain instances, exceed WHO
limits for copper.
In Kabwe, lead contamination in soil presents an immediate health concern
due to high lead contamination within residential areas. Based on the
review of existing information by a medical toxicologist, other health
issues related to mine pollution are not likely to be significant, and
specific recommendations have been provided on those items that require
further testing to rule out health effects during the CEMP process.
If these impacts on on human health, animals and plants are not addressed
and managed, cumulative and long-term effects will be further exacerbated
and more devastating to the health and livelihoods of people, as well as
the viability of mining operations in Zambia.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
see above II.D.lb.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
An analysis of alternatives to the design and implementation plan for the
CEP was undertaken as a component of the EA process. The non-intervention
option is not considered viable. The proposed CEP structure draws upon
experience from a number of ongoing, or previously executed World Bank
programs in the minerals sector, for example in Ecuador, Bolivia and
Argentina. The concurrent process of task identification and
institutional capacity building has proved effective in all such
instances. Finally, the only other alternative to the current CEP
structure would be for GRZ to seek grant funding sources from other
donors. Given the magnitude of the clean-up required in Kabwe and in the
Copperbelt, it is recommended that the GRZ seek such funding sources to
complement the CEP and to minimize the future debt burden on the country.
The funding mechanism within the project may facilitate such supplemental
financing.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
In principle, the CEP is a large-scale mitigation/management plan. With
the implementation of this project, the GRZ hopes to ensure the completion
of the privatization of Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines (ZCCM) assets, to
address the historical environmental liabilities and obligations from the
mining sector incumbent on ZCCM and the Borrower, in particular the
liabilities related to public health and safety.
Strengthening capacity: The CEP's design assumes that the model of an
investor EMP and a counterpart EMP by ZCCM-IH will be applied to all
investment groups to ensure that all environmental issues are included and
that there is concurrence between the two EMPs on who is responsible for
what issues. It also assumes that the investor and counterpart EMPs will
be reviewed and approved concurrently by ECZ and by the Mines Safety
Department (MSD), the latter as the delegated authorizing agency for
handling environmental issues related to mining licenses, under the
- 5-



Environmental Protection and Pollution Control Act (EPPCA) and the Mines
and Mineral Act of 1995. To ensure full compliance of the mining sector
with national environmental regulations, CEP will fund appropriate
capacity building within ECZ, MSD and delegated agencies under the EPPCA,
as well as universities and recognized training and research institutions.
Safeguards mechanism for EMF activities: CEP activities will be subject
to World Bank's environmental and social safeguards screening and review.
Those projects that trigger Bank safeguard policies would necessitate a
more detailed environmental and social evaluation, careful third-party
review and assistance, as well as prior approval by the World Bank. A
manual of procedures will detail the specific triggers for such review.
The screening and review process will include the participation and
consultation of stakeholders through various vehicles like a project
steering committee with wide stakeholder representation (including NGOs
and local government) to ensure adequate screening and consensus among
stakeholders.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
Analysis and stakeholder consultations carried out as part of this EA
raised a number of environmental and social issues affecting the
Copperbelt province and the Kabwe region. Participatory planning is an
integral part of the design and implementation of the CEP. Several
vehicles for participation and consultation of stakeholders i.e. project
steering committee with wide stakeholder representation (including NGOs
and local government), have been and will be established to ensure
adequate consensus among stakeholders.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
[XI S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
I S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
I S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      12/17/2001       1/24/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure 1/24/2002        2/8/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop   1/24/2002       2/8/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)        1/24/2002       2/8/2002
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
-6-



Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Yves Andre Prevost      2/7/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Serigne Omar Fye         2/13/2002
Sector Manager/Director:         Agi Kiss        2/13/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
-7 -



