8.NOV.2002   17:36     ZCCM-I.H. 260 2 245364                           NO.754    P.2
RP124
Nov. 2002
ZCCM Investmeato Holdins Pie
COPPERBELT ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
ENVIRONMENT AND RESETTLEMENT FRAMEWORK
November 2002
Prepared by
ZCCM-IH Enrironmental Cowdinaton Unit (ZECU)
DRAFT
Republic of Zambia
Copperbelt Evironment Project
Under the Auspices of
The Ministry of Finance and National Plaunlng
Fll E COPY



8.N'OV.2002     17:36          ZCCMI-I.H. 260 2 245364                                      NO. 754       P.3
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Projecct    kg o n  .............................................................................
2.   Project Insittiwonal Framework ............................................................6
3.   Environmental Management Facility........................................................8
3.2    EMF Key Guiding Pnnciples and Operating Policies.......................................8
3.3    P o ec   elciProiject...............Selec............i...........Criteria....................
3.4     M   S b- rje tCylE.............ub...........roje............t.....Cycle.................. 1 
Sub-Projoet ldcndfication...................................................................1 
Initial Review and Decision by EMP .............................................1........... 
Sub-project Preparmtion  and Detailed Desigr ................................................   . 12
final Rcvicw and Approval Dccision by the EvFf ..............................................  12
Tender Procedures and Award of Contrac...................t....s............................   12
Im  le etp  inledS  pevsen...tat.................an........Su.......ervis...........on.......12....1
Sub-project Comnpletion, Handover and Maintenance.............................................13
4.   Consolidated Envirornmcritl Manamemen Plan.............................................. .   13
OO   tve    fth jPect....i.......v........................................................... 3.1
Preparation of CEMP.............................. ................ .. .................       13
K a w    in   ie..........e.........Mine....................Site........................14......1
5.   Z mb    Le  ila in........b.....i..........Leg...............lat..........o................. 14...1
S.1I Zambian Environmental Protection and Pollution Contr~ol Act (EPPCA) ... .... . ...... .......14
5,2 Administration of the Environmental Impac Assessment (ETA) in Zambia ..........................S
6.   World Bank Safeguard policies .. ........................................................   18
Inecumig Capacity for addressing World Bank Safeguard Policies................ .................22
Proedural Requiremcnts for World Bank Safeguards in EMP Sub-Projects...........................23
Environmental Assessment (EA) 0P401.......................................................24
Involuntary Resettlement OP 4.12...............................    .......................27
Saeyafe   a  sOty3    ...........of........Dams.............OP.........4.37................. 2....9
Protection of Physical Cultural Resources OP 4. 11 ............................................30
7.  ZCCM-IH Environmental Policy ..........................................................     33
8.1    Objectives of the Resettlement Framework ..............................................34
8.2    Resettlement Planning Principle and Process.............................................35
8.3    Legal Framnework for Compensation ...................................................35
Zan  iaE  prpibia  Exp.................op...........ation.............Laws......3..  ....  .....3
World Bank Operational Policy on Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12)..............................37
8.4     e Re e e t settleme.............................tProced..................res......... 3... 8 
Or airg  on  lPaniue    ................o........l......Procedures..........................38. ...3
Im  l me ttpleocemen................ation...............Proc..............s..........38......3
Grevarieevance  Redres................................Mec.............................      38..3
AnaA   en ntnorF  n  ine........e..................o..r......Fundin........................38...3
O p r ti n lPoranona.............................ro...........................s.......... 3.....3
Institutional Framework......  ........................................................39
Social Assessrnent at Project Launching....................................................  39
The process for preparation and approval of rwelertneent plan(s) .................................40
8.5 Criteria and Eligibility for Compensatior .................................................  40
Pro  ctI pl m  n atoje......t..............................n......a.............n.......41......4
8.6    Methods for Valuing Affected Assets ..................................................41
Organizational Procedures for Delivery of Entitlements ........ . .......... ..............  ....41
M ehot   ndB  sihodauaio .and........B........i.......of.......V....l.....a........o.......... 42..4
Rep  c me  tC  st............cem e..................t........Co...........t.........42.........4
Com pe    ion ....................................t..........on................42.....   ......4
Compensation Procedures and Civil Work Schedule ...........................................42
Sources    u dig.......................o...........Fund......................g........43........4
Cons  ttinanultatiioo....................nd......Partic..............pation................   43..4
8.7    Approach to Monitoring and Evaluation ................................................45
M on  orni  ri cpls.................ng.........Principl..........................s.......4........4
Intenisi Monitoring and Evaluation........... .... ..........................................46
Exma MntoirnadEvluln ..Monitor............n......and..........v....lua.........on..I......464



8.NOVY.2002      17:36          ZCCMI-I.H. 260 2 245364                                          NO.754        P. 4
Annexes ........................................               , .............................        47
Armex 1. Outline of a ResetWement Plan ................................................7............................ .. ...........   47
Annex 2. World Bank Operational Policy 4.12 ...........                                                I
Annex 3. Mcthods of Valuation Structures, Land, Trees and Other Assets........... 61
Annex 4. Contents of a typical EA ........................................6.............................................................................. 62
Annex 5. Contents of typical Environxncnial Mitipmnon Plan .........................................,.............................. 63
Annex 6. Zambian Environmental Legislation .............................                              64



8.NOV.2002    17:37        ZCCtM-I.H. 260 2 245364                             NO.754      P.5
ACRONYMS
CEMP          Consolidated Environmental Management Plan
CEP           Copperbelt Environmental project
EA            Envnmental Assessment
ECZ           Environmental Council of Zambia
EMF           Environmntal Managemmt Facility
EMP           Environmental Management Plan
GRZ           Goverwment of the Republic of Zambia
IBRD          Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
MLGH          Ministry of Local Govemment and Housing
MTENR         Ministry of Tourismi Environment and natral resources
MoFNP         Ministry of Finance and National Planning
NGO           Non-Govermmental Organization
NSC           National Steering Committee
PAD           Project Appraisal Document
PMU.          Project Management Unit
TOR           Terms of Refrence
ZCCM-IH       Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines - Investment Holding Limited
ZECU          ZCCM - IH Enviromnental Coordination Unit
EMB           Enviroanental Mitigation Body
PAPs          Project Affected Persons
ZCCM Investments Holdings Plc                                                    4



8.NOV.2002   17:37      ZCCM-I.H. 260 2 245364                           NO.754    P.6
ENVIRONMENT AND RESETTLEMENT FRAMEWORK
This document describes a famework for addressing environnental and resettlement issues
related to the environmental mitigation activities implemented through the Copperbelt
Environment Project (CEP). It outlines principles and procedures that the CEP will follow to
ensure compliance with relevant laws of the Republic of Zambia and applicable
environmental and social safeguard policies of the World Bank,
The Environment and Resettloment Framework complements the Project Implementation
Manual (PIM). PIM spells out in detail the project rationale, objectives, componelnts,
institutional arrangements, financial and procurement management, monitoring and reporting.
The World Bank will carefully supervise CEP to make sure that the safeguarding provisions
required by the Zambian or World Bank policies are adequately implemented. As a result of
this supervision, the procedures outlined in this document may be refined to improve
compliance of sub-projects with safeguard requirements and enhance overall outcomes of the
CEP.
The document is organized as follows. First, it describes the CEP and fumntioning of the
Environmental Management Facility established by CEP to fund multiple sub-projcmts. It also
outlines the sub-project cycle from identification to completion. Second, it describes the
applicable Zambian and World Bank rules for addressing environmental and social issues,
and steps toward compliance with these rules. Third, it describes the legal and
methodological framework that will govern resettlement that may be associated with the
project.
This document is a public document Copies of this document are available from the ZCCM-
IH Environmental Coordination Unit (ZECU) and from the World Bank InfoShop.
1.    Project Background
The mining of copper and minor minerals such as lead and zinc has been the backbone of
Zambia's economy for over 80 years. These mining activities though with some financial
gain had without doubt many negative and sometimes harmful environmental consequences.
Thus, over time there has been an accumulation of mine related enviromnental impacts.
ZCCM-IH retained liability for a wide range of environmental concems which were not
passed on to pnvate investments consortia and is charged with, among other tasks, managing
the remediation of the defimet mine sites and lands, as well as implementing and/or financing
the obligations agreed with investors as part of specific privatization deals, such as
decommissioning of defunct sites within some new Mine License Areas.
A Copperbelt Environment Project (CEP) is being implemented in the Copperbelt and
Kabwe, to address environmental liabilities associated with the mining sector, following the
privatization of the mining assets. The principal objectives of the plan are to:
o Protect the public health and safety;
o Reduce or prevent environmental degradation. and
o Allow a productive re-use of the land either to its pre-mining use or an acceptable
altemative, where applicable.
ZCCM Investmcnts Holdings Plc                                             S



8.NOV.2002   17:37      ZCCM-I.H. 260 2 245364                          NO.754     P. 7
A cornerstone of the privatizing uasets of Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines Limited
(ZCCM) was the provision of assurances by the Govermnent of the Republic of Zambia
(GRZ) to prospective investots that responsibility for the historical legacy of mining-related
environmental degradation will, where appropriate, remain with the GRZ.
The Copperbelt Environment Project (CEP) proposes to help ZCCM - IH and GRZ to:
i)    Implement a set of environmental and social mitigation measures that have
resulted from the ZCCM - IH privatization process and the closure of Kabwe
Mine, in patticular the liabilities related to public health and safety.
ii)   Strengthcn the capacity of concerned GRZ agencies to monitor and enforce the
implementation regulations applicable to the mining sector.
The project will comprise the following two components. Environmental and resettlement
issues are discussed primarily in context of Component 1.
Component 1 - The Environmental Management Facility (EMF). The EW will help GRZ
and ZCCM-IH address the environmental and social problems resulting from ZCCM's
operations prior to privatization, as well as the permanent obligations of GRZ and ZCCM-IH
under existing Zambian environmental laws and regulations following privatization. It does
so by helping to define the enviromnental problems and by fnancing the costs of their
mitigation. Since EME funding is limited, the highest priority will be given to measures that
address widespread public health problems or damage.to ecological functions.
One of the first activities funded under the EMF wiU be the preparation of a
Consolidated Environmental Management Plan (CEMP), which will identify priority issues
to be financed through the EMF and provide criteria for the selection of sub-projects funded
through the EMF. The CEMP will be a living document, developed in consultation with
investors, to be reviewed and updated after two years. More broadly, it will provide a
blueprint for handling enviromnmental issues related to mining for the Copperbelt and for
Kabwe over the next 25 years, within the broader context of environmental and Social
sustainability.
Component 2 - Strengthening of the Environmental Regulatory Framework This component
will assist the GRZ to ensure that historical and flture environmental liabilities arising from
mining activities are handled in compliance with national environmental and social
safeguards. This will be achieved mainly by strengthening the capacity of ECZ and the
delegated authorizing agencies such as MSD, to review BIAs, negotiate EMPs with investors
and with ZCCM-fH, issue pollution permits, monitor complianco, and collect fees and fines.
The project will also strengthen NGOs and relevant training institutions, such as the
Copperbelt University, to increase national capacity to address enviromnental issues
associated with the mining sector.
2.    Project Institutional Framework
The Ministy of Finance and National Planning will finance environmental mitigation
sub-projects related to mining activities from the portion of proceeds of the IDA credit titled
Environmental Management Facility. The Minister of Finance will establish an EMF
Steering Comrnittee with a measure of autonomy to review the sub-projects to be funded by
ZCCM Investments Holdings Plc                                             6



8.NOV.2002   17:38      ZCCM-I.H. 260 2 245364                          NO.754     P.8
the EMF, screen them for priority raing, appraise them to ensure compliance with IDA
safeguard policies, approve them for funding, and monitor their implementation.
The EMF Steering Committee may delegate some of its responsibility to a technical
subcommittee to ensure effective and timely execution of its functions. The Steering
Committee will also esure that the program of activities funded by the EMF is consistent
with EMF objectives and the policies approved by GRZ and ZCCM-IH and agreed with the
donors, and provide policy guidance to those involved. It will be chaired by the Secretuy to
the Treasury, and comprise as members the Permanent Secretaries of the Ministries of
Environment, Local Government, Mines and Minerals Development, Energy and Water
Development, Health, the General Manager of ZCCM-IH, the Director of ECZ and a
representative each from the Mine Workers Union of Zambia, the Chamber of Commerce and
Industry, the Chamber of Mines and a prominent member of the universities and of non-
governmental organizations or civil society.
The decisions of the EMF Steering Committee will take into account the views and
interests of all stakeholders, including inhabitants of mine townsips and other members of
civil society on the Copperbelt, private sector investors in the mining industry. The EMF
Steering Committee will authorize funding for a sub-project proposals developed on the basis
of an application prepared by their respective sponsors. The proposal will fully justify
disbursements against particular works or consultant services contracts designed for the
mitigation or remediation of the environmental liabilities being addressed.
For the EF Steering Committee to operate on a day-to-day basis, it will be served by
a permanent secretariat called tie EMF Secretariat. The Secretaiat will have a Manager with
qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA, assisted by an accountant and support staff
(Program Assistant and Driver), with their operating offices in the Ministry of Finance and
National Planning (MoFNP). The Manager and other staff from the EMF Secretariat will be
supported by a technical assistance budget from the EMF.
Prior to project effectiveness, the MoFNP will enter into a five-year Subsidiary
Agreement with ZCCM-IH acceptable to IDA, for the preparation and implementation and
EMP sub-projects. lThe agreement will cover an on-lent part of the proceeds, to carry out
sub-projects addressing its environental liabilities, as well a grant part of the proceeds, to
carry out sub-projects addressing GRZ environmental liabilities. GRZ and ZCCM-IH will
establish a mechanism to determine their respective environmental liabilities and to address
potential disagreements on the division of liabilities.
ZCCM Investnents Holdings Plc is a Government owned limited liability company
that is charged amongst other tasks, with the management of: i) the defunct assets that it has
retained following privatization, ii) environmental obligations agreed with investors as part of
privatization deals, iii) enviromnental liabilities arising from mining operations prior to
privatization. ZCCM-IH is accountable to the Ministry of Mines and Minerals Development
(MMMD) for its operations. ZCCM-IH has designated the Environmental Services Group
within ZCCM-IH, which will be named the ZCCM-IH Enviromental Coordination Unit
(ZECU), to be responsible for the development of detailed sub-project proposals, their
implementation and their procurement. The ZECU will consist of a Manager supported by
adequately qualified and experienced staff in environmental management, finance and
accounting, procurement, environmental law, communications and community development.
These functions are to be provided to the satisfaction of the EMF Steering Committee and of
IDA. The sub-projects will be implemented through contractors supervised by ZECU. The
ZECU has already managed CEP preparation and supervized the implementation of urgent
mitigation measures funded through the Labor Retrenchment Program (LRP) surplus.
ZCCM Invcstmcnzs Holdings Plc                                             7



B.NOV.2002  17:38      ZCCM-I.H. 260 2 245364                           NO.754    P.9
3.    Environmental Management Facility
3.1   Objective of theEMF
The main objective of the EMF is to help ZCCM-IH address the environmental problems that
awe the result of its past operations and fulfill the permanent obligations that it has under
existing Zambian environmental laws and regulations. It does so by helping ZCCM-IH to
define the environmental problems and financing the costs of their mitigation, including the
costs of overseeing the implementation of the priority mitigation measures. The
environmental problem to be addressed are:
* located in some properties that were sold to investors under the condition that ZCCM-
IH would assume the responsibility for remedial action for the historical damage
* outside the properties that were sold to investors, responsibility of which rests with
ZCCM-IH
* arising from mining operations that have had environmental consequences the
responsibility for which has not been assumed by the investors or ZCCM-IH but now
rests with GRZ.
The ES will finance the cost of priority environmental and social mitigation measures
resulting from ZCCM past operation or the cost of environmental measures agreed with
investors who have bought ZCCM mining assets. The EMF will allocate resources to ensure
that the highest priority mitigation measures are implemented. The procedures and guidelines
for the management of the EMF will have to satisfy IDA requirement.  I
The role of ZCCM-IH in the EMF will be to ensure, through the various management
structures, that the EMF resources are targeted at priority envirownental problems and are
within the regulatory requirements of the ECZ. The ECZ role will be to ensure the
compliance of the EMP sub-projects to Zambian enviromnental regulations and World Bank
Safeguard policies
3.2   EMF Key Guiding Principles and Operating Policies
The following key guiding principles and policies will govemn the EMF:
* Health and Environmental Priorities
The measures that will have the highest priority for financing by the EMF would be
those dealing with problems that will lead to, or are associated with, widespread and
serious health problems and/or environmental damage. A criterion for classifying the
problems is discussed under project selection critera in the following section.
* Communication, Disclosure and Community Participation
The CEP will to carry out several rehabilitation works in order to remove pollution
hazards from some of the mine sites in various districts on the Copperbelt and in
Kabwe. In order to do so effectively, it must make appropriate information about the
project available to different stakeholders or social groups in different locations at
appropriate times. Site users, local residents, interest groups all may have
ZCCM lnvestments Holdings Pie



8.NOV.2002   17:38       ZCCM-I.H. 260 2 245364                           NU. 'D4    r. 1L
contrbutions not only to preventing site misuse, but also to technical options
considered in the project. The project and its contracted experts will therefore consult
with the community in the project area, to record their concerns. and to develop
innovative approaches and mechanisms to achieve long-term sustainable site
remediation.
Community participation may involve, more specifically:
(i) Some minimal long-term maintnance (drain cleaning, preventing deforestation of
re-vegetated areas, and so on) that would eventually become the responsibility of the
organization or individual who takes over the site. If the site reverts to local
government, capacity for even minimal maintenance is low. Therefore, the project
will need to explore the possibility of encouraging interested patties to help with
maintenance.
(ii) Where applicable, the use of community labor in labor intensive subprojects for
remedial measures as a priority.
(iii) Providing solution6 to issues such as vandalism, accident prevention and
deforestation of sites.
(iv)Whmere a community has consented to the design and implementation of a project,
a sign off on the project brief showing that they agree to obligations they may have
for the site.
Access to Land
Site users will not be summarily denied access to sites they use as income sources
unless they are vandalizing it or causing harm to the site's stability, or exposing
themselves to unacceptable level of health risk. To protect the health of site users, a
risk assessment will be conducted by a toxicologist to assess risks associated with in
using a site. This may result in a recommendation to deny access to part or all of a
site.
3.3 Project Seecti'on Criteda
Though the ENF will be established the number of projects requiring fimancing is many and
hence available resources vill not be enough. A project selection criteria has been established
for selecting projecta that will give the highest benefit to the community.
The method of selecting priority projects vill be based on risk. Risk will be based on the
potendial impact of the issue and the likelihood of these impacts occurring, That is risk is a
fimction of likelihood of an event to occur and the magnitude of the impact. The risk and
priority can be summarized as shown in table 1 below. The higher the impact, and the higher
the likelihood this impact will occur, the higher the risk.
ZECU will use a qualitative risk assessment approach based on visual observations and
experience to make subjective or intuitive decisions. The qualitative approach is suitable for
identifying high-risk issues so mitigation measures can start before more quantitative data is
collected. A more quantitative risk analysis can be undertaken after the proposed CEMP
when an extensive database is accumulated allowing for more deductive decisions.
ZCCM Inveatmcns Holdinp Plc                                                 9



8.NOV.2002  17:29       ZCCM-I.H. 260 2 245364                           NU.'{4 Mt.11
Table 1. Risk assessment matlix
Modium Risk        High Risk            Very High Risk
Low Risk           Medium Risk          High Risk
Very Low Risk      Low Risk             Medium Risk
Likelihood
Table 2. Results of the risk assessment can be used to allocate the EW funds
Priority  Risk      Action                        Additional Information
Catesor=  _
1         Very      Immediate Funding             Accelerate process of site
High                                   investigation and measures
to address issue
2         High      Immediate Funding             Accelerate process of site
investigation and measures
________ ________ ___________________________ to address issue
3         Medium    To be funded. Timing to take  Complete EMP for this
account of the other high priority issue
actions
4         Low       Funding to be assessed        Complete EMP foT this
depending on other priorities  issue
being addressed and available
finds
5         Very low  Funds unlikely                Complete Es  for this
________  ________  _________________________issue
Value and Standards
Risks have to be prioritized based on what is being impacted. Some value standards have
been suggested for this evaluation but more values will be developed during the project
implementation phase. Risks associated with the loss of human life take the highest priority
and those which affect habitat though very important will take sixth position when allocating
resources for mitigation as depicted by the table below.
Table 3. Value and Standards
Order    Values                     Standard
1     Hwnan Life                 0 loss of human life
2     Human Productivity         2 to 4 lost work days/year
3     Human Qualibyof Life       20% unwell days/year
4     Agriculture and Fishery     20% loss of income
ZCCM Invcurmcnts Holdings Plc                                              10



8.NOV.2002   17:39      ZCCM-I.H. 260 2 245364                           NO.754     P.12
s    I Plant and Animal          I 5% loSSo species 
6     Habitat/Natural Resources   20% loss of habitat
3.4 JEMF Sub-Project Cycle
ACcess to te resources of the EMF to cover the costs of mitigation measures for the sub-
projects will be granted on the basis of an application that fully justfies the assistance
required for a particular mitigation or remediation sub-project.
This section descnrbes the main stages of the EMF sub-project cycle. The section also
describes the approval process for accessing funds under the EMF. It should be noted that
some sub-projects of an emergency nature have already been identified by ZCCM-IH. These
include; Kabwe, TD 33C (Kitwe), TD 3 and 8 (Mufiulira), Chonga Dam (Luanshya) and No.2
Acid Plant (Kitwe). These sub-projects will have to be addressed during the first 6 months of
the operation of the EMF. In the sub-project cycle, the EMFu will consider these priority sub-
projects at the Final Approval stage since they have already been identified as priority sub-
projects
Sub-Project Identfieation
The sub-project identification phase will include the following steps:
*  Dissemination to stakeholders of the opportunities available to ZCCM-IH, investors and
other stakeholders to identify proposals for environmental remediation.
* Dissemination of criteria for identifying sub-projects for funding under EMF.
*  Completion of sub-project documents on the priority sub-projects already identified for
funding under EMl. Other sub-projects, which will be identified, by ZCCM-IH,
investors and stakeholders will also be required to have complete sub-project
documentation. The sub-project documents should include justification for remediation
intervention.
This stage will also involve sub-project environmental and social screening. The intemal
screening of the sub-project proposals will be done by the ZECU staff using pre-deterained
criteria and Zambian Regulations as well as World Bank safeguard policies. The process of
initial screening will also include field verification missions and preliminary identification of
potential impacts.
The ZECU will then prepare sub-project briefs, application and other infonnation for
submission to the Technical Sub-committee. Sub-projects can either be rejected or approved
at this stage. More guidance on environmental and social screening is given in section six.
Initial Review and Decision by EMF
The EMF shall be the authority for the approval of sub-projects. However, operationally, this
responsibility may be delegated to the EMF Technical Sub-committee, which shall receive
the sub-project Applications and other infonuation from the ZECU. E1MF will involve in the
initial review the technical expertise necessary to adequately consider the proposed sub-
projects. After the initial review, the EMF will approve the sub-projects and will inform the
ZECU about their decisions and activities.
ZCCM Investments Holdings Plc                                              11



8.NOV.2002   17:39      ZCCM-I.H. 260 2 245364                          NO.(:4       id
Sub-project Preparaton and Detailed Design
The Investor or ZECU may carry out the detailed planning and design or Consultants can
carry this out There will be expert reviews for large and complex sub-projects that trigger
safeguards or require complex engineering design. With the assistance of ECZ, the World
Bank and GRZ enviromnental safeguards shall be included as part of the detailed feasibility
studies and design. If it is deemed that a full Environmental lmpact Assessment is required,
the World Bank and GRZ procedures should be followed. Ihese will be checked for
compliance in the process of reviews and approvals.
The key outputs of this stage may include:
* A Feasibility Study report and recommendations
* Sub-project Brief
* An Environmental Assessment (EA) or Environmental Analysis report
*  Design and cost estimates of proposed civil works for remediation and other activities
(for example, community sensitization and outreach, community participation)
* Draft Bidding documents and contracts
Local residents and authorities as well as other concerned citizens wil need to be involved in
sub-project design from the beginning. The future roles of local citizens and authorities in
the long tenm maintenance of reclaimed sites will need to be specified and explained at the
sub-project design stage and included in the sub-project brief. The ZECU will take the
detailed design of the sub-project to the EMF.
Final Review and ApprovalDecision by the EMF
The ZECU will present the proposed sub-projects to the EMF for consideration. The ZECU
will attach to this request for approval, details of the procurement method and plan, cost
estimates and expected outputs and benefits, including those that may accrue to the local
community. The ENE will give final approval of the proposed sub-projects for remediation
actions and also make a commitment of fands for the implementation of these sub-projects.
Tender Procedures and Award of Contract
If the proposed sub-project will be tendered, the ZECU will prepare and seek necessary
approvals for the bidding documents. Necessary approvals will be obtained from the Tender
Committee for ZCCM-IH or IDA s appropriate.
Invitations for bids will be done through appropriate advertisements, locally and
intermationally as appropriate. Upon receipt of bids an evaluation committee will carry out
bid evaluations and produce recommendations for award of contracts. This will be submitted
to the ZCCM-IH Tender Committee or IDA as appropriate for approval. Upon approval being
granted, contract documents will be prepared by either the ZECU Procurement Specialist or
the consultants so hired. Such contracts will have to be approved by ZCCM-IH Tender
Committee and/or IDA as appropriate. Contracts will then be offered to the successful
bidders.
Implementation and Supervision
Once a sub-project has been approved and all agreements with contractors have been
finalized, the ZECU's role will he limited to the follow-up on implementation. ECZ will also
be involved in monitoring and ensuring that the sub-projects comply with World Bank
ZCCM Investments Holdings Plc                                            12



8.NOV.2002   17:40      ZCCM-I.H. 260 2 245364                           NO.754     P.14
Safeguards and/or GRZ Regulations. The nature and size of the sub-project will determine
the scope and depth of the follow up. ln some instances, ZECU staff will have to be
supoed by short-term consultants/advisors. Funds should be set aside under the EMF for
this purpose to be accessed by the ZECU when necessary. Feedback on progress of
implementation and the lessons of experience should be systematically incorporated in the
preparation of subsequent sub-projects. Progress report, updates, reviews will be produced
from the supervisory and monitoring activities and will be submitted to the EMP for
information. In addition to this, these reports will be disseminated to stakeholders for full
public disclosure.
Sub-project Completion, Handover and Maintenance
After the works have been completed the ZECU will receive a completion report from the
contractor. Early in the implementation of CEP, a study will be commissioned'to review and
come up with recommendations of how the long-term sustainability issues and maintenance
of the remediation works will be handled. In the interim the outputs by consultants in the
detailed desigp should include the requirement for them to explore how this should be done
in the individual sub-projects.
4.    Consolidated Environmental Management Plan
One of the first activities of the EMF will be to prepare a Consolidated Environmental
Management Plan (CEMP). The CEMP will establish the overall management priorities
taking into account the environmental and social sustainability. The preparation of the CEMP
is described below.
Objectives of the CEMP
The urgent priority of the EMF will be to prepare a Consolidated Environmental
Management Plan (CEMP) which will rationalize all the EMPs prepared by investors,
ZCCM-IH for each privatized facility and other downtam issues and the responsibilities of
GRZ. The CEMP will also determine the cumulative impact of mining activities outside the
current mine license areas, including impacts on the Kafue River watershed, on critical
ecological processes and on neighboring populations.
It will establish the overall environmental management priorities within the broader context
of environmental and social sustainability and indicate how these liabilities are to be
addressed. The CEMP will contain detailed mitigation measures that ZECU and other
stakeholders will implement.
Preparation of CEMP
The steps to be followed for the process of preparing the CEMP as an activity of the EME are
summarized as follows:
o Drafting Terms of Reference for undertaking the preparation of CEMP
* Advertising globally for contractors to express interest to undertake the assignment
* Short-listing by ZCCM-IH and invitation to tender in accordance with World Bank
and ZCCM-IH guidelines
*  Selection and negotations with contactors in accordance with World Bank and
ZCCM-IH guidelines
* Preparation of CEMP
ZCCM Investments Holdings Plc                                              13



8.NOV.2002   17:40      ZCCM-I.H. 260 2 245364                          NO.754    P.15
* Submission of CE§MP to EMB Stering Committee
* Finalization of CEMP
Some sub-projects have already been implemented and funded from the LRP and PPF
because such projects could not be held up until the EMF facility was established. These sub-
projects include issues that required urgent intervention to prevent further worsening of
environmental conditions and time bound contractual environmental obligations. The sub-
projects financed under the emergency priority will still need to complete the necessary sub-
project implemeutation, such as sub-project brief, and will include a safeguardO review.
Thus, the infonnation to be included in the required documentation will include the
following;
* Any negative social impact
* Expected environmental impact and risk of the mitigation measures
*  Safeguards checklist
* Technical alternatives considered
* List of stakeholders consulted on the alternatives
*  Site use plans specific to how residents will or will not use site
* Maintenance requirement where structures are changed and who is responsible for
these
Kabwe Mine Site
The CEMP will not cover Kabwe, but ZCCM-IH will update the original (1995) Plan to take
on board the cunrent approaches and financing arrangements for ZCCM-IH and GRZ
obligations. The Kabwe Mine Site will involve an extensive risk communications and will
have a strong health component and will therefore, require close coordination and
networling. The ZECU will manage Kabwe with the assistance of a satellite project
implementation team comprising an Environmental Site Coordinator, Environmental Health
Nurses and a Laboratory technician. A lead task force will be set up with the objective of
setting up priorities and long temn goals and sustainability of cleaning up lead impacts in
Kabwe. The task force will comprise ZCCM-IH, Provincial Health Board, ECZ, MSD,
Private Health Practitioners, Kabwe Municipal Public Health, Neighborhood Health
Committees and other relevant stakeholders. The ECZ will require to review and revise the
closure plan.
5. Zambian Environmental Legislation
Although the Copprbelt Environment Project is by design a remedy of existing
environmental problems, its activities must comply with the requirements of the Zambian
environmental regulations and the World Bank safeguard policies.
5.1 Zambian Environmental Protection and PoUlution Control Aci (EPPCA)
The Environmental Protection and Pollution Control Act (EPPCA) of 1990 is the primary
environmental law that is designed to regulat all environmental issues in Zambia. This act
and its subsidiary legislation have to be adhered to in the scoping, design, and
implementation of the sub-project. The main Subsidiary Legislation is:
* The pesticides and toxic substances regulations SI 20of 1994 Act No 13of 1994
* Environmental Impact Assessment Regulations (1997)
ZCCM Investments Holdings Plc                                             14



8.NOV.2002  17:41      ZCCM-I.H. 260 2 245364                           NO.754     P.16
* Air Pollution Contol Regulations (1996)
* The Water Pollution Control (Effluent and Waste Water ) Reguladons SI 72of 1993,
177 of 1993 Act No 13 of 1994
*  The Waste Management (Licensing of Transporters and Waste Disposal Site)
Regulations SI 71 of 1993
In enforcing environmental legislaion in the mining industry. the ECZ collaborates with the
Mines Safety Department (MSD) of the Ministry of Mines and Minerals Development
(MNBMD) as its authorzing agent or main lead institution. The relevant legislation for the
industry includes:
* The Mines and Minerals Act No. 31 Cap 213 of the Laws of Zambia.
* The Mining (Mineral Resource Extaction) Regulations, Statutory Instrument No. 1 19
of 1994
* The Mines and Minerals (Environmental) Regulations, Statutory Iatrument No. 29 of
1997
* The Mines and Minerals (Environmental Protection Fund) Regulations, Statutory
Instrument No. 102 of 1998.
There are other pieces of legislation which are also to be consulted depending on the nature
and type of sub-project. They are listed in Annex 6.
5.2 Administradon of the Enironmental Impact Assessment (EL) in Zambia
Institutional Responsibides
The administration of the EIA process in Zambia involves three primary stakeholder parties.
These are the developer, the sectoral agencies or planning authorities and the Environmental
Council of Zambia. Other parties may be involved directly or indirecdy either because they
are interested or affected in one way or another. This group is referred to as the Interested
and Affectod Parties (IAPs) and includes the general public. Each of these parties is
responsible for specific administrative aspects of the EIA process.
The Developer
Administration of the EIA process starts with the developer or project proponent
conceptualizing a development project. The primaiy objective of the developer is to bring
about development either by provision of goods e.g. manufacture of cars or by providing a
service e.g. construction of a road. Developer may include investors, govenmment ministries
and departments, the private sector, the local community and other community based groups,
the non-governmental fraternity, politicians, traditional leaders, the general public and
consultant or indeed anyone proposing a development activity.
The responsibilities of the developer include the preparation of project documents,
completing the EIA, meeting management requirements resulting from EIA
recommendations and meeting the expectations for the public or IAPs. In this regard the
developer pTovides information regarding the nature and scope of the project, the expected
impacts, management and mitigation measures, monitoring programs and the rehabilitation
ZCCM Invesments Holdings Plc                                              lS



8.NOV.2002   17:41      ZCCM-I.H. 260 2 245364                           NO.754     P.17
programs. The developer also needs to inform the public on areas needing their involvement
and ensure that they are agreeable to the type of project he is embarking on.
Sectoral Agencies/Planning Authorities
Sectoral or Authorizing Agencies refer to any government ministy or departnent, public
corporation, local authority or public officer in which, or in whom any law/regulation or bye-
law vests powers and finctions to authorize, control or manage any aspect of a proposed or
existing project. These agencies work on behalf of the public to ensure that ecological,
cultral, social and economic issues are addressed in line with existing government policy
and legislation. Their main responsibility is to ensure that the proposed project meets all the
sectoral requirements for which the agency is mandated.
The Environmental Council of Zambia (ECZ)
The Environmental Council of Zambia is a lead agency on all matters of environment in
Zambia. It is empowered by the Environmental Protection and Pollution Control Act of 1990
(Cap 204) to do all such things as are necessary to protect the environment and control
pollution so as to provide for the health and welfare of persons, animals, plants and the
environment It is fiuther empowered to identify projects, plans and policies for which
environmental impact assessment are necessary and ensure that the same is done in line with
the provisions of the EIA regulations. Its responsibilities include managing the BIA process,
sponsoring a decision and ensuring that management occurs in accordance with the decisions
made. In this regard the ECZ establishes the terms of reference for project assessments,
reviews reports including the Prospectus, EIA and follow-up monitoring reports. The
Council also helps the project proponent to establish a public consultation process.
The Public
The public is a very important party in the BIA process. Growing public concern for
environment spells out the need for involving the public in decision making. This allow the
developer to inform the public or interested and affected parties about the project and afford
them an opportunity to express their concems so as to include the same into management
plans. Apart from it being a legislative requirement, public involvement helps reduce
problems such as increased costs, project delays arising from public opposition to the project;
bad publicity and litigation.
The responsibilities of the Public in the EIA process include:
Provision of information about the local environment, community goals and aspirations in
relation to the proposed development. Other inputs include contributing to the social, cultural
and economic evaluation of the project; assisting in the decision making as well as the
management process.
The ELA Process
The EIA process follows three basic stages. These are:
* The project screening stage where a proposed project is screened as to whether it qualifies
for an ELA process or not. The main focus here is the Project Brief
* EIA preparation and review. The main focus here is the EIA statement
ZCCM Invesntcns Holdings Plc                                               16



8.NOV.2002   17:41       ZCCM-I.H. 260 2 245364                           NO.754     P.18
Project implementation where the main focus is the management of mitigation measures
together with post assessment environmental monitoring and auditing.
Environmental ProSect Brief (EPB)
Administration of the EIA process starts with the project proponent preparing a Project Brief
which gives a description of the project in line with the provisions of the Environmental
Impact Assessment Regulations, Statttory Instument no. 28 of 1997 and submits the same to
the ECZ. Once the ECZ has received the Project Brief it sends copies to relevant authorizing
agencies for their comments. This is done within seven days of receiving tho same. The
authorizing agency has thirty days in which to give a feed back to the ECZ. The ECZ
proceeds to make a decision basing this on its own assessment, that of the authorizing agency
and that of other relevant institutions. The decision is made either to approve the project with
or without conditions or to compel the project to a full EIA study. The Council makes this
decision within 40 days of receiving the project brief.
Pertnent aspects of the process at this stage include;
* Screening of the project in line with the provisions of the EIA regulations to deteTmine if
the EIA proces6 is applicable or not. If the EIA process is not applicable, the developer is
informed accordingly. If the process is applicable to the particular project the Council
proceeds to consider if the Project Brief contains all the required information. If some of
the required information is missing, the Developer is informed accordingly. If
information provided is adequate, the Council proceeds to distribute the Project Brief to
other responsible authorities.
* Once information from all the relevant sources/institutions has been rcceived the Council
proceeds to compile a summary of all impacts(biophysical, ecological and social)
associated with the project in a document called the project profile.
*  Basing on the information contained in the project brief, the information provided by
other institutions, the EIA Regulations and any other information required, the ECZ
proceeds to consider if there is a risk that certain activities of the project may cause
notable impacts on the environment, If the project is found to have no notable impacts on
the environment, the Council recommends project approval and prepares a decision letter
accordingly. If the project is found to have notable impacts on the environment, the ECZ
proceeds to consider the impact mitigation plan. If the plan is satisfactory, the project is
approved and if not the project is either rejected or recommended for a full EIA study.
Environmental Impact Statement                                      i
Once a project has been recommended for a ful ETA study the developer proceeds to conduct
the study in line with the provisions of the ETA regulations. The developer starts with a
scoping exercise and proceeds to prepare the Terms of Reference (TORs) for the study. This
is done within forty days of receiving communication from the ECZ. The ECZ considers and
rejects or accepts the TORs within five days of receiving the same. If the TORs are accepted
the developer proceeds to identify a team of experts to carry out the EIA study and submits
the same to the ECZ. The ECZ considers and either rejects or accepts the study team. Once
the study team has been accepted, they proceed to conduct the BIA study in line with the
ZCCM Investments Holdings Plc                                              17



8.NOV.2002  17:42       ZCCM-I.H. 260 2 245364                          NO.754     P.19
TORs provided. During the process of conducting the EIA study, the team ensmues that the
public is adequately consulted.
Once the study has been completed the developer presents the same to the ECZ following the
provisions of the EIA regulations. Once the ECZ has received the EIA statement, it
circulates the same to relevant agencies for comments and at the same time proceeds to invite
public views and comments on the report. Once this has been done and the comments have
been received, the ECZ proceeds to consider the EIA statement paying partcular attention to
the need for mitigation measures and then considers if the suggested measures are acceptable
or not. After this has been done, the ECZ makes a decision either approving the project with
or without conditions or rejecting it all together. Once a decision has been communicated to
the concerned parties (roject proponent or Affected and Interested Parties are free to appeal
against such a decision within ten days of communicating the decision by the ECZ.
Pertinent issues in this process include:
*  Proper identification of impacts to be focused on in the conduct of the EIA study and
consequently the preparation of adequate tenns of reference
*  Proper identification of the team to undertake the ETA study. Special attention should be
paid to the inclusion of a local expert.
* Adequate consultation with the public to ensure that their views have been taken into
account in the preparation of the study
*  Preparation of Mitigation Measures and an Environmental Management Plan together
with a follow-up of post assessment enviroranental monitoring and auditing.
6.    World Bank Safeguard Policies
The World Bank safeguard policies are operational policies whose primary objective is to
ensure that the Bank funded operations do not cause adverse social and environmental
impacts and that they "do no haxm". As all other World Bank funded operation, the CEP must
comply with the requirements of the safeguard policies (safeguards).  l
From among the ten safeguard policies, the following are expected to be triggered by a
number of the activities funded under ihe CEP:
*  Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01)
*  Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12)
* Safety of Dams (OP 4.37)
* Physical Cultural Resources (OP 11.03)
*  Natural Habitats (OP 4.04)
A brief overview of applicability and objectives of these safeguard policies follows. For full
policies, see httrp//www.ifc.orEctenviro/EnvSoc/SafemTard/safeauard.htxn.
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01)
Applicability:
The policy is triggered if a project is likely to have potential (adverse) environmental risks
and impacts in its area of influence.
ZCCM Invcstmcns Holdings Pic



8. NOV. 2002  17: 42     ZCCMI-I.H. 260 2 245364                           NO. 754    P.20
Objective:
The objecfive of the policy is to ensure that Bank-financed projects are environmentally and
socially sound and sustainable, and that decision-maling is improved through appropriate
analysis of actions and of their likely environmental and social impacts.
The policy covers impacts on the natural environment (air, water and land); human health and
safety, physical cultural resources; and transboundary and global environment concerns. EA
corniders natural and social aspects in an integrated way. Particular social aspects
(involuntary resettlement, indigenous peoples) as well as issues of natural habitats, pest
management, forestry, and safety of dams are covered by separate policies with their own
requirements and procedures. However, the environmental assessment process provides
insights to ascertain the applicability of other safeguard policies to specific projects. This is
especially the case for the policies on natural habitats, pest management, and physical
cultural resources that are typically considered within the EA process.
The policy descnbes an enviromnental assessment (BA) process for the proposed project. The
breadth, depth, and type of analysis of the EA process depend on the nature, scale, and
potential environmental impact of the proposed project. EA evaluates a project's potential
environmental risks and impacts in its area of influence; examines project altematives;
identifies ways of improving project selection, siting, planming, design, and implementation
by preventing, minimizing, mitigating, or compensating for adverse environmental impacts
and cnhancing positive impacts; and includes the process of mitigating and managing adverse
environmental impacts throughout project implementation. The policy favors preventive
measures over mitigatory or compensatory measures, whenever feasible.
In CEP, all sub-projects will be screened in the earliest stages of their preparation to ensure
compliance with the policy and ascertain whether other safeguard policies are triggered. The
sub-projects will be screened not only for their direct impacts but also for indirect and
cumulative impacts. Based on the screening, sub-projects will be assigned a category 1, II, or
m.
Category I will be assigned to sub-projects with anticipated significant adverse environmental
impacts that are sensitive, diverse or unprecedented. For these sub-projects, full EA (BIA,
according to Zambian law) will be required. CategoTy II will assigned to sub-project with
anticipated specific adverse environmental impacts that are less adverse than in category I
For these sub-projects, an Environmental Analysis limited to the specific environmental
impacts of the sub-project will be required. Category IL1 will be assigned to sub-projects with
anticipated minimal or no adverse environmental impacts. For these projects, no further
environmental review beyond environmental and social screening will be required.
Categories I, n1, m should not be confused with EA categories A, B, or C defined by the
OP4.01. Categories A, B or C pertain to any World Bank funded project (the entire CEP, in
this case) while categories I, II and m pertain specifically to the CEP sub-projects. Through
following the requirements for categories r, 11 and m, outlined in the Matrix of Procedural
Requirements for World Bank Safeguards in EMF Funded Sub-Projects document (see next
section), compliance with OP 4.01 will be ensured.
Involuntary Resettlement (OF 4.12)
Applicability:
The policy is triggered not only physical relocation caused by the project, but by any loss of
land or other assets resulting in (i) relocation or loss of shelter, (ii) loss of assets or access to
assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not the affected
people must move to another location.
ZCCM Investmnents Holdings Plc                                              19



The policy applies to all components of a project that result in involuntuy resettlement,
regardless of the source of fnancing, It also applies to other activities resulting in involuntary
resettlement, that in the judgment of the Bank, are (a) directly and significantly related to the
Bank-assisted project, (b) necessary to achieve its objectives as set forth in the project
documents; and (c) canied out, or planned to be carried out, contemporaneously with the
project.
Objective!
The objectives of the resettlement policy are to (i) avoid or minimize involuntary resettlement
where feasible, exploring all viable altemative project designs; (ii) assist displaced persons in
improving their former living standards, income earning capacity, and production levels, or at
least in restoring them; (iii) encourage community participation in planning and
implementing resettlement; and (iv) provide assistance to affected people regardless of the
legality of land tenure.
The policy safeguards against impoverishment risks of involuntary resettlement that may be
associated with a development projects. It addresses risks that the production systems may be
dismantled; people may face impoverishment when their productive assets or income sources
are lost; people may be relocated to environments where their productive skills may be less
applicable and the competition for resources greater, community institutions and social
networks may be weakened; kin groups may be dispersed; and cultural identity, traditional
authority, and the potential for mutual help may be diminished or lost
In CEP sub-projects, the policy will govem resettlernent from legally or illegally used land
that will undergo rehabilitation or be otherwise affected. Detailed application of the policy is
discussed in the section on Resettlement Framework.
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37)
Applicability:
Ihe policy is triggered by (i) a project involving construction of a large dan (1S m or higher)
or a high hazard dam (e.g. dams that retain toxic materials or have special design
complexities); or (ii) a project which depends upon an existing dam.
In the CEP, the policy is applicable to rehabilitation of the tailing dams.
Objectives:
For existing dams, the objective of the policy is to ensure that any dam that can influence the
perfonnance of the project is identified. a damn safety assessment is carried out, and necessary
dam safety measures and remedial work are implemented. For projects involving construction
of new dams, the policy objective is to ensure that experienced and competent profossionals
design and supervise construction and the Borrower adopts and inplements dam safety
measures for the dam and associated works.
In CEP, the policy will require a comprehensive safety and geo-technical evaluation of all
tailing dams and implementation of necessary safety measures.
Physical Cultural Resources (OP 11.03)
Applicability:
This policy applies to physical cultural resources in all projects requiring a Category A or B
Environmental Assessment under the OP4.01 on Enviromnental Assessment (see above).
Physical cultural resources are movable or immovable objects, sites, structures, groups of
ZCCM Invcstmcnts Holdingg Plc                                               20



B.NOV.2002   17:43      ZCCM-I.H. 260 2 245364                           NO.754     P.22
stuctures, natural features and landscapes that have archaeological, paleontological,
historical, architectural, religious, aesthetic, or other cultural significance. Phymcal cultwal
resources may be located in urban or rural settings, and may be above ground, underground,
or underwater.
Objective:
The objective of the policy is to avoid or mitigate adverse impacts of Bank financed
development projects on physical cultural resources. Normally, the Bank would not finance
projects that will significantly damage non-replicable cultural property, and will assist only
those projects that are sited or designed so as to prevent such damage.
In CEP, compliance with this policy will ensure that rehabilitation activities will not cause
harm to physical cuhual resources that may be located in the project area of influence. The
policy will be implemented through the EA process.
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04)
Applicability:
The policy is triggered by any project with the potential to cause significant conversion (lO6s)
or degradation of natural habitats, whether directly (through construction) or indirectly
(through human activities induced by the project). Natural habitats are land and water areas
where ecosystems' biological communities are formed largely by native plant and animal
species, and human activity bas not essentially modified the area's primary ecological
functions.
Objective:
The objective of the policy is to supports the protection, management, and restoration of
natural habitats. The Bank adheres to a precautionary approach to natural resource
management to ensure opportunities for environmentally sustainable development. The
conservation of natural habitats is essential to safeguard their unique biodiversity and to
maintain envirornental services and products for human society and for long-term
sustainable development.
In CEP, the policy, implemented through the EA review process, will ensure that all direct
and indirect impacts of sub-projects on natural habitats are adequately considered and
mitigated. Given the number of anticipated sub-projects, it will be important to ensure
attention to cumulative impacts of sub-projects as well, Should the risk of conversion be
significant, CEP will need to introduce mitigation measures, e.g. providing a natural area to
offset the loss from conversion or degradation.
The significance of conversion or degradation is detennined on a case-by-case basig for each
project, through the environmental assessment process. As an approximation, conversion or
degradation is likely to be significant if it involves, cumulatively, either (i) in absolute temis,
more than about 10,000 hectares of natural habitats or (ii) in relative terms, more than one
percent of the remaining area of any ecosystem type within the country. To assess the
significance of conversion or degradation at a sub-project level, the approximate threshold
should be determined by dividing 10,000 hectares by the anticipated number of sub-projects
(e.g. 500 ha if 20 sub-projects are anticipated). It is the informed expert judgment, however,
rather than these approximations, that should drive the decision on significance of a sub-
project on natural habitats.
ZCCM Investmcnts Holdings Plc                                             21



8.NOV.2002   17:43      ZCCMI-I.H. 260 2 245364                          NO.754    P.23
Increasing Capacity for addressing World Bank Safeguard Policies
To build adequate capacity for addressing World Bank safeguard policies, CEP will
implement several training, knowledge management and capacity building measures at the
early stages of project implementation.
Safeguard Polcy Training and Guided Practical Work
ZECU will intemnationally recruit a highly qualified World Bank Safeguard Policies Advisor
to develop expertise of ZECU staff to cary out social and environmental screening, identify
issues relevant to safeguarding natural habitats, physical cultural resources, persons affected
by resettlement, and recognize sub-project activities that may trigger any other World Bank
safeguard. To develop adequate expertise, the Advisor will combine theoretical safeguard
training with guiding the ZECU staff in their work on handling safeguard requirements for
the EMF sub-projects. The Advisor will work residentially or in very close contact with
ZECU until sufficient capacity for handling routine safeguard issues is developed within the
unit. ZECU will retain additional experts at the recommendation of the advisor to
complement his expertise as necessary. The World Bank may request ZECU to carry out an
independent audit of the ZECU capacity in respect to environmental and social safeguards.
The audit would be carried out before the end of the Advisor's assignment to verify that
adequate safeguard capacity has been developed sufficiently to handle safeguard issues
without extemal assistance.
Technical staff of the EMF responsible for reviewing sub-project Applicationsmand other
documents related to safeguards will also participate in the training. As a part the joint
traiing, ZECU and environmental assessment (EA) practitioners from ECZ should identify,
with the guidance of the Advisor, ways for streamlining the sub-project documentation to
avoid duplicity and ensure that the safeguard documents (e.g. Environmental Assessment,
resettlement plans, etc.) meet the Zambian and World Bank requirements.
Safeguard Trigger Questions Checklist
The Advisor will prepare a Safeguard Trigger Questions Checklist to aid screening of EMF
sub-project for activities that are likely to trigger the safeguard policies. The checklist will
guide ZECU staff during field reconnaissance and assist them to identify the safeguard issues
in sub-project Application and other documents. It will also help to assure consistncy and
comprehensiveness of screening across various sub-projects. Based on the checklist, the
Advisor and ZECU may also develop detailed guidelines for reviewing environmental and
social impacts of the most common types of sub-projects (e.g. tailing dams rehabilitation).
Cumulative and Indirect Impact Guidelines
The Advisor will develop guidelines for identifying and addressing cumulative environmental
impacts from the sub-projects on the main areas of concem (e.g. surface waters, soil, air,
landscape, etc.). The Advisor will also develop guidelines for addressing indirect (induced)
impacts of sub-projects. Adequate attention to cumulative and indirect impacts will be
particularly important given the (large) number and (sometime misleadingly small) scale of
EMF sub-projects.
Safeguard Knowledge Management
ZECU, in cooperation with the Advisor will design and establish a mechanism for retaining
the practical knowledge gained from managing safeguard aspects of EMF sub-projects. This
ZCCM Investments Holdings Plc                                             22



8.NOV.2002   17:44      ZCCM-I.H. 260 2 245364                           NO.754     P.24
may include establis1mlent of a simple website or database (e.g. CR-RON) with key
documents Oiterature, legal documents, policies, guidelines, good pactice, TOR, checklists,
progress reports, contas for key resource persons and consultants) that will aid ZECU staff
and others, e.g. regulatory agencies, local govemments, NGO's or general public, that may be
involved in sub-project preparation.
To safeguard knowledge management activities will include periodic independent audits of
the safeguard performance (after a sufficient number of sub-projects has been handled). The
findings of the audit will serve to derive lessons for improving the safeguard capacity and as
a quality assurance mechanism.
Capturing the safeguard know-how will assist ZECU in managing sub-projects, facilitate
disclosure of relevant information to the public, encourage consistency ftroughout the sub-
project portfolio, encourage safeguard dialogue with other donors and reduce disruptions
potentially caused by turnover of ZECCU staff.
Procedural Requirements for World Bank Safeguards in EMP Sub--Projects
The following matrix outlines procedural steps required of the key actors involved in
implementing CEP. It spells out what agency will be responsible for what safeguarding steps
at different stages of the EMF sub-project cycle. The matrix gives requirements for each
safeguard policy known to be triggered at the time of CEP preparation. It includes disclosure
and public consultation requirements that are essential to effective application of safeguard
policies.
ZCCM Invcstmcnts Holdings Plc                                              23



;IJ
Matrix of Procedural Requrements for World Bank Safeguards n EMF Fmded Sub-Proects                                                       N
Environmental Asacssment (EA) OP4.01
610                  g9I                    ~-    I r-R&I & W_ i % ft                                                    -   -       e- *9'.*             -
1. Sub-Project             ZECU:                                                                                                    Applcation
Idenk ialon and            L. Bnsures adequate expertise is invohved in environmental and social sceening and all subsquent steps in assessing
A   Jicaion                   and mihgating environmenal and socmiJ impacis;                                                       Existing and easily available    N
2. Ensures (he environmentai and social screening considers anvadable information, including input from consultations  douments on enviromen tal
with affected groups and field reconnaissance;                                                       and socaa conditions of the
3. Screens by exanining the type, location and scale of the proposed project as wvnll as the nature and magnitude of its  sub-project area and
potenind impcds, and                                                                                 anticipated impacs               I
4. Assigns the nu-prqject a category 1,11 or 1I1 based on its liklry envum lenta impacts and indicates what
conresponding envnmental rcview instrument (e.g. cnvironmenal assessmned (EA) or crvwronmental analyses is
required);'
5. Rcsponds to Safegrd Trigger Questions (checklist to be developed by Safeguard Speciatist);                                            N
6. Outlines liel:y mitigation measures to address anticipated envirwnmenial and social impacts;                                          N
7. Recurds the above (steps 2.- 6.) in the Application and suppots with available documentation and brdiscussion                          (
of anticipated social and envirosmental impacts; 
H. Advises the Bank of any sensitive issues er concerns;
Z InWa Revew and           EMIF:                                                                                                   Application
Dec Won                    I  Reviews the Application for adequate environmental and social screening. seeking mdependent expertise as
necessaty
2. Ensures the Bank has been advised of any sensitivc isstes or concerns
3. Approves sub-projec fwr fiurher processing                                                            Record of Decision
J. SubPrjte Preprrran      Categorv I sub-vnole                                                                                    Full EA report including a an
and DednfedDsign           .                                                                                                       eAviroenta migation
For category I sub-projects (requiring EA).                                                              plan3
ZECU:
I. Cansuhs te stakeholders on the findings of the screening and secks their views as an input in (he BA prep4mhlion
2. Identifies the scope of EA, procedes, schedule and utline of he rept, and diTOR
3. Submils the above to EMP for comnent.
4. Retains independent qualified EA experts not affiliated wilh the projcct to carry out the EA2                                         o
Category I is given to sub-projects wOit anticipatod significant adverse enviroamental inipacs that are sensitive, divese or umprecedented. For these sub-projcts, ful EA is
required. Category 11 is given to sub-project svith antcipated specific adverse environmental impacts that mu less adverse than in category 1. For these sub-projects, an
_rvironmenla analysis limited to the specific emnromnental impacts of the sub-project is requireci Category Hi Ls given to sub-projes with anticipated minimal or no adverse
envronmeal impacts For these projects, no further enviroentarl review beyond enviromnental and social screening is required.                                     -u
N
ZiCCM Investens Koldings Plc                                                               24



03
2
N
03
5. Carries out the EA and prepares a diaft EA report including an envirmetal mitigation plan                                              N
6. Consults te public on de above
7. Submits the draft EA rtpot with an executive summarny and key points frem the consultations to EMF and the Bank
fbr conmmet
S. Firalizes the HA repot based an feedback received and submits it (o World Bank for clearance and for disclosure
via the InfoShop, and posts it locally;3
For category I sub-projects (requiring full BA),
EMP:
9. Reviews the procedural and substanie elements of the EA with ZECU and comments as necessay an TOR
10. Ensures the adequacy of financing arngements for prepoation of the EA and implementaion of the environmental
mitigation plan;
11. Reviews ad com.ments on thc draft BA,                                                                                                 N
12. Ensures that EA findings and envirownental mitigation plan recmcndations are reflectod m sub-project design;
13. Ensrs the adequacy of public consultation and disclomure of infomation;                                                              RN
14. Reviews the fmal BA and gives no-objection;                                                                                           N
(At
For calegory I sub-projects (rquing full EA),                                                                                             w
The Bank
15. Assists ZECU as necessary in prepaation of TOR f<r categomy I sub-projects
16. Adviscs ZBCU an Bankes prooedures and requirements for BA, including consuhation and disclsure as necessary,
Cakewory 11 sIPirolects
For category U sub-project (requiring environmenal analysis),
ZRCU:
1. Consults the aLakeholders on the findngs of the svceening and seeks their views as an input in the cnvitmennual
analysis preparation                                                                                 Enivirnmental Analysis
2. Defines the specific envrenaml issues to eniine, procedures, schule and outime of the report, and drafts  including measures to mitigate
TOR frm environmental analysis                                                                       the anticipated uipacts
3. Submits the above for information to the EMF
4. Retains qualifid experts to cany out the envir l analysis
5. Cames out hc cnvrimrnmental analysis and prepares a drafl envirenmntcal analysis repotl including econumended                          o
measreu to mitigat the anlicipated impacts
2 Conwlts the Bank aboti establishing an Independent Advisory Panel for Kabwe and other particularly risky or contentious sub-projects
3 ZECU wil post the report at a public pace easily accessible to local people and NGOs, e.g. in the city concil ttec.
4 See above,                                                                                                                                                      N
s See Annex 4. and Annex 5. for oontents of a typical EA and environental mitigation plan                                                                         N
ZCCM Investmenis Holdings Plc                                                              25



6. Pots the drafk repart for public comment
7. Submits the dafl repont to EMF for infomation
8. Finalizes the environmental analysis report based on lfedback received and posts locally4;                                                4
9.  ansures that recommended mniigation measures of the envronmental analysis are reflected in project design and                           cii
conbactor TOR;
For category 11 sub-projecis (requiring enviromnea analysis),
EMP:                                                                                                                                         N
W0. Reviems and omments en the TOR for environmntal amalysis as necessary                                                                    3
11. Reviews and commends on the draft environmental analysis
12. Ensures the adequacy of financing ariangvmenls for preparation of the cnvironmental analysis and implementation
of its recwnmendutions;
13. Enswres that cnviromneal analysis rcommendations ae properly addrssed in sub-project design and economic                                 N
analysis;                                                                                                                                i
14. Ensures the adequacy of public consultation and disclosure of infonaton                                                                  N
For category H suib-projeets (rquiring envirenmental analysis),                                                                              A
The Bak                                                                                                                                      o
15. Advises ZBCU on Bank's procedures and requbiements for EA, includingconsultation and disclosure, as it deems 
necessary
Cateaorv II sul-Drolecets
leessay pennits or licenas
For category III sub-projects (requiring no EA or enviromne   analysis)                                    frmn rclvant regdlator
ZECU:                                                                                                      agencies
1. Ensures adhernce to good environmental pactice n sub-project design, siting, constction and operation
2. Updates the environmental and social screening (preped at the sub-project identificatien stage) and updates these
if new information on environnmcntal or social impacts becomes available
3. Re>classifies the sub-project based on the new infarmatio if necessary and advises eMF of r-classifcation
4. Find Rcvkea             llhF:                                                                                                      Legal Agrement 
beeiden                    1. Rcviews and approves the sub-projet for ftuding                                                         Record of Decision                 7
2. Hnsures that the record of decision I legal agreement between EMF and ZOCM reflecs the reconmnendations of the                            0
EA and associated environmental mitigation plan (for Catcgoy I) or recommdations of the environmenl 
analysis (for Catboy 11)
S Tender P)rweda seand     ZECU:                                                                                                      Technical Specifications,
Award f Carawcfa           I. Enres thaa TOR and contacts arc consisteni with the rcnommendations of BA ur envirernental analysis     Cotact                             N
ZCCM Investnents Holdings PIl                                                                26



00
0
Impkmanwi.m Al          ZECU:                                                                                                      Proge   Repo         Nb
Saperviric
1. Ensures that the sub-project is supervised by staff with adequate environmental and social expettise
2. Reviews sub-project implemenLation against reommendations of the enviromerAal nitigation plan or                                         tn
recommendations of ihe environmenal analysis and recorde findings in periodic the progress reports
3. Submits thc repoit regtulsry to EMF and Bank for category I sub-projects and to EMP for category 11 and Il sub-
N
EMPF:
4. Reviews progress reports from ZCCM
5. Advises Ihe Bank of any sensitive issues or concerns thal may bencfit from Bank's assistance
7. Sub-Prq  1 Ca  lekfi n",  ZECU:                                                                                                    Completion Report                N
andover, Maintmw,e,        L. Prep&s sub-project comnletion wrport with a brief analysis of the actual envirmnental impacts and outlines in the
report measums o address environmental inpacs (teir preveion, mitigation and monitoring) thal would continue                             N
to manifest themselves after sub-projcct omnpiction;                                                                                     r
_   Submits the report to BMF and Bank for category I sub-prq ects and to ENMF for category 11 sub-projects;                               -tn
0)'
Involuntary Rtseltlemenl OP 4.12
L Subroject                ZECU:                                                                                                      Application;
IdeAfhliA and              I. Assesses the nature and magnitude of lhe lkely displacenent,                                            Existing documents on social
AppIicahim                 2. Outlines potential design alernatives to avoid or minimize displacement;                                conditions in sub-project mar
3. Indicates whethwT Resetldement ActionPrian (RAP)will bepteparod;                                        and anticipated resetlement
issues;
2 Inifia Revew and         EMF:                                                                                                       Record of Decision
Deesiojz                   1. Reviews Ihe Application fur adequate discussion of resettlemnt, seeking independent expertise as nccessary
2. Advises the Bank of any sensitive issues or oteemns that may benefit from Bank's assistance;                                              z
_                         -3. Approves sub-projec for futher processing;                                                -
3. Ssb-Projea Preparadon   ZECU:                                                                                                      RAP
6 ZECU wifl make the drafl and the final RAP available at a place accessible to, and in a furm, manner awl language undrstandable to the displaced or affected people and local
NGO&                                                                                                                                                                 N
ZCCM Investments HioldLngs Plc                                                               27



WidDdak Design             I. Ensures adequate input of sub-project affected persons (PAPs) in the rescttlement process;                                             N
2. Considers viable aternatmi sub-project designs to avoid, where feasible, or nminimize displaoement;                                     1
3. Prepares a diafl RAP consistnt with the Bank's resenlement policy, Zanbian law, amd CEP Envirenment and
Resettlement Framework ensuning involvement of adecquale expetise and consistency across sub-projects;                                 (A
4. Posts RAP in publicO, collect and considers public comments;
5. Makes arrangmnt for internal, or, if necessary, independent external monitoring and evaluation of Ihe
unplemaitation of the RAP;
6. Submits the RAP to EMP and the Bank (for the first five RAPs);                                        Necessary permits or lienses      N
7. Makes the RAP available publicly7                                                                     from reTlvant regulator 
ag:ncies
4. Find ;eeiW              EMP:                                                                                                     Legal Agreement or
Dlrsien                    1. Reviews the RAP and moenitoing analgemeits to vewfy complianmc with the oank's rescttlencent policy an  Recoerd of Deision
Zanbian law as a canditicn of sub-project approval;
2. Ensures availability of adequate Govermend funds for reselltlement;
3. Ensures ZCCM obligations to rimpleent the RAP and mrnitoing measurs are reflected in the record of
decision/legal agreement;                                                                                                              N
0-I
The Bank;
t . Par the fisst ftvc RAPs reviews the RAP and monitefing amnnegmens and gives no objoclion;
5. TendrrI  Pracedrw,     _____________________s__________
6. nmpfmenaliUn &          ZECU:                                                                                                    Progress reports to EMF
Siupervision                . Implereits Ihe approved RAP,
2. Implements the prposed monitoring and evaluation of resettlenwn,
3. Includes reports on RAP inmpcimetaton in the regular progress reports to EMF;
4. Advises the EMF of any sensitive resettlement issues thal may anse;
7. Srb-PdrJccY Cornpe      Z                                                            .CU                                         Complelion report;
Han&wer, MaWrmace,         5. Moiitors and evaluates resettlement according to the proposed monituring and evaluation measures;
6. Advises the ENI of any sensitivc resettlement issues that may arise;
The DA111L
_I. Monitors resettlemcnt during periodic supervision missions;                                                                            Z
rk)
7See above
7C   nsresHlnsi 
7,(XM Investmnt Holdmngs Plc                                                                28



aD
Safety ofDams OP 4,37                                  -
c                  _/~~~~~~~~~& r |e ig Mm                                              M Dff M; XA ME c= SIlFt!E tf[f-ASE-
l. Sftrb-Pnrp              ZECU:                                                                                                    Applicatin                       m
Mendflai)' and             1. Prepare TOR for an indcpnden cxpent (JE) to advise on safety meamires n tailing dns sub-prects
A,picalen                  2. Reviews wih the involvemenl af JE, the dam safety of all talig dams in project area and outlines measrce for
adequately improving dam safety;                                                                                                       N
3. Describes dwm safety issues in the Applicahon
The Bank:
L . Reviews the TOR of the E frfno oubjection;
Z na" Review ad            EMF:                                                                                                     Application
Dwlaw                      1. Involvcs relevanl <bm safty cxperise in revwingthe Applicalion;                                       Record of Decision               N
3. SW   IPrj Prepea,u r    ZECU:                                                                                                    DDaft Enmrgency
and Delaikd Design         1. Enres that lB reviews the entire dam safety progsan (all damn sub-projects) aid goo-technical survey, and  Prepredness Plan;           N
endorses the proposed measures and their prioritization;                                              Constuction Supervision and     N.
2. Prepares, following the [I rcommendatian, the following docurnts8:                                    Quality Assurance Plan;          (A
*   TOR for technical services foi preparation of the above (for review by IE before biddig)         Draft (O&M) plan;
*   Draft Pmergency Preparedness Plan and a cost estimate to prepar the final plan                   Instrumentation Plan;
*   Construction Supervision and Quality Assurance Plan;                                             Necessary permits or licenses
*   Draft Operation amd Maintenanoc (O&M) plan;                                                      from relevant regulator
*   Instrumientaion Plan;                                                                            agemies
4. Final RevieW            EIMF:                                                                                                    Legal Agreement /
Decision                   I. Revws dam safety infotwafion and tI recomnnndatons;                                                   Record of Decision
2. Ensures ZCCM obligations to implemeot the dam safety measures are reflected in the record of decisi<orlegal
agreement;
3. Ensures adequate fumding for dam safety niasures;
S Tender Predrire and      ZECU:                                                                                                    Tedmical Specifications
Awardof onlmt              ,. Ensures th the IE gives no objection to dam sub-project TOR/ tech. specifications beforetendering;    Contrat
.  2   Enswres pse-qualification of bidders for dam work;
6. Inplenearrion &         ZECU:                                                                                                    Progress Reports to EMF;         :z
Supen*ian                  I . Finalizes and implements Ihe Emergeny Preparedess Plan;                                              Emergency Prupepdncss Plan;      o
2: Finalizes and implements the O&M plan;              -                                                O&M Plan;
3. Retains written inStuctions for flood handing (where relevant) and emergency preparedness at accessibe locations;  Flood handling inshuctions;
4. Ensures regular input from the I duing implementation inchlding field inspectioms;
Sorme or all of these documents will be prepared when recontmended by the IE based on the scope and complcxily of the tailing dao rehabilitation.                  W
ZCCM Investments Holdings Plc                                                               29



5. Bnsures implemcntation af thc remedial and dam afety measures r nmnded bry the IE                                                        N
6. Reporls an dan safety issues to EMF in regular progress reposs;                                        I
7. Advises the EN[F and the Bank and f any stnsitive dam safety issues that arise during inplementation;  I
7. Sub-Pwjecd Comp Zetion,  ZC(  I:                                                                                                   Cenleltn rer;
Ha&dver. Matngenwawe,       I. Ensures adequate public awarness of emergwy prepadness plan and trainingforemergcneysShuions;           Naitaielo and   pon
2. Ensures periodic safety inspections are carried out af  project censpietion and handover with findings reported to  Records
the aidhorities and publicly disclosed
Protection of Physical Cultural Resources OPN 11.03
1. S  kbProet              ZECU:                                                                                                      Application 
lv   ivfn&m and            I . Involves adequate cultural resource management expertise in sub-project preparatiom;                                                    N
Akakien                    2.  Duing envinnmental and social screening (see steps for Sub-Praject Identification in the matrix an Environmenial  Existng documents on   N
Asscssmenr, identifics possibJc adverse impacts on physical culural rmsources (PCR) in Application, and outlines  physical cultural rcsurces in  w
siting and design options lhat would avoid or mmin i7.e the impat;                                     the subiprqject area aDid        -D
3. Outlines additional information gathering and assessment that will be canied out during detailed sub-project  anficipated impacts
preparation;
Z. InifaI Review ausd      RMF:                                                                                                       Applicatioo
Dechieo                   I. Involves adequnte cuhural property expertise in reviewing the Application;
1L Sub-Prect Pawparien     ZCCM:                                                                                                      PCR management plan
and                        I . Consuhs local comrmunities on location and use of PCR,                                                 included in EA or
Detailed Design            2. Conducts detaied physical examination of sub-project ares (defines spatial and tempoaal boundaries), inventories  Environmental Analysis
cultural resources, documents ther significance and identifies moc comprhehnsively the possible adverse impacts
an cultural rcsources;
3. Discusses design alternatives to avoid or miniminze advexse impacis (dired and indirect),
4. Dcvelops plan and measures for adequate mangement of PCR (including chance finds') in consultation with local  Necessary permits or licenses
ommunities and relevand stakeholders;                                                                 fiem relevant regulaor            o
s.  Outlines the monitoring of implemnenWaion of the PCR mhanagment plan;                                  agees
4.A irma RevueiW           ElMF:                                                                                                      LTal Agrecnent
9'Chance finds are uncovering of previously unknown physical cultural resources.                                                                                    (
ZCCM Invesutents Holdings Plc                                                                30



a:
0
N
a:
Decision                   1. Ensures that measures fur mmagement of PCR aTe adequately reflected in record ofdecision / legal agreement with  Record of Decision   N
ZCCM and related bxdding docuents;
2. Ensures funding for implementation of PCR managmt (including treabnt of chance finds);                                                 -
5. TenderPreceiwres and    ZECU:                                                                                                   ContractTOR ITehnical 
Award of Co*racts          1. Ensures implemenation of the cultural property management plan mnd its incorpmation in procuement documents  Specificadions
and constrction contracts;_
6. Impneme  iW &           ZF,CU:                                                                                                  Progress Repowts to EMF
I. Enurs adequate monitoring of managment of PCR and captures it in regular progrss iepots;
2. Repasts chance finds to EMF and relevant govenmierd agencies;
Z Snb-Pmje Co$elion,     ZCCM:                                                                                                    Completion report
Mandoe9r, MaJiNaenance,    1. Assesses effectiveness of cultural property managcmeat measures at the completion of the sub-project;                                 RI
N
N
Natural Habitats OP 4.04                                                                                                                                          w
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                                                       0     z
1. Snb-P   d               ZECU:                                                                                                   Applction
IdenTij    n and           I  Ensures direct, indirct and ctmulative impes (conversion ar degradation) on natual habitats are adequately
A   lickaten                  considcred duning cnvrmnntal and scial screening (see matrix on Envirurmienal A3sssmtnt).            Existing docemns on natural
2. Follows steps I . - 8. for Sub PFroject Identification m the matrix on Envrw ietl Assesecnt           habiitds and antficipated
impacts
2. IniJia Review and       EIVIF:                                                                                                  Applicabon
DecEisen                   2. Considers onversion ar degraion of naturl habitats when reviewing tie Applicatin, soeking independent
expertisc as necessary
3. Foflows steps 1. - 3. for Initial Review in the miatix on Environmental Assessmcnt
3. SPrep              n    ZECU                                                                                                    EA or Environmetl Analysis       M
and            -           6. Ensures that convmsion or degradation of natural habitats is avoided or mniimized;                                                    Z 
DetagedDcxfi               7. Outlines oampensatory protected areas or other miigation measures if significant convermon or degradation of
natLual habitats is unavoidable;
8. Addresses natural habitats following th steps for SubiProject Prepamtion and Detailed Design in the matrix on
Environmental Assessment;
ZCCM Investnents Holdings Plc                                                              31



a
:2
'S
EMF:                                                                                                                                   (S
1. Erinse adequate considration of unpacts on nathral habitats foflowing the steps for Sub-Proect Pepration and  Necessary permits or licenses
Detailed Design in the matrix an Environmental Assmment,                                           from relevant regulakt           -
agencies
N
4. Finan Reiemi            EMF:                                                                                                   Legal Agreement
Dewiea                     1. Reviews and approves the sub-project far funding based on the sn criteria;                          Record of Decision
2. Enswes that the record of decision / legal agreement between EMF and ZCCM reflectsn nanSoftheEA                                     N
or envwneotal analysis with respect to ntwural habitats;                                                                            n
S. Teand  Pracedw&r said  ZECUP                                                                                                   Technical Specifications,
A wrd of Ceanrw            1. Ensures that TOR and contracts are consistent with the recommendations of EA or cnvirmeidtal anilysis on  Contract
oompensatory or mitigation measues with respecl to naltual habitats;                                                              I
6. mplementatin A         ZECU:                                                                                                   Progress Reports to EMF
Se"wafon                   I. Jmplements compensatory or mitigation meas2res for natural habitats following steps I. -3. fur Implementation
and Supervision in the matrix on Environmental Assessmenl                                                                          N
EMP:                                                                                                                                   N
2. Follows steps 4.- S. for Implemenatian and Supervision in he matrix on Enviromenatal Assessmetnd    _
7. Sab-Projkl Cempkl.n,   ZECU:                                                                                                  Completion Repotl
Handover, Mai.nmrwce,      1. Includes evahaion of acmual degradation or conversion of natural habitats in sub-projecd compleion report
following steps 1. - 2. fer Sub-Proect Completion in the Enviromental Assessment matrix
Zu
w
ZCCM Irnvestmcnts Holdings Plc                                                            32



8.NOV.2002  17:47       ZCCM-I.H. 260 2 245364                          NO.754     P.34
7. ZCCM-IH Environmental Policy
ZCCM Investments Holdings is committed to implernent those environmental
plans that are designed to protect public health and safety and operates under a company
environmental policy. There is top management support to all the plans that will be
developed in the CEP. The implementation of the CEP project will be funded by a World
Bank credit This fimding will be accomplished by the setting up of the Envirotnmental
Management Facility.
ZCCM-IH Plc is committed to making good in accordance with our statutory and contractual
obligations all areas that have been affected by its past mining activities. Rehabilitation and
decommissioning of applicable mine sites will be done professionally to meet the
requirements of the Zambian safety, health and environmental standards and work to attain
International Standards where economically practicable.
ZCCM-IH Plc has therefore set the following objectives in carrying out the rehabilitation and
decommissioning;
a)    Protection of public health and safety
b)    Minimize the effect of our activities on the environment.
c)    Rehabilitate areas that have been affected by our past mining activities to the
maximum extent economically practicable.
In meeting these objectives, ZCCM-IH Plc will:
a)    Comply with applicable laws, regulations and other legislated conditions as a
minimum standard to advance environmental protection and to minimize safety,
health and environmental risks.
b)    Communicate openly with appropriate government and other authorities, in particular
the general public and other stakeholders, on activities of mine site rehabilitation and
facilitate due consideration and respect for the views of all concemed parties.
c)    Assess and take account of safety, health and environmental as well as economic
impacts prior to the implementation of rehabilitation programmes.
d)    Apply appropriate safety, health and environmental standards to each particular
activity.
e)    Require Contractors to be aware of our safety, health and environmental standards
and be in a position to assist in the implementation and maintenance of these
standards.
f)    Set appropriate goals, objectives, targets and performance indicators for all
rehabilitation activities.
g)    Conduct regular environmental audits at all the sites that are to be rehabilitated and
report audit fndings to the ZCCM-IH Plc Board of Directors on a regular basis.
h)    To develop the capacity to plan and oversee the environmental management and mine
site rehabilitation for those facilities which will remain with us.
i)    Handover rehabilitated sites to appropriate authorities.
ZCCM Investments Holdings Plc                                             33



8.NOV.2002   17:47      ZCCM-I.H. 260 2 245364                           NO.754    P.35
8.    Resettlement Policy Framework
8.1   Objectives of the Resetlement Policy Framework
The purpose of the Resettlement Framework is to clarify the principles for social impact
mitigation as regards compensation for loss of property, livelihood and relocation or
resettlement. Based on the principles in this Resettlement Framework, for each sub-project
with resetlement activity, a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) conforming to the requirements
of the Outline in Annex 1 will be prepared,
The framework is valid for all subproject operations of ZCCM IEI, whether or not financed
under the World Bank supported project. The operational objective of the framework is to
provide guidelines to stakeholders participating in the mitigation of adverse social impacts of
the project, including rehabilitation / resettlement operations, in order to -ensure that project
affected persons (PAPs) will not be impoverished by the adverse social impacts of the
project.
Accordingly, the ZCCM-IH has set out three overriding objectives to guide the resetdement
work: avoidance, compensation and replacement. These objectives are described in more
detail below.
Avoidance
Resettlement would be the least desired but necessazy option within a site specific
remediation package financed by the EMF. Resettlement will not be the traditional result of a
project activity but should be seen as one of the options that will be chosen in order to
improve the living conditions of people in the project area. It will be a solution of last resort,
when abatement is not feasible for technical, financial or legal reasons and when other
options to protect human health and safety have been exhausted.
Compensation
Compensation for loss of and access to land
ZCCM-IH is in possession of land which will be used for resettlement purpose and therefore
Provincial Planning Office of the Ministry of Local Government and Housing will coordinate
the land issue with ZCCM-IH.
Land for land compensation will be applied for PAPs who might lose their land in the process
of determination of areas which are unhealthy and unsafe for human habitation.
The compensation will take into account;
i. The legal status of the land to be compensated although both those with land titles and
without will be entitled to compensation.
ii. The quality of the land as regard to its utilisation, and
iii. The quantity and the number of people using the land as main source of income.
The project will pay for PAPs to be provided with land in accordance with the legal status of
the land that they previously cultivated or exploited, i.e. they would be givcn altemate land
but not necessarily with titles. Economically marginalized PAPs with reduced access to land
ZCCM Investments Holdings Plc                                             34



8.NOV.2002  17:48       ZCCmI-I.H. 260 2 245364                          NO.754     P.36
will be given particular attention by providing them with more land in order to enhance the
sources of their livelihood. Also, home gardens for women will be restored with equivalent
facilities in terms of access to sources of water.
Compensation for los of property
The CEP will compensate PAPs who might lose their property in the process of
dctermination of areas which are unhealthy and unsafe for human habitation. The Zambian
Constitution (Chapter 1, Article 16 as well as the Land's Acquisition Act (Chapter 189)
recognizes compensation for loss of property due to implementation of development projects.
The law includes houses, crops and trees. Zambian law sttes that compensation for loss of
property will be paid at mar3cet value determined by market valuation and agroed with
Government Valuation.
Compensation for loss of income
There is no legislation in Zambia which provides for compensation for loss of income (unless
the loss of income is related to loss of land or loss of property where compensation is made,
land for land and compensation at market value). In the absence of national legislation, again
the World Bank policy 4.12 will be precedent
8.2 Resettlement Planning Principle and Process
In the event that resettlement is recommended under the EMP/CEMP process, ZCCM-IH
would be responsible for preparation, planning, implementation and follow-up of a RAP (and
other required processes as detailed in this Framework). At launching of each subproject,
stakeholders will be consulted to establish planning principles and work arrangements aimed
at identifying and mitigating adverse social impacts induced by sub-project operations.
Baseline surveys and valuation of properties will be effected ahead of the commencement of
works. Payment of compensation will be affected at the time of relocation. Progressively, all
PAPs will be consulted in the process, be it in the context of resettlement / compensation, in
the context of mitigating adverse project related environmental or social impacts.
Likewise, prior to project launching, appropriate government agencies will be consulted by
the ZECU. The proposed RAP would be reviewed and approved by the ECZ with requisite
disclosure and consultation with stakeholders.
The Project Steering Cornnittee (PSC) will provide overall monitoring of the process, and
will be required to approve the RAP. For expediency and to ensure the continuity of EMF
operations, a Technical Sub-committee of the PSC will be formed to expedite matters
requiring approval of the PSC. The main task of this Technical Sub-Committee will be to
approve sub-projects to be fimded under the EMF. The Technical Sub-Committee will report
to the PSC.
Documentation for each proposed sub-activity, including EMPs, RAPs or other documents,
would be submitted to the WB for approval before inclusion in the program of WB-financed
activities.
8.3   Legal Frameworkfor Compensaton
Zambia Expropriafion Laws
ZCCM Invcsmcnts Holdngs PIC                                                35



8.NOV.2002   17:48      ZCCM-I.H. 260 2 245364                           NO.754    P.37
While a specific law pertaining to issues of involuntary resettlement does not exist, there are
various pieces of legislation that provide guidance regarding legal provisions for
expropriation of land, Tabulated below are lega statutes that have provisions pertaining to
land and property.-
i)    Constitution of Zambia, Chapter I of the Laws of Zambia, Aricle 16 of the
Constitution provides for the fumdamental right to proprt and protects pens
from the deprivatioi of property. It states that a person cannot be deprived of
property compulsorily except under the Authority of an Act of Parliament, which
provides for adequate payment of compensation. The Article further provides that
the Act of Parliament under reference shall provide that in default of agreement on
the amount of compensation payable, a court of competent jurisdiction shall
determine the amount of compensation.
ii)   Lands Acquisition Act Chapter 189 of the Laws of Zambia
Section three of the Lands Acquisition Act empowers the President of the
Republic to compulsorily acquire property. Sections 5 to 7 of the Act provides for
the issuing of notices to show the intention to acquire. notice to yield up property
and to take up possession. Section 10 of the Act provides for compensation as
consisting of such moneys as may be agreed from moneys appropriated for the
purpose by Parliament. Furthermore, this section provides that where the property
to be compulsonily acquired is land, the President, with the consent of the person
entitled to compensation shall make in lieu or in addition to any compensation
payable under the section, grant other land not exceeding in value of the land
acquired. Section 1 1 of the Lands Acquisition Act provides for the resettlement of
the disputes relating to the amount of compensation to the High Couri.
In conclusion, under the Lands Acquisition Act, the principles of compensation
are pivoted on the basis that the value of the property for the purposes of
compensation shall be the value of the amount which the property might be
expected to realize if sold on the open market by a willing seller at the time of the
publication of the notice to yield up possession of the property.
iii)   Environmental Protection and Pollution Control (Environmental Impact
Assessment) Regulations 1997 (No. 28 of 1997, promulgated under the
Environmental Protection and Pollution Control Act Chapter 204 of the Laws of
Zambia).
Regulation 3 of the Regulations specifies which types of developments require a
project brief in the First Schedule.
Regulation 10 providos for public consultation by the developer before subniitting
the environmental impact statement to the Council by seeking the views of the
people in the communities, which will be affected by the project shall:-
o  Publicize the intended project, its effects and benefits in the mass media in a
language understood by the community for a period of not less than fifteen
days and thereafter at regular intervals throughout the project implementation
schedule;
o  After the expiration of fifteen days referTed to above, hold meetings with
affected commmnities in order to present information on the project and obtain
views of those concemed,
Regulation 11 provides for the contents of environmental impact statements to
include:
ZCCM Invcstmcnts Holdings Plc                                              36



8.NOV.2002   17:48      ZCCM-I.H. 260 2 245364                            NO.754     P.38
* The social economic impact of the project, such as resettlement of affected
people;
* Socio-econoniic and cultmral considerations such as effects on generation or
reduction of employment in the area, social cohesion or resettlement, local
economic impacts;
*  Effect on land uses and land potential in the project area and surrounding
areas.
iv)   The Town and Country Planning Chapter 283
The Act provides for the preparation, approval and revocation of development
plans, for the control of development and subdivision of land, for the assessment
and payment of compensation in respect of planning decisions, for the
preparation, approval and revocation or modification of regional plans.
Under the Act, any change of land use requires the consent of the local authority
and approval by the lands department.
v)     The Zambia Wildlife ActNo. 12 of 1998
Section 32 of the Zambia Wildlife Act provides that any activity or plan which is
likely to have an adverse effect on any wildlife species or community in a
National Park, Game Management Area or Open Area shall be subjected to a
wildlife impact assessment as required by the Zambia Wildlife Authority where
resettlement would have or is likely to have an impact on wildlife, a wildlife
impact assessment would be required under this Act.
World Rank Operational Policy on Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12)
In addition to applicable local laws, the standards of the World Bank's Opeational Policy
4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement) will apply to the project The applicable standards will be
the more stringent of the two sources of policy and implementation requirements. The major
objectives of the policy are as follows:
a) Involuntary resettlement should be avoided where feasible, or minimized, exploring
all viable alternative project designs.
b) Where it is not feasible to avoid resettlement, resettlement activities should be
conceived and executed as sustainable development programs, providing sufficient
investmnert resources to enable the persons displaced by the project to share in project
benefits. Displaced persons should be meaningfully consulted and should have
oppormunities to participate in planming and implementing resettlement programs.
c) Displaced persons should be assisted in their efforts to improve their livelihoods and
standards of living or at least to restore them, in real terms, to pre-displacement levels
or to levels prevailing prior to the beginning of project implementation, whichever is
higher.
ZCCM Invcstmcnts Holdings Plc                                               37



8.NOV.2002  17:49       ZCCM-I.H. 260 2 245364                          NO.754     P.39
8.4 Resettkment Procedures
Organizational Procedures
The MCUT, its Steering Committee (PSC) and Project Management Unit (PMU) will be
responsible for the organizational procedures for t'he delivery of entitlements. This will be
done in coordination with experts having experience on the project. The ZECU /I PSC / PMU
will also be responsible for financial disbursements, if they occur.
Implementation Process
The process for implementing the mitigation measures is:
a) To determine if resettlement is required.
b) To draw up a detailed list of all persons affected (PAPs).
c) To detennine what each PAP stands to lose (valuation of houses, land, crops and other
properties).
d) To determine what the timefame is for compensation.
e) To determine what the preferred compensation is (paricipatory process).
f) To offer compeosation (kdnd or cash).
Grievance Redress Mechanrsm
The PAPs will be given opportunities to present complaints and grievances through the
resettlement process. The mechanisms for redressing the grievances of the affected
populations will be through consultation. Written submission of the grievance, for each
subproject, will be received by ZECU. ZECU will have a conflict resolution committee
which will review each grievance case, The committee shall comprise of two representativcs
of the PAPs ( one female and one male), one Community Based NGO selected by the PAPs,
one representative of ZECU, one Ward Councilor, one representafive from Resident
Development Committee, and one local government representative (e.g. Town Planner or
Community Development Officer).
First, compensation committees including representatives of PAPs, will agree to the
compensation rates in accordance with government and World Bank policies. Second,
compensation will be paid to individual PAPs only after a written consent of the PAPs,
including both husband and wife. Should a PAP, refuse the compensation suggested, the
committee will daft its conclusions and submit them to the Technical Subcommittee for
deliberation in the aim to settle the differences. Should grievance prevail, a civil court will
settle the litigation. Bach individual PAP has the right to refuse the compensation rate
proposed and take his case to the court when other grievance redress measures have failed.
Arrangements for Funding
The arrangements for funding will include either the facilities to relocate or the cash
equivalent. The source for funding will be from the EMF.
ZCCM Invetments Holdings Plc                                              38



8.NOV.2002   17:49      ZCCM-I.H. 260 2 245364                           NO.754    P.40
Operational Procedures
Institutional Framework
Ihe ZECU via the Project Management Unit (PMU) and Project Steering Committee (PSC)
will have overall responsibility for the activities of the project, specifically coordination
responsibilities such as monitoring and evaluation.
Project operations regarding resettlement / rehabilitation will be coordinated and monitored
by the ZECU office. The Government Valuation Departnent will be contracted to canry out
the valuation of land, houses and trees. A committee to deal with resettlement issues, in
parallel to issues of access to resource and conflict resolution will be constituted for each sub-
project. The committee shall comprise of two representatives of the PAPs (one female and
one male), one Community Based NGO selected by the PAPs, one representative of ZECU,
one Ward Councilor, one representative from Resident Development Conmittee, and one
local government representative (e.g. Town Planner or Community Development Officer).
The exact responsibility of each resettlement committee will vary between subprojects, and
will be absent if resettlement is not an issue.
Social Assessment at Project Launching
At project launching, an assessment of the social impacts of the subproject will be conducted.
For any sub-project not included in the social assessment at the launch, Z1ECU will carry out
a social assessment as soon as the sub-project will be identified. The major objective of the
social assessment is to identify the social development issues so as to facilitate the targeting
of project benefits. This is done by focusing on the definition of the institutional and
participatory famework so as to enhance participation in decision-making processes. At the
same time the study team should identify the impact on populations and also prepare for
adequate mitigating actions, It is important social impact monitoring be incorporated
throughout the life cycle of the project to ensure that benefits from the project are received in
a sustainable way and therefore a development of a methodology of monitoring and
evaluation is also part of a social assessment.
Ihe social impact assessment will need to focus on data related to social, economic and
political stmutures. Key issues to be addressed are the following:
(i)   the social situation of the people affected by the subproject (social groupings,
locality, uniformity or diversity of background, degree of identification with the
locality in question, etc.
(ii)  socio-econornic diversity (income sources, agriculture, commerce, markets, public
services. transports. inter-commercial zone rclationships, trading, exchange
(iii)  identify formal and informal agencies in public and private sectors (memben of
local communities, NGO's, donors, government agencies, private enterprises)
(iv)  define the role and participation of the different stakeholders in the
implementation of the project (in management of resources, in the decision-
maling processes, in general being negatively affected or benefiting from project)
ZCCM Investments Holdings Plc                                             39



8.NOV.2002  17:50       ZCCM-I.H.,260 2 245364                           NO.754     P.41
(v)   define the impact of project activities on the different stakeholders and the
activities that will be planned and implemented in order to enhance or mitigate
these impacts.
(vi)  Specify the different impact categories per stakeholder (household)
(vii)  define the institutional mechanisms that will ensure that local communities and
other stakeholder participates in planning, implementation and monitoring of
resettlement
(viii) design the participatory processes for involving stakeholders in planning,
implementation and follow-up of project activities.
(ix)  Identify the specific benefit-related activities that will increase stakeholder's
profits from project activities and therefore enhance the success potential of the
resettlement activity.
A key task to be conducted under this process is listing of all PAPs and general household
data such as: family size, gender and age information; education; occupation; land ownership,
tenure amngements, inheritance regulations; sources of income and so forth. The survey of
household is necessary in order to avoid an influx of people trying to take advantage of the
compensation and rehabilitation. A cut off date will be proclaimed. That means, a date from
which eligibility for compensation will be terminated. New inhabitants coming to the project
affected areas will not be considered for compensation.
The process for preparation and approval of resettlement plan(s)
ZCCM-IH will contract resettlement specialist6 who will, in collaboration with national
specialists, prepare the resettlement plan(s). Once a draft is available and found satisfactory
to ZCCM-IH and the government, it will be sent by the government to the World Bank who
will review and approve or disapprove of the resettlement plan. If the draft plan is approved,
the resettlement process can continue to proceed but if it is found unsatisfactory, the
necessary revisions will need to be made and the new draft will need to be re-submitted to the
World Banlk
8.5 Criteria and Eligibilityfor Compensation
The compensation and rehabilitation will be provided for all affected people under the
following conditions:
a) if their land area or income source will be removed due to land acquisition because it
is considered too hazardous to remain living/cultivating on that land;
b) if their houses (or residential plots) will need to be demolished (same reasons as
above), and;
c) if their other properties (crops, trees, and other facilities) or access to these properties
will be cut off and the properties destroyed because of health and safety reasons.
All affected people, regardless of their legal status, wil be provided compensation and
rehabilitation based on the policies adopted by the project Lack of legal paper of their
customary rights of occupancy certificates shall not be an obstacle for obtaining
compensation for them. The resettlement policy should apply to all components under the
ZCCM Investnents Holdins Plc                                               40



8.NOV.2002   17:50       ZCCM-I.H. 260 2 245364                           NO.754     P.42
project regardless (whether or not they are directly fuided by the Ban and in cases where
other donors are involved). It should also cover resettlement resulting from complementary
activities that are not part of the Bank assisted investment projects, but are necessary to
achieve its objectives as set forth in the project documents. The policy applies to all affected
and/or displaced persons regardless of the total number affected or the severity of impact.
Particular attention is to be paid to the needs of vulnerable groups among those displaced.
especially those below the poverty line, the elderly, women and children.
The compensation envisaged under this project is not a recognition of/and does not in anyway
confer any legal status or any rights on the affected PAPs with regard to their entitlement to
the land from which they are being relocated. However, to the fullest extent possible.
informal tenure will be regularized under project auspices through usual government
procedures.
Peoplc involvcd in illegal and destructive activities at sites within the project area, such as
those who have entered the aea to strip materials from mining stuctures-, and those who may
enter once a cut-off date is established for a given site, will not be considered as PAPs, and
will therefore not be considered for compensaion.
Project Implementation
The ZECU will consult with the stakeholders to assess presumed adverse social impacts of
project operations and plan for the expropriation / compensation J resettlement operations to
be executed. Once the resettlement plan is prepared, reviewed and approved by the
government and the World Bank, implementation of the expropriation / compensation and
resettlement / relocation operations should be completed as soon as possible.
The implementation procedures will be carried out by the contracted specialists in line with
the approved resettlement plan.
8.6   Methodsfor Valuing AffectedAssets
Organizational Procedures for Delivery of Entitlements
The actual valuation exercise of all impact on PAPs, including valuation of property, will be
carried out by the "Government Valuation Department" of the Republic of Zambia.
With regard to land and structures, "replacement costs" is defined as follows:
- for agricultural land, it is the pre-project or pre-displacement, whichever is higher,
market value of land of equal productive potential or use located in the vicinity of
the affected land, plus the cost of land preparation to levels similar to those of the
affected land, plus the cost of any registation and transfer taxes;
- for land in urban areas, it is the pre displacement market value of land of equal
size and use, with similar or improved public infratructure facilities and services
and located in the vicinity of the affected land, plus the cost of any registration
and transfer taxes;
-  for houses and other gtructures, it is the market cost of the materials to build a
replacement structure with an area and quality similar to or better than those of the
affected structure, or to repair a partially affected structure, plus the cost of
tansporting building materials to the constuction site, plus the cost of any labour
and contractor's fees, plus the cost of any registation and transfer taxes.
ZCCM Investnonts Holdings Plc                                              41



8.NOV.2002   17:50      ZCCM-I.H. 260 2 245364                           NO.754     P.43
In determining the replacement cost, depreciation of the asset and the value of salvage
materials are not taken into account, nor is the value of benefits to be derived from the project
deducted from the valuation of an affected asset Where Zambia law does not meet the
standard of compensation at full replacement cost, World Bank guidelines and technical
specifications for compensation at replacement cost will be applied.
Method and Basis of Valuation
Two methods can be used to conduct the valuation of property for PAPs. These are
replacement cost and compensation value3 (see also Annex 3).
Replacement Cost
The replacement cost approach is based on the premise that the costs of replacing productive
assets that have been damaged because of project operations. These costs are taken as a
minimum estimate of the value of measures tat will reduce the damage or improve on-site
management practices and tlereby prevent damage. The approach involves direct
replacement of expropriated assets and covers an amount that is sufficient for asset
replacement, moving expenses and other transaction costs. This minimum value is then
compared to the cost of the new measures. This is arrived at, by analyzing current
construction costs relative to design, materials employed, workmanship and final finish of the
subject properties.
The basis of the valuation is Gross Current Replacement Cost (GCRC). Gross Current
Replacement Cost is defied as the esimated cost of erecting a new building having the same
gross external areas that of the existing one, with the site works and services on a similar
piece of land. The valuation process will also consider the use of "compensation value" for
affected properties.
Compensation
Compensation value is defined as an amount which is above the gross current replacement
cost, including the costs for the inconvenience caused to the PAP by relocation, and to enable
the same PAP to build slightly better houses than what they currently occupy.
Compensation for land, stuctures, business, fixed improvements and other temporary assets
will be based on market valuation, productivity valuation, negotiated settlements, matenial
and labour valuation, position of salvage materials and other fees paid. It should be noted that
lack of title, license or permit will not be a bar to compensation. Because, even squatters
have construction costs relative to design, materials employed, workmnanship and final finish.
If relocation of business becomes necessary, access to customers and suppliers will be taken
into account. In addition, workers losing employment in the process of relocating should be
entitled to transitional income support.
PAPs who lose wages or other income during the process of relocation should be
compensated for their losses. RAPs for specific sites will include plans to compensate people
during periods of employment training if such training is included as a necessary element of
the restoration of their incomes, In preparing the valuation, average costs will have to be
assumed. It should be noted that costs of construction vary from one locality to the other.
Compensadon Procedures and Civil Work Schedule                     I
A social assessment will be used to determine the number of PAPs in a subproject area. The
staff of the ZECU. the local govermment] consultants will conduct the assessnent. Works
ZCCM Investmen Holdings Plc                                              42



8.NOV.2002   17:51       ZCCM-I.H. 260 2 245364                             NO.754     P.44
anticipated to be carried out under the CEP will predominantly consist of remediation civil
works aimed at mitigating enyironment liabilities of ZCCM/GRZ. These works will involve
environmental cleaning up, maintenance of tailing dams, rehabilitation of dumps, works
associated with resettlement of people and any related compensation.
These works are in two categories as follows:
a) Emergency works, and;
b) Works identified from the EMPs from ZCCM and investors. Others works will be
identified by stakeholders such as NGO.
Some of these works have already been identified and should be ready for procurement
immediately after project approval.
Compensation will be paid at replacement cost. Expropriation and compensation committees
will be established for PAPs in each of the operations following the social impact assessment.
The committees will be constituted as defined in section 5. Together they will conduct the
registration of affected PAPs and properties. Likewise, they will establish the compensation
rates, taking into account, World Bank requirements. RAPs will establish a timetable for
payment of compensation. Some advance payments may be needed to enable people to be
ready for their move, or retramining, while all payments for structures and lands must be
completed before the actual move is made.
Compensation procedures will include three steps:
a) Establishment of compensation committees;
b) Assessment of replacement values of identified assets; and,
c) Establishment of compensation rates for all assets to be expropriated.
For instance, compensation for trees will take into account the distinction between various
types of trees and their economic values; fruit trees versus non-fruit trees etc. Fruit trees will
be compensated for the value of lost production until another tree comes to the sarme stage of
productivity,
Sources of Funding
Resettlement for PAPs as well as for necessary studies will be fEnded like any other activity
eligible under the EMF and the same procodures will be applicable as for any other project
activity.1
Consultation and Participation
Relocating or compensating people implies communication or dialogue with the stakeholders.
The consultation and participation process will include four phases:
i)    data collecting;
The Bsnk do not disburse against cash compensation and other resettlement assistance paid in cash, or
against the cost of land (including compensation for land acquisition). Howcvcr, it may financo the cost of land
improvement associated with resettlement activities,
ZCCM Investments Holdings Plc                                                 43



8.NOV.2002   17:51      ZCCM-I.H. 260 2 245364                           NO.754    P.45
ii)   preparation and planning of operations;
iii)  implementation of opations, and;
iv)   monitoring and evaluadoiL
The ZECU will coordinate all four operations.
Data Collecting Phase
The data co31ecting phase will include consultations with PAPs, the autiorities and other
relevant stakeholders. The data collected will serve as instuments for the monitoring of the
social mitigation measures applied. PAPs will be consulted to participate in the data-
collecting phase by providing socio-economic information about their livelihoods. Also,
PAPs will be consulted through "town hall" meetings at the municipalities and other local
government facilities to share information about the project, discuss the social impacts of
project operations and the mnitigation measures suggested. The contributions of the PAPs will
be integrated into the subproject implementation process, from planning to evaluation.
Furthermore, data about the social impacts of the subprojects and the mitigation measures
suggested will be provided to local newspapers and radio stations.
The data-collecting phase includes three major processes;
i)    Preparation of the resettlement / rehabilitation policy framework;
ii)   Execution of the social impact assessment (to be initiated / completed at project
launching), and;
iii)   Preparation of the presumed RAP (to be initiated / completed before civil works).
Pisilug Phase
ZECU, PAPs (planning inputs, sounding board and advice-giving) and representatives of
local communities will be responsible for the plarming phase.
Planning and coordination of the tasks of the various stakeholders is the key to a succesfil
implementation of the expropriation / compensation arrangements. The objective of the
planning is to ensure that all affected people are compensated in full for their losses, and
where appropriate, enabled to improve their standards of living, income earning capacity, and
production levels, or at least to restore them Workshops will be organised with PAPs,
representatives of local cornmunities and relevant government agencies, at project launching
and at the commencement of every subproject identified to have adverse social impacts.
The different stakeholders will be requested to participate in the decision madimg process and
provide inputs in the area of their expertise in order to establish a coherent work plan. Also,
PAPs will be consulted in the aim to obtain their positions on issues at stake. The
requirements of their work programs / businesses activities will be incorporated into the
expropriation / compensation plans.
The work will focus on:
a) taking stock of the legal framework for compensation;
b) settle institutional arrangements and mechanisms for payment of compensation;
c) define tasks and responsibilities of each stakeholder, and;
d) establish a work plan.
ZCCM Invcsumcnts Holdings Pic                                              44



8.NOV.2002  17:51      ZCCM-I.H. 260 2 245364                           NO.754     P.46
Implementatdon Phase
The execution of the expropriation / compensation operations will be conducted by ZECU,
contracted specialist and other government agencies. PAPs will be consulted about the
compensation arrangements prepared. Cash compensation amount and size of land offered for
compensation will be presented to each eligible PAP (husband and wife) for consideration
and endorsement before cash payment or land for land compensation can be effected.
The timetables for resettlement will be coordinated with those of any civil works to ensure
that both activities can proceed without disruption or undue harm.
Monitoring and Evaluation Phase
The ZECU will organize project completion workshops with govemment agencies, NGOs
and representatives of PAPs after complefion of the expropiiation / compensation operations
but prior to the closure of the mitigation measures. The aim of that exercise is to assess
progress in the operations executed, suggest corrective measures where needed and solve
pending issues.
After completion of all expropriation / compensation operations, PAPs will be consulted in a
household survey. The aim of that survey is to assess the impacts of the social mitigadon
measures implemented. Likewise, rural conmunities with PAPs will be consulted to provide
their assessments of the impacts of the social mitigation measures applied.
The findings of the survey and the workshops will be presented in the project completion
report, which will be established by the ZECU.
8. 7 Approach to Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitoring Principles
For each subproject which will include resettlement, a monitoring and an evaluation plan of
the mitigation measures will be established. The scope of the plan will take into account the
size of the social impacts to be mitigated while respecting the basic monitoring principles.
The plans will describe:
* The internal monitoring process;
* Key monitoring indicators (provide a list of monitoring indicators, which would be
used for internal monitoring);
* Institutional (including financial) arrangements;
* Frequency of reporting and content for internal monitoring, process for integrating
feedback from internal monitoring into implementation;
* Financial arrangements for exteral monitoring and evaluation, including process for
awarding and maintenance of contracts for the duration of resettlement;
* Methodology for external monitoring;
* Key indicators for external monitoring, focusing on outputs and impacts;
ZCCM Investments Holdings Plc                                             45



8.NOV.2002   17:52      ZCCM-I.H. 260 2 245364                          NO.754     P. 47
* Frequency of reporting, content for external monitoring and process for integrating
feedback from extemal monitoring into implementation.
Internal Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitoring and evaluation will be a continuous process. Intemal monitoring will be
conducted by the ZECU, following the plan described. The ZECU will continuously take
stock of all expropriation / compensation reports and discuss their outcomes in its tschnical
meetings. The CEMP's procurement/financial will directly monitor compensation costs.
ZECCU progress reports will include a section on progress made regarding mitigation of
adverse social impacts. The steering commitee will review project activities, including social
mitigation measures and provide guidance.
External Monitoring and Evaluation
External monitoring will be conducted through World Bank supervision niissions. World
Bank Dsupervision mission (twice a year) will, however, not be sufficient to monitor progress
in the mitigation of adverse social impacts. Given the limited resettlement capacity in
Zambia, World Bank supervision missions should be coupled with capacity building inputs
from an international resettlement expert. This would ensure; progress on the ground;
strengthen analytical capacity and safeguard proper documentation of operations executed
and the progress made.
Before closure of the mitigation of adverse social impacts, the ZECU will consult with a local
NGO to conduct an evaluation of the mitigation measures executed. The sociology and
anthropology departments at Zambian universities may also be consulted. The evaluation
report will be used as a planning instrument to correct pending issues and suggest a post-
project monitoring period in the aim to ensure that PAPs have not been subject to
impoverishment induced by project operations,
ZCCM Investments Holdinv Plc                                              46



8.NOV.2002   17:52      ZCCM-I.H. 260 2 245364                             NO.754    P.48
CEP                           Environmeiit and Resmculment Policy FmmwewQrk - Annexes
Annexes
Annex 1. Outline of a Resettlemeit Plan
Individual RAPs may refer to this policy framework if subjects to be coverd axe included in
the framework
Introduction - Project Background
* Brief introduction about the project
* List of project components
* Description of project components causing land acquisiiion and resettlement.
Overall estimates of land acquisition and resettlement.
* Minimizing resettlement
* Describe efforts made for minimizing resettlement
*  Descnbe the result of these efforts
Census and Socio-economic Surveys
* Identify all categories of impacts (loss of property and assets; loss of livelihood;
impacts on groups and communities)
*  Give formats and tables for census sureys
* Provide outlines for socio-economic survey
* Summarize process for consultations on the results of the census surveys
* Describe need and mechanism to conduct updates, if necessary
Resettlement Policy and Legal Framework
* Identify areas of conflict between local laws and World Bank policies, and project-
specific mechanisms to address conflicts
* Provide a definition of project affected persons
* Describe entitlement categories for each category of impact
* Describe method of evaluation used for affected structures, land, trees and other assets
*  Proide entitement matrix
Resetdement Sites
* Does the project need community relocation? Have these been approved by the PAPs?
* Give layouts and designs of residential sites
*  Have the PAPs agreed to the strategy for housing replacement?
* Have the selected sites been explicitly approved by the PAPs describe the specific
process of showing the sites to the PAPs and obtaining their opinion on them.
* Describe the technical and feasibility studies conducted to determine the suitability of
the proposed sites.
* Is the land quality/area adequate for allocation to all of the PAPs eligible for
allocation of agricultural land?
ZCCM Invcstnta Holdings Plr                                            Page 47



8.NOV.2002   17:52       ZCCM -I.H. 260 2 245364                           NO.754     P.49
CEP                            Environment and Resettlement Policy Framework - Annexes
*  Give calculations relatng to site requirements and availability.
* Describe mechanisms for (i) procuring, (ii) developing and (iii) allotfing resettlement
sites
* Provide detailed description of the arraugements for site development for agriculture,
including finding of development costs.
Institutional Arrangements
*  Identify and discuss the institutions responsible for delivery of each item/activity in
the entitlement policy
* Describe the project resettiement unit - functions and organizational structure of the
unit and coordination relationship
*  State how coordination issues will be addressed in cases where resetdement is spread
over a number of jurisdictions.
* Identify who will coordinate all agencies-with the necessary mandate
* State when the project resettlement unit will be staffed.
* Describe plans for training and development of staff in the resettlement unit/local
* Discuss initiatives taken to improve the long term capacity or resettlement institutions
Income Restoration
* Briefly spell out the main restoration strategies for each category of impacts, and
describe the institutional, financial and technical aspects.
*  Describe the process of consultation with project affected persons (PAPs) to finalize
strategies for income restoration
* How do these strategies vary with the areallocality of impact?
*  Are the compensation entitlements sufficient to restore income streams for each
category of impact? What additional economic rehabilitation measures are necessary?
*  Does income restoration require change in livelihoods, development of altemative
farmlands, etc., or involve some other activities, which require a substantial amount of
time for preparation and implementation?
* How does the action plan propose to address impoverishment risks?
* Are choices and options built into the entitlements? If so, what is the mechanism for
risk and benefit analysis of each option? What is the process of ensuring that PAPs
have knowledge about alternatives and can make informed docisions? Is there a
mechanism to encourage vulnerable groups among PAPs to choose lower risk options
such as support in kind rather dtan cash?
*  What are the main institutional and other risks for the smooth implementation of the
resettlement programs?
Implementation Schedule
*  List and briefly describe the chronological steps in implementation of the
resettlement, including identification of agencies responsible for each step of the
progsam.
*  Prepare a month-wise implementation schedule of activities to be undertaken as part
of the resettlement implementation (Gantt chart)
ZCCM Investment Holdings Plc                                           Pagc 48



8.NOV.2002   17:53      ZCCM-I.H. 260 2 245364                           NO.754    P.50
CEP                           Environment and Resettlement Policy Framework - Annexes
* Describe the linkages between resettlement implementation and initiation of civil
works fhr each of the project components.
Costs and Budget
* Clear statement of financial responsibility and authority.
* Ensure that the cost of resettlement is included in the overall project costs.
* Identify components, if any, to be funded by donors such as the World Bank, JICA,
NORAD, DANIDA, etc.
* Resettlement costs should be a part of annual involvement plans.
* Prepare a cost-wise, item-wise budget estimate for the entire direction of resettlement
implementation, including administative expense, monitoring and evaluation and
contingencies.
* List the sources of funds and describe the flow of funds.
* Describe the specific mechanisms to adjust cost estimates by the inflation factor.
* Descnbe provisions to account for physical and price contingencies.
Participation and Consultation
* Descnbe the process of consultation/participation in resettlement preparation and
planning.
* Descnbe the various stakeholders.
* Describe the plan for disseminating information to project affected persons
* (PAPs), such as provisions for a booldet to inform PAPs and other stakeholders.
* Descnbe examnples of outcomes of participation and consultation, such as how local
beneficiaries' views have influenced the design process, entitlements and support
mechanisms, or other issues.
* Have workshops been conducted, or are they planned? Who are the participants, and
what are tIe expected outcomes?
Grievance Redress
* Describe the step-by-step process for registering and addressing grievances
* Provide specific details regarding registering complaints, response time,
communication modes, etc.
* Describe the mechanism for appeal
* Describe the provisions to approach civil courts in case other provisions fail.
Monitoring and evaluation
*  Describe the intemal monitoring process
* Define key monitoring indicators. Provide a list of monitoring indicators, which
would be used for internal monitoring.
* Describe institLLtional (including financial) arrangements.
* Describe frequency of reporting and content for intemal monitoring.
* Describe process for integrating feedback from intemal monitoring into
implementation.
ZCCM Investments Holdmgs Plc                                         Page 49



8.NOV.2002  17:53       ZCCi-I.H. 260 2 245364                          NO.754     P.51
CEP                          Environmnt_ and Resolement Policy Frmework - Anexes
* Descnbe financial arrangements for extemal monitoring and evaluation, including
process for awarding and maintenance of contracts for the duration of resettlement.
* Descnbe methodology for eaternal monitoring.
* Define key indicators for extemal monitoring, focussing on outputs and impacts.
* Describe frequency of repordng and content for external monitoring.
* Descnbe process for integrating feedback from exteral monitoring into
implementation.
ZCCM investmcmn Holdings Plc                                         Page 50



8.rNOV0.2002  17:53        ZCCN-I.H. 260 2 245364                                 NO.754     P.52
CEP                               Environment and Restement Policy Framework - Arniexes
Annex 2. World Bank Operational Policy 4.12
This directive was prepared for the guidance of staff of the World Bank and is not necessarily
a complete treatment of the subjects covered.
OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement
Introduction
1.     This directive describes Banlk policy and procedures on involuntary resettlemnct, as well as
the conditions that borrowers are expected to meet in operations involving involuntary
resettlement.2 Planing and financing resettlement components or free-standing projects are
an integral part of preparation for projects that cause involuntary displacement Any operation
that involves land acquisition or is screenod as a Category A or B project for environmental
assessment purposes3 should be reviewed for potential resettlement requirements early in the
project cycle (para. 20).
2.     Development projects that displace people involuntarily' generally give rise to severe
econonic, social, and environmental problems: prodUction systems are dismanled;
productive assets and income sources are lost; people are relocated to environments where
their productive skills may be less applicable and the compedtion for resources greater;
corrummity structures and wocial networks are weakened, kin groups are dispersed; and
cultural identity, traditional authority, and the potential for mutual help are diminished.
Involuntary resettlement ray cause severe long-tcrm hardship, impoverishment, and
enviromnental damnage unless appropriate measures are carefully planned and camed out.S
Policy Objectives
3.     The objective of the Bank-s resettlement policy is to ensure that the population displaced by a
project receives benefits from it Involuntary resettlement is an integral part of project design
and should be dealt with from the earliest stages of project preparation (Para. 28), taking into
account the following policy considerations:
(a)    Involuntary resettlement should be avoided or minimized where feasible, explonng
all viable alternative project designs. For example, realipment of roads or reductions
in dam height may significantly reduce resettlement needs.
(b)    Where displacement is unavoidable, resettlement plans should be developed. All
involuntary resettlement should be conceived and executed as development programs,
with resettlers provided sufficient investment resources and opportunities to share in
project benefits. Displaced persons should be
(i)    compensated for thcir losses at full replacement cost prior to the actual move;
(ii)   assisted with the move and supported during the transition period in the
resettlemernt site; and
(iii)  assisted in their efforts to improve their former living standards, income
earning capacity, and production levels, or at least to restore them. Particular
attention should be paid to the needs of the poorest groups to be resettled.
ZCCM Investments Holdings Plc                                                Page 51



8.NOV.2002    17:54        ZCCM-I.H. 260 2 245364                                NO.754      P.53
CEP                              Environment and Resetlement Policy Framework - Annexes
(c)    Community participalion in planning and implemnting resettlement should be
encoumaged. Appropriate paterns of social organizaon should be established, and
existing social and cultural institutions of resettlers and their hosts6 should be
supported and used to the greatest extent possible.
(d)    Resettlers should be integrated socially and economically into host co02mmities so
that adverse impacts on host commrnites are minimized, The best way of achieving
this integation is for resetflemcnt to be planned in areas benefiting from the project
and through consultation with the future hosts.
(e)    Land, housing, infiastructure, and other compensation should be provided to the
adversely affected population, indigenous groups,' ethnic minorities, and pastoralists
who rnay have usufuct or customary rights to the land or other resources taken for
the project The absence of legal title to land by such groups should not be a bar to
conmpensation.
Resettlement Plannizug
4.     Where large-scale' population displacement is unavoidable, a detailed resettlement plan,
timetable, and budget are required. Resettlement plans should be built around a development
strategy and package aimed at improving or at least restoring the economic base for those
relocated. Experienoc indicates that cash compensation alone is nornmlly inadequate.
Voluntay settlement may form part of a resettlemnet plan, provided measures to address the
special circumstances of involuntary resetters are included. Preference should be given to
land-based resettlement strategies for people dislocated from agricultural settings. If suitable
land is unavailable, nonland-based sttegies built around opportunities for employment or
self-employment may be used.
Plan Content
5.     The content and level of detail of resettlement plans, which will vary with circumstances,
especially the nmagitude of resettlement, should normally mclude a statemcnt of objectives
and policies, an executive summary. and provision for the following:
(a)    Organizational responsibilities (para. 6);
(b)    Community participation and integration with host populations paa. 7-10);
(c)    Socioeconomic survey (paRL 11);
(d)    Legal framework (para. 12),
(e)    Altemativc sites and selection (para. 13);
(f)    Valuation of and compensation for lost assets (paras. 14-16);
(g)    Land tenure, acquisition, and transfer (para. 17);
(h)    Access to naining, employment, and credit (parm. 18);
(I)    shelter, infrastructure, and social services (para. 19);
(j)    Environmiental protecion and management (para. 20); and
(k)    Implementation schedule. monitorig, and evaluation (paras. 21-22).
Cost estimates should be prepared for these activities, and they should be budgeted and scheduled in
coordination with the physical works of the main investment project.
ZCCM Investments Holdings Plc                                                Pago 52



U.NUV.edM      1-r:t4      ZCCT-I.H. 260 2 245364                                 NO.754     P.54
CB?                              Bnvixonmcnt and Resettlcmcnt Policy Frmewwork -,Annexes
Organizational Responslbilities
6.     The responsibility for resettlernent rests with the borrower. The organizational frmework for
managing resetdement must be developed during preparation and adequate resources
provided to the responsible institutions. The organization responsible for resettlement should
be strengthened when entities executing infrstructure or other sector- specific projects lack
the experience and outlook needed to design and inplement resettlement One alternative is to
create a special resettlement unit within the project entity this can facilitate tie involveMent
of other line agencies. Another alternative is to entrust resettlement to the regional or town
administration that knows the population and area, can mobilize local expertise, speaks the
resettlers' language, and will ultimately be responsible for the integration of resettlers into the
host population and area. There also may be considerable scope for involving;
nongovermental organizations (NGOs) m planning, implementing, and monitoring
resettlement9
Community Pardtcipation and Integration with Host Population
7.     Most displaced people prefer to move as part of a pre-existing community, neighbourhood, oT
kinship group. The acceptability of a resettlement plan can be increased and the disruption
caused by resettlement can be cushioned by moving people in groups, reducing dispersion,
sustainiag existing patterns of group organization, and retaining access to cultzral property"
temples, pilgrimage centres, etc.), if necessary, through the relocation of the propcrty.
8.     The involvement of involuntary resettlers and hosts in planning prior to the move is critical.
Initial resistance to the idea of involuntary resettlement is to be expected. To obtain
cooperation, participation, and feedback, the affected hosts and resettlers need to be
systematically infonned and consulted during preparation of the resettlement plan about their
options and rights. They should also be able to choose from a nunber of acceptable
resettlement alternatives. These steps can be taken direcdy or through formal and informal
leaders and representatives. Experience has shown that local NGOs can often provide
valuable assistanec and ensure viable community participation. Moreover, institutionalzed
arrangements, such as regular meetings between project officials and communities, should be
provided for resettlers and hosts to communicate their concems about the resettlement
program to project staff throughout planning and implementation."' Particular attention must
be given to ensure that vulnerable groups such as indigenous people, ethnic minorities, the
landless, and women are represented adequately in such arrangements.
9.     The plan should address and mitigate resettlement's impact on host populations. Host
communities and local governments should be informed and consulted. Any payment due the
hosts for land or other assets provided to resetters should be promptly rendered. Conflicts
between hosts and resettlers may develop as increased demands are placed on land, water,
forests, services, etc., or if the resettlers are provided services and housiug superior to that of
the hosts. Conditions and services m host communities should improve, or at least not
deteriorate. Providing improved education, water, health, and production services to both
groups fosters a better social climate for their integration. In the long run, the extra investmcnt
will help prevent conflicts and secure the project's aims.
10.    Successful resettlement requires a timely transfer of responsibility from setdement agencies to
the settlers themselves. Otherwise, a dependency relationship may arise, and agency resourccs
may become tied up in a limited numbcr of continually supervised schemes. Local leadership
must be encouraged to assume responsibility for environmental management and
infrastructure maintenance.
Socioeconomic Survey
ZCCM Investments Holdings Plc                                                 Page 53



U.NOV.Z102    17:54        ZCC1M-I.H. 260 2 245364                              NO.754      P.55
CEP                             Environment and Resettlement Policy FRamework - Annexes
II.    Reselement plans should be based on recent infomation about the scale and impact of
resettlement on the displaced populaton. In addition to descaibing standard household
Cbnracteristics, socioeconomic surveys should descrfbe
(a)    the magritude of displacement;
(b)    inormation on the full resource base of the affected population, including income
derived from informal sector and non farm activities, and from common property;
(c) the extent to which groups wvill experience total or partial loss of assets;
(d)    public infrastructure and social services that will be affected;
(e)    fonnal and informal institutions (such as community orgamizations, ritual groups,
etc.) that can assist with designing and implementing the resetement programs; and
(f)    attitudes on resettlement options. Socioeconomic surveys, recording the names of
affected families, should bc conducted as early as possible to prevent Mflows of
population ineligible for conpensation.
Legal Framework
12.    A clear understanding of the legal issues involved in resettlement is needed to design a
feasible resettlement plan. An analysis should be made to determine the nature of the legal
framework for the resetdement envisaged, including
(a)    The scope of the power of erninent domain, the nature of compensation associated
with it, both in terms of the valuation methodology and the timing of payment;
(b)    The legal and administrative procedures applicable, including the appeals process and
the normal time-frame for such procedures;
(c)    Land titling and registraton procedures; and,
(d)    Laws and regulations relating to the agencies responsible for implementing
resetdement and those related to land compensation, consolidation, land use,
environment, water use, and social welfare.
Alternative Sites and Selection
13.    The identification of several possible relocation sites and the demarcation of selected sites is a
critical step for both rural and urban resettlement. For land-based resettlement, the new site's
productive potential and location advantages should be at least equivalent to those of the old
site. The Bank encourages "land for land" approaches, providing replacement land at least
equivalent to the lost land. For rural settlers, irrigation, land reclamation, tree crop
development, intensification of production, and other innovations often can provide adequate
production potential on limited amounts of land to resettle agriculturalists, even in countries
with high population densities. In selecting sites, axtention must be paid to the availabihty of
sources of off-fanm income (fishing, gathering forest products, and seasonal wage
employment) to complement farm income. For urbn resettlers, the new site should ensure
comparable access to employment, infastructure, services, and production opportunities. For
both rural and urban resettlement, the borrower needs to
(a)    Develop institutional and technical arrangements for identifying and preparng
relocation sites, e.g., pooling together smal plots, wastelamd reclamation, land
levelling, and terracing;
(b)    Draw up timetables and budgets for site preparation and transfer;
(c)    Make legal arrangements for trmsfering titlcs to resettlers; and,
(d)    Consider, when necessary, a temporary freeze on land transactions within the
relocation area to prevent land speculation. Though the Bank does not nornally
disburse against land acquisition, it can finance land improvement to accommodate
resettlers.
ZCCM Investments Holdings Pic                                               Pap 54



8.NOV.2002    17:55       ZCCM-I.H. 260 2 245364                                NO.754     P.56
CE?P                            Environment and Resetlement Policy Prmnework - Arnnexes
'Valuatiok of and Compensation for Lost Assets
14.    Valuation of lost assets should be made at their replacemnent cost. Compensation is
facilitated by
(a)    paying special attention to the adequacy of the legal aangements concerning Iand
title, registation, and site occupation;
(b)    publicizing among people to be displaced the laws and regulations on valuaton and
compensation;
(e)    establishing criteria for determining the resettlement eligibility of affected
households, e.g., house-holds that have only partially lost their assets but are no
loger economically viable should be entitled to full resettement; and
(d)    developing mechanisms to prevent illegal  croachers and squaters, including an
influx of non-residents entering to take advantge of such benefits, from participating
in te compensation arrangements, by an early recording of the numbers and names
of affected populations entitled to compensation/ rehabilitation.
15.    Some types of loss, such as access to
(a)    public services;
(b)    customers and suppliers; and
(c)    fishing, grazing, or forest areas, cannot easily be evaluated or compensated for in
monetary terms. Attenmpts must therefore be made to establish access to equivalent
and culturally acceptable resources and earning opportnities.
16.    Vulnerable groups at particular risk are indigenous people, the landless and semi landless, and
households headed by females who, though displaced, may not be protected through national
land compensation legislation. The resettlement plan must include land allocation or
culturally acceptable alternative income-earning strategies to protect the livelihood of these
people.
Land Tenure, Acquisiton, and Transfer
17.    Resetflement plans should review the main land tenure and transfer systems, including
common property and nontitle-based usuftuct systems governed by locally recognized land
allocation mechanisms. The objectivc is to treat customary and formal rights as equally as
possible in devising compensation rules and procedures. The plan should address the issues
raised by the different tenure systems found in a project arca, including
(a)    The corpensation eligibility of land-dependent populations;
(b)    Ihe valuation procedures applicable to different tenurc types; and,
(c)    Ile gTievance procedures available for disputes over land acquisition. Plans should
contain provisions for conducting land surveys and regulariing land tenure in the
earliest stages of project development. Planning should also anticipate the
approximate time needed to acquire and twansfer land.
Access to Training, Employment, and Credit
18.   Normally, general economic growth cannot be relied upon to protect the welfare of the
project-affected population. Thus, altemative employment strategies are needed for non-
agricultural displaced people, or where the land that can be made available is not sufficient to
accormnodate all the displaced farmers. The resettlement plan should, where feasible, exploit
new economic activities made possible by the main investment requiring the displacement.
Vocational training, employment counse11ing, transportadon to jobs, employment in the main
investment project or in resettlement activities, establishment of industries, incentives for
ZCCM lnvcstments Holdinp Plc                                                Page 55



8.NOV.2002     17:55       ZCCM-I.H. 260 2 245364                                  NO.754      P.57
CEP                               Environrmcnt and Resettlernent Policy Fmameworkc - A enhiexc
firms to locate in the area, credit and extension for small businesses or reservoir aquaculture,
and preference in public sector employment should all be considered where appropriate.
Shelter, Infrastructure, and Social Services
19.    To ensure the economic and social viability of the relocated communities, adequate resouces
should be allocated to provide shelter, infrastructure (e.g., water supply, feeder roads), and
social services (e.g.. schools, health care centres).' Site development, engiaeering, and
architecural desigps should be prepared for shelter, infrstructure, and social services. Since
community or self-built houses are often better accepted and more tailored to the resettlers'
needs than contractor-built housing, provision of a building site with suitable infratructure,
model plas, building materials, technical assistance, and "construction allowances" (for
income foregone while resettlers build their houses) is an option communities should be
offered. Planning for shelter, infrastruture, and serviccs should take into account population
growth.
Environmental Protection and Management
20.    The screening process for an environmental asSesSment (EA) normally classifies projects
involving involuntary resettlement as Category A."3 The EA of the main investment requiring
the resettlement should thus cover the potential environental impacts of the resetdement.
The resettlement plan must be developed in coordination with the EA and define the
boundaries of the relocaton area, and calculate incremental population density per land unit.
In agricultural projects (involving, for example, relocation to the catebment surrounding a
reservoir, or to a downstream command area), if the incoming resettled population is large in
relation to the host population, such environmental issues as deforestation, overgrazing, soil
erosion, samtation, and pollution are likely to become serious and plans should either include
appropriate mitigating measures, including training of oustees, or else should allow for
altemative sites to be selected. Urban resettlement raises other deusity-related issues (e.g.,
transportation capacity, access to potable water, sanitation systems, health facilities, etc.).
Constructive environmental management, provided through the EA's mitigation plan,"' may
provide good opportuLities and benefits to resettlers and host populations alike (e.g., project-
fnamced compensatory forestation not only replaces the forests submerged by reservoirs but
also offers gainful employment). If the likely consequences on the environment are
unacceptable, altemnative and/or additional relocation sites must be found.
ZCCM Investments Holdings Plc                                                 Page 56



8.NOV.2002    17:56        ZCCMI-I.H. 260 2 245364                               NO.754      P.58
CEP                              Environment and Resettlomcrt Policy Framework - Annexes
Implementation Schedule, Monitoring, and Evaluation
21.    The timing of resettlernent should be coordinated with the implementation of the
main investtnent coomponent of the project requiring the resetdement. All resettlement plans
should include an implementation schedule for each activity covering initial baseline and
preparation, actual relocation. and post-relocation economic and social activities. The plan
should mclude a target date when the expected benefits to resottlers and hosts would be
achieved.
22,    Arrangements for momtoring implementation of resettlement and evaluating its impact should
be developed by the borrower during project preparation and used during supervision'.s
Monitoring provides both a waaming system for project managers and a
channel for the resettlers to make known their needs and their reactions to resettlement
execution. Monitoring and evaluation units should be adequately funded and staffed by
specialists in resettlement In-house monitoring by the implementing agncy may need to be
supplemented by independent monitors to ensure complete and objectivo infomnation. Annual
and midterm reviews are desirable for large-scale resetdement The borrowor should be
required to continue impact evaluation for a reasonable period after all resettlemnent and
related development activities have been cornpleted. The borrower should also be required to
mform the Bank about the findings.
Bank Role and Project Options
23.    The Bank supports borrowers' efforts through:
(a)    Assistance in designing and assessing resettlernent policy, strategies, laws,
regulations, and specific plans;
(b)    Financing technical assistance to strengthen the capacity of agencies responsible for
resettlement; and
(c)    Direct fmancing of the investment costs of resetdement. The Bank may sometimes
finance resettlement even though it has not financed the main investment that made
displacement and resettlement necessary (para 26).
24.    The task manager (TM) should inform the bonrower of the Bank's resettlement policy.
Staring early in the project cycle, the TM with the support of Bank operational, research, and
legal staff should assess govenment policies, experiences, institutions, and the legal
framework covering resettlement In particular, the TM needs to ensure that involuntary
resettlement is avoided or miiimized, that laws and regulations concerning displaced people
provide compensation sufficient to replace al lost assets, and that displaced persons are
assisted to improve, or at least restore, their former living standards, income earining capacity,
and production levels.
25.    The adequacy of the resettlement plan should be reviewed by appropriate social, technical,
and legal experts. Resettlement speciahists should visit the possible resetflement sites and
review their suitability. In the case of large-scale relocation, such experts should be included
in independent technical or environmental review boards.'6
ZCCM Investments Holdingr Plc                                                Page 57



8.NOV.2002    17:56        ZCCM-I.H. 260 2 245364                                 NO.754     P.59
CEP                              Environmem and Resetlemcnt Po1cy Framework - Annexes
26.    Bank fmiancing of resetdement can be provided as follows:
(a)    As a component of the main investment project causing displacement and requiring
resettlement.
(b)    If large enough, as a freestanding resettlement project with appropriate cross-
conditionalities, pmcessed and implemented in parallel with the investnent project
that causes the displacement. The latter approach may better focus country and Bank
attention on the effective resolution of resettlement issues.
(c)    As a sector investment loan."1 Where the specific resettlement needs of each
subproject are not lnoown in advance. the borrowcr would need to agree to
resettlement policies, planning principles, institutional arrngements. and design
criteria that meet Bank policy and requirements as a condition of the loan. An
estimate should be provided of total population to be displaced and ovcrall
resettlement costs, as well as an evaluation of proposed resettlement sites.
Subprojects in sector investment loans should be screened by the implementing
agency to ensure consistency with this directive, and approved-individually by the
Bank. For countries with a series of operations rcquiring resettlement, efforts to
improve the policy, institutional, and legal fiamework for resettlement should form
part of the Bank's ongoing country and sector dialogue with the govemment These
efforts should be appropriately reflected in econoric and sector work and in country
strategy papers and briefs.
Processing and Documentation
27.    The Regional Vice President (RVP) should be kept informed of major resettlemeut issues,
and his guidance sought where necessary. The Regional Environment Division (RED), the
Legal Department (LEG), and settlement specialists in Sector Policy and Research (PRS)
should be consulted or included as necessary in peer reviews on involuntary resettlement
issues throughout the project cycle.
Identiflcation
28.    The possibility of involuntary resettlement should be determined as early as possible
and described m all project documents. The TM should
(a)   Briefly sumnmarize in the Initial Executive Project Summary (Initial EPS)18 the
magnitude, strategy, and timing of the resettlement;
(b)    Inform borrowers of the Bankls resettlement policy;
(c)    Review past borrower experience with similar operations;
(d)    Invite agencies responsible for resettlement to discuss their policies, plans. and
institutional, consultative, and legal aragements forresettlement, and;
(e)    Where appropriate, ensure that technical assistance is provided early to borrowers.
Such assistance should include the use of project preparation facility (PPF)
resources' for planning resettlement and building institutional capacity.
Preparation
29.    During project preparation, the feasibility of resetdement must be established, a
strategy agreed upon, the resettlement plan drafted, and budget estimates prepared.-0 The full
costs of resettlement should be identified and included in the total cost of the main investment
project, regardless of fmnancing source. The costs of resettlement should also be treated as a
charge against the economic benefits of the investment project that causes the relocation. Any
net benefits to resettles (as compared to the "without project" circumstances) should be added
to the benefit stream of the nain investment While the resettlement component or
freestanding project need not be economically viable on its own, it should be the least- cost
approach consistent with the poLicies laid out above.
ZCCM Investnents Holdings Plc                                                 Page 58



8.NOV.2002    17:56        ZCCM-I.H. 260 2 245364                              NO.754      P.60
CEP                             Environmet and Rcsettlcment Policy Framework - Annexes
Appraisal and Negotiation
30.    Submission to the Bank of a time-bound resettlement plan and budget tat conforms to Bank
policy is a condition of appraisal for projects involving resettlernent, except for sector
investment loas as discussed in para. 26. All final EPSs should confurm that this requirenment
has been met. The appraisal mission should ascertain
(a)    The extent that involuntary resettlement and human hardship will be mirnized and
whethcr borrowers can manago tho process;
(b)    The adequacy of the plan. including the timetable and budget for resetftlment and
compensation;
(c)    The soundness of the economic and financial analysis;
(d)    The availability and adequacy of sites and fumding for all resettlement activities;
(e)    The feasibility of the implemrentation anwngements; and  -
(f)    The extent of involvement of beneficiaries. At negotiations, the borrower and the
Bank should agree on the resettlement plan. The resettlement plan and the borrower's
obligation to carry it out should be reflected in the legal documents. Other necessary
resettlement-related actions must be covenanted. The Staff Appraisal Report and the
Memorandum and Recommendation of the President should summarize the plan and
state that it meets Bank policy requirements.
Implementation and Supervision
31     Resettlctent components should be supevised throughout implementation."' Supervision hat
is sporadic or left until late in implementation invariably jeopardizes the success of
resettlement Bank supervision mnissions should bc staffod with the requisite social, economic,
and technical expertise. Annual reviews of large-scalc resettlement and in-depth Bank reviews
of midterm progress are highly desirable. These reuews should be planned from the outset to
allow the Bank and the borrower to make necessary adjustments in project implnemntation.
Complete recovery from resettlement can be protiacted and can often make it necessary to
continue Bank supervision until well after populations have bocn relocated, sometimes even
after a project has been closed.
Ex Post Evaluation
32.    The project completion reporlS submitted to the Operations Evaluation Departmt
should evaluate resettlement and its impact on the standards of living of the resettles and the
host population.
ZCCM Invesunents Holdings Pic                                              Page 59



8.NOV.2002       17:57          ZCCM-I.H.     260 2 245364                                       NO.754        P.61
CEP                                    Environment and Resettlement Policy Framework - Annexos
1. "Bak" inludes IDA, and "loan" includes credis.
2. See also Involuntary Resetlment in Developmet Ptojects, World Bank Technical Paper No. 80 (Washington, D.C.: The
Wold Bank, 1988).
3. OD 4.00. Ane A. Environmental Aassmentpam. 18.
4. Such prjcts may include cntrbuction or establishment of(a) dws. (b) new towns or ports, (c) bousing and wban
iMrastructue. (4) mnes, (e) large industrial plants, (1) ral ways or highways. (g) irgation canalB. and (h) undonal parks or
protected area. Refugeb from natural disasts, war. or civil snifo are also iuvolumtary resestlers, but they ar not discussed
in this directive (see OP/BP/GP 8.50, Emergency Recovery Assistance).
5. OD 4.00, Annra A, Envaonmental Assessment, pan. 2, and Annex A3.
6. Hogs communities are those receiving rclers.
7. Sec OD 4.20, Indigenous Pcoplcs.
8. Where only a few people (e.g., less than 100-200 uinividuals) are to be relocated, appropriate compensation for assel.
logiudeal support fot moving, and a relocaion gtsnt may be the only teqnrameni. However, the principles on which
compcsation is to be based arc the sanic as for Isrger groups.
9. See GP 14.70, bwolving Nongovemmcntal Organizations in Bank-Suppoited Activitics.
10. See OPN 11.03. Managemenm of Cultural Property in Bank-Pinanced Projects, to be reissued as OP/BP 4.11. Cultural
Propety.
11. Disputa of vaing kinds may arse in the process of utnplemenmanon of the agreed resettlement plan. these confliom
could take thc fonm of appeals relatod to the corpe iain payable to aftted petuons, tcnzs between the dispced
persons and the host population. appcals to the agency chargcd with the Implementation of the resettlemeu with regard to
services prnised. etc. It is therefore important to devise scbemes for conflict resolution for all resettlement plans. Such
shemhes should, as tr as possible, take into accoum existing procedus  for settling disputes in the country or ares
eomeernd.
12. Health care serecs, particularly for pregnant women, intanrs, and the elderly, may be important during and after
relocation to prevent increascs in morbidity and montality duc to malnutrition, the ms  of being uprooted, and th usually
increased risk of water-borne diseases.
13 Sec OD 4.00, Annex A, Environmernal Assessmen asnd Annex B, Environmenal Policy for Dam and Resevoir
Ptojocts. Thc enviro=ncenal Implieautons of involuntmry reseulement will be iher discussed underpass 6.0. "Special
Issues in Eviromenhal Assessment," m Environmental Asccmncnt Sourcebook, (Waslungton, D.C.: The World Bank, TO
be issued).
14. See Annex Al, pars. 2, in OD 4.00. Annex A, Environmental Assessment.
15. Sce OD 10.70, Project Monitonng and Evaluation.
16. Sec OD 4.00, Aimex B, Environmental Policy for Dam anid Rseavoir Projects.
17. See OP/B? I 0.00, Invustment Lcnding: Idcntification to Board Prescnation.
I S. See OPIBP S. 10, Project Preparation Facility.
19. Detailed guidelines for prepaTing and apprising rcsetlcment plans arc provided m Involuntary Resetle6xect in
Development Pojec=. World Bank Technical Paper No. 90, Annex I (Washington D.C.: The World Bank 1988). Pro
forms cost tables and guidelines for economic and financial analysis are provided in Annex 2.
20. See OD 13.05, Project Supcryision, parcularly paras. 44-47.
21. See OP/BP/ 13.55. Iuplementation Complction Reporting
ZCCM Investments Holdings Plc                                                                Page 60



8.NOV.2002    17:57        ZCCM-I.H. 260 2 245364                                NO.754     P.62
CEP                              EnviTronment and Resleument Policy Frmmework - Aimexcs
Annex 3.      Methods of Valuation Structures, Land, Trees and Other Assets
Compensation Rates for Loss of Crops and Trees
Cash compesation wil be paid for loss of crops and trees that are found on land to be exwopriate
In accordance with Zambia expropriation/compensation procedure, compensation rates wifl bo
established y the office of studies and planning at the ministry of agiculture. Comprnsaion rates for
loss of crops and trees will be based on market vahes and cover a cash value of the loss estimated
until the new crop or ree comes to mabtrity. The compensation rates for trees will not only bc based
on the age of the free, but also. on the variety of the species. For instance, the compnsation of 5
years old mango tree will be based on the age of the tree and on the variety of the mango. Some
varieties produce more, others less.
Compensation Rates for Loss of Houses
Likewise, compensation procedures for loss of houscs will be estab}ished in consultations between
concemed sectoral offices and with the project. The office of housing and public works at the
ministry of social infiastructure (?) will establish the rates. The office conducts yearly market survey
to monitor changes in building material costs in order to update the expropriation/compensation rates.
The rates will be established at market value. As in the case of expropriation/conpensation for loss of
crops and trees, each administrative decision in the process, will be documented. Also, each
individual PAP will have the right o refuse the rate proposed and take his case to the court should he
disagree witi the compensation rats proposed
ZCCM Investments Holdings Plc                                                Pagc 61



8.NOV.2002   17:57      ZCCM-I.H. 260 2 245364                            NO.754     P.63
CEP                           Environment and Rscatlcmcnt Policy Frawmwork - Anmexcs
Annex 4. Contents of a typical EA
Executive Summary
Highlight of tie nain findings and recommended actions related to the operation's
enviromnental and social feasibility.
Project Description
A concise description of the proposcd operation, including maps of the project site and
area of influence.
Policy, Institutional and Legal Framework
A discussion of the policy, institutional and legal, environmental and social flasmework
associated with the project, including any project specific legal or other requirements.
Environmental and Social Baseline Data
A description of the existing environmental and social conditions that are relevant to
project decision making, both at the proposed project site(s) and within the area of
influence.
Environmental and Social Impacts
An analysis of direct and indirect enviromnental and relevant social impacts and risks,
including benefits. Evaluation of the quality of available data and key data gaps.
Analysis of Alternatives
A summary description and evaluation of the altematives considered, the rationale for
selecting the proposed alternative and a description of its impacts.
Environmental Mitigation Plan
(sec below)
Public Participation
A record of the process and a summary of the results of consultation with affected groups.
ZCCM Inve3tments Holdngs Ple                                          Page 62



B.NOV.2002   17:58      ZCCM-I.H. 260 2 245364                           NO.754     P.64
CEP                           Envirownent and Resetlement Policy Framewark - Annexes
Annex 5. Contents of typical Environmental Mitigation Plan
NOTE: If resetdement is a significant issue then it is common practice to prepare an
Enviromnental Management Plan (EMP) and also a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) as a
separate document. (For other issues, fiuter specific Plans may be appropriate.)
Mitigation and Management.
Options and recommendations to prevent, avoid, reduce, mitigate, eliminate or compensate
for any adverse impacts of the selected alternative, This includes the schedule, assignment of
responsibility and budgets for the environmental and social impact management measures.
Provisions for capacitv building.
Where institutional capacity is not sufficient to carry out the key activities, provisions for
capacity building should be incorporated into the management plan.
Monitoring.
The monitoring, reporting and evaluation of requirements during the execution of the
operation and thereafter. The way these requirements fit within the overall Monitoring &
Evaluation efforts of the project submitted to EIA should be specified for maximum
effectiveness.
ZCCM Investmentg Holdings Plc                                        Page 63



8.NOV.2002   17:58      ZCCM-I.H. 260 2 245364                          NO.754    P.65
CEP                          Environmcnt and Resenlement Policy Framework - Annexes
AnnIe 6      Zainbian Environmental Legisation
LEGISLATION COVERING ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION IN ZAMBIA
Zambia is adequately coved with legislation relating to the protection of the enviroDment.
Presently about 28 pieces of legislation relate to the environment and they are all worth
considering in ELA decision making. These include:
1. The Environmental Protection and Pollution Control Act (EPPCA)
Passed in 1990 this is the principal Act on environment in Zambia, The Act provides for the
establishment of an Environment Council whose main functions constitutes tfhe protection of
the environment and control of pollution in particular so as to provide for the health and
welfare of persons, animals, plants and the environment in general
2. The Natural Resources Conservation Act
Enacted in 1970, the Act provides for the establishment of the Natural Resources Advisory
Board whose main functions ure to ensure the proper use, conservation and improvement of
natural resources. Some of the provisions of the Act have since been repealed with the
coming into force of the EPPCA. This includes the abolition of the Natural Resources
Advisory Board.
3. The Town and Country Planning Act
The Act came into force in 1962 and provides for the appointment of planning authorities
whose main responsibilities are the preparation, approval and revocation of development
plans. It also provides for the control of development and subdivision of land. The Act does
not however apply to Trust Land and land in Reserve and Mining Areas which fall under
regional plans.
4. The Water Act
The Act came into force in 1949 and provides for the control, ownership and use of water
excluding that of the Zambezi. Luapula and Luangwa nivers which form borders with other
countries. The Act establishes the Water Board and regulates the use of public water
including protection against pollution.
5. The Fisheries Act
Enacted in 1974, the Act provides for the development of commercial fishing, control of
fishing and the registration of fishermen and boats
6. The National Parks and Wildlife Service
Passed in 1991, the Act provides for the establishment, control and management of National
Parks; conservation and protection of wildlife and objects of interest in National Parks; the
establishment of Game Management Areas; the licensing of hunting; control of possession of
trophies and control of bush fires.
ZCCM Investments Holdings Ple                                       Page 64



8.NOV.2002   17:58      ZCCM1-I.H. 260 2 245364                          NO. 754    P.66
CEP                           Environment and Resettlement Policy Framework - Annexes
7. Public Health Act
Passed in 1930 the Act has been anmended from time to time, The Act provides for the
prevention and suppression of diseases and general regulation of all matters connected with
public health in the country.
8 Local Government Act
The Act came into force in 1991 and provides for the establishment of Councils in district,
the fimctions of local authorities and the local government system. Some of these functions
relate to pollution control and the protection of the environment in general.
9. The Local Administration (Trade Effluent) Regulations (Statutory Instrument no.
161 of 1985
The regulation provides for the control of medical, tade and industrial effluent disposal.
10.   lonising Radiation Act
Passed in 1975, the Act provides for the protection of public workers from dangers arising
from the use of devises or materials capable of producing ionising radiation
11. Munes and Miaerals Act
Passed in 1995, the Act provides for the granting of, renewal and ternination of mining
rights. It also provides for the control of mining activities with regard to environmental
protection.
12.   Agricultural Lands Act
This Act was passed in 1960 and provides for the protection and alienation of land for
agricultural purposes only.
13.   The Factories Act
Enacted in 1967, the Act regulates the conditions of employment in factories and other places
of work as regards the safety, health and welfare of persons employed there in. The Act also
provides for the examination and inspection of certain plant and machinery in order to ensure
safety.
14,   The Investment Act
Passed in 1993, the Act provides a legal framework for investnent in Zambia. The Act
relates to environment indirectly by providing incentives for tree planting, soil and water
conservation activities. The Act further recognises the role of sectoral agencies including
those responsible for enviromnental protection in authorising specific projects.
15.   The Tourism Act
Enacted in 1979, and ammended in 1985, the Act provides for the control of tomuism
enterprises. The Act though making no direct reference to environmental protection does
provide for appeals against authorisation of tourism projects which are deemed to negatively
affect Zanbian tourism which is basically natural resource based.
16.   Land Conversion of Titles Act
The Land Conversion of Titles Act was enacted in 1975 and amnmended in 1990. The Act
provides for the alienation, transfer, disposition and charge of land. Although the Act does
not refer to matters of conservation this Act is important in that land is one of the basic
natural resources. The Act also provides for compulsory acquisition of land by the president
ZCCM Investments Holdings Plc                                         Page 65



8.rNOV.2002  17:58      ZCCM-I.H. 260 2 245364                           NO.754     P.67
CEP        _Environment and Resettlement Policy Framework- Amnexes
whenevcr he is of the opinion that it is desirable or expedicnt to do so in the interest of the
republic.
17.   State Lands, Reserves and trust Lands Act
The Act provides for the protection of rights to land ownership and exploitation by
apocifying exclusive conditions for acquisition and exploitation of different categories of
land.
18. National Heritage Conservation Commission Act
Enacted in 1989, the Act provides for the conservation of ancient, culural and natural
heritage, relics and other objects of easthetic, historical, pre-historical, archeological or
scientific interest.
19.   Action for Smoke Damage Act
Enacted in 1959, the Act provided for the protection of mine operators against any action,
legal or otherwise for polluting areas declared as smoke areas. The Act has since been
repealed.
20.   Noxious Weeds Act
Enacted in 1953, the Act provides for the declaration and eradication of noxious weeds.
21. International Game Park and Wildlife Act
The Act was enacted in 1971 to provide for the establishment of International Game Parks
22.   The Agriculture, (Fertilisers and Feeds) Act
The Act became effective in 1990 and provides for the regulation and control of the
manufacture, processing, importation and sale of fertilisers and feeds. It also provides for
ensuring minimum standards of effectiveness of fertilisers and feeds.
23.   Plumage Birds Protection Act
Passed in 1915, the Act prohibits dealing in plumage of wild birds except for scientific or
educational purposes.
24.   The Forest Act
Enacted in 1974, the Act repealed the Forest Act (Cap 311) of the laws of Zambia. It
provides for the establishmont and management of National and Local forests, conservation
and protection of forests and trees, and licensing and sale of forest products.
25.   Petroleum (Exploration and Production) Act
The Act was enacted in 1985 to regulate the exploration, development and production of
petroleum products in Zambia
26.   The Petroleum Act
The Act came into force in 1924 and provides for the regulation of the imporauon,
conveyance and storage of petroleum and other inflammable oils and liquids for tho
protection of the public and the environment.
27.   The Explosives Act
The Act came into force in 1974 and provides for the regulation and control of the
manufacture, use, possession, storage, importation and destuction of explosives. It also
ZCCM Investments Holdings Plc                                        Page 66



8. NOV.2002  17:59     ZCCM-I.H. 260 2 245364                           NQO.754    P.6e
CEP                          Environment and Resettlement Policy Framework - Annexes
provides for the abandomnent of explosive factories as well as the discharge of effluent from
any treatment process involving explosives.
28.   The Zambezi River Authority Act
Signed in 1987, the Act provides for the interstate agreement between Zambia and Zimbabwe
relating to the utilisation of the Zambezi river
29.   International and Regional Conventions
Zambia is also party to a number of international and regional conversions signed for
addressing common environmental concems. These include:
*  Convention of World Meteorological Organisations
* Statutes for the International Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources
*  Convention on the Conservation of Migratory Species of Wild Animals
* International Plant Protection Convention
*  Statutes of the Inteational Atomic Energy
*  International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea
* Convention on the African Migratory Locust
*  Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapons Tests in the Atmosphere, in outer space and Under
Water
* Treaty on Principals Goveming the Activities of States in Exploration of and use of Outer
Space including the moon and other celestial bodies
* African Convention on the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources
* Viena Convention of the Law for Treaties
*  Convention concerning Protection Against Hazards of Poisoning arising from Benzene
*  Convention on Wetlands of Intemational Importance especially as waterfowl habitat
o Convention on Intermational liability for Damage caused by Space objects
* Convention concerning the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage
* Convention on luternational Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora
* Convention concerning the Protection of Workers against Occupational Hazards in the
working Environment due to Air Pollution and Noise Vibrations
*  UN convention on Law of the Sea
*  Viena Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer
* Agreement on the Action Plan for the Environmentally Sound Management of the
Common Zambezi River System
* Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer
*  Convention on Biological Diversity
* Basel Convention on the Control of Traniboundary movement of hazardous waste
* United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
* United Nations Convention to Combat Deseriification
Mmtin Fodar
LA^-AFTES\Zambia Copp\SafcguaTds meanworkCE? ENV & REsErTLEMEMT Frammwc 6-doe
Oiober32,20026 12PM
ZCCM Investments Holdings Plc                                       Page 67



