Page  1
CONFORMED 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3741 ZA 
GRANT NUMBER H026 ZA 
 
ECZ Project Agreement 
 
(Copperbelt Environment Project ) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
ENVIRONMENTAL COUNCIL OF ZAMBIA 
 
Dated April 14, 2003 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3741 ZA 
GRANT NUMBER H026 ZA 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated April 14, 2003, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and  ENVIRONMENTAL 
COUNCIL OF ZAMBIA (ECZ). 
 
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Financing Agreement of even date 
herewith between Republic of Zambia (the Borrower) and the Association, the 
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower: (a)  an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to fourteen million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 14,100,000) (the Credit); and (b) an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
fifteen million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 15,500,000) (the 
Grant), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Financing Agreement, 
but only on conditions that ECZ agree to undertake such obligations toward the 
Association as are set forth in this Agreement; 
 
(B) 
by a subsidiary agreement (the ECZ Subsidiary Agreement) to be entered 
into between the Borrower and ECZ, part of the proceeds of the Financing provided for 
under the Development Financing Agreement will be made available  to ECZ on the 
terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS ECZ, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Financing Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Development Financing Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the 
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 2.01. (a) ECZ declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Financing Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out Part B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and environmental practices, and shall provide, or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and ECZ shall otherwise agree, ECZ shall carry out Part B 
of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in the Schedule to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Financing shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the 
Development Financing Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. ECZ shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods 
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) in respect of the ECZ Project Agreement. 
 
Section 2.04. ECZ shall duly perform all its obligations under the ECZ 
Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ECZ shall not 
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the ECZ Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 2.05. (a) ECZ shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Part B of the Project, the performance 
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the ECZ Subsidiary Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Financing. 
 
(b) 
ECZ shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part B of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing, or the performance by ECZ of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the ECZ Subsidiary Agreement. 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of ECZ 
 
Section 3.01. (a) ECZ shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and technical practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers. 
 
(b) 
ECZ shall ensure that the qualifications and terms and conditions of 
employment of the Director shall, at all times during the implementation of the project 
remain acceptable to the Association. 
 
Section 3.02. ECZ shall at all times operate and maintain its facilities, equipment 
and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs 
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound administrative, financial, managerial, 
environmental and ecological practices. 
 
Section 3.03.  ECZ shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) ECZ shall establish by Effective Date and thereafter maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements, all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and to 
register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to Part B of the 
Project. 
(b) ECZ 
shall: 
(i) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;  
Page  5
-
4
-
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
Section 4.02
.
(a) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs 5 and 6 
under Part B of the Schedule to this Agreement, ECZ shall prepare and furnish to the 
Association a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, which:  
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Financing, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter. 
Page  6
-
5
-
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Financing Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
ECZ thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Development Financing 
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Association shall 
promptly notify ECZ thereof. 
 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail. The addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
  Telex: 
  
Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 64145 (MCI) 
Page  7
-
6
-
For ECZ: 
 
Environmental Council of Zambia, 
 
Church and Suez Roads, 
 
P
O
Box 35131, 
 
Lusaka, Zambia 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(260 1) 254164 
 
(260 1) 254164 
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of ECZ, may be 
taken or executed by the Director or such other person or persons as the Director shall 
designate in writing, and ECZ shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By  
/s/ Emmanuel Kasonde 
Regional Vice President 
Africa 
 
ENVIRONMENTAL COUNCIL OF ZAMBIA 
 
By  
Emmanuel Kasonde 
Authorized Representative 
Page  8
-
7
-
SCHEDULE  
Implementation Program 
Part A
:
General
1. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ECZ shall: (a) implement Part B 
of the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation Manual and in full 
compliance with the Borrower’s environmental legislation and regulations; and (b) not 
amend, waive, permit to be amended or waived, the Project Implementation Manual or 
any provision thereof, in a manner which, in the opinion of the Association, may 
materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project or the achievement of 
the objectives thereof. 
2. 
ECZ shall carry out Part B of the Project through its technical secretariat and 
under the overall guidance of the ECZ Board. 
3. 
ECZ shall not later than July 1, 2003, appoint and maintain with adequate 
remuneration within its budget, the Council Secretary, a procurement officer and a 
financial management officer, all with qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory 
to the Association. 
4. 
Inter-Agency Regulatory Committee
(a) 
ECZ shall, by January 1, 2004, establish and maintain an Interagency 
Regulatory Committee, which shall be comprised of the Borrower’s authorizing agencies 
responsible for regulation of relevant sectors, and with remuneration, functions and terms 
of reference satisfactory to the Association. 
 
(b) 
ECZ shall coordinate all matters and views raised by the delegated 
authorizing agencies in relation to regulation of environment sector through the 
Interagency Regulatory Committee. 
 
(c) 
ECZ shall, for each year of project implementation, furnish to the 
Association annual reports on IRC activities by the end of the first quarter of the 
following year. 
Part B
:
Monitoring and Reporting
5. ECZ 
shall: 
Page  9
-
8
-
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, set forth in Schedule 7 to the Development Financing Agreement, the 
carrying out of Part B of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, with 
particular emphasis on levels of compliance with environmental regulations by the 
mining industry; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about April 1 of each year, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Part B of the Project during 
the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date;  
 
(c) 
prepare under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about February 1, May 1, August 1 and November 1, a 
quarterly report, which shall cover salient aspects of Part B of the Project, including: (i) 
progress made in meeting the objectives of the Project; and (ii) overall performance by 
ECZ of Part B of the Project; 
 
(d) 
review with the Association, by May 1, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said repor
t
and the Association’s views on the matter;  
 
(e) 
for each year of project implementation, prepare and furnish to the 
Association, by November 15 of each year, for review and comment, a consolidated work 
plan and budget for all activities and sources of funds for the following year; and 
 
(f) 
for each year of project implementation, furnish to the Association for 
review and comment, a consolidated progress report for all activities and sources of funds 
by not later than July 1 of the following year. 
 
6. Midterm 
Review
(a) 
ECZ shall not later than August 31, 2005, carry out jointly with the 
Association and the Borrower a midterm review, which shall cover among other things: 
(i) 
the performance by ECZ in carrying out Part B of the Project; 
Page  10
-
9
-
(ii) progress 
in 
me
eting the Project’s objectives; and  
(iii) 
overall Project performance as measured against the 
performance indicators referred to in paragraph 5 (a) under Part 
B
of
the Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
ECZ shall thereafter with the Assistance of the Borrower, act promptly 
and diligently in order to take, any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any 
shortcoming identified in the implementation of the Project, or to implement, such 
measures as may have been agreed between ECZ, the Borrower and the Association in 
furtherance of the objectives of the Project. 
 
