Copperbelt Environment Project Tackles the Lead and Uranium Danger in Zambia

                                                                                                      96388
                                                                                                    April 13, 2012




 Copperbelt Environment Project Tackles the Lead and Uranium Danger
 in Zambia


Overview
In 2003, fifty thousand residents of Kabwe’s population  (300,000) were affected  by high lead
levels in the soil,  due to naturally occurring mineralization as well as the impact of the
smelting and mining operations. Two thousand and seven hundred children were enrolled in
one of the four Integrated Case Management (ICM) clinics, set up by the Copperbelt
Environment Project to determine and control lead blood levels in affected areas. Among these
children was five year old Patrick whose lead  levels have since been reduced to 40 percent.
Thanks to the International Development Association (IDA) financed environmental project that
helped to clean up lead and uranium tailings from mines in Zambia, the residents of Kabwe
now live in safety.


Challenge
Although mining has been the single greatest contributor to
                                                                  More Results
economic growth in Zambia, it has also had significant
adverse effects on the environment. By the time the country

                                                                  99,000
attained independence in 1964, mining had already been
going on for over 50 years. Its effect on the environment has
been largely ignored, thus leaving a trail of uranium, lead and
other base metals whose by-products were not properly             Number of mining community
                                                                  members accessing safe
disposed of and administered.                                     drinking water
Following multi-party elections in 1991, a new government of
Movement for Multiparty Democracy (MMD) was ushered in


                                                                  175
and it liberalized the economy. In 1995, the government sold
the mines to private investors. Although privatization brought
many benefits to the economy, the new mine owners did not
want to take care of the environmental liabilities left over by   Copperbelt families provided
previous mines’ owners. They were interested only wanted          with modern homes in lead-safe
                                                                  areas
the core business of mining.
The MMD governed Zambia for 20 years winning four
elections in the process. It was defeated in 2011 by the
                                                                  MORE INFORMATION
Patriotic Front, which has continued with this same policy of
a liberalized economy.                                             Zambia Copperbelt Enviromental
                                                                   Project

Approach                                                           Country Website

The Copperbelt Environment Project (CEP), which started on         Country Brief
20 March, 2003 and ended on 31 March, 2011, was                    Country Assistance Strategy
designed to assist the Government of Zambia in addressing
                                                                         Data and Statistics
environmental liabilities and obligations associated with the
mining sector, following the privatization of the mining assets
of Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines Limited (ZCCM). This
intervention focused on addressing the environmental, social
mitigation, public health and damage to ecological functions
caused by mining activities. It also helped to strengthen the institutional capacity of delegated
authorizing agencies to improve future compliance of the mining sector with environmental and
social regulations. Other stakeholders involved in the mitigation of the environmental impacts
from mining were also included in the strengthening program so that their capacities might
improved.. Public participation was crucial to ensure success. The Community Outreach Risk
Communication Strategy (CORCS) successfully galvanized the stakeholders to participate fully
in the project thus helping to ensure sustainability of the activities long after the project ended.

Results

       The project helped to reduce the levels of lead to 40 per cent

       From 2006 to 2010 the, the project built  new houses worth US$4 million and 175
       families previously living in unsafe housing (due to land caving as a result of
       underground mining activities) were relocated  to safer modern houses with piped water
       and electricity in  Kitwe and Mufulira, both Copperbelt towns. 

       To prevent the release of uranium into the environment and to eliminate danger to the
       public, the project successfully provided  safe disposal of hazardous materials, including
       140,000 m3 of radioactive uranium tailings, 272,000 kg of persistent organic pollutants
       waste, and 56,000 m3 of lead contaminated soils in the Copperbelt and Kabwe

       In Kabwe itself, mine waste has been removed from the Mulungushi slag dump and in
       residential areas where 325 houses were at great risk of lead contamination. The
       contaminated topsoil was replaced with lead free soil and gravel material from other
       areas outside Kabwe. The area is now available for other developments.

       Other community benefits included the  provision of safe water supply to 99,000
       members of vulnerable mining communities in Kabwe and the Copperbelt and the
       establishment of four Environmental Public Information Centers and rehabilitation of six
       Public Libraries.

       Economic Empowerment:  Women’s livelihood projects were also funded with a view
       towards female economic empowerment. In Kabwe, the project constructed a total of
       three markets, one hammer mill  with a shelter  and provided   start-up  capital  for ten
       community clubs. About 200 women were  trained in basic entrepreneurship skills so
       that they would be able to run their small businesses profitably (ranging from piggeries,
       hammer mills and chicken runs).

Voices


    I am happy that my son is one of the healthier children in
   Kabwe. He can now start going to school!  
                                 —Patrick’s mother, Mrs. Violet Shawa
               Patrick lives in Kabwe, a former lead mining town, 93
         miles north of Lusaka. It is one of the World’s most polluted
              towns. Five year-old Patrick was once one of the many
            children of Kabwe diagnosed with high lead blood levels,
             but today his life is changing for the better. The Project
          supported a state-of-the-art Integrated Case Management
          (ICM) program, which provided specialized care through
        by a multidisciplinary team comprising a physician, nurse,
        sociologist, community volunteers, environmental technical
                                         specialist and caregivers.




     It is like waking up to a new dream. My family now has access
   to water, electricity and a safe new house where you can sleep
   without worrying about bricks falling on you!  
        —Mr. Alfred Mweni, one of 175 families previously living in
              unsafe housing due to land subsidence as a result of
              underground mining activities were resettled to new
           permanent homes in the Copperbelt area. The families
             reported great satisfaction with their new residences.



Partners
The Government of Zambia contributed counterpart funds of US$1.8 million and there was a
good working relationship during project implementation with the Nordic Development Fund,
which provided US$10.8 million for co -financing.

Toward the Future
The project has ended and all its components and activities, including children’s parks and
rehabilitated libraries, have been integrated into government development programs through
various agreements signed with line ministries and local governments.
