                  Turkey: AgriculturalReformImplementationProject
                    Releaseof the Second Tranche       - FullCompliance
                                     (Loan No. 4631-TU)



 1.      This memorandum summarizes progress in the execution o f the reform program
 and actions taken by the Government of the Republic of Turkey to meet the specific
 conditions for the release o f the second tranche o f the Agricultural Reform
 Implementation Project (ARIP).       The ARIP is a hybrid operation with an adjustment
 portion of US$200 million and an investment portion of US$400 million. The ARIP was
 approved by the Board o f Executive Directors on June 29,2001, and became effective on
 July 17,2001. The first tranche o f the adjustment portionwas released on June 28,2002.

 2.     The objective of the ARIP is to help implement the Government's agricultural
 reform program, which i s aimed at dramatically reducing artificial incentives and
 government subsidies, and substituting a support system that will give agricultural
 producers and agro-industry incentives to increase productivity in response to real
 comparative advantage. At the same time, the project i s designed to mitigate potential
 short-term adverse impacts o f subsidy removal, and facilitate the transition to efficient
 production patterns.

 3.     The ARIP aims to achieve these objectives through: (i)an adjustment portion,
 designed to provide some o f the funds for the first rounds o f Direct Income Support
 (DIS) payments to farmers; and (ii)an investment portion, which consists of four
 components - (a) building up the National Registry o f Farmers (NRF) which i s used to
 administer the DIS system and widening the inclusion o f agricultural areas in the land
cadaster; (b) Farmer Transition grants paid to eligible farmers to assist in the conversion
to alternative agricultural crops from hazelnut and tobacco production, as governmental
supports to these crops are reduced; (c) an Agricultural Sales Cooperatives and
Cooperative Unions (ASCs/ASCUs) Restructuring component which aims to make
ASCs/ASCUs independent, financially autonomous, and self-managed organizations
serving their farm members by providing financial assistance (severance payments for
retrenched workers) and technical assistance during the restructuring process; and (d)
support for project management and implementation.

                               I.RecentEconomicDevelopments

4.      Recent economic developments are discussed fully in the Memorandum o f the
President for the Third Programmatic Financial and Public Sector Adjustment Loan
(PFPSAL 111), whose MOP reference i s R2004-0095/2, dated June 14, 2004, and in the
accompanying Program Document, R25795-TUYdated May 21,2004.

                           11. ProgressAgainst ReleaseCriteria
5.      Pursuant to Schedule 1, Part A, paragraph 5 (b), o f the Loan Agreement,
conditions for the release o f the second tranche of the adjustment portion requires that the
Bank be satisfied that: (i)the macroeconomic policy framework o f the Borrower
(Government o f Turkey) i s satisfactory, as measured on the basis o f indicators agreed
betweenthe Bank and the Borrower; (ii) Borrower has achieved progress satisfactory
                                            the
to the Bank in the carrying out o f the Program (the Program i s that outlined in the Letter

 of Sectoral Strategy for Agriculture Sector Reform and Sustainable Development); (iii)
 the Borrower has registeredat least 50% of farmers qualified for direct income support
 payments, and at least 50% o f such registered farmers have received direct income
 support payments; (iv) that the Borrower's 2002 budget does not provide for credit or
 fertilizer subsidies and does not increase other existing direct or indirect agricultural
 subsidies, in real terms as compared to those in effect on January 1, 2001; and (v) the
 Borrower has reduced wheat purchases from all sources to a level satisfactory to the Bank
 by November 1,2002.

 6.      Macroeconomic Framework. The macroeconomic policy framework i s fully
 satisfactory as evidenced by the documentation concerning the Board Presentation of the
 PFPSAL I11in June 2004 and by the satisfactory 7th review o f the US$16.3 billion IMF
 Stand-by Arrangement (SBA), which was completed on April 16,2004.

 7.      Agriculture Sector Reform and Sustainable Development Program.
 Substantial progress has been made in the implementation o f the Program as outlined in
 the Letter of Sectoral Strategy for Agriculture Sector Reform and Sustainable
 Development o f June 7, 2001. The major reform areas targeted by the LSS were the
 reduction and phasing out o f input and credit subsidies, support price reform, and reform
 and privatization o f state economic enterprises (SEES). The sum o f the efforts in these
 areas has caused budget outlays to support output prices and subsidize inputs and credit
 to be reduced in 2000-2003 by 90 percent. By the end o f 2003, the reform program
 reduced the fiscal outlays on agricultural subsidies by about US$5.4 billion. This
 represents both satisfactory progress on the implementation o f the LSS and a savings o f
over 2.7 percent o f GNP.       The major steps in each reform area in 2001-2004 are
presentedbelow.

 8.      Phasing Out o f Subsidies. Over half of the subsidy cuts is accounted by the
US$3.1 billion in reduction in the coverage o f losses for state financed crop purchases.
The elimination o f the credit subsidies and debt write-offs generated another US$1.4
billion in fiscal savings. Fiscal transfers to Agricultural Sales Cooperative Unions
(ASCUs), which had reached US$lbillion per year, were also reduced by US$SOO
million. The other area o f subsidy reduction was fertilizer subsidies, which were
terminated in2001 (declining by US$300 million). All together, 70 percent o fthe subsidy
cuts were directed at lowering agricultural commodity price supports and was primarily
achieved by imposing hard budget constraints on state marketing and processing
enterprises as well as the quasi-state ASCUs. The remaining 30 percent o f the subsidy cut
was aimed at reducing agricultural input subsidies, notably credit and fertilizer.

9.       The reform of agricultural output subsidization has been facilitated by greater
market deregulation through reduction and phasing out o f state-set prices, and reduced
intervention purchases financed by the budget. The Sugar Law was enacted in April
2001. It phased out price supports for sugar beets and introduced production quotas on
refined sugar. In the sugar sector, sugar beet prices have been set on an annual basis
under agreements reached directly betweenthe operators o f sugar factories and growers.
Inthe tobacco sector, an auction systemfor tobacco was established by the Tobacco Law
enacted in January 2002. State set prices were reduced by a third over 1999-2001, and
were abolished starting with the 2002 harvest. Over the same period tobacco purchases
from farmers fell by 30 percent. The price o f tobacco produced under contract between

 the producers of tobacco products and the growers is set by mutual agreement. Tobacco
 producedby growers other thanunder written contracts i s sold on open auction method.

  10.     In the grains sector, the Turkish Grain Board (TMO) reduced its volume of
 interventionpurchases by over 45 percent from 1999 to 2001, to about 2.4 million tons.
 In 2002-2003, these purchases were reduced further to 0.8-1.2 million tons, and TMO
 ceased announcing minimumpurchases. Wheat import tariffs were reduced substantially,
 though they remain at about 45 percent. In the hazelnut market, the intervention
 purchases and announced support prices made by the parastatal Fiskobirlik declined by
 about 25 percent and 40 percent, respectively, over the 1999-2001 period. These
 purchases declined further in 2002 and were discontinued entirely in 2003. The
 Government has since agreed with the Bank on a hazelnut market restructuring plan
 which i s being implementedin2004, with the restructuring o f the Fiskobirlik.

 11.      Reform o f State Economic Enterprises. Inthe area o f reform and privatization of
 SEES,the Government transferred all state-owned sugar factories (SEKER) under the
 scope of the privatization program in December 2000, and the state tobacco company
 (TEKEL) was included inthe PrivatizationAdministration's portfolio by a Privatization
 High Council decision dated February 2001. A comprehensive privatization plan for
 TEKEL was approved in March 2003. The firm was tendered, but this tender was not
 finalized owing to the low bids offered, as deemed by the Government. TEKEL i s to be
 re-tendered during the course o f 2004. Concerning the sugar company (SEKER), the plan
 for its privatizationwas approved by the PrivatizationHigh Council (PHC) inJune 2003.
 The Privatization Administration and SEKER have jointly determined the portfolio
 groups/companies which will be tendered for sale under the privatization program and
 identified the factories to be liquidated.              The timetable for including these
 portfolio/companies in the privatization program has been established. It foresees that
 those put into the privatizationprogramwill have their privatizationtenders completed by
 December31,2004.

 12.     Considerable progress has also beenmade towards transforming the ASCUs from
parastatal organizations, controlled by the Ministry o f Industry and Trade and supported
financially by the Treasury, into financially autonomous and sustainable cooperatives that
can compete with private traders while operating for the benefit o f the farmers who own
them. Institutional arrangements for implementation of the ASCUs/ASCs component
have beenfully inplace since June 2002 and all are operating inan effective manner.No
new DFIF (Price Stabilization and Support Fund) credits have been provided to the
ASCUs from the budget, with funds made available limited to those available from the
DFIF Revolving Fund only. Five ASCUS-- Marmarabirlik, Trakyabirlik, Taris Olive,
Taris Fig and Gulbirlik-have        completed their restructuring plans and been declared
eligible for forgiveness o f their pre-May 2000 debts to DFIF. Annual fiscal savings
associated with imposition o f hard budget constraints on ASCUs have reached roughly
$800 million, equivalent to 0.4 percent of GNP.

13.      Implementation of the DIS System. With a total of just over four million
farmers, and a participation rate o f 3.29 million farmers in the 2003 DIS Program, over
80 percent o f farmers have been registered in the NRF (as shown in the table below).
With payments o f over 2.1 quadrillion made on the 2002 DIS Program by July 2003',


         The timing of DIS payments has exhibiteda pattern under which roughly 500-800 trillion TL of
the given year's Program payments are made in the last quarter of the given calendar year's program,

 75% of all farmers hadbeen paid. Therefore, the tranche release condition (iii) has    above
 been met by a wide margin. In addition, under the agreement reached in'May 2004 by
 the Government and the Bank on the Agricultural Policy Paper, the DIS Program will
 remainthe predominant agricultural policy instrument inthe period2005-20 10.

 14.      The share of farming households registered in the NRF exceeds the share of
 cultivated agricultural area registered in the NRF partially because the maximum area o f
 any     farm     household      1
 which can qualify for            DISParticipation and Payments                                    1
                                                                 2001        2002         2003
 DIS payments is 50               Paymentperhectare           100mil TL  135 mil. TL  160mil. TL
 hectares.       The other        Hectares      participating 11.8
                                                      -    -             16.2         16.5
 factor i s that farmers          (million)
 cannot      receive      DIS      Share of agricultural area 48%        66%          67%
 payments        on       land    participating

 farmed for which legal           Farming        households 2.18 million 3.05 million 3.29 million
                                  participating
 title i s not in the same        Share      o f    farming 54%          75%          81%
 name as the current              householdsparticipating
 head of the farming              Value      O f    Program 1.18         2.19         2.64
                                  (quadrillionTL)




 15.      Input Subsidy Reform. As noted above, direct and indirect output subsidies
 borne by the budget and credit and input subsidies fell substantially in 2000-2003. In
 2002, all fertilizer and credit subsidies were phased out, and by 2003 all subsidies taken
together (excluding DIS payments) had fallen by 80 percent from the level in effect on
January 1, 2001. As a result o f these steps, the tranche condition (iv) noted above was
met.

 16.      Grain Purchases. As noted above, grain purchases by the Government (through
TMO) were reduced to 0.8 million tons in 2002, which i s a level considered satisfactory
to the Bank. As a result o fthis step, the tranche condition (v) notedabove was met.

                                             111. Conclusion

17.       In view of the overall performance and progress with the implementation of the
Program supported by the Loan, and in compliance with the specific conditions of release
as described in Schedule 5, Part A, paragraph 5 (b) o f the Loan Agreement, the Bank has
informedthe Borrower of the availability o f the secondtranche ofthe adjustment portion of
the Loaninthe amount ofUS$lOOmillion.




immediately followingthe summer-fallregistrationandverificationperiod. The bulk of payments is made
inthe first quarter ofthe next calendaryear. Finalpaymentsare madebythe endofthe second quarter.

