                                                                                            87488
                                                                                       CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                         EDS200 1-0359
                                                                                             July 12, 2001
                                                                                              12:24:36 PM



 Statement by Roberto Garcia-Lopez
 Date ofMeeting: July 12, 2001

Turkey: Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report- Programmatic Financial and Public
        Sector Adjustment Loan and Agricultural Reform Implementation Project

 We would like to express our appreciation to Staff and Management for keeping us updated on
 the ongoing efforts of the Turkisk Government to overcome the crisis that the country has
 experienced since late February 2001. In this regard, the documents that we will be discussing
 today give us an excellent cover of the current issues, the new economic program and the Bank's
 strategy to assist Turkey.

 1.       Turkey must tackle adjustment and reform simultaneously in the financial and public
 sectors in the aftermath of the crisis, and in doing so it must consider that the social impact ofthe
 crisis is already being felt as lay-offs, rising prices, and negative growth. Reduced household
 incomes place a growing risk of poverty and vulnerability on people already at the lower end of
 the income scale.

 2.      The Government is implementing a new economic program aimed at minimizing the
 short-term impact of the crisis while setting the stage for an early control of inflation and
 recovery of growth. By moving immediately to address the fundamental structural problems
 underlying the crisis, we concur that it would be adequate to engineer a quick recovery closer to
 the experience of other countries to avoid a prolonged recession. We fully support the
 three-pronged strategy oriented to restoring financial stability with adequate macroeconomic
 policies, correcting the financial and public sectors weaknesses underlying the crisis with
 structural policies, and enhancing the social dialogue to achieve price and wage policies
 consistent with macroeconomic stability and protection of the most vulnerable ones, in the
 context of a strong social policy.

 3.      The scope of the crisis Turkey is facing requires the assistance of the international
 community at bilateral and multilateral levels. It is encouraging to see that the IMF's support to
 the program adopted by Turkey will reach a total of SDR15 billion, and that it has been prepared
 in close cooperation with the Bank. Prior actions, performance criteria and structural benchmarks
 for the stand-by are fully consistent with the economic assistance provided by the Bank. In this
 context, we fully support the proposeilfrogrammatic Financial and Public Sector Adjustment
 Project (PFPSAL). The intended aim of the Bank to disburse US$2.45 billion in adjustment
 lending in 2001 to meet Turkey's external and budgetary financing requirements arising form the
 crisis and to support its short- and medium-tern1 reform goals in the financial and public sectors
                                                                  2



is consistent with its purpose to help emerging markets overcome vulnerability, restore stability,
and help reduce poverty.

4.      Among the core directions for structural reform is the continuation of vital reforms in
agriculture, the energy and telecommunications sectors, to improve the climate for private
investment, in an effort to raise productivity, growth and incomes. In this sense, we support the
Agricultural Reform Implementation Project (ARIP), since it will help the Government's own
agricultural reform program, aimed at dramatically reducing artificial incentives and government
subsidies, and substituting a support system that will give agricultural producers and the
agro-industry incentives to increase productivity in response to real comparative advantage. It
will also mitigate potential short-term adverse impacts of subsidy removal and will facilitate
transition to efficient production patterns. We understand that the Government's agriculture
policy reform program is already being financially supported in part by the Bank under a
previous Economic Reform Loan. The new loan will only reinforce the implementation of
policies already initiated.

5.      In December 2000, a CAS update for FY01-FY03 was presented with a high-case lending
envelope of US$5.0 billion. As a consequence of the crisis in February 2001, and of the
adjustment and structural reforms adopted by the Turkish Government, the high-case envelope
was revised up to US$6.2 billion, of which US$1.2 billion would be on SSAL terms. The
revision proposed is an accelerated and refocused Bank's support to Turkey, although in a
graduated response to structural and social reforms, enhancing assistance to strengthen social
protection. We can support this proposal, especially if the long-term support to programs in areas
such as education and health will continue alongside the support for economic reform. The
participation of IFC, not only in the medium- and long-term strategy as originally envisioned,
but also in the short term in response to the crisis, is vital. IFC's close collaboration with the
Bank to support the new reform program is necessary.

Finally, we would like to mention that we support the Bank Group's vision to assist Turkey on
its structural and social issues. There are risks, especially political risks, but at the same time we
are convinced that Turkey will rise to the moment, as the alternatives are costly and perhaps of
significant effects beyond its borders. It is in its best interest to maintain an unwavering political
will and decision.




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
