Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo: 21177-TU
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$600 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL REFORM IMPLEMENTATION PROJECT/LOAN
June 6, 2001
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
Turkey Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June I, 2001)
Currency Unit = Turkish Lira
TL I = US$.0000088
US$I = TL 1,144,768
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARIP          -        Agricultural Reform Implementation Project
ASC           -        Agricultural Sales Cooperative
ASCU          -        Agricultural Sales Cooperative Union
CAS           -        Country Assistance Strategy
CBT           -        Central Bank of Turkey
CDSC          -        Cooperative Development Sub-Component (of the ASCU Restructuring Component)
CSU           -        Cooperative Service Unit
CIU           -        Component Implementation Unit
DIS           -        Direct Income Support
DFIF          -        Price Stabilization and Support Fund
DSI           -        Devlet Su Isleri (Water Resources Agency in the Ministry of Energy)
ERL           -        Economic Reform Loan
EU            -        European Union
EX            -        Executive Unit (ASCU CIU)
FAO           -        Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
Fl            -        Financial Intermediary
FISKOBIRLIK            Hazelnut ASCU
FrP           -        Farmer Transition Program
GDOF          -        General Directorate of Forestry (of the Ministry of Forestry)
GDRS          -        General Directorate of Rural Services
IMF           -        Intemational Monetary Fund
IRR           -        Intemal Rate of Return
LDP           -        Letter of Development Policy
LSS           -        Letter of Sectoral Strategy
MARA          -        Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs
MIT           -        Ministry of Industry and Trade
MOE           -        Ministry of Environment
NGO           -        Non-Govemmental Organization
NPV           -        Net Present Value
PCU           -        Project Coordination Unit at Treasury
PDA           -        Provincial Directorate of Agriculture
RB            -        ASCU Restructuring Board
SEE           -        State Economic Enterprise
SL            -        Specific Investment Loan
SIS           -        State Institute of Statistics
SOE           -        Statement of Expenditures
SPO           -        State Planning Organization
TA            -        Technical Assistance
TARP          -        Turkey Agricultural Research Project
TARIS         -        Cotton, Figs, Raisins and Olives ASCU
TCP           -        Technical Cooperation Project/FAO
Tekel         -        State Monopoly for Tobacco, Alcohol, and Salt
TMO           -        Turkish Grain Board
TSFAS         -        Turkish Sugar Company
TZDK          -        Turkish Agricultural Inputs Company
TZOB          -        Union of Agricultural Chambers of Turkey
UT            -        Undersecretariat of Treasury
WUO           -        Water User Organization
Vice President:                Johannes Linn
Country Director:                Ajay Chhibber
Sector Manager:                 Joseph R. Goldberg
Task Team Leader:                  John Nash



CONTENTS
A. Development Objective ..........................................................3
1. Project development objective .........................................................3
2. Summary project description ..........................................................4
3. Key performance indicators ..........................................................4
B. Strategic Context ..........................................................5
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project .............................5
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ..........................................................6
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ...................................................   10
C. Project Description Summary .........................................................                                                        13
1. Project components .........................................................                                                                 13
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ......................................................... 17
3. Benefits and target population .........................................................  17
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements ...................                                  ...................................... 19
D. Project Rationale ......................................................... 20
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .........................................................                          20
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies ...............                                      ................. 21
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design .........................................................     21
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .........................................................                                   24
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ......................................................... 24
E. Summary Project Analysis .........................................................                                                           24
1. Economic .........................................................                                                                          24
2. Financial ......................................................... 27
3. Technical ......................................................... 28
4. Institutional .........................................................                                                                      28
5. Environmental .........................................................                                                                      30
6. Social .........................................................                                                                              32
7. Safeguard Policies ......................................................... 36
F. Sustainability  and  Risks ......................................................... 36
1. Sustainability .........................................................                                                                    36
2. Critical risks .........................................................                                                                     37
3. Possible controversial aspects ......................................................... 38
G. Main Conditions .........................................................                                                                    40
1. Effectiveness Condition .........................................................                                                           40
2. Other .........................................................                                                                               40
H. Readiness for Implementation ......................................................... 41



I. Compliance with Bank Policies ..........................................           41
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary .42
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description .46
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs .63
Annex 4: Cost Benefit/Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary .64
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary .74
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .75
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule .87
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File .88
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits .89
Annex 10: Country at a Glance .90
Annex 11: Letter of Sectoral Strategy .93
Annex 12: Social Assessment Report .100
Annex 13: DIS Pilot Report .104
Annex 14: Environmental Data Sheet .108
MAP:   IBRD No. 24110



REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
Agricultural Reform Implementation Project (ARIP)
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSSD
Date: June 6,2001                                Team Leader: John D. Nash
Country Director: Ajay Chhibber                   Sector Manager/Director: Joseph R. Goldberg
Project ID: P070286                               Sector: AG - Agency Reforn
Lending Instrument: Investment/Adjustment        Theme(s): Rural Development
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Lending Instrument: Hybrid Investment/Adjustment        Theme(s): Rural Development
Loan
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
Estimated
Type           Indicative Financing Plan           Implementation           Borrower
._______                                  Period Bank FY)
IBRD            Others      Total    Commitment   Closing
US$ m     %      US$ m      USS m        Date       Date
Investm. 400.00            61.96      461.96     07/01/200   12/31/2005
Loan                                               1
Adjustm. 200.00                       200.00     07/01/200   12/31/2005
Loan   I__________ ______ 
Total   600.00            61.96      661.96
Project Financing Data
Loan
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): $600.00
Proposed Terms:
Grace period (years): 5                                   Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 3/4 of 1 %



Financing Plan:      Source                    Local         Foreign       Total
GOVERNMENT                                                  61.95            0.01       61.96
IBRD - Investment Loan                                      363.52          36.48       400.00
IBRD - Adjustment Loan                                      200.00           0.00       200.00
Total:                                                      625.47          36.49       661.96
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
Responsible agency: TREASURY DEPARTMENT
Estimated disbursements  Bank FY/US$M):
FY           2002        2003        2004        2005
Annual  314.14        200.86       70.43       14.57
Cumulative  314.14       515.00      585.43      600.00
Project implementation period: FYOI-05
Expected effectiveness date: 07/01/2001 Expected closing date:  12/31/2005
Notes:
1. The front-end fee (FEF at 1% of the loan) has been included in the loan amount.
2. The loan is programmed for four years and closely overlaps four Bank Fiscal Years.
2



A. Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
Background. The Government of Turkey has embarked on a structural adjustment and stabilization
program of historic dimensions. The conceptual foundations of this were laid by the policy dialogue with
the Bank over the last several years, which has included extensive analysis of the current system of
agricultural supports, and recommendations on how to reform it. These recommendations have been
adopted almost en toto in the Government's Letter of Development Policy (LDP) and agricultural strategy
document, which together form the basis for the agricultural component of the Economic Reform Loan
approved by the Bank's Board and made effective in May 2000. Once completed, these reforms will
make Turkey a model for other countries' agricultural support policies.
Development Obiective. The primary development objective of the Agricultural Reform Implementation
Project (ARIP) is to help implement the Government's agricultural reform program, which is aimed at
dramatically reducing artificial incentives and government subsidies, and substituting a support system
that will give agricultural producers and agro-industry incentives to increase productivity in response to
real comparative advantage. At the same time, the project is designed to mitigate potential short-term
adverse impacts of subsidy removal, and facilitate the transition to efficient production patterns. Aside
from promoting allocative efficiency, the reforms to be implemented are necessary for fiscal
stabilization. The Government's agriculture policy reform program is described in the March 2000
"Strategyfor Reform of Agricultural Support Policies." The agricultural policy reforms are supported in
part financially by the Bank under the Economic Reform Loan (ERL).
The Government's strategic objectives to be supported by this project can be summarized in several
elements. First, the Government intends to phase out the unsustainable and distortionary system of
subsidies for fertilizer, credit and price supports--which disproportionately benefit large farmers,
regressively tax consumers, and together cost over US$6billion a year--and to link prices to world market
prices. The ARIP will assist the Govemment to introduce a unified national program of direct income
support (DIS) for all farmers which will be simple, transparent, and will not distort the incentive structure
as does the current system. The intention is not to fully compensate every farmer for income lost by
removal of the old subsidy system, but rather to cushion the short-term losses and continue to provide
adequate support to the agricultural sector, but in an incentive-neutral way. Within the existing legal
framework, the DIS payments should be useable as collateral, thereby giving farmers enhanced access to
credit. Payments under the DIS system will be recurrent, but these will eventually become more
explicitly targeted (and harmonized with the EU system under the Common Agricultural Policy as it
exists at the time of accession), or merged with the general social safety net system. The second initiative
under the program will encourage farmers to quit producing crops which are currently heavily over-
produced by offering one-time payments to cover their cost of switching to alternative activities. The
third element of the program focuses on turning the quasi-govemmental sales cooperative unions
previously used to administer support prices into organizations dedicated to serving their farmer
members through a process of restructuring and privatization. This will reduce government involvement
in the marketing and processing of agricultural products. Finally, the project will help the govemment
maintain support for the program by clearly explaining it to the public.
A key objective of the adjustment portion of the loan is to enable the Govemment to make up some of the
anticipated shortfall in funds needed for the critical first round of DIS payments, expected in late 2001
and early 2002. The triggers for the quick-disbursing budgetary support element of ARIP would be the
satisfactory introduction of the first DIS payments to the farmers, and satisfactory performance in the
macroeconomic and sectoral reform programs, the latter as described in the Letter of Sectoral Strategy.
Disbursements under the first and second adjustment tranches also depend on the adoption of a revised
2001 budget that does not introduce new or increase existing direct or indirect agricultural subsidies and
3



submission to Parliament of a 2002 budget that does not include credit or fertilizer subsidies and does not
increase existing direct or indirect agricultural subsidies, respectively.
Completing the agriculture reform program is a medium-term objective. The reforms will assist the
Government in its aspirations for accession to the EU by increasing the efficiency of the sector and the
economy at large, thereby helping it meet one of the most basic pre-conditions set down by the EU: that
the applicant states have economies that are efficient enough to be competitive in the unified market.
The challenges in carrying out these changes will be huge, and the Government has asked for the Bank's
continued technical assistance in program design and implementation, as well as financial support for
certain elements of the program. The financial support is crucial, given the tight budget constraints
imposed by the macroeconomic stabilization package agreed with the IMF.
2. Summary Project Description (see Annex 2 for detailed Project Description).
For the investment portion of the loan:
Component A ($47.80 million): Design and Implementation of the Direct Income Support
System (DIS)
Component B ($180.58 million): Farmer Transition Program.
Component C ($152.68 million): Agriculture Sales Cooperatives, and Cooperative Unions
(ASCs/ASCUs) Restructuring.
Component D ($12.95 Million): Project Support Services.
For the adjustment portion of the loan: ($200 million) budgetary support
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Key indicators include reduction of costs and lessening of the distortionary impact of agricultural
subsidies; and delivery of financial and technical assistance to farmers, agricultural cooperatives and
enterprises affected by the policy reforms. Quantifiable key output/impact performance indicators are
described in more detail in Annex 1, but can be summarized as follows:
Component A: Direct Income Support (DIS) - functioning DIS system covering 25% of eligible farmers
is in place by the end of the first project year; 75% of farmers registered and receiving payments by 2002
and 95% of farmers registered and receiving payments by the end of the project; farmers exercise choice
regarding crop selection and input use in response to market conditions.
Component B: Farmer Transition - grants paid to about 25% of eligible farmers for conversion to
alternative agricultural production in the 12 months following project effectiveness, and to the remaining
75% in the second project year; development of agricultural producers' organizations.
Component C: Agriculture Sales Cooperatives and Cooperative Unions (ASCs/ASCUs) Restructurin -
by 2004, all sustainable ASCUs are restructured to function as effective cooperatives owned by and
operating for ASCs, and the ASCs are fully owned by and operating for farmer members; by 2005, poorly
performing ASCUs have ceased operations.
Component D: Project Support Services - effective and timely public information program in place
during the first year of the project to explain reforms and ways to access assistance programs; training
4



for MARA extension staff in public relations completed during the first year of the project; timely and
well targeted advisory services provided; effective social and financial monitoring and evaluation
established; PCU and CIlUs established and functional.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Click here to get to the CAS Document
Document number: R2000-218[IFC/R2000-221]         Date of latest CAS discussion: 12/21/00
The ARIP is included in the CAS discussed in December 2000 and in the CAS update of June 2001.
ARIP's role in the CAS
The CAS presented to the Board in December 2000 was designed to help Turkey to lay the basis for
sustained long-term growth and reducing economic vulnerability. This remains the core objective of the
Bank Group strategy. Poverty and economic vulnerability, and widening disparities, have been worsened
in Turkey by erratic growth and inflation: periods of rising inflation and slowing growth have especially
hurt those at the lower end of the income distribution. Restoring stable and higher growth, creating
employment, reducing inflation, and improving the management of the financial and public sectors, have
again been shown to be the goals upon which Turkey must focus. In light of the economic crisis that
began in February 2001, reaching the objective of sustained growth and reduced economic vulnerability
requires Turkey to undertake accelerated structural reform, while working quickly to recover from the
crisis and mitigate its worst effects. Thus, the Bank Group's strategy now is to focus on helping Turkey
recover from the crisis while dealing with the deeper causes of the crisis - especially its large and
inefficient public sector and fragile banking system - and address increasing social hardships. The
Turkish Government requests intensive financial and technical help from the Bank Group and an
acceleration of IBRD's assistance focussed on the structural and social issues.. Most relevant for the
ARIP, accelerating the structural reform program to achieve growth is more urgent than before.
Finishing the half completed agricultural reform is vital not only to attain promised productivity
improvements but also to aid farmers who may be negatively affected in the short run by the reforms: the
old distortions and subsidies have been tackled and are being phased out, but the direct income supports,
help for farmers to change to more profitable crops, and assistance for transforming the cooperatives into
viable and effective units have barely begun. Failure to make rapid progress on this front will greatly
increase the pressure to re-introduce the old-style subsidies and interventions.  ARIP also plays an
important role in the Bank's support for stronger social policies through financing for severance
payments for eligible redundant employees of ASCUs and ASCs, through funding for establishment of
the national DIS system, and through budget support which the government may use to finance part of
the initial DIS payments. This latter support is an important element in cushioning potential adverse
impacts of the reform in that provides support to farmers who will no longer receive price supports and
other distortionary subsidies. The DIS is designed to give proportionately more cash to farmers with
smaller land holdings, thus improving the targeting of assistance in the sector. The ARIP would also help
with the cost to farmers of shifting from uneconomic to more competitive crops in the newly market-
oriented environment. ARIP also provides a key element for monitoring the social impact of the crisis
and the overall reform program, through the agricultural household survey planned as part of the social
monitoring and evaluation. This survey, which includes selected qualitative follow-up, will follow a
panel of 5,000 rural and 500 urban households for a four-year period starting in the summer of 2001. It
will be used to provide ongoing monitoring and evaluation of the impact of the crisis and the
government's response in the agricultural sector.
5



Given the positive features of Turkey's new strategy and economic framework, but mindful of the risks it
entails, IBRD has reformulated its planned support to Turkey. The financing plan required for the
Government's new economic program entails an incremental US$2 billion of disbursements from IBRD
over the original CAS disbursement profile for calendar year 2001. One element of this new strategy
would be to increase the proposed size of the Agricultural Reform Implementation Loan (ARIP) from
US$400 million to US$600 million by adding to it an adjustment component of US$200 million,
disbursement of which would be based on progress in introducing the direct income support (DIS)
payment system. with appropriate triggers to ensure that the reform program is on track. The estimated
cumulative disbursements from the ARIP would be $126.32 million through CY 2001, $496.15 million
through CY 2002, $574.23 million through CY 2003, $592.69 million through CY 2004, with full
disbursement in CY 2005.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Background. Most observers agree that Turkey has tremendous potential for rural growth, but this has
gone largely unrealized. In the most recent 20-year period, while overall GNP was growing at around 5
percent per year, agriculture grew at a rate of about a third that figure. As a result, the sector shrank as a
share of the whole economy from 36 percent to 15 percent over this period. Agriculture's share of
exports has fallen from around 60 percent to about 10 percent. The growth rate has been trending
downward for at least the last decade (see Figure 1). The sector still accounts for a very large share of
employment, though this also has fallen considerably, from around 65 percent to about 45 percent.
Unlike in many other countries, the proportion of the rural population that is properly classified as poor
is about the same as this proportion in urban areas. Nonetheless, the fact that so much of the total
population is agricultural means that quite a large fraction (about 42 percent) of the poor population in
Turkey is employed in agriculture, with 11 percent of agricultural workers classified as poor, a higher
percentage than any other employment category, except construction. The importance of rural
development is amplified by the fact that rural areas show lower levels of human development as
measured by an index of education, literacy, and income.'
Development of rural areas and agriculture in particular has been impeded by heavy government
intervention in the sector.  While not all     Fi     1: AiriciiltnraI Growth and
govemment   initiatives    have    been
counterproductive, many have. Trade controls,  1 0                         =  186
govemment procurement, heavy government        6 \                           _
involvement in marketing, input subsidies   Z 2                                  _ 1
(especially credit and fertilizer), and heavy  -2 -
investment in irrigation infrastructure on a   -4                 I           6
fully subsidized basis have created a net inflow  -e                          4 1   .
-10                    ~~~~~~~~2
of  resources  from  the  government  to         ie 1988    1992 1994 1898 1998
agriculture, but have had many negative effects  z=3 A Suppon --- Gmowth ate -  Tend (Goewth)
on the sector and the economy at large. They    Source:  SIS.  ITT  and  WR
have  discouraged production of products in
which Turkey has a comparative advantage, squeezed out private sector marketers, and subsidized
inefficient production technologies. The benefits of the subsidies have gone mainly to larger, wealthier
farmers. In addition, some of the subsidies have been so large as to have serious macroeconomic effects.
These policies also create barriers to Turkey's closer integration with the EU. While previous
governments and the Bank have long recognized some of the problems created by these policies, reform
has proven difficult in the face of political opposition.
' See "Turkey: Economic Reforms, Living Standards, and Social Welfare Study", grey cover report of
World Bank, January 2000.
6



There is some evidence that the falling agricultural growth is due to stagnant or even declining technical
efficiency in Turkish agriculture as measured by total factor productivity from 1990 to 1996. This is a
startling conclusion, considering the enormous advances in agricultural technical efficiency in the world
at large 2
The single most critical issue in the agricultural sector, as identified in previous Bank sector work, is the
inefficient and costly system of agricultural support policies. These have not only manifestly failed to
enhance productivity growth, but have been a heavy burden on consumers and taxpayers and a source of
Turkey's macroeconomic problems. For this reason, reforming this system is a primary goal of both the
ERL and the IMF's program. Through a dialogue initiated with Bank policy notes, the Government has
developed a strategy to phase out the current mechanisms of support, and put in their place "decoupled"
direct income payments, which would not be contingent on input use or output production decisions of
the farmer. Thus, farmers would not suffer a precipitous reduction in income, but would be free to make
efficient production decisions based on true economic values of inputs and outputs. The payments would
be only moderately targeted at first. But over time, these payments will be more targeted toward the poor
and integrated into the overall social safety net. The strategy, as elaborated in the government's Letter of
Sectoral Strategy, is summarized below.
The government is beginning the support policy rationalization with agricultural inputs and credit. The
fertilizer subsidy has been held constant in nominal terms since 1997, resulting in a reduction of the unit
subsidy from approximately 45 percent of the total price at the end of 1997 to approximately 31 percent
by August 1999. The fertilizer subsidy will remain constant in nominal terms in 2000-01 to further lower
the unit subsidy. As of early 2001, the subsidy is 17% of the unit price. The subsidy will be abolished in
2002. With regard to credit subsidies channeled through Ziraat Bank, in December 1999, the Government
introduced a program for phasing out agriculture credit subsidies over the course of 2000. The program
involved: (i) holding the nominal interest rate on agricultural credits constant until it is equal to 5 percent
above the 3 month rolling average of the 12 month T-bill rate and thereafter allowing Ziraat Bank to
freely adjust its rates as long as they are no lower than the reference rate; (ii) introducing a variable rate
loan option for farmers; and (iii) providing cash compensation from the budget to Ziraat bank for any
subsidy accrued in 2000. As T-bill rates fell dramatically in early 2000, the subsidy element was by
March 2000 virtually eliminated. As interest rates have risen to extraordinarily high levels in the
aftermath of the recent economic crisis, the government finds it necessary to re-introduce a subsidy
element in Ziraat Bank lending rates on a temporary basis. The plan is to hold lending rates at 55 percent
and make a budgetary allocation to Ziraat Bank to compensate for the difference between 55 percent and
its opportunity cost of funds. This will be explicitly included in the amended 2001 budget at a level of
0.2 percent of GDP. The subsidy will be eliminated in 2002. These commitments are contained in the
new Letter of Intent under the IMF program.
With regard to agriculture support prices, the Government has begun a set of policy changes which
introduce a link between support prices and relevant world market prices and initiate a phase-out of
government subsidies via support prices by 2002. The support price for wheat in 2000 was linked to an
appropriate world reference and set at a level which reduced the premium over the world price to
approximately 35 percent. Import tariffs on grains were also reduced. The government also has now
made a further reduction in the premium over world wheat prices to 20 percent and in the tariff on grain
imports to 45% . In 2002, the support price mechanism based on interventions by the the state grain
purchasing company (TMO) will be eliminated as the direct income support system is implemented in
the entire country. Tariffs on grain imports will be reviewed each year and further reduced as necessary
2 See H.Akder, H. Kasnakoglu and E. Cakmak Turkey: Sources of Growth in Turkish Agriculture",
April 2000.
7



to a level consistent with an overall low and uniform protection rate. The sales price for grain of TMO
will be no less than the lower of: (a) the purchase price of TMO plus storage costs incurred up to the
date of sale including imputed interest charges on stocks, or (b) the tariff-inclusive import parity price for
grain of equivalent quality. This sales pricing policy is intended to reverse the past incentives of traders
and millers to refrain from buying grain during the harvest season and storing it, leaving all storage costs
to be absorbed by TMO.
Starting in the 2002/2003 crop year, the government will no longer make support purchases of tobacco.
Instead, all tobacco will be traded through contractual production or an auction. The premium on oilseeds
and cotton has been reduced by one quarter in the 2001 budget and will be considered to be eliminated in
2002 as the direct income support system becomes operational nationwide. Payments under the tea
pruning program are being reduced each year, (since they are linked by a formula to tea prices, which are
being reduced in real terms) and will end after 2003. In the sugar market, the Government's program
calls for reforms to reduce fiscal costs and make sugar beet prices more market determined. During a
transition period while the mills are being privatized, TSFAS will allow each mill to negotiate price and
quantity with the growers, without interference after the 2002/2003 crop year.
The agriculture reform program encompasses commercialization and privatization of state assets in the
sector with the medium-term objective of withdrawing the state from a direct role in agricultural and
agroindustrial production. In the first phase in 2000, the Government has imposed a hard budget
constraint on agricultural state economic enterprises (SEEs), including specific enterprise-by-enterprise
limits on Treasury loan guarantees, equity injections and budgetary transfers. In parallel, privatization
proceedings will be initiated for agricultural SEEs. In 2000, Privatization High Council decided that the
sugar company (TSFAS) is under the scope of privatization. The sugar mills are expected to be privatized
after a preparation period of 6 months. Some factories of the tea company (Caykur) are expected to be
transferred to the Privatization Agency (PA) portfolio in 2001. The sale of Tekel's assets will also start
in 2001. The agricultural input supply state economic enterprise (TZDAS), has been transferred to the
PA, and its staff reduced from 3,300 to 1,144. The privatization of its remaining assets (primarily a
tractor factory) will be finished in 2001, with all of its assets sold or liquidated, and all employees
terminated or re-assigned.
The law regarding the demonopolisation of the production of alcoholic spirits (one of Tekel's monopoly
divisions), thereby allowing private entry into the industry, was enacted in January 2001. The new
legislation which will be enacted by end-June 2001 will introduce auctions to replace the current system
of support prices which Tekel must purchase tobacco. It will also enable the privatization of Tekel's
production facilities for spirits and tobacco products. All of Tekel's assets have been transferred to the
Privatization Agency with the target of completing asset privatization in 2002.Significant reforms are
also being made in the sugar sub-sector, though some aspects will remain under the government's
regulatory control for the next several years. The Sugar Law that was passed by Parliament in April
2001 is an improvement over the current regime, in that it will enable the privatization of the assets of
TSFAS, eliminate the support pricing system, allow direct negotiation of prices between factories and
growers, and thereby reduce the fiscal costs of the system. (The aspects of the Law dealing with support
pricing will be applicable starting in the 2002-2003 crop year.) However, as it was the outcome of a
political battle in Parliament, it is far from perfect. It retains a strong role for the state by setting up a the
licensing and factory-by-factory quota system very similar to the EU's, though it does not make provision
for export subsidies, as does the EU's regime. In the view of Bank staff, such a system is inappropriate
for Turkey at this time. The Law does, however, allow for a reconsideration of the system in 2004, and
Government has already indicated that it intends to carry out a more fundamental reform at that time by
eliminating the Sugar Board and licensing system. While this will require a longer period for reform of
the sugar sub-sector than for other sub-sectors, and means more uncertainty, Bank staff will stay
engaged in the discussion of the long-term strategy.
8



During this transition period, the government has indicated its commitment to run the system in such a
way as to minimize fiscal costs and move forward with privatization. In November 2000, the support
price for the growing season 2000 was increased in nominal terms by 25 percent, in line with the target
inflation rate. In 2001, for the transition season of 2001/2002, a price adjustment of no more than the
target inflation rate will again be made. From 2002 TSFAS will operate on a commercial basis and
negotiate prices with beet farmers consistent with elimination of its losses. An inventory and evaluation
of the sugar plants of TSFAS was begun in 2000, with the objective of preparing their privatization. The
privatization process is expected to start in 2001 and be completed by 2002. The goal is to privatize all
viable factories. The non-viable factories will be liquidated following successful implementation of the
direct income support system or the establishment of appropriate social safety net provisions. The current
sugar tariff of 139,5% is being reduced by 1.5 percentage points per year through 2004 in accordance
with Turkey's WTO commitments. At the end of that period, the Government will carry out an analysis
of the impact of this policy on consumers and producers, with the objective of considering further tariff
reductions.
Caykur has announced its new policy of buying only high-quality tea, and only tea from pruned areas.
Caykur's purchases were limited to 600,000 tons in 2000 in line with the Government's fiscal program,
and Caykur increased nominal prices about 25 percent (a reduction in real terms) to encourage growers
to sell to the private sector factories. As these linkages are developed, Caykur plans to further decrease
its purchases in 2001, while the production of altemative crops such as kiwi increases. Profitable
factories of Caykur will be privatized and non-viable factories will be liquidated by the end of 2002. In
the grain market, the state economic enterprise TMO will be restructured and down-sized in 2001 to
preserve only its assets needed to carry out its minimal level of purchases and storage. In 2002, a
significant part of its assets will be sold, as TMO will be intervening in markets only to purchase an
appropriate quantity for strategic reserves and to regulate the market during a transitional period while
commodity markets mature. It will make purchases from the commodity exchange and trade markets,
except in areas where such markets are not operating, at prices prevailing in the market, with the
intention of further reductions in TMO purchases each year.
For the agricultural sales cooperative sector, the main issue is the role of government in cooperative
management and development, especially its involvement in the financing and in the business operations
of the cooperatives. Until the enactment of the new Agricultural Sales Cooperative and Agricultural Sales
Cooperative Union (ASC/ASCU) Law in June 2000, cooperatives were mainly channels for
implementation of government programs rather than member-owned cooperatives. Funded by
government, the cooperatives were put under the supervision and direct control of the Ministry of
Industry and Trade (MIT). This control was exercised by MIT at the ASCU level through appointment of
management staff and through operational directives issued by the Ministry to the unions. The ASCUs
controlled the primary societies (ASCs) which operated as de facto branches of the union rather than
independent cooperatives responsible for their own finances, management and operations.
The dominant role played by government proved to be detrimental to the development of the
cooperatives and their capability to provide efficient services to their members. Being controlled from the
top and being financed by funds flowing from the government, the cooperatives had no incentive to
develop their operations, nor were they given the opportunity to do so. Having to work as agencies for
price subsidies to farmers, the cooperatives could not become profitable. Their losses were aggravated by
the fact that they were compelled to employ staff in excess of their requirements, at wages far above
comparable private sector levels.
Another critical consequence of the intervention by government in the operations of the cooperatives was
that members developed no real feeling of ownership of their cooperatives. This is illustrated by a very
low rate of participation in general assembly meetings in practically all societies. There is a widespread
9



perception among cooperative members that they are owners of their societies in name only and that, in
reality, the cooperatives are government entities. This has important implications on member
participation, member share capital contributions and member loyalty. Furthermore, with access to
government funds and being managed through directives from above, the cooperatives at the grassroots
level did not develop sufficient financial and business management skills. Therefore, they are now ill-
equipped to assume responsibility for their own operations which they will have to carry out in
competition with other private agro-business enterprises. Through the reform program for ASCUs,
combined with the ASC capacity-building under the project, the government intends to change the
current top-down orientation of the sector into the bottom-up structure that it must have to effectively
support farmers.
This overall program of agricultural policy reforms will assist the Government in its aspirations for
accession to the EU by increasing the efficiency of the sector and the economy at large, thereby helping it
meet one of the most basic pre-conditions set down by the EU: that the applicant states have economies
that are efficient enough to be competitive in the unified market. The process of forward planning for EU
accession within the context of agricultural policy reform is only just beginning in Turkey. In this
context, the current reforms do not aim to harmonize policy with the Common Agricultural Policy as it
exists now, since this is a moving target which may differ considerably from its current form by the time
Turkey finishes its accession process. But the reforms and this project would help Turkey meet the more
fundamental criterion of competitiveness in the unified market, and would set the stage for eventual
harmonization. Other implications of this project for the Government's accession strategy include the
necessity of linking the eventual phase-out of the DIS payments to EU accession timing.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
In discussions of the ERL, the Government indicated that it would be able to move ahead with the agreed
ambitious policy agenda only if the Bank supported the implementation of the program with the kind of
investments and TA envisioned in the ARIP. The ARIP takes as given the broad strategic framework
outlined above, and will address a number of choices that will need to be made in the course of
implementing this strategy.
An important strategic choice affecting the overall project design was to make the project a hybrid. The
Government expressed great concern that the amount that can be allocated to the DIS payments in the
2001 and 2002 budgets is insufficient compensation to farmers for subsidies that have already been
removed or will be removed in 2001. If it is perceived that farmers are bearing more than their share of
economic hardship because the DIS program is underfunded, there would be a serious danger of a
backlash that could endanger the reforms. To address this concern, the Bank and Government have made
the strategic choice to design ARIP as a hybrid investment/adjustment operation, to provide financing for
a $200 million quick-disbursing component against the Bank's standard negative list and a $400 million
investment component.   Conditions for release of the first tranche Of $100 million would be i)
satisfactory performance in the macroeconomic program; ii) satisfactory performance in implementing
the general sectoral reform program (as described in the Letter of Sectoral Policy); iii) adoption of a
2001 revised budget that: (a) does not provide for any new direct or indirect agricultural subsidies; and
(b) does not increase existing direct or indirect agricultural subsidies, in real terms, as compared to
subsidies in effect on January 1, 2001; and iv) initiation of DIS payments, defined as "25% of farmers
registered and of these, 50% paid". These conditions could be met and first tranche released as early as
late 2001. Conditions for release of the second tranche would be i) satisfactory performance in the
macroeconomic program; ii) submission to Parliament of a draft 2002 budget which : (a) does not
provide for credit or fertilizer subsidies; and (b) does not increase other existing direct or indirect
agricultural subsidies, in real terms, as compared to subsidies in effect on January 1, 2001; iii)
satisfactory performance in implementing the general sectoral reform program (as described in the Letter
10



of Sectoral Policy); iv) further progress in the initiation of DIS payments, defined as "50% of farmers
registered and of these, 50% paid"; and (v) by November 1, 2002, or when the other conditions are met,
whichever comes first, reduction in TMO wheat purchases to a level satisfactory to the Bank.. Thus, the
government would have available an extra $200 million to supplement the DIS budget. It is anticipated
that the conditions for for the second tranche in mid to late 2002.
Components A (DIS) and B (Farmer Transition). Several choices have been made, including whether
to make the payments to the user (farmer) or landowner. This choice was finalized on the basis of the
experience of the pilot program, in which both were tested, and it was demonstrated that either option
generally seems feasible, though paying owners would be faster and simpler. Economically it makes no
difference who is the immediate recipient, since in the end, the payment will be captured by the owner of
the inelastic factor of production-land-in the form of higher rent, just as are the current subsidies.
However, in the Government's view, it would be politically unsustainable to make payments to
landowners. We have therefore agreed to design the system to pay users, rather than owners of land,
though the area eligible for payments will be based on the agricultural land area shown in cadastral
records. The system design takes into account the lessons from other such DIS systems. One such lesson
is that land registration records provide the most objective criterion on which to base payments, so these
will be used, except in the regions where these records do not exist (about 17 percent of the total land
area). Another set of critical choices concems the amount of payment per hectare, and whether it should
be the same for each farmer. The decision on the average amount (approximately $100 equivalent per
ha.) involved a trade-off between fiscal affordability and political acceptability; even this figure
represents an eventual annual expenditure of US$1.9 billion per year. The decision to initiate DIS with a
uniform national rate was based on the need to abstract the government from detailed questions of local
land use, and attendant political claims and pressures. Although the Government preferred to roll out DIS
payments nationwide in 2001, it was recognized that the registration process would take more than a
year, and would likely only begin in earnest in mid-2001. It was therefore decided to develop the
registry over two years. The criteria for selecting the areas for initial registration and DIS payments in
2001 will be objective (e.g., areas worst affected by natural disasters affecting agriculture or by the
reduction of support) and will be more fully described in a government regulation to be published prior to
consideration of the ARIP by the Bank's Board.
The issue of targeting was also considered. One strategic choice made in the design of the DIS program
was to give a minimum payment for farmers cultivating land below a minimum threshhold. This allows
small subsistence farmers-- who benefit little if at all from the current subsidies, since they neither rely
on purchased inputs nor have a saleable surplus-to receive some benefits from the DIS. Another
decision was to cap the program at 20 ha, thus limiting payments to the top end of the land distribution.
Thus, the payments will be moderately targeted. In principle, the payments could be more sharply
targeted to the poor either 1) by means testing; 2) by differentiation of payment amount by some criteria
associated with poverty; or 3) by putting lower ceilings on the area eligible for payments, or paying
according to a sliding scale. The problem with all of these is that they would greatly increase the
complexity of the system. In addition, a reform program that removed existing subsidies-which
primarily benefit the better-off farmers-without giving them at least moderate compensation would be
politically untenable. In the end, the government and project team judged that it would be best to install a
simple, transparent mechanism to begin with. The information base from the project monitoring would
then provide a solid empirical base on which to build a more targeted system in the future.
A critical choice for the Bank in the farmer transition component was how to administer the assistance to
farmers who wish to switch from the highly subsidized crops to an alternative activity. Several possible
options were considered: a credit line, cash grants in an amount based on average expenses, vouchers
redeemable for goods and services they will require in order to switch, reimbursement for actual
expenses, or direct provision by the project of the goods and services. Any of these options would serve
11



the productive purpose of helping farmers start new activities when removal of the subsidies causes their
current crops to become economically unviable for marginal farmers. Under any of the options, farmers
would need to put up some of their own resources. The credit line option was rejected because it would
have required a relatively lengthy and complex preparation process and then an additional level of
monitoring during implementation. The importance of simplicity in preparation was amplified by the
fact that this project was-based on the government's request for urgency- prepared on a very
accelerated schedule. (The elapsed time from the initial Project Concept Review meeting until the
beginning of appraisal was a period of about 4 1/2 months.) After considerable discussion, cash grants
were chosen, so as to provide maximum freedom to farmers to implement replanting according to the
ecology of their land and their own skills and capabilities. This mechanism - as opposed to reimbursing
farmers for actual expenses or provision of inputs - makes farmers pay market prices for inputs and so
discourages environmentally unfriendly overuse. The project team also explored the possibility of
allowing alternative non-agricultural activities to be eligible for financing under the farmer transition
component., Although this would add another layer of complexity-particularly in the monitoring-- to an
already-complex project, it would have the benefit of increasing farmers' options and improving
resource mobility. However, it would be difficult to incorporate this in the project design for two reasons
in addition to the extra complexity. First, the government for political reasons does not wish to be
perceived as discouraging agricultural production, and fears that a grant program that would give farmers
grants to cease producing their current crops and invest in other activities would cause land to be left
idle. Second, such an outcome would also be inconsistent with the requirement in the Bank's Articles of
Association that Bank loans be for productive purposes, since the land in this case would become
unproductive. In order to achieve at least some of the benefits in terms of expanded options for farmers
while recognizing the constraints on both the government's side and the Bank's, the grant mechanism has
been designed to give farmers some flexibility while preventing the land from being idled. Farmers
could, if they wished, uproot their own hazelnut trees, collect the portion of the grant for this purpose,
and then sell their land and use the grant proceeds to start an alternative activity. By virtue of the fact that
the buyer has paid for the land, it is clear that the land will continue to be used for a productive purpose.
A clause in the grant agreement a farmer would have to sign in order to collect the grant would specify
that neither he nor a buyer of the land would plant hazelnuts. However, there would be no economic
incentive to do so in any case since hazelnuts would no longer be purchased at an artificially high price,
which was what provided the incentive to plant the crop on this unsuitable land in the first place. Of
course, sale of the land would be only one of the farmer's options; the other, which we would expect to
be much more commonly exercised, would be to plant an alternative crop and collect the subsequent
portions of the transition grant.
Component C:   Agriculture Sales Cooperatives and Cooperative Unions (ASCs/ASCUs)
Restructuring. While project support for labor retrenchment in all of the ASCs/ASCUs can be justified
on the basis of improved sector efficiency, project support for technical assistance or investments must
be more selective. Project support should be envisaged only for those ASCUs which have a significant
potential for becoming viable and sustainable. This decision will be taken on the basis of comprehensive
financial, economic and institutional reviews of each ASCU, and assistance provided to those that
demonstrate the ability and willingness to take decisions necessary for sustainability. Another set of
critical choices are related to the kind and number of services to be provided in the future by the selected
ASCUs to their member cooperatives and individual farmers. The first basic rule for this decision will be
that ASCs/ASCUs should purchase (and process) only those agricultural products which in turn can be
sold (i.e. for which there is a market) at a reasonable margin. By applying this rule, ASCUs should
reduce the purchase of those crops for which there is only a very narrow market (e.g. apricots). Another
basic criterion to be used in making choices that will redefine the core services of ASCUs will be the
interest of the member owners. During the time ASCUs were dominated by the State these regional
unions added functions to their farmer mandates which are mainly (if not exclusively) in the interest of
government or the management but certainly not in the interest of the farmer owners.
12



Another critical choice in project preparation was to include a capacity-building component for the
ASCs. The large majority of the ASCs are today entirely dependent on the ASC'Us to which they are
affiliated, and many will find it difficult to make the transition from a position of total dependency to the
status of more autonomous units with a capacity to run their own affairs. If not supported through
capacity-building measures, many, if not most, of the ASCs may exit from the scene or their transition
will take place only gradually over a period of years, during which time they would not be able to
provide effective services to their members. Although the market for agricultural produce and farm inputs
is fairly well developed, a possible failure of the ASCs may expose farmers to unfair trading practices by
private traders. Therefore, it is important that efficient ASCs add to the competition and increase the
farmer's choice between vanrous buyers and suppliers.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components: (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown)
Comp A: Direct Income Support (DIS)                   74.30        16.08      47.80      11.95
Comp B: FarmerTransition                             185.89       40.24      180.58      45.14
Comp C: Agricultural Sales                           177.60        38.44     152.68      38.17
Cooperative Unions (ASCU)
Restructuring
Comp D: Project Support Services                      18.18         3.94      12.95       3.24
Adiustment Loan                                      200.00                  200.00
Front End Fee (FEF)                                    6.00         1.29       6.00       1.50
Total         661.96      100.00     600.00      100.00
Notes:
I. The reported FEF pertains to both the investment and adjustment loans combined.
2. The percentage columns exclude the adjustment loan of USS 200M.
3. 3. The figures in this table include contingencies.
Summary by Component
Component A: Design and implementation of the Direct Income Support system (DIS). Since the
DIS will allow the government to disengage from its current support mechanisms in a politically
acceptable and humane way, this component is at the heart of the whole program. The objective of this
component is to set up a mechanism for identifying farmers who are eligible for payments under the DIS,
and a mechanism for delivering those payments. The effectiveness of the program will be tracked through
the ARIP social and financial monitoring and evaluation systems. This component will finance technical
assistance, training, software and equipment to set up a farmer registry and to complete computerization
of existing land registry records. rhe budgetary support component would be used by the Government to
partially finance the first DIS payments.
13



Component B: Farmer Transition will help farmers make the transition to alternative activities as the
govemmental supports are reduced. The current inconsistent and arbitrary pattern of state purchases
commissioned to ASCUs or SEEs send very confusing messages to farmers and agricultural processors
when they are deciding what to produce and how to produce it. It is leading them to overproduce crops
which they can produce only at high cost relative to world markets, and underproduce crops which they
can produce more efficiently. The objective of this component is not to compensate farmers for income
lost through removal of input subsidies and price supports (the function of the DIS payments is to
provide some compensation for this) but rather to cover the one-time cost of converting from previously
highly supported crops. Currently the most serious problems are with hazelnut and tobacco. As a result
of high support prices, there has been a large expansion of cropping area in these crops, with significant
amounts of surplus production and stock accumulation. It is expected that under the reform program, the
artificially high prices of these products will decline significantly-more so than the incomes of growers
of other crops -- and many of these farmers in areas which have good alternatives will want to stop
producing them. This component will provide grants to certain hazelnut and tobacco farmers to cover the
average cost of buying inputs for alternatives, and preparing and tending fields in the transition period;
and to hazelnut farmers to cover the uprooting costs. It would also include a small sub-component to
support strengthening or establishment of farmers' associations which would help in the transition.
Component C:   Agriculture Sales Cooperatives and Cooperative Unions (ASCs/ASCUs)
Restructuring. The Government's Agricultural Sector Reform Program includes the structural reform of
the agricultural sales cooperatives. As a result of earlier State intervention in the cooperative sector, the
State now plays a dominant role in the sector and its intervention has proven to be unproductive and
fiscally unsustainable. This intervention has left the ASCs and their unions alienated from their members,
saddled with excessive wage costs, heavily indebted and without proper arrangements for corporate
governance. Under the new law on Agricultural Sales Cooperatives and their Unions, adopted in June
2000, the ASCUs will no longer receive annual allocations of funds from the budget. Instead, they will
be required to become, once again, independent, financially autonomous and self-managed organizations
dedicated to serving their farmer members by selling and processing crops on their behalf. However, as a
transitional measure, an amount of TL 250 trillion has been made available from the budget as a credit to
the ASCUs to enable them to procure the 2000/2001 crop. In order to obtain this credit, the ASCUs were
required to submit detailed business plans including their plans for cost cutting through labor
retrenchment. The repayments of these credits will flow to a revolving fund which can be used by the
ASCUs in future years or until the time that they are sufficiently self-financing and sufficiently
creditworthy to obtain working capital loans from commercial banks.
As shown in the Table below, the agricultural cooperative sector includes 16 ASCUs, 330 ASCs and
around 750 thousand farmer members. The ASCUs and ASCs had around 16,500 employees at the end
of July, 2000. The larger ASCUs, particularly the three which procure cotton, have large industrial
facilities for secondary processing of the crop. Under the project, the role of the ASCUs will be
dramatically reduced and they will be transformed into sales agencies for marketing the produce of their
member ASCs and providers of business services to the ASCs. Many of the ASCUs and ASCs have
already begun to retrench workers in order to eliminate excess labor and achieve wage parity with their
private sector competitors. As shown in the table below, 12,155 workers are subject to retrenchment.
Following retrenchment, any replacement workers will be hired at wages equal to those paid by the
private sector. The new law on ASCUs provides that the government's budget should cover the cost of
severance payments to all retrenched workers. As the amount of crop procured by the ASCUs is
currently constrained by lack of working capital the savings resulting from the retrenchment program will
initially be used to strengthen the working capital position of the ASCUs. Once this has been
accomplished, future savings can be used for refurbishment investments or be distributed among the
ASCUs' farmer-cooperators.
14



Some ASCUs will require further restructuring in addition to labor retrenchment if they are to become
sustainable. Since most of the ASCUs lack the institutional capacity to restructure themselves and
survive in their new business environment, the ASCU law provides for the creation of a Restructuring
Board which will provide various types of assistance to the ASCUs and their member ASCs, on a
voluntary basis. This component would provide TA for establishing the Restructuring Board, as well as
TA to the ASCs/ASCUs to assist them in designing and implementing: (i) restructuring measures; and
(ii) business development and capacity building programs. As mentioned above, the ASCU law also
requires that the budget pay for the cost of severance payments associated with labor retrenchment. This
component of the ARIP project will provide the government with the resources necessary to implement
the provision. To aid in the effort of all cooperative units which decide to restructure and attempt to
become commercially viable, this component would finance severance payments to the affected workers.
The Cooperative Development Sub-Component (CDSC) of the ASCUs Restructuring Component will
contribute to the transformation of the ASCs into genuine cooperative organizations which are: i)
member-controlled and operate in accordance with needs and priorities identified by their members; ii)
efficiently managed and able to provide effective services to their members; and iii) competitive and self-
reliant and thereby able to operate in competition with other private sector enterprises without having to
depend on government subsidies and supervision. Achievement of this objective will enable farmers to
take ownership of their cooperatives and get access to efficient services which improve farm productivity
and income.
15



Profile of the Agricultural
Cooperative Sector
Name of ASCU              Location           Crop Name       Tons of Crop     Nunmber of      Number of      Nunber of      Number of      Primnry Proceaing Facilities                Secondary Processing Facilities
Procured In     Employees         ASC's       ASC memnbers  Employees to
1999/2000                                                  be Retrenched
I TARIS-Cotton             Izrnir          Cotton                    247,828           3,634             44         62,452          2.653 27 Ginning facilities            Conon Seed Oil, Margarine, Soap, Detergents, Spining Mill,
Fabric-s
2 TARIS-Fig                                 Dry Figs                  11,358           1.104              15          7,792           700 1 Fig Sizing and Calibration      Fig Processing, Cologne
3 TARIS-Raisin                              Raisin                    57,997             769              14         26,293           880 None                              Raisin Processing, Vinegar and Boiled Grape Juice
4 TARIS-Olive Oil                           Olive Oil                  7,780             889              33         27,732           426 28 Olive Oil Extraction Units     Olivc Oil Processing, Table Olivc packing
5 CUKOBIRLIK                Adana           Cotton                   139,046           3,546              40         63,003         3,546 7 Ginning facilities              Cotton Seed Oil. Spinnig Mill, Fabrics, Dying and Clothing
_____ ____ ____ _____   ___ ____ ____ Soyabean    24,724
6 ANTBIRLIK                 Antalya         Cotton-Citrus             51,959           1,035               6         29,064           779 4 Ginning facilities              Cotton Seed Oil, Spinnig Mill and Soap, Citrus Packing
7 FISKOBIRLIK               Giresun         Hazelnut                 142.384           2,416              49        238,733         2,347 17 Crtshing facilities            Hazelnut Processing
8 TRAKYABIRLIK              Edirne          Sun Flower               356,102           1,656              48        107,705           482 None                              Trakya Seed Oil and Karacabey Seed Oil
9 KARADENIZBIRLIK           Samaun          Sun Flower                54,628             449              21         69,200            76 None                              Merzifon Seed Oil and Dogan Erdil Seed Oil
10 GUJNEYDOGUltIRLIK        Gaziantep        Pistachio                  1,062             190             14          17.502           150 None                             Pistachios and Red Pepper Packing
Red pepper                   976
Red Lentils                5,722
11 MARMARABIRLIK            Bursa            Olive Oil                 42,208             562               8        48,025             13 None                              Table Olive
Tz TASKOBIRLIK              Nevebir         Dried Grape                8,783             71               9          4,310             59 None                              Vinegar, Wine and Grape Juice
13 KAYISIBIRLIK             Malatya          Apricot                    1,550             62               6           8,178            21 None                             None
14 KOZABIRLIK               Bursa            Silk Cocoon                  132              35               5         10,489             6 None                              Silk Cocoon
1 TIFTIVKBIRLIK             Ankara           Mohair                       139              22             12          18,449             7 None                             None
16 GULBIRLIK                Isparta          Roses                      2,234              19              6           7,392            10 None                              Rose Flower Seed Oil, Parftune
_TOTAL                                                             1,156,612         16,459            330        746,319         12,t155
16



Component D: Project Support Services. This component will provide for a) Public Information
Campaign to provide accurate and timely information about the reforms and describe the support
mechanisms available under the project to farming communities through television, radio and newspaper
announcements. This subcomponent would also provide training for MARA extension services staff to
enable them to answer farmer questions about the program and present accurate information about the
reforms and assistance programs to their clients, the farmers, and a mechanism to collect feedback from
the public; b) advisory services connected with project management, agricultural statistics, laboratory
and food testing, crop insurance and other topics relevant for reform program implementation that are not
addressed in the other components; c) monitoring and evaluation to gauge the social and financial impact
of the agricultural reform program and supporting ARIP components; and d) a Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) for project coordination, procurement and financial management support to the implementing
agencies, and Component Implementation Units to assist the implementing agencies.
Adjustment Component. This component provides financing for a $200 million quick-disbursing
component (in 2 equal tranches) against the Bank's standard negative list. Conditions for release of the
first quick-disbursing tranche would be i) satisfactory performance in the macroeconomic program; ii)
satisfactory performance in implementing the general sectoral reform program (as described in the Letter
of Sectoral Policy); iii) adoption of a 2001 revised budget that : (a) does not provide for any new direct
or indirect agricultural subsidies; and (b) does not increase existing direct or indirect agricultural
subsidies, in real terms, as compared to subsidies in effect on January 1, 2001; and iv) initiation of DIS
payments, defined as "25% of farmers registered and of these, 50% paid". Conditions for release of the
second quick-disbursing tranche would be i) satisfactory performance in the macroeconomic program; ii)
submission to Parliament of a draft 2002 budget that : (a) does not provide for credit or fertilizer
subsidies; and (b) does not increase other existing direct or indirect agricultural subsidies, in real terms,
as compared to subsidies in effect on January 1, 2001; iii) satisfactory performance in implementing the
general sectoral reform program (as described in the Letter of Sectoral Policy); iv) further progress in the
initiation of DIS payments, defined as "50% of farmers registered and of these, 50% paid"; and (v) by
November 1, 2002, or when the other conditions are met, whichever comes first, reduction in TMO
wheat purchases to a level satisfactory to the Bank.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will support implementation of the reform program already broadly agreed under the ERL
and announced by the Government in the LDP for that loan and more fully in the "Strategy for Reform of
Agricultural Support Policies" adopted by the Interministerial Committee on Agricultural Support
Restructuring in February 2000. During ARIP preparation, more specific targets have been identified for
1) further price and tariff reductions for grains in 2001 and beyond, and phaseout of the support price for
grains and tobacco; 2) the pricing mechanisms for TSFAS, Tekel, and Caykur while they are in the
process of privatization; 3) targets for privatization of agricultural SEEs; 4) reduction of the premium
payments on oilseeds and cotton; and (5) an eventual exit strategy for the revolving fund for ASCUs and
for DIS payments (linked to EU accession). These are summarized in the description of Government
strategy in Section B-2 above.
3. Benefits and target population:
The Govemment's reform program has great long-term benefits, but will impose some losses on certain
groups in the short run. This project will help implement the reform program in the most efficient way,
while providing a safety net for potential short-term losers. The safety-net is targeted to four groups:
redundant employees of the ASCUs who receive severance payments financed by the project;
cooperatives who benefit from capacity building (and their member farmers); farmers who receive
assistance in making a transition to alternative crops when support prices for their traditional crops are
17



eliminated; and farmers who receive DIS payments (virtually all farmers). Less directly, benefits will go
to taxpayers (in the form of lower public spending and inflation) and to consumers (in the form of lower
prices for agricultural goods). An estimate of the fiscal cost of the policies that are being reformed is
around $ 6 billion in 1999. The reform program reduced this cost to about $3.5 billion in 2000, and will
continue the reduction to about $2.1 billion in 2001, $0.2 billion in 2002, and nil in 2003. Not all of this
will be net fiscal savings, however, since some will be used for the direct income payments. These
payments will not fully compensate all losses; in 2001 farmers will receive around US$ 100 per hectare
under the DIS, but this could possibly be raised in the following years as the support price mechanisms
are phased out. The effects will be monitored so the amount could be adjusted appropriately over time.
The likely costs of the DIS payments will be about $ 500 million in 2001, one installment to farmers, and
$ 1.9 billion in 2002 with two installments. This amount will thereafter remain constant (in US$) unless
the amount paid per hectare is adjusted. The DIS should become more explicitly targeted (and
harmonized with the EU system under the Common Agricultural Policy as it exists at the time of
accession), or merged with the general social safety net system. In any case, since farmers will be
producing marketable crops more efficiently and will benefit more per dollar of government budget from
direct cash payments than subsidies in kind (much of such subsidy actually has gone to workers in ASCU
and SEE enterprises), it should be possible to realize important short-term fiscal savings from the
reforms, even including the direct income support payments.
Within the population of approximately four million Turkish farm families , quantitative estimates of
how much different groups gain or lose from the whole reform package (based on farm budgets) are quite
uncertain. It is clear that some farmers will lose a lot, some will lose a little, and some -- those that grow
crops that were not heavily supported and did not use much credit or fertilizer -- will gain. Livestock
producers who purchase fodder will unambiguously gain from cheaper feed grain prices. Small-scale
producers who grow mainly for self-consumption will not be affected by the phaseout of current
subsidies and support prices, but will benefit from DIS payments, so they will clearly be net gainers from
the program. Farmers growing highly supported crops and using a lot of credit and fertilizer will lose
from the reduction in subsidies and support prices. But quantitative estimates of these losses are
inherently too high, since they assume that farmers will keep growing the same crops when their relative
prices fall, whereas in reality, many will change to more profitable crops or other activities, thereby
minimizing the drop in income. Indeed, accelerating this process is the main objective of the Farmer
Transition component. It is clear, for example, that tobacco farmers who grow unsaleable tobacco will
either upgrade their production so it can be sold at the auction or switch to another activity. There will
be strong incentives from the overall program for farmers to switch to crops that do not now have high
support prices, such as cotton, sunflower, horticultural crops, and forage, and to livestock. Support to
develop farmers' association will help farmers by providing effective training, by facilitating input
supply and insurance coverage, by strengthening the negotiating power on all markets and by formulating
demand for agricultural research and extension to shape the technology generation and transfer process.
The ultimate beneficiaries of the CDSC sub-component will be farmer members of the ASCs. The
capacity-building support under CDSC will provide the members with the tools necessary to exercise
their ownership rights, and to shape the activities of the ASCs from the point of view of farmer needs. As
the primary societies become more efficient in their business operations, farmers will benefit through
improved services, higher prices for agricultural produce delivered to the cooperatives, and competitive
prices of farm inputs. Restructuring of the ASCUs, reduction of staff, and introduction of an optimal
division of work between the unions and the cooperatives will contribute to lower costs in the whole
ASC system and, thereby, to improved returns to farmer members.
18



Especially the small-scale farmers are expected to be the main beneficiaries of efficiently operating
cooperatives. They lack the bargaining power which large-scale farmers have in the market for
agricultural outputs as well as inputs. Often dependent on crop financing from traders, small-scale
farmers have to commit their crop to these traders and, therefore, are not in a position to bargain for the
highest possible price. As experience from many countries shows, cooperatives are an appropriate tool
for farmers to improve their market position as well as to reduce costs of the support services which they
need.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation of the investment part of this project will extend over four years. Treasury will serve as
lead implementing agency, and will establish a Project Coordination Unit (PCU). Policy guidance and
interagency coordination will be managed through a Steering Committee chaired by the Undersecretary
of Treasury and consists of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs (MARA), Ministry of Industry
and Trade (MIT), the State Planning Organization (SPO), Ziraat Bank, the Ministry of Finance, the State
Title and Cadastre Agency, the State Statistics Institute (SIS), and the Agricultural Chamber of Producers
(TZOB). Most of the SC members also serve on the Agricultural Restructuring Board. The Treasury
PCU will handle day-to-day coordination and implementation duties, including procurement,
disbursement, financial management and project monitoring. MARA will establish Component
Implementation Units to manage implementation of Components A (DIS) and B (Farmer Transition).
For Component C (ASCs/ASCUs Restructuring), an Executive Unit reporting to the ASCs/ASCU
Restructuring Board will be established and will function as the CRJ for that component.
The adjustment portion of ARIP would be implemented in accordance with standard Bank procedures
and practices for adjustment loans. The ARIP adjustment component will be implemented by the Central
Bank of Turkey based on an Implementation Agreement between the Undersecretariat of Treasury and
the CBT. Implementation arrangements will be fully consistent with Bank practice for adjustment loans.
Upon notification to the Bank of the establishment and initial operation of the DIS system, the proceeds
of the adjustment portion of the loan will be deposited by the Bank into the designated Deposit Account
at the CBT at the request of the Borrower. In accordance with the Operational Directive on the
Simplification of Disbursement Rules under Structural Adjustment and Sector Adjustment Loans
(February 8, 1996), disbursements will not be linked to specific purchases. Therefore, there will be no
procurement requirements for the adjustment portion of ARIP.
Financial Management Arrangements
For the investment portion of the project:
All the accounting records would be maintained at the PCU. Ziraat Bank will be the main Bank handling
the payments on behalf of the PCU (Treasury). Ziraat Bank, though no better than other state owned
banks in terms of financial strength, has a wide network of branches in rural areas to make payments to
the farmers. Based on the payment advises sent by the Ziraat Bank, the PCU will pass necessary entries
in the Books of Accounts. The accounting system at PCU will be centralized and fully computerized.
PIUs will not maintain any books of accounts. Employee-wise severance payment records will be
maintained by each ASCU. MARA district offices will maintain the farmer registration records- which
will be computerized during the course of project implementation. Details regarding the flow of
transactions and various internal controls are included in Annex 6.
19



For the adjustment portion of the project:
The adjustment portion of the loan would be released by the Central Bank to the Govemment as
additional resources for the general budget for partially meeting the DIS expenditure of the government.
The Government will submit to the Bank a monthly report on receipts and payments showing the
transactions on the Deposit Account and from this account into other accounts of the Central Bank or
Treasury (the related accounts), starting with the first receipt of Bank funds, and ending when Bank
disbursements on the loan have ceased and when the balance on the Deposit Account has been reduced to
zero. Treasury Controllers that are satisfactory to the Bank as independent auditors will carry out the
audit of the Deposit Account and related accounts and records in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied. The audits will be conducted starting at the end of fiscal year 2001 of the
Borrower on the basis of terms of reference agreed between the Bank and the Borrower. The audit
reports will be submitted to the Bank no later than four months from the close of the fiscal year. In
addition to the above, the Bank may request that its own staff carry out special reviews of the Deposit
Account and related accounts and records. If the proceeds of this loan are used for ineligible/unintended
purposes, the Bank will require the Borrower to either: (i) return that amount to the account for use for
eligible purposes, or (ii) refund the amount directly to the Bank.
The first tranche ($100 million) under the adjustment loan will be released when the policy-related
conditions are met and at least 25% of the farmers are registered in an auditable database, the DIS
payments made to these farmers are pre-audited by MARA inspectors, and consultants appointed to
design, develop, and implement computerized DIS system have prepared acceptable functional
specifications of the system. The second tranche ($100 millions) will be released when the policy -
related conditions are met and at least 50% of the farmers are registered, DIS payments made to the
farmers are audited by an independent auditor, and the computerized system is implemented and the
database of the farmers is updated to include the farmers already registered and payments already made.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Originally, the Bank discussed with the Government a multi-component single loan, which would have
the components currently envisioned in the ARIP, plus several others as well. These other components
included commodity market development, land management, agricultural services, and preparation for
EU accession (harmonization of legislation and institutional improvements). However, it is clear that
some of these tasks are more urgent than others to ensure the success of the reform program. Thus, the
Government requested that we prepare a project to support these more urgent tasks on a priority basis,
leaving some of the others for a later operation. The ARIP focuses only on the tasks that must be started
in 2000-2001 to support the transition from a heavily govemment-influenced to a market-driven
agricultural sector
Another option considered for this project's design is an adjustment operation. Under this option, the
Bank team would work with the Government during project preparation to design an implementation
schedule for the reforms, with benchmarks that could be used as tranche release conditions. During
supervision, the team would work with the Government to carry out this program. Necessary
expenditures would be financed from the Govemment's general budget, which would be reimbursed by
loan disbursements. The very real advantage of this option, as opposed to the investment project option,
is that it might have permitted faster project preparation and disbursement of loan proceeds. The
disadvantage of this option is the lack of a mechanism to monitor and evaluate the implementation of the
reforms, and to design additional interventions if need be.
20



The Bank and the Government concluded that a hybrid adjustment/investment loan would be the most
appropriate instrument, to allow for rapid implementation of the DIS system, farmer transition
component, a pilot agricultural statistics component, and initial work on ASCU restructuring, to be
complemented by lending in two tranches of $100 million each, to be released when the initial DIS
system is in place and payments have been made and other specific indicators of progress in the
macroeconomic and sectoral reform programs are met. This approach will keep the Bank involved in the
reform process and follow up in a "hands on" manner, while the adjustment portion will help the
Government to fund payments at a level sufficient to meaningfully cushion the adverse effects on farmers
of withdrawal of other subsidies.
Alternative institutional arrangements for implementation of the ASCU CDSC were considered during
project appraisal. One alternative possibility would have been to attach the local implementation teams
(the CSU field officers in the current project design) to the ASCUs, i.e., as cooperative development
sections of the unions. This was rejected on the grounds that it would have given the unions the
opportunity to unduly influence their affiliates in the sensitive process of restructuring which will involve
difficult question of division of assets, functions and powers between the union and the societies.
However, the local field officers of CSU will operate in close consultation and collaboration with the
unions.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned):
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financeI projects only)
Implementation    Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Sectoral economic policy reform    Economic   Reform    Loan
(ERL)
Socio-economic policy reform       Privatization Support Project
(PSP)
Institutional development          Commodity            Market       S             S
Development Project (LIL)
Natural resource management        Eastern Anatolia Watershed        S             S
Rehabilitation Project
Other development agencies
Economic policy                    IMF Stand-by Arrangement
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The main lesson learned from past experience in Turkey is the gross inefficiency of the current
mechanisms of support for agriculture. The alternative mechanism of direct income support has been
tested and is now used in a number of countries, including the US for the most important field crops and
Mexico (the Procampo program)3.
3 See "From prices to incomes: Agricultural subsidization without protection?" DecNote, Research
Findings, No. 32, 1997, World Bank, Washington, D.C.
21



Component A (DIS): One of the key lessons of well functioning DIS programs is the importance of an
adequate registry of farmers. The registry of farmers has to be accurate, reliable and transparent, so as to
avoid manipulation and misuse for other purposes. As experience in Mexico's Procampo and other
similar programs shows, the registry of farmers has to be assembled before the program enters into
operation, so as to have the program run smoothly without practical complications and complaints. The
registry also has to be simple, containing only a few variables needed to implement the program
efficiently and in particular, facilitate payment. Another key element is the clear definition of the criteria
on which the payment amount will be determined. Experience says that the simplest way is to pay
according to the number of hectares owned or farmed by the beneficiary rather than in relation to
agricultural production or cultivated area in certain crops. Intemational experience on developing a
registry of farmers provides a basis for comparing the cost, speed and transparency of various methods.
For instance, in Romania 4.5 million farmers were registered following local cadastre records. The
process was completed in about 3 months nationwide. The cost of the registry per farmer was about two
dollars, including taking the information from the cadastre books and processing. Another example was
Procampo in Mexico where the registry of farmers was made initially on declaration by farmers of area
planted in the last three years with verification by the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). The registry took
a longer time than in Romania because of the implications and problems with self declarations of
farmers. At the beginning of the Procampo program, the criterion was to give the payment according the
number of hectares cultivated with certain crops in the three years before the program started. Once the
program was announced the farmers increased the cultivated area of the eligible commodities. Gradually
the data base has been cleaned over the years, and disputes over the accuracy of farmers declaration of
area planted are usually resolved by a bipartite committee composed of farmer representatives and local
MOA officials. There are other examples in Latin America of registries of beneficiaries for social
programs. Those registries have been more expensive (8-10 US dollars per family) than the registry of
farmers because those registries have been based on censuses of poor areas and ask a great number of
questions (over 65 questions) to establish poverty levels. Adequate measures have been taken to prevent
these potential problems in the design of the DIS at national level.
Component B (Farmer Transition): One major lesson leamed from the successful implementation of the
Eastem Anatolia Watershed Rehabilitation Project (EAWRP), which is being implemented in 11
provinces of Turkey, is the importance of giving farmers a wide range of options, rather than pre-
selecting an altemative crop for them. This project includes the participation of the villagers in
rehabilitating micro-catchment (MC) areas. The interactive approach of the Project depends on the
ability of the villagers first to identify problems for which the Project can supply a solution and then
respond positively to the options. Communities choose from a "menu" of options, which comprise
various treatments, some of which are conditional on, and must be adopted in, association with another.
To encourage the adoption of the treatments which have only long-term benefit or short-term costs, the
Project finances the initial investment and establishment phase of the supporting activities. Once the
participatory plans are prepared for the MCs, members of the community also participate in project
implementation, and contribute to the costs. In the Project, even though the MC villages are very poor,
the villagers are willing to share the cost e.g., providing the cement for the water collecting ponds,
providing transportation for the construction material, or providing labor.
For the ARIP Project, it will be critical that farmers be given options, as in the EAWRP. Such a selection
from the menu would encourage the adoption of and participation in both long-term and short-term
measures. The long term benefits would be more sustainable cropping patterns , better price formation in
the market, more stable income; the less immediate benefits would be explained and supported by a
public awareness campaign. The more direct and short-term benefits to the farmers would be provision
of funds needed for inputs such as seed, seedling, diesel, fertilizer, equipment services, chemical supply
and demand driven extension service, and training as matching grants from the project.
22



Component C (ASCs/ASCUs Restructuring): The performance of rural cooperatives in most developing
and transition countries is mixed at best. Usually, the main reason for this poor performance is excessive
government involvement. Government often mandates cooperatives to carry out specific policies and
programs (e.g. in Turkey, ASCs and ASCUs had to implement intervention purchases on behalf of
government). In addition, through cooperative departments and sector ministries, governments heavily
controlled cooperatives and intervenes in their operations, with the rationale that "ill-informed and
illiterate cooperative members must be guided and protected from the harsh reality of the markets". As a
result of mandated tasks and dominating management, government tums many cooperatives into state
organizations similar to SEEs.
Since the beginning of the nineties, more and more governments are undertaking efforts aiming at
redefining their role in cooperative development in order to make it consistent with their role as a
facilitator of private sector development. In addition, cooperatives seek support in their transition from
government dependency to viable private sector enterprises.
The design of the whole ASCU component, including the CDSC, is based on contemporary trends and
experiences in the development of cooperatives and other farmer organizations. There is evidence from
many countries in different regions of the world that cooperatives financed and controlled by government
have degenerated into inefficient organizations, ultimately losing the support and participation of their
members. Ownership, member participation and relevance of services in relation to members' needs are
key concepts in the new cooperative development strategy which has emerged after failure of the
government-controlled cooperative systems.
Experience from cooperative reform projects in other countries--e.g. the Agricultural Development
Project in Poland and the Intensive Cooperative Management Improvement Project in Kenya--illustrate
the difficulties involved in moving from a system of government control and dependency to cooperative
autonomy. Cooperatives find it difficult to graduate to autonomous, member-controlled enterprises able
to compete effectively in an open market. In order to make the transition successful, cooperatives need a
comprehensive range of support services over a comparatively long period of time. Such services need to
be tailored to the needs of individual cooperatives through a participatory process, involving members in
the identification, design and implementation of the support. This is why the CDSC assistance to ASCs is
based on a rather elaborate process of member mobilization, business planning and plan implementation,
and why CDSC includes a full package of support services ranging from member information and board
member training to business management consultancy and management systems development.
Adjustment portion of ARIP: In developing the ARIP, and the reform program which it supports, staff
have drawn on the experience of past adjustment lending to Turkey in the 1 980s, as well as on the recent
experience with adjustment lending across the Bank. The core lessons learned from this experience
include:
* Successful implementation of adjustment loans requires intensive dialogue with the Government and
key local stakeholders. Critical aspects of the agriculture reform program have been the subject of
intensive dialogue over several years, including national seminars in 1998 and 1999 in conjunction
with preparation of the ERL;
* Conditionality must be clear and straightforward with strong Government ownership. The ARIP
design and component contents were discussed in detail with the Government on at least three
occasions prior to appraisal, and the dialogue intensified during four weeks of continuous discussions
through appraisal, and has continued in the period before and during negotiations.;
23



* Close cooperation with the IMF is essential. Cooperation with the IMF on Turkey is very close. The
Bank participated in all key discussions on the Standby program. The Fund has a particular interest
in agricultural policies because of their fiscal implications and the Fund program incorporates key
agricultural policy reforms supported by the ARIP;
* Adequate funding for the program is critical and has been promised for the economic program into
2003.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government has already taken several politically difficult measures to reduce inefficient subsidies,
and is strongly committed to many other actions which are tranche-release conditions under the ERL and
IMF Standby Arrangement, as outlined in 2 above. It has included still other commitments in its LDP for
the ERL and the accompanying Agricultural Strategy, as well as in the ARIP Letter of Sectoral Policy.
Further indication of borrower commitment is found in the Government's request for access to
retroactive financing under ARIP in the amount of US$35 million to finance severance payments to
ASCU workers made redundant through the restructuring process.
The Government has already started the process of withdrawing from its financial involvement in the
ASCU/ASC system by declaring in the agricultural sales cooperative law that the ASCUs, after a short
transition period, will have to finance their operations without government loans or grants. This law also
provides the framework for transformation of the cooperatives into entities not subjected to intervention
by the state.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank's involvement will add value in two ways. First, in its comprehensive stabilization program the
Government requested the Bank's support for agricultural reform based on mutual consensus. In
response to this request, advice has been provided over the last two years in a series of Bank policy notes
and policy workshops that have tried to build a consensus for the reforms. This has been absolutely
indispensable in deciding to adopt the program of direct income support, and then in setting it up, since
this is not a system with which the Government was previously familiar. It has also been critical in
helping the Government think through the question of how best to sever its links with the ASC system.
In the short and medium term, the Government will continue to need assistance in considering how to
spend the approximately $397 million that was put into the DFIF fund in 2000 to be invested on
ASC/ASCU operations and restructuring. Second, the Government needs the financial support the loan
will provide. In the wake of the February 2001 financial crisis, the revised 2001 budget will of necessity
be even tighter than the 2000 budget. It would not be able to support the measures necessary to
implement the reforms. In particular, there is a real danger of an insufficient allocation for the first DIS
payments, which could undermine the system's sustainability and credibility.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
Other (specify) NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
As noted previously (Section B.2.), the ARIP is expected to have a positive impact on the currently
inefficient and costly system of agricultural support policies. These have not only manifestly failed to
enhance productivity growth, but have been so expensive to both consumers and taxpayers that they have
been a source of Turkey's macroeconomic problems. For this reason, reforming this system is a primary
24



goal of both the ERL and the IMF's program. The Government's strategy, assisted by the ARIP, phases
out the current mechanisms of support, and puts in their place "decoupled" direct income payments,
which would not be contingent on input use or output production decisions of the farmer. Thus, farmers
would not suffer a precipitous reduction in income, but would be free to make efficient production
decisions based on true economic values of inputs and outputs.
As the economic justification for the proposed policy change has been dealt with in the preparation of the
ERL it will not be analyzed again in this section. However, an economic analysis is required for the
investment project components - DIS, Farmer Transition and ASCUs/ASCs.
DIS: A cost effectiveness analysis is undertaken to determine the 'best' mechanism for implementation
of the DIS component of the project. Cost-effectiveness analysis examines which combination of the
various investments delivers the component objectives at least cost. In this case - what is the least cost
mechanism that can be developed to identify beneficiaries who are eligible for payment under the DIS,
and deliver the payments. Several mechanisms were piloted in four provinces and seven counties (annex
4 provides details). The least cost mechanism, which was selected to develop the national registry of
farmers, costs about 10 to 40 percent less than the possible alternatives. At a cost of US$14.5 per farmer,
it is slightly higher than registries developed in other countries such as Costa Rica, Nicaragua and
Colombia. The additional costs are the result of extending the registry system to the local level and the
accelerated timetable for its completion.
Farrner Transition: A cost-benefit analysis of this component yielded high returns. The (economic)
internal rate of return for the component, based on the stated assumptions (Annex 4), is estimated to be
53%. For each of the crops to be replaced, the rate of return was estimated at 36% for hazelnuts and
337% for tobacco. The methodology used was biased towards lowering rates of return by using generous
shadow prices for the crops to be uprooted, and by attributing the cost of Fiskobirlik restructuring to the
hazelnut uprooting. The benefit per hectare from tobacco replacement are similar to that of hazelnut
replacement but achieved at lower cost thus yielding much larger return to the initial payments. The
discounted net benefits (net present value) of the component amounted to US$303 million.
All the returns are relatively high and are amplified by the current economic losses made on the proposed
areas to be uprooted. As an illustration - if nothing were grown on this land after uprooting the internal
rate of return would still be about 25% for hazelnuts, 277% for tobacco, with an overall 42% return.
Farmer Transition Sub-component           NPV (US$)                  IRR
Hazelnuts                                 140,726,018                 35%
Tobacco                                   106,680,101               337%
Overall                                   303,226,728                53%
Sensitivity analysis was applied using switching values (Annex 4). The results suggest that the NPVs are
not particularly sensitive to changes in the price, yield and costs of production of hazelnuts, tobacco and
their replacement crops.
ACSUs/ASCs: Not only are the ASCUs/ASCs overstaffed but they also pay wages which are much
higher than those paid by competing private traders/processors. Therefore, labor retrenchment would not
only increase the efficiency of the various crop sub-sectors but would also increase the prospects for
ASCU/ASC sustainability. The ASCUs and ASCs plan to retrench around 12,155 workers and then hire
around 9000 replacement workers at market wage rates as shown in the table below.
25



The ASCU/ASC Retrenchment Program
No. of Workers                       No. of
on Payroll at   No. of Workers   Replacement    No. of Workers on
Year   Ending   Beginning of       Retrenched    Workers Hired    Payroll at End of
July 31 -            Year          During Year      During year          Year
2001           16,459         (8,586)           4,181             12,054
2002           12,054         (1,899)           3,469             13,624
2003          13,624           (1,234)          1,018             13,408
2004           13,408           (261)             175             13,322
2005           13,322           (175)             162             13,309
Total                         (12,155)           9,005
The costs and benefits associated with the retrenchment program are presented in the Table below. The
financial rate of return is calculated to be 99.6 percent. Using an average severance payment of TL 9.5
trillion and an average annual wage saving of TL 7.8 trillion in each year of a ten year period for each
worker retrenched and not replaced, both expressed in August 2000 TL, the economic rate of return for
each worker retrenched and not replaced is 82 percent.
Projected Financial Costs and Benefits of the ASCU/ASC Retrenchment Program
(Constant August 2000 TL, billion)
Projected
Wages       Projected Wages and Severance Payments
without                  With Project                 Projected Net
Project                                                  Benefit
Year Ending                  Projected     Severance
July 31 -                   Wages        Payments        Total
2001       130,008       100,789        77,087       177,876         (47,868)
2002       130,008        69,087        15,680        84,767          45,241
2003       130,008        65,546        11,632        77,178          52,830
2004       130,008        64,843         2,460        67,303          62,705
2005       130,008        64,273         1,650        65,923          64,085
The core business of an ASCU is the sale of crops procured from its member ASCs. In most cases, a
shortage of working capital prevents the ASCUs from fully exploiting their core businesses. The direct
savings in wages and benefits associated with labor retrenchment would alleviate this working capital
constraint and permit the ASCUs to procure and sell a greater quantity of the crops produced by their
member farmers. Provided the incremental crop purchases can be sold at a profit the IRR's from outlays
for severance payments would be even higher than those indicated above.
26



2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs
1. Total Cost. The total cost of the project is estimated at US$ 661.96 million equivalent, including
taxes, and physical and price contingencies, of which US$ 36.49 million equivalent in foreign currency
and US$ 625.47 million equivalent in local currencies. A summary of project costs and project
financing information can be found in the accompanying tables.
2. Base Cost. Base costs are estimated in March 2001 prices using the prevailing rates of exchange of
approximately TL 1 million for US$ 1. The average physical contingency for all components is estimated
5 percent of base cost. Actual rates on physical contingency varied from 0 to 35 percent depending on the
nature of project interventions and the degree of confidence in the base data.
The project was fully costed out in US$. Price contingencies were applied to base costs over the project
implementation period of four years (2001-2005). Inflation on foreign exchange costs was calculated by
assuming 2.5%, 2.6%, 2.4% and 2.3% for 2001 through 2004 on the dollar, and one point higher for local
inflation in dollar terms, i.e 3.5%, 3.6%, 3.4%, and 3.3% for 2001 through 2004.
VAT at 18% is applicable on most purchases and is levied on the tax-free base. In Turkey VAT turns out
to be equivalent to 14.53% of total cost, and this is what is shown in the COSTAB. On cars, taxes (VAT
and other levies) amount to 45% of the total cost. On miscellaneous operations cost, an average tax of
10% was assumed.
Project Financing
Project financing will be provided out of two sources. The Bank will contribute US$ 600.00 million
equivalent inclusive of the front-end fee assessed at 1%. This includes (a) an investment loan for US$
400.00 M and (b) an adjustment loan for US$ 200.00 M. The Bank's contribution corresponds to 86% of
the investment portion and 90% of the overall funding requirements for the hybrid investment/adjustment
operation. The Government will contribute all applicable taxes on transactions and other non-tax items
amounting to US$ 61.96 M.
The government has requested retroactive financing from the project in the amount of US$ 35 M. While
the amount of retroactive financing is within Bank guidelines for the size of the project, it is unusual that
almost all of this will be used in one component, specifically to pay severance payments of retrenched
workers of the ASCUs and ASCs. The reason for this is the extreme urgency of making these payments.
The ASCUs were in 2000 in poor financial condition, and were faced with the prospect of being cut off
from government funds with only a one-time infusion of funds from the DFIF. To improve their chances
of survival, it was critical to get as much excess labor as possible off their books in 2000. Therefore, the
Bank agreed that these expenditures would be eligible for retroactive financing.
Fiscal Impact
The ARIP will have a large positive net fiscal benefit by supporting implementation of the Government's
agricultural policy reform program, which is a cornerstone of its disinflation strategy. The program is
27



targeted to save some US$5-6 billion annually in budget previously allocated to agricultural subsidies
and price support, and a cumulative total of approximately US$14.5 billion over the 2000-04 period. At
an anticipated full annual cost of US$1.9 billion in DIS payments, the net fiscal savings would be over
US$3 billion per year.
Fiscal Impact of the Reform Program, 2000-2003
Fiscal cost of selected agricultural support         1999     2000      2001      2002     2003
1. Credit subsidy                                     956      139       198         0         0
2. Fertilizer and inputs                              290       194      147         0         0
3. Budgeted transfer to SEEs (duty loss and equity)   244      243       189         0         0
4. Deficit of SEEs
TMO                                              1,374       306       172        0         0
Sugar                                              662       841      371         0         0
Tekel (tobacco, incl. support purchase)            922       909      797        75         0
Caykur (incl. tea pruning)                         104        24        28       14         7
5. Cotton and oilseed premium                         265      293       166         0         0
6. ASCU                                               582      602         0         0         0
7. Farmer transition                                    0         0       69       104         0
8. Direct income support payments                       0         0      500    2,400      1,900
Total                                               5,399    3,551    2,637    2,593       1,907
Note: Includes programs that would be affected by the agreed reform program. Year 2002 DIS payments include
approximately $500 million in "makeup" payments for 2001 plus $1,900 million in "normal" annual payments.
Source: Treasury; Own calculations for SEEs
3. Technical:
This project builds on recent sector work, experience gained from implementation of DIS program on a
pilot scale, and detailed rapid analysis of the costs of restructuring the 16 ASCUs, which together permit
a thorough analysis of the costs of the operation together. The structure of the DIS program benefits
from the experience gained in similar operations in Romania and Mexico. Cost estimates for the three
major components -- DIS program, farmer transition grants, and ASCUs restructuring, severance and
labor redeployment -- have been carefully reviewed and agreed between the Government and the Bank.
The project's technical design is well suited to Turkey's requirements for rapid investment to support
implementation of the agricultural policy reform through establishment of the DIS program on a national
scale, provision of grants to farmers seeking to transition to altemative crops, and support for
restructuring ASCUs. Specific investment identification and cost estimates have been calculated on the
basis of data compiled and analyzed by the preparation and appraisal missions, and reflect the priorities
and costs identified by the Government, within an acceptable margin of error for costs.
4. Institutional:
The Treasury has been proposed, and agreed to serve as the coordinating implementing agency to oversee
the project. Within Treasury, overall responsibility for ARIP implementation rests with the General
Directorate for State Owned Enterprises, which has current and past experience providing leadership on
this issue for the Government. Two key agencies would sign protocols (Implementing Agreements) with
28



Treasury and have day-to-day responsibility for managing their respective components: MARA for DIS
and farmer transition, and the Restructuring Board for the ASCs/ASCUs component. All contracting for
ARIP will be managed by the Treasury through the ARIP Project Coordination Unit. Social monitoring
activities would be contracted directly by Treasury with an independent third party, with review and
oversight by related Government agencies (SPO and SIS).
Two small project implementation groups would be established at MARA: one for the DIS component,
and one for farmer transition support. The Executive Unit of the ASCU Restructuring Board will support
implementation of the ASC component. An interagency Steering Committee chaired by Treasury will
provide policy level guidance and coordination among the implementing agencies.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The primary executing agency for ARIP is Treasury, the General Directorate for State Owned
Enterprises. In coordination with Treasury and support from the PCU, MARA will be responsible for the
execution of the DIS and farmer transition components, while the ASC RB Executive Unit will carry out
the ASC component. The relative roles, responsibilities and coordination modalities will be defined in
the protocols (Implementing Agreements) to be signed between Treasury and MARA, and Treasury and
the ASCU RB.
4.2 Project management:
As noted above, the project will be coordinated by Treasury, which has experience with Bank-financed
projects and plays the leading role within Government for economic policy reform.  A Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) will be established within Treasury to provide overall coordination of the ARIP
and work closely with the other key agencies involved in delivery of project activities. The PCU will
comprise a Financial and Procurement/Reporting Department with nine full-time staff to address
management, financial, procurement, and reporting/communication functions. Two Deputy Directors
will provide daily liaison with MARA and the ASC/ASCUs RB. The Director and Deputy Directors and
two staff would be civil servants, and the other four staff would be long term local consultants financed
by the ARIP. If the need arises, the number of PCU staff would be increased. In addition, the project
will finance short-term international technical assistance and training to assist with organization and
functioning of the PCU. The PCU will be responsible for facilitation of project implementation, in
particular, operating a sound accounting, financial management and reporting system, producing the
required financial statements and Project Management Reports (PMR), and meeting the pre- and post-
audit requirements. In addition, as noted above, CIUs will be established in MARA and the ASC/ASCUs
RB to support component implementation. The CIUs will each be staffed with local and international
consultants financed under ARIP.
4.3 Procurement issues:
None.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The risks in this operation are considered moderate to high both from the financial control perspective
and reputational risk perspective. A number of measures have been/are being agreed to minimize the
risks. For example, in the area of severance payments an agreement has already been reached that all
severance payments will be pre-audited by an independent firm. Similarly, for FT grants an agreement
has been reached for the pre-audit of payments by MARA inspectors. For strengthening the operational
29



oversight an agreement has been reached to appoint an independent firm to conduct the operational audit.
As regards, banking arrangements are concerned, which are considered weak, an agency agreement will
be required between the treasury and the Ziraat Bank stipulating maintenance of separate accounts in
respect of the project funds.
The financial management assessment conducted by an accredited FMS in May 2001 revealed that the
project authorities have put in place a computerized project financial accounting and reporting system,
developed Financial Management and Operational Manuals, appointed Finance Manager and Accountant
to handle the financial accounting and reporting, and are in the process of recruiting additional staff for
the PCU. Agreements have been reached on various pre-audit and audit arrangements including the
TORs.
5. Environmental:                                            Environmental Category: B
5.1  Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation
(including consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging
from this analysis.
Major: None.
Other: ARIP supports the implementation of agricultural policy reforms, financing fundamental changes
in Turkish agriculture by introducing a program of direct income support, diminishing State control of
agricultural commodity prices, and by drastically reducing price supports for of a number of crops that,
till now, received considerable State support. The project will likely have social consequences; these are
discussed in Section E.6. below. The minor environmental risks are related to the potential improper
removal of hazelnut trees from areas not targeted for transition to other crops (e.g., hilly terrain along
Black Sea coast that is well suited to hazelnut), and compliance with environmental regulations
governing closure of agroindustrial enterprises.
Erosion is an important problem along the Black Sea Coast. The effects of erosion are usually
exacerbated by incorrect agricultural techniques and illegal forest clearing. Coupled with heavy rainfall,
especially in the Eastern part of the region, soils containing nutrients are washed into the sea. Erosion is
especially severe in the Trabzon and Samsun provinces where forests are cleared for corn production.
Hazelnut plantations on areas which were gained through forest clearing also caused land slides and soil
losses.
The three most important rivers forming in the Turkish Black Sea region are Kizilirmak, Yesilirmak and
Sakarya which originate from the central Anatolian plains. The watersheds of thee rivers are 78,000km2,
38,000 km2 and 58,000 km2, respectively. As elsewhere in Turkey, the use of pesticides and fertilizers is
intense in these watersheds and large concentrations of nutrients flow into the rivers by way of soil
erosion and groundwater to be discharged into the Black Sea.
The applicability of OP 7.50, Projects in International Waterways, for ARIP was considered by the
project team. Given that the project has been found to present only very minor environmental risks, that
monitoring and mitigation measures for these are to be implemented under the project, and that the
project is designed to have no negative impact on international waterways, it has been determined that
OP 7.50 would not apply.
The Government's ambitious agricultural policy reform program, supported by ARIP, should benefit the
environment by gradually phasing out of fertilizer (and, potentially, pesticides) subsidies. The Farmer
30



Transition component of ARIP provides an opportunity for the introduction of environmentally friendly
agricultural practices. Such practices would also have the effect of reducing nutrient flows into the
groundwater and rivers, ultimately reaching the Black Sea, Agean and Mediterranean. A Global
Environmental Facility project aimed at reducing agricultural non-point source pollution in the Black Sea
region of Turkey is also being prepared, and would complement the Farmer Transition component of
ARIP.
Conversion from hazelnut and tobacco to other crops is not anticipated to have any significant negative
environmental impact. Conversion from tobacco to other crops is considered environmentally neutral.
The possible environmentally negative effects of conversion from hazelnut to other crops have been
addressed by the careful targeting of areas of current hazelnut production that will be eligible for support
under the Farmer Transition component of ARIP. The only potential problem is with hazelnut, and this
has been anticipated in project designs. Based on the surplus production, it is calculated that 100,000 ha
of hazelnut area needs to be uprooted. This will cover the three type of areas: i) counties where hazelnut
planting has been extended without permission (58,868 ha), consisting mostly of flat land, ii) flat/low
lands in both permitted and non-permitted areas where hazelnut is produced, and on slopes less than 6%
(estimated as 28,588 ha), and iii) high elevations/forestry areas where most of the production is carried
out on illegally cleared forest land, irrespective of the official permission categorization (estimated as
17,544 ha). Switching from hazelnut to other crops in flat lands and on slopes less than 6% does not
present environmental risks. The illegally cleared forest land will be replanted with trees appropriate to
the ecosystem, such as alder (Alnus sp.), chestnut and walnut. Hazelnut areas on hills and slopes, where
the ecology generally does not allow economic production of other crops, will not be included in the
Farmer Transition Program.
The other environmental issue of moderate concern in the project is the closure of agroindustrial
enterprises (e.g., cotton ginning plants, packing houses, warehouses, etc.) that may occur in connection
with the restructuring of ASCUs. The number and type of facilities that could be closed cannot be known
until the ASCUs begin to carry out their restructuring plans. While Turkish law does not specify
environmental liability for facility closures, responsibility for sound environmental management and
compliance with applicable regulations rests with the owner of the property, and transfers with the
property to the new owner. In consideration of the limited capacity of regional Ministry of Environment
(MOE) offices to monitor compliance by the previous or new owners of a facility, the PCU will retain a
qualified environmental specialist as needed to assess the requirements and assist the MOE with
compliance oversight.
The potential impact of the reform program on forest communities and mitigating activities are discussed
in the next section.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
A brief environmental management plan will be developed by the Borrower to address:
(i)  the potential minor environmental risks of project interventions, including the hazelnut-tree
uprooting, and the environmental risks created by possible factory closings or changes in
ownership. Mitigating actions will be listed for interventions where such risks are identified;
(ii) the current legislation and procedures to monitor and mitigate the effects of possible outcomes
such as uprooting and factory closings
(iii) the local institutional set-up and capacity to monitor these interventions and their impact;
31



(iv) the methods, and agencies that will provide environmental oversight.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:                N/A
Given the fact that the project poses no major environmental risks, an EMP is considered sufficient
instead of a full EA. The draft EMP (dated April 13, 2001) was reviewed prior to negotiations and found
generally satisfactory. The final EMP satisfactory to the Bank will be adopted by the Govermnent not
later than July 15, 2001.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b)
draft EA report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan?
Describe mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Several environmental NGOs based in Ankara and the Black Sea region, where hazelnut growing is
prevalent, are to be consulted by Government regarding the environmental issues associated with the
project prior to negotiations. Inputs from the consultation will be taken into account by Government in
preparation of the final EMP.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on
the environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Treasury as lead agency for the project is responsible for monitoring and evaluating all aspects of the
project. The Treasury PCU will coordinate oversight for environmental monitoring with MARA and
Ministry of Forestry (should forest lands be at issue) regarding hazelnut uprooting, and with the ASCU
Restructuring Board in connection with possible plant closures. Monitoring will be conducted according
to the methods and schedule described in the EMP.
As noted in the following section a background study is being carried out in order to identify 'hot spot'
areas where the DIS might encourage deforestation and where the DIS registration process should be
speeded up. If necessary a pilot project will be launched to address specific difficulties faced by farmers
of forest lands. Also, data collected in social monitoring and evaluation exercise will be used by a
research institute in MARA to track changes in cropping patterns and their impact in forest areas.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The policy reforms are designed to have wide-ranging long term social benefits. These will accrue to
Turlish society in the form of higher agricultural productivity, lower food expenditures, more efficient
public expenditures, and a healthier economy. Net benefits will also accrue directly to certain groups of
farmers. These include farmers that do not currently receive input subsidies and support prices for their
crops and farmers that are net consumers of crops that receive price supports, such as livestock
producers.
The reforms mnight well have short and medium term negative effects, including higher social tension and
increased poverty among some groups. The project is designed to mitigate potential short and medium
term negative effects resulting from the policy reforms. The most vulnerable to the reforms are farmers
32



will be made redundant as a result of restructuring. Farmers will be provided with DIS and Farmer
Transition assistance, and redundant ASCU employees will receive severance payments.
Farmers growing crops that have the highest support prices (in relation to world prices) are expected to
face the greatest difficulties. These include tobacco, sugar beet, hazelnut, and tea farmers. Farmers, as
well as other stakeholders involved in the production of these crops, participated in a series of qualitative
social assessments. The purpose of these assessments was to: (a) characterize production and marketing
patterns, with an emphasis on identifying differences in these patterns between small (poor) and large
(non-poor) farmers; (b) identify current land tenure and land ownership structures; (c) determine farmer
perceptions and expectations of the proposed agricultural policy reforms; and (d) assess the potential
impact of the proposed agricultural policy reforms on rural to urban migration. Detailed results of these
assessments are summarized in Annex 12 and are available in background papers found in the project
files.
The social assessment revealed that certain groups of hazelnut and tobacco farmers are likely to face the
greatest difficulty as a result of the policy changes. These are hazelnut farmers on steep mountain slopes
in the North East and tobacco sharecroppers in the South East. As with all farmers, these groups will be
eligible for DIS payments. However, since the short-term impact is expected to be more severe for them
than for other groups, these farmers may also receive special payments in addition to the DIS. In the long
term, the Farmer Transition Support component will indirectly soften the impact of policy reforms on
these groups by reducing supply. Also, over time, careful social monitoring and evaluation will be used
to improve the delivery of DIS payments to these vulnerable groups, as well as other vulnerable groups
identified during monitoring and evaluation.
The social assessments found that in some areas many farmers do not have proof of land ownership. A
procedure for lowering the cost to the farmer of processing land titles is included in the loan conditions.
In more complicated cases, the DIS component of the project will establish a mechanism whereby
farmers or landowners without deeds can register for DIS through a process of confirmation with local
MARA offices, TZOB, the village council and Muhtar.
This registration process raises the possibility that there will be disputes over land boundaries. There are
two legally binding land dispute resolution mechanisms in Turkey, (a) referee boards, and (b) expert
committees. Referee boards are court approved semi-formal processes. Dispute holders enter into a
contract with a mutually agreed person, committee, or NGO that will arbitrate a resolution for them.
After the contract is notarized, the process is initiated. A judge from the local court evaluates both the
contract and the referee board decision and elects to approve or reject it (usually it is approved). Expert
Committees are organized when a dispute is taken directly to the court. In this case the court selects a
committee of experts to make a decision. These experts are professionals registered with the court and
randomly selected for each case. Dispute holders apparently prefer this method because it is more
convenient and transparent.
Project component D will facilitate the land dispute resolution process, since the public information
campaign will provide information to farmers on their rights and the land dispute resolution mechanisms.
MARA is also funding from its own budget informal dispute resolution mechanisms to facilitate the DIS
registration process.
A potential concern is the eligibility for DIS of households growing their crops on forest land. A social
assessment of issues affecting forest communitie.X' and the magnitude of their economic activities on
forest lands was recently completed for the Forest Sector Review. Recent field visits indicate that
holdings are small and many farmers on forestlands are engaged in animal husbandry or subsistence
33



farming. Therefore they are not expected to face particular difficulties as a result of the policy changes.
Nonetheless, because land ownership is sometimes contested in forest lands, the public information
campaign will encourage farmers in these areas to register for DIS using the same confirmation process
used in other areas. A background study is being carried out in order to identify 'hot spot' areas where
the DIS might encourage deforestation and where the DIS registration process should be speeded up. If
necessary a pilot project will be launched to address specific difficulties faced by farmers of forest lands.
The government would then be able to assist forestland households and other stakeholders to establish
new participatory systems for sustainable, multi-use management of forest resources.
Farmer perceptions and expectations of the reform program vary widely. Large farmers are typically
much more familiar with the reform program than small farmers. Small farmers are fearful about
potential changes in production and marketing and their ability to receive Government support. The
Public Information Campaign will address this issue directly by providing information about DIS and
farmer transition in a manner accessible to small farmers and appropriately adapted to different target
audiences. This includes radio and television announcements, posters in mosques and coffee shops, and
access to appropriately trained local extension agents.
Many farmers indicated that one or more members of their household would be tempted to migrate in
search of better income earning opportunities if price supports are removed. The social and economic
impacts of migration induced by the policy reforms can not be predicted, but they most likely include
changes in intra-household resource and labor allocation and costs in terms of the burden of finding new
employment. The project will help to prevent migration that could be expected to occur in areas where
there are numerous sharecroppers growing crops with high support prices. As noted earlier, special care
is being taken to design a system that provides suitable and appropriately targeted payments to these
farmers through a system complementary to the DIS. This system is likely to target sharecropper DIS
payments per household rather than per hectare in order to avoid the burden of demonstrating land use in
politically sensitive areas. In addition the social monitoring and evaluation system is designed to track
the effects of the reformns on rural to urban migration.
Approximately 12,000 ASCU employees will be made redundant as a result of the restructuring exercise.
Detailed procedures have been defined and agreed with the Government to ensure eligible workers
receive severance payments consistent with Turkish labor law. Redundant workers will also be eligible
for local Labor Redeployment Services through the proposed Privatization Support Project. These
include employment services, retraining services and small business assistance. The social monitoring
and evaluation system will used to identify and make recommendations for adjustments to help
individual workers and families that are experiencing problems re-entering the workforce as a result of
ASCU restructuring.
Monitoring and evaluation of the project is critical to successfully achieve the social development
objectives. Project Component D provides for a Social Monitoring and Evaluation System that will be
closely integrated with the financial management system. This system will allow tracking of DIS and
farmer transition payments to the household and enable rapid and systematic evaluation of the policy
reform and project interventions on rural households. It will ensure that problems with project
components such as the DIS, Farmer Transition, Public Information Campaign, and severance payments
can identified and that support can be redirected mid-stream as reeded.
Two social monitoring systems will be financed by the project. The first will monitor the economic and
social status of farmers throughout the country. The second will monitor the coping strategies of ASCU
employees that are made redundant as a result of restructuring. Both systems will provide for analysis by
34



various socio-demographic features (e.g. age, sex, education, household size and region). A detailed
description of the social monitoring and evaluation system is included in Component D.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Key stakeholders in the government include Treasury, MARA, and MIT. Outside the government they
include farmers from different regions, farmer associations, private businessmen, ASCU and ASCs
management and employees. Key stakeholders have and will continue to be directly involved in project
design and implementation through ongoing dialogue with the project team. During project preparation
and appraisal detailed discussions were held with all of the stakeholders.
Treasury supports the project because it will lead to large short term fiscal savings and long term fiscal
sustainability in the agricultural sector. MARA has traditionally administered the system of support
prices and input subsidies. Therefore they have been unenthusiastic about the reform program. However,
enthusiasm has increased as their understanding of the role they play in the DIS and the Farmer
Transition components increased. TZOB's position is unclear. However, since its members are mostly
the large, wealthy farmers that have profited the most from the system of support prices and subsidies,
they will probably lean against the reform program. Farmers that are members of cooperatives (ASCs)
affiliated with ASCUs will gain greater control of the cooperative, and are expected to favor the reforms.
A more detailed, country-wide analysis of the political economy of the overall reform program is
currently ongoing and provides a more comprehensive stakeholder analysis.
During project implementation the Public Information Campaign will provide stakeholders with up-to-
date information on project activities and services and how to access them. The campaign will be
adapted to different stakeholders and include a mechanism for them to get clear answers to their
questions from local extension agents and possibly hotlines or advisory services. Formal social
monitoring and evaluation will be ongoing throughout the project to determine if effected households and
groups are receiving the intended support. Once identified, qualitative interviews and focus groups will
be held with those not receiving the intended support to determine how the project components can be
redirected. The monitoring activities will also collect informnation on knowledge, attitudes, and
perceptions of the reform program. This information will then be used to improve the effectiveness of the
Public Information Campaign and build-up commitment and ownership.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Two workshops, attended by the press, representatives from civil society, and NGOs, were held to
describe the Agricultural Reform Program and solicit feedback. In addition to consultation with
stakeholders, informnal meetings were held with a number of NGOs. These included the Union of
Chambers of Agriculture of Turkey (TZOB), Chamber of Engineers of Agriculture, Sustainable
Agriculture Association, Agricultural Development Training and Social Solidarity Foundation,
Development Foundation of Turkey, Aegean Farmer's Association and Union of Tekirdag Onder
Farmers.
ASCU/ASC capacity building will rely on NGOs and local institutions for the suggestions on the design
and possibly implementation of training and business support activities.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its s.'cial
development outcomes?
35



In addition to project components designed to specifically mitigate potentially adverse policy impacts, a
Public Information Campaign and a Monitoring and Evaluation System will be used to support project
implementation. The Public Infornation Campaign ensures that farmers and ASCU/SEE employees are
fully aware of the services available to them through the project and builds ownership and commitment.
The Monitoring and Evaluation System ensures that project components can be adjusted mid-stream if
they are not achieving their intended social objectives.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Inplementing the monitoring activities will be the responsibility of a third party contracted by the PCU.
The project evaluation will be prepared on an annual basis by Senior Project Social Advisor and the
evaluation and reconmmendation will be presented simultaneously to the PCU, Supervising World Bank
Staff, Treasury, MARA, and MIT.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                  Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                Yes
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                        No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                         No
I Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                          No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                       No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                                  No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                   No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP              No
7.50)
t Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)             No
7.2  Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard
policies.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Any transition period is risky, but once the new DIS system is established, it should be more fiscally
sustainable than the current system. It should also be politically sustainable, since DIS should be popular
with farmers. Nonetheless, there will be substantial pressure for backsliding (see below).
36



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex
1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Political backlash could cause policy      S         The best counter-measures are: ensuring that
reversals. The reforms will in the short             stakeholders  are  adequately  consulted;
run reduce incomes of many farmers,                  carrying out a good public information
and will cause some lay-offs from SEEs               campaign; putting in place as quickly as
and  ASCUs.    The  new  system                      possible the DIS system (especially in areas
undermines the power base of two strong              most affected by removal of support price
ministries. This will create pressure for            system); paying severance payments to laid-
reversal  or  non-implementation  of                 off workers; and building ownership of
measures, or starting  new  subsidy                  ASCs/ASCUs by the members.
schemes.
DIS system could be under- or over-        M         We will carry out a continuous dialogue with
funded. There will be pressure from                  both the Government and the RMF on this,
farmers to make these payments high                  with the objective of ensuring that the funding
enough to fully compensate for loss of               is sufficient to adequately cushion the fall in
subsidies and others concerned with                  incomes in a transition period, but still realize
fiscal cost to make them very low.                   significant savings. Some funding for 2001
has already been placed in the budget, and the
quick-disbursing component of ARIP would
allow the government to more fully fund the
program.
From Components to Outputs
The biggest risk for the ASC/ASCUs         H         Starting in 2001, most of the ASCUs will
component  is  the  possibility  that                begin repaying Price Stabilization and Support
Government is not really serious about               Fund (DFEF) credits but payments will not be
withdrawing from  these organizations                returned to the budget but to a revolving fund
and  giving them  independence and                   managed by the restructuring board. If the
autonomy.                                            board is independent, this means that the
Government will no longer have the power to
The additional risk is that the member               allocate  credits  among  the   ASCUs.
owners  of the  ASCs/ASCUs  (i.e.                    Nonetheless, the Government may try to exert
farmers) are not interested in taking fully          influence.
control of the ASC system because the
system is too much discredited or does               Elections will be held to elect ASC and ASCU
not offer adequate potential for the                 boards of directors.  If properly conducted,
future.                                             they will be the start of rebuilding farmer
member support of their cooperatives.
Even if these two risks can be
successfully minimized, there will
remain the unavoidable risk that many                Only the ASCs/ASCUs which are successful in
ASCs/ASCUs will ultimately prove to be              transforming  themselves  into  financially
unsustainable, either because they fail to           autonomous and viable businesses will survive.
fully  implement   the   necessary
restructuring, or because, in the end, they
37



simply cannot compete with the private
traders and regain the large share of the
market already captured by these traders.
For the farmer transition component, the      M          This risk is mitigated by the fact that these
biggest risk from output to objective is                 crops will have large declines in their relative
that few  farmers will want to switch                    prices, so the incentives will be strong tc
from  the over-supplied crops, or will                   switch for farmers whose opportunity costs are
decide to switch back.                                   high  (i.e., who  have  good  altematives).
Development of farmers' organizations to
assist the farmers in growing alternative crops
will also encourage the transition.
Overall Risk Rating                            S                                                     l
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Social aspects
Potentially controversial social aspects include the targeting of DIS payments, the size of DIS payments
and Farmer Transition Support, and the eligibility of sharecroppers and farmers growing crops on forest
land to receive DIS payments and Farmer Transition grants. Also, displacement of workers from ASCUs
during restructuring is controversial, particularly with unions.
Every effort has been made to design a simple, transparent system for delivering the DIS and Farmer
Transition payments to farmers. This in fact was an important consideration in certain design features in
the project, which were chosen over other options that would have had advantages, but would also have
been more complicated and therefore less transparent. However, as with any government support
program there is a risk that the system would become corrupted so that payments would be used to
achieve political goals rather than long term economic efficiency. One of the major reasons for the
Bank's continued involvement is to help the Government mitigate this risk.
The removal of the price supports may result in a significant decrease in the welfare of poor
sharecroppers in certain regions of the country. In order to avoid the social and economic problems
associated with a large rural to urban migration in these regions, special care is being taken to design a
system that provides suitable and appropriately targeted payments to these sharecroppers. While it can
be expected that there will be some opposition to layoffs in the ASCUs and ASCs, the severance
payments should be seen as a humane safety net to mitigate the adverse effects of a downsizing that was
inevitable, given the unsustainability of the previous heavy subsidies and over-employment. The public
information campaign will explain the program in this light. It is worth noting that many of the
retrenchments have already occurred, and the only instances of serious protests were on those occasions
when severance payments were deferred because Treasury did not have the funds to pay them
immediately. Monitoring and managing these aspects of the project will be carried out in several ways,
including: (a) regular qualitative and quantitative surveys of farm households, particularly in the areas
where farmers are expected to face the greatest difficulties; (b) annual social impact evaluation to
provide PCU, C1U and other key stakeholders with recommendations for mid-stream adjustments; (c)
provision of severance payments to eligible displaced ASCU workers, and (d) regular updating of the
types and availability of project support available to farmers through the public information campaign.
38



Perceptual and reputational risk issues
Two aspects of the project could be controversial if they are misunderstood. One is the project's
involvement with the tobacco subsector, which could be misunderstood as supporting tobacco
production. In reality, the project does not support tobacco production in any way; to the contrary, one of
its major objectives is to reduce production. It will do this in two ways: through the policy dialogue by
supporting the elimination of the support price, which has artificially increased production; and through
the farmer transition component, which will provide financial assistance to farmers to help them stop
growing tobacco. A second facet of the project which might be controversial if it is misunderstood is the
uprooting of hazelnut trees, which might be perceived to encourage erosion. In reality, the project design
guards against this by excluding from eligibility hillside areas which would be subject to erosion.
Uprooting will only be encouraged in flatland areas with good potential for other crops, which will be
quickly re-planted. The reputational risk to the Bank from both of these potentially controversial aspects
will be mitigated by the public information campaign, which will explain clearly the true nature of the
project.
Severance paynents
The Operational Memorandum "Financing Severance Pay in Public Enterprise Reform Operations".
dated March 5, 1996, requires that financing of severance payments under Bank projects must meet
several criteria. First, the enterprises must be in the public sector. ASCUs should be considered public
sector enterprises for this purpose, based on the following considerations: 1) Until the new law on
ASCUs was promulgated, the government had effective control over the management of ASCUs; 2)
ASCUs have not had financial autonomy from the govemment; and 3) ASCUs have been used by the
government for public purposes. Since ASCs operate essentially as branch offices of the ASCUs, the
same justification applies to them.
Second, "the design and justification of the project must be based on the increased productivity of the
activities remaining in the enterprise or sector after restructuring and on the related development
activities". It is clearly true that retrenchment of surplus and over-paid workers in the ASCUs and ASCs
will greatly increase productivity of the sector and economy. First, retrenchment will directly increase
the productivity of the agricultural sector and economy. An estimated 20-25 percent of the workers in
ASCUs as of the start of the retrenchment program were redundant (i.e, produced no added value); with
the planned retrenchments, the enterprises will be producing at least as much value, with a much smaller
workforce. Laid-off workers will find alternative employment in jobs where they will add real value, thus
guaranteeing increased efficiency in the sector and increased output in the economy as a whole. As
shown in the tables in section E. 1, these investments in retrenchment will generate high financial and
economic rates of return.  Second, retrenchment is an essential step in the re-privatization of sales
cooperatives and unions, and the private control will in and of itself improve productivity because of the
changed incentive structure. Third, the savings from retrenchment will allow the ASCUs to operate more
efficiently by providing them a source of working capital. For some of them, it is essential to their
survival, since the resources available from the revolving fund would not be adequate for them to
continue to operate without a substantial supplement from their own resources. While it is difficult to
quantify the last two effects, they will nonetheless result in real productivity improvements in the sector.
Finally, the OM states that "an important concern for the Bank is making sure that workers who have
received severance packages are not rehired by the same enterprise if it remains in the public sector",
although it goes on to note that "Once an enterprise has been privatized, under a well designed
restructuring program, the rehiring of previously retrenched workers would be unlikely, since hiring
decisions would be disciplined by market forces." Since the ASCUs are in essence being privatized,
39



there would not be any special incentive to re-hire laid-off employees, unless it were economically
sensible to do so. Nonetheless, employees paid severance under the project and the ASCUs and ASCs
from which they are re-trenched must sign an agreement against re-hiring.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
Standard loan conditions to effectiveness.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Loan covenants would require that the government undertake the following actions:
1) Carry out an annual review of i) progress in implementing the reform program described in the letter
of development strategy; ii) implementation of previous year's annual Work Plan for the project; and iii)
the Annual Work Plan for the upcoming year;
2) Enter, through the Undersecretariat of the Treasury, into a binding protocol with the Ziraat Bank,
which shall describe the rights and responsibilities of the Ziraat Bank under the Project;
3) Ensure that the ASCU/ASC Restructuring Board enters into a Cooperation Agreement with each
Participating ASCU/ASC;
4) Enter, through the MARA, into a Farmer Transition Support Grant Agreement with each Participating
Farmer; and
5) Adopt, no later than July 15, 2001, an Environmental Management Plan satisfactory to the Bank.
Conditions for release of the first quick-disbursing tranche would be i) satisfactory performance in the
macroeconomic program; ii) satisfactory performance in implementing the general sectoral reform
program (as described in the Letter of Sectoral Policy); iii) adoption of a 2001 revised budget that : (a)
does not provide for any new direct or indirect agricultural subsidies; and (b) does not increase existing
direct or indirect agricultural subsidies, in real terms, as compared to subsidies in effect on January 1,
2001; and iv) initiation of DIS payments, defined as "25% of farmers registered and of these, 50% paid".
Conditions for release of the second quick-disbursing tranche would be i) satisfactory performance in the
macroeconomic program; ii) submission to Parliament of a draft 2002 budget that: (a) does not provide
for credit or fertilizer subsidies; and (b) does not increase other existing direct or indirect agricultural
subsidies, in real terms, as compared to subsidies in effect on January 1, 2001; iii) satisfactory
performance in implementing the general sectoral reform program (as described in the Letter of Sectoral
Policy); iv) further progress in the initiation of DIS payments, defined as "50% of farmers registered and
of these, 50% paid"; and (v) by November 1, 2002, or when the other conditions are met, whichever
comes first, reduction in TMO wheat purchases to a level satisfactory to the Bank.
40



H. Readiness for Implementation
The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Not applicable.
The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
Not applicable.
The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Not applicable.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
fZV,r  John D. Nash                    fseph R. Goldberg                 obannes  . Linn
Team Leader                     ector Manager                pReidnaIl Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
41



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
TURKEY: AGRICULTURAL REFORM IMPLEMENTATION PROJECT (ARIP)
Hierarchy of Objectives    Key Performance Indicators   Monitoring & Evaluation  |    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:       Sector Indicators:          Sectorl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Reforms for growth             Reduction in distortions in    Sector reports           Continued strong political
incentives in price of credit,                         support for policy reforrns
fertilizer and crops
Inprove social assistance delivery  Value of inefficient subsidies  Country reports
eliminated and compensated
with 1) DIS; 2) severance
,payments
Implementing the reform program   1) Nationwide successful  *  Supervision and appraisal *  The agricultural sector
to i) phase out inefficient subsidies  implementation of DIS systenL  missions            reform leads to visible and
and government-determined price;  Success will be measured as   *  ICR for project        significant benefits to the
ii) substitute a non-distortionary    95% of farmers registered and *  Evaluation mission reports    economy and consumers,
form of income support for farmers; receiving payments by the end                          which justifies the
iii) privatize state-owned     of the project; farmers                                     political risks taken to
enterprises and government-    exercise choice regarding crop                             initiate the process.
directed procurement agencies; iv)  selection and input use in
assist farmers in switching from  response to market conditions
previously heavily supported crops;
and v) explain the program to the   2) Phase out of the price
public (2001-2005)              support system in line with the
government's strategy laid out
in the Letter of Sectoral
Strategy
3) Virtual conpletion of sales
or liquidation of assets of
Tekel, Seker, and Caykur; and
downsizing and restructuring
of TMO to perform only the
role of a strategic reserve
agency and transitional
regulatory role.
4) Satisfactory progress in
restructuring of ASC sector in
accordance with agreed
restructuring plans and the
Letter of Sectoral Strategy,
demonstrated by the
achievement of financial and
business targets set in the
Business Plans. The criteria
for evaluating the progress
would include:
a) The assets of poorly
performing ASCUs being
liquidated to recover as much
as possible of their debts to
42



government.
b) Remaining ASCUs
becoming commercially
creditworthy, that is, obtaining
loans only from commercial
financial institutions (without
state guarantee);
c) Remaining ASCUs carrying
out their core business of
marketing and processing the
small farmers' produce, for
and on behalf of their
shareholders (cooperatives);
d) Remaining ASCUs
becoming genuine
cooperatives, owned and
controlled by their members,
and beginning of liquidation
procedures for those that
member coops indicate they
are not interested in
maintaining.
5) Successful comnpletion and
termination of the farmer
transition program for crops in
chronic oversupply. Success
would be measured as follows:
upon phase-out of the support
price system for the target
crops, virtually all eligible
farmers who wish to cease (or
reduce) production of the
target crops have been
provided with assistance in
ceasing (or reducing)
production and beginning an
alternative economic activity,
with a high proportion of
those farmers successfully
maintaining or improving their
total incomes and welfare.
Project Development Objective   Outcome / Impact Indicators: Project reports:           (from Objective to Purpose)
Farmers are increasingly able to    Increase in real (net of  Supervision reports         Interagency cooperation and
make production decisions based on subsidies) value added in rural                        effective implementation
economic values of inputs and   sector
outputs, while not suffering from
precipitous reductions in income
Reduce subsidies and promote    Increase in productivity    Annual GoT statistical reports Sustained political support
privatization                   growth
Output from each Component:  |Output Indicators:           | Project reports:                 l (from Outputs to Objective)
Tekel, TSFAS, Caykur
43



privatized, TMO downsized
(with no support purchase
role), and ASCUs fully
autonomous (no budget
support or managerial
interference by the
Government)
Conmp A (DIS): Mechanism to    A) 25% of farmers registered  Periodic reports by CIU  A) Farmers and MARA
ensure that farmers eligible for  and 50% of these receiving                          officials cooperate in
direct support are reached in place  payments by end 2001; 75% of                     registration process
and operational                farmers registered and
receiving payments by 2002
and 95% of farmers registered
and receiving paymnents by the
end of the project.
44



Comp B (Farmer Transition):   B) Farmers on. 136,000 ha   PSR                       B) Workable financial and
delivery of effective financial  growing subsidized crops as of                     procurement arrangements
assistance for switching to   sunmmer '01 switch to other
profitable crops or other businesses profitable crops or businesses
by '03
Development of producers'      Establishment of producers'  Quarterly PMRs
organizations                  organizations assisted all
communities that request
support
Comp C (ASCUs): ASCUs         C) 100% of ASCUs                                      Apolitical ASCU
restructured as effective     restructured or have ceased                           Restructuring Board
cooperatives, responding to needs  operations by end of project                     established
of members
Comp D-l (Public Info): Program  D-l) Information reaches
to explain reforms and access to    90%of communities by mass
assistance for sector restructuring   media;
90% of relevant MARA
personnel receive training
during first year of project
Comp D-4 (Project Management):  D-4) Functional PCU                                 D) Effective interagency
PCU and Steering Committee     established by Nov 2000                              coordination and cooperation
Steering Committee
established by Board
Adjustment portion             US$200 million
Project Components I Sub-     Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:           (from Components to
components:                   component)                                            Outputs)
Component A: Direct Income    US$ 47.80 million          Supervision reports
Support (DIS)
Component B: Farmer Transition  US$180.58 million        PSRs
Component C: Agriculture Sales   US$152.68 million
Cooperative Unions (ASCU)
Restructuring
Component D: Project Support    US$12.95 million
Services
45



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
TURKEY: AGRICULTURAL REFORM IMPLEMENTATION PROJECT (ARIP)
The adjustment portion of ARIP will provide quick-disbursing budget support against the Bank's
standard negative list. The loan is designed to help the Government to implement its agricultural reform
program and achieve its macroeconomic objectives of taming inflation and restoring sustainable growth.
The loan will be disbursed in two tranches of US$ 100 million each. The conditions for release of the first
tranche in the amount of US$100 million would be maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic
framework, satisfactory progress in implementing the general program, and initiation of DIS payments,
with at least 25% of farmers registered, and at least 50% of these having received their first DIS
payments. The conditions for release of the second tranche in the amount of US$100 million would be
continued maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic framework and satisfactory progress in
implementing the general program, and registration of 50% of farmers, with at least 50% of these having
received a DIS payment. The expected timing for release of the first adjustment tranche would be the end
of CY 01 or first quarter of CY 2002. The closing date of the ARIP loan (both adjustment and investment
portions) would be December 31, 2005.
The investment portion of ARIP consists of the following components:
Component A: Direct Income Support (DIS)
Component B: Farmer Transition
Component C: Agriculture Sales Cooperative Unions (ASCU) Restructuring
Component D: Project Support Services
By Component:
Component A. Design and implementation of the direct income support program (DIS) (US$47.80
million).
The DIS component will finance two sub-components including a) support to MARA for building the
National Registry of Farmers; and b) support to Land Registration and Cadastre office, including support
to complete computerization of existing land registry records.
A. 1. National registry of farmers: The ARIP will finance technical assistance, training, software and
equipment. In order to develop a reliable and accurate national registry of farmers, this sub-component
will i) provide general support to the Government for its construction; ii) build institutional capacity at
the MARA provincial and local offices to carry out the registry and to update it over time; and iii)
provide technical assistance on best practices to build the registry.
Registration of farmers is a critical activity of the direct income support program. The information, on
the basis of which payment is to be calculated, has to be extremely accurate and objective so as to avoid
possible manipulation and fraud, and reduce or eliminate the possibility of complaints by beneficiaries.
Following the experience of registration in the pilot program in Antalya and other provinces, the
following steps are proposed: i) announcement of the program at the national level with clear eligibility
criteria; ii) local MARA offices inform farmers about the program and ask them to apply for inclusion
into the program. A standard letter with the basic information required is published in local MARA
offices, Muhtar and TZOB offices and in mosques; iii) farmers apply to the program (signing a standard
application letter) at MARA local office providing all information required. The information required
when title deeds are available will include an identification document, updated copies of the deeds
46



(validity no less than 1 month), and when inheritors, the court decision and percentage of area owned
(when there are multiple owners by deed). When deeds are not available the information required would
be: identification document, TZOB/Muhtar certification of farmer, and when sharecroppers the legal
contracts; iv) in cases of incomplete or invalid applications, MARA local offices contact the farmers to
complete and or correct the information; v) functionaries of local MARA offices using specified
formats, fill in manually information supplied by farmers or where possible, computerize the information
supplied'. vi) Local MARA offices verify the information supplied by applicants, with support from
Muhtars, farmers association (TZOB) and the community, particularly in cases of farmers who are not
land owners; vii) Once the information is checked, MARA local offices fill out the forms or where
possible, computerize the data and send the information in paper or electronic form to MARA provincial
offices; viii) MARA provincial offices using temporary contract staff to input data into computers in a
simple software designed for the purpose, then they aggregate the information, calculate the number of
beneficiaries, the corresponding payment and send the aggregate information to MARA central offices;
ix) MARA central sends the list of beneficiaries to the PCU for approval. The PCU then issues payment
instructions to Ziraat Bank; x) Ziraat Bank opens or uses existing farmers' accounts to make automatic
payments.
The largest category of costs under this program is for technical staff and training for the local and
provincial MARA offices to strengthen capacity to develop the registry, particularly for steps v) to viii).
Equipment - both hardware and software will be provided to further improve the speed and accuracy of
the registration system. The farmer registration system can form the basis for a program for
improvements in MARA's agricultural statistical systems (including both farmer and livestock
registration).
In areas where cadastre does not exist, disputes on the land area which qualifies for the program could
arise, as experienced in some of the pilot areas. The public information, under component D, will provide
information to farmers on their rights and the land dispute resolution mechanisms. MARA is also funding
from its own budget informal dispute resolution mechanisms to facilitate the DIS registration process..
(see Annex 12 - Social Assessment Report).
A.2. Support to land registry and cadastre. The ARIP will finance technical assistance, training and
equipment.   The objective of this sub-component is to provide financial support to the General
Directorate of Land Registry and Cadastre of Turkey which will include support for the completion of
computerization of the existing land records.
The computerization of Cadastre records remains incomplete. The Directorate operates 1,003 district
offices, many of which lack computerized land registry information. Only 196 (20%) of the 1,003 Land
Registry and Cadastre offices have fully computerized their cadastre information, 432 offices (43%) are
currently completing the process, but 375 offices (37%) remain without computers and all land registry
records are manually operated. Substantial financial and labor resources are required by the Land
Registry and Cadastre Directorate to complete the computerization of their cadastre records. The sub-
component will provide financial support for this effort. Funds will be provided for hardware, software
and for hiring and training temporary contract staff.
Lessons and Recommendations from the Pilot Program: As part of the implementation of the Direct
Income Support program at the national level the Government implemented a pilot program with the
main objective of testing alternative ways to develop the registry of farmers. The pilot program was
The information registered is as follows: Province, District, Village, Serial number, Name of the owner/farmer, Father's name,
Date of birth, Id number, Status of the target farmer (land owner, other), Parcel number, Plot number, Percentage of areas owned
(when there are multiple owners by deed). Destination or type of land (reported by the farmer), Destination or type of land (stated
in the registry document), Number of decars, Number of square meters, Area for payment, Amount of payment.
47



carried out in counties in 4 provinces around the country, Ankara (-Polatli), Adiyaman (-Central and
Katha), Antalya (-Manavgat and Serik), and Trabzon (-Akcaabat and Surmene). The process of
registering beneficiaries was made using two different methods. The first method applied in Polatli and
Antalya province was based on the land registry records. The second method applied in Adiyaman and
Trabzon was based on the certifications issued by the muhtar (headman of the village), council, and
TZOB (farmer association). The main key lessons from the pilots are:
Lessons                                     Recommendations
*  Clarification of qualifying criteria for land.   *  Enact a communique with clearly defined
Need to specify the land types that qualify for  selection criteria before beginning program
payment e.g. agricultural land with housing,  information campaign.
garden etc.
*  Random selection of villages avoided     *  Several options are avaiable for scaling up
political influence. The selected villages  to the national level. These include i) random
were accepted without complaint.            selection, ii) expansion to all counties and
villages in the pilot areas, iii) expansion to
areas most affected by the subsidy removal,
or simple complete the registry in one year.
*  Information provided to farmers on the   *  Ensure detailed public information
program was not detailed enough and did     campaign is designed to reach remote areas
not manage to fully reach allfarming areas.  (mechanisms and timing) well before the
Some farmers did not have a clear idea on the  program begins.
application procedures and some did not
apply for the program because they were not
well informed about it.
*  Cadastre records have sufficient information  *  Use Cadastre records for developing the
to develop a farmer registry. Cadastre     registry where they exist.
records are complete in 83 percent of the
country. Registry information only requires a
subset of the available information in the
Cadastre records. Where Cadastre records are
available the registry can be developed more
easily and accurately and there are less
disputes and complaints.
*  Muhtar, council, TZOB certifwcation are  *  Expand Cadastre records into areas where
sometimes not reliable. Where cadastre      cadastre doesn't exist. Where this is not
records don't exist, (17 percent of the    possible strengthen co-ordination between
country), development of a farmer registry by  MARA, TZOB and Muhtar, in isolated cases
the muhtar, council and TZOB has worked in  rely on alternative methods.
some areas but has not in others.
*  Local and provincial MARA offices are    *  Strengthen institutional capacity in these
capable of developing the registry. MARA    offices with technical staff appropriate
has the institutional capacity, the relevant  training, software and equipment. To
local knowledge to develop the registry at low  improve co-ordination assign responsibility
48



cost, in a short period of time and has good  for the DIS to one person at the provincial
co-ordination with local institutions.       and local leveL
* Resources available to develop the farmer
registry in local and provincial MARA
offices need to be congruent with the
*  A lack of resources in some local and        number offarmers in the areas.
provincial MARA offices caused delays in
processing applications. In some cases the
large volume of farmers coupled with limited
resources (for additional staff and physical
infrastructure requirements e.g. computers)
delayed the registration process.        *  Rely on the farmers to acquire certification
of deeds from Land Registry office.
*  Verification of deed by MARA with Land
Registry is too time consuming. The time
taken for registration at MARA offices was
significantly reduced when the farmer
verified his information with the Land
Registry Office prior to submitting his
application.
*  Somefarmers submitted incomplete          *  Mechanism tofindfarmers who have
information in their application but they   provided incomplete information in their
could not be located to provide corrections.  applications needs to be developed.
They were expecting to be paid but because
of the incomplete information they were not.
* Local and provincial offices designed their
own procedures for processing the        *  Develop standard procedures (operating
applications at local and provincial offices  manual) for processing the applications at
nationwide. Due to the lack of an operating  local and provincial offices nationwide.
manual the local and provincial offices
designed their own procedures.
*  Ziraat Bank was an appropriate institution
for making the payments. It has the largest    *  Use Ziraat Bank for the program, and allow
rural network in the country, able to reach  DIS payments to be used as collateraL
remote farmers.
* Deed verification and updating fee was a
disincentive for farmers to apply. This  *  Options include i) temporary exemption for
disincentive was greatest for the smaller   farmers who qualify for the program, ii)
farmers as the fees are a greater proportion of  increase the size of the subsidy, iii)
their income support.                        reimburse farmers the fee amount.
*  5 percent of the subsidy was automatically    *  Increase the amount of the subsidy.
deducted by Treasury before it was paid to
the farmers. For every $1 of subsidy only 95
49



cents are paid into the recipients Bank
account.
* Subsidy amount to be decided but should be
*  In a few areas the reason for not applying  lower in first year or two, then raised in
was that the support amount was too small.  parallel with the phasing out of the price
In some areas farmers suggested that the    supports.
support amount was not large enough to
compensate them for the price support losses
and the transaction cost of applying.
*  Further discuss alternatives to deal with
*  Regional and cultural differences could     these issues.
have a marginal effect on the program. In
some areas conflict prevented program
implementation. Some areas will suffer more
than others from the general subsidy removal.
*  Small farmers benefited. Most of the farmer  *  To promote participation by smallfarmers -
who applied in the pilot areas had land sizes  consider establishing a minimum amount to
between 1 and 4 hectares.                   be paid to those farmers with less than one
hectare.
*  It will be difficult to complete Cadastre  Develop specific mechanisms to deal with this
records in areas designated as Government   issue.
Forest land. This may include up to 12
percent of the country.
*  Develop M&Eframeworkfor the national
*  Lack of generalframework for monitoring     program including appropriate monitoring
and evaluation delayedfinal results of the  mechanisms
pilot program.
Component B: Farmer Transition (US$180.58 million).
This component will provide support to help farmers make the transition to alternative activities as the
governmental supports are reduced. The current inconsistent and arbitrary pattern of state purchases
commissioned to ASCUs or SEEs send very confusing and messages to farmers and agricultural
processors when they are deciding what to produce and how to produce it. It is leading them to
overproduce crops which they can produce only at high cost relative to world markets, and under produce
crops which they can produce more efficiently. Currently, the most serious problems are with two crops:
hazelnut and tobacco.
As a result of high support prices, there has been a large expansion of cropping area in these crops, with
significant amounts of surplus production and stock accumulation.  The expansion also resulted in
misuse of natural and agricultural resource bases. It is expected that under the reform program, the
artificially high prices of these products will decline significantly-more so than the incomes of growers
of other crops -- and many of these farmers in areas which have good alternatives will want to stop
producing them.
50



Hazelnut
Issues: Hazelnut is one of the most problematic crops. Due to high purchasing prices, cropping areas
have expanded: i) horizontally to the fertile plains of Western Black Sea where a large variety of cash
crops could be produced, and ii) vertically to areas under I. and II. Land Capability Classes and on slopes
less than 6% under III. Class. Hazelnut areas in the I. Standard Regions were on hills and slopes where
the ecology generally did not allow economic production of other crops. In all regions, the cropping area
which had started on steep slopes has gradually expanded to more fertile flat/low lands, suitable for other
crops. In the II. Standard Region the situation was the same. This horizontal expansion has had negative
impacts on: i) quality of hazelnut, ii) possible production of other crops in demand, and iii) total hazelnut
production. Horizontal expansion resulted in yield increases, but effected the quality negatively. The
pricing system does not reward the quality. Therefore, in selecting hazelnut varieties for new plantations,
farmers' main concern is the yield level, not the quality. They target sales as large as possible to benefit
the high purchasing prices announced by the govemment. In recent years, the quality problem is partly
attributed to the area expansion particularly in the II. Standard Region.
The expansion toward the Western Black Sea, pushed out the other crops in demand, such as maize,
soybean and forage which are well adapted to ecological conditions and profitable. People who migrated
from the area can still produce hazelnut since the crop needs very limited care to produce some yields.
These absentee landlords are satisfied with what they get as an additional income by selling their crop at
the government's high purchasing prices. This is also the case for the people still living in the area.
Instead of dealing with cash crops which need more care, input and work, they prefer to dedicate their
lands to hazelnut. New plantations in the horizontal expansion increased the total production
significantly. This resulted in over supply which ended up in stocks with little export potential due to
lower quality. These are taken out of the stocks through various ways including processing as oil,
granting to military and public schools.
Hazelnut production has expanded vertically to both higher (above 500 m) and lower elevations (0-250
In). Production has gone to land above 500m in many areas, even in the I. Standard Region, and
particularly in Ordu. It has been observed that the production is carried out in fields gained from illegal
forest clearing, in areas as high as 1200 m. and where the slope is almost 100%. Production is invading
also the lower elevations. Presently, in the most fertile plains of Samsun and Adapazari, instead of
producing other cash crops, farmers prefer hazelnut, due to the easiness of production, almost guaranteed
government purchasing and high support prices. Such vertical expansion has obvious impacts on; i)
yield and quality of the production, ii) forests, and iii) soil.
In lower elevations, higher quality hazelnut is produced and gives satisfactory yields. Higher elevations
have a negative impact on yield levels for these varieties; in areas over 750 m, the yield levels are only
1/3 of the yields obtained in lower elevations. In order to compensate the yield loss, farmers have two
options; i) to shift to high yielding varieties, and ii) expand the cropping area. In shifting to high yielding
varieties, farmers tend to neglect the quality aspect. This is another reason for the quality problem that
the sector has been facing with.
To produce satisfactory amounts, farmers tend to increase their hazelnut fields. At higher elevations, the
only way of gaining new planting area is to illegally clear the forest. Some farmers afterwards apply to
the Cadastre Court to exclude this area from designated forest area according to the Forest Law No-683 1
claiming that its forestry characteristics have been lost. Some continue to crop on these areas to which
they do not have the title. There are a number of continuing cases at the court. In many forest villages,
forest fragments which are left among cleared patches can not be managed economically; therefore, these
areas are gradually added to the hazelnut areas. Forest degradation has been expanding in the Black Sea
51



Region as a result of such practice. According to Ministry of Forestry, almost 13,000 ha which is
currently under hazelnut production was taken out of forest land. It is also estimated that when the
cadastre is completed, the forest area in the Black Sea Region will lose an additional 30,000 ha due to on-
going hazelnut production. In the forest areas, surface runoff is limited because of high infiltration due
to the dead vegetation cover, higher inception capacity. In hazelnut areas, interception capacity is lower
particularly where the soil underneath the hazelnut bushes is bare; surface runoff is high and results in
soil erosion. Research carried out in the region has shown that surface runoff is 2.9% in the forest and
20.4% in the hazelnut fields. This difference was clearly observed during the flood which occurred in the
Western Black Sea in 1998.
Area to be reduced : Based on the surplus production, it is calculated that 100,000 ha of hazelnut area
needs to be uprooted. This will cover the three type of areas: i) counties which have no permission by
Law (58,868 ha) and consists of mostly flat land, ii) flat/low lands in both permitted and non-permitted
areas where hazelnut is produced on the land under I. and II. Land Capability Classes and on slopes less
than 6% under the m> Capability Class (estimated as 28,588 ha), and iii) high elevations/forestry areas
where most of the production is carried out illegally cleared forest land, irrespective of the permission list
(estimnated as 17,544 ha).
Payments to the farmers: The following payments will be made to farmers who voluntarily uproot
hazelnut groves: i) uprooting cost, ii) input costs for the new crops and iii) costs of preparing and tending
the fields in the transition period.
(i) uprooting costs: A similar operation, called "live vegetation clearing" where all vegetation cover
(including woody and herbaceous species) is cleared and the land is prepared for planting of tree
seedlings is carried out by Ministry of Forestry. Two sets of prices are developed for: i) The Black Sea
Region where vegetation cover includes mostly intense woody species, and ii) areas where maquis is the
dominant type in the vegetation cover. For each cases a set of prices are developed according to the
following criteria: i) I) percent of vegetation cover on the soil surface (less than 60%, more than 60%),
ii) percent of slope (vary between 0-60%), and iii) percent of stones on the soil surface (less than 25%,
more than 25%). Therefore, the prices vary from 10.5 million TL/da to 35.5 million TL/da. Since the
density of plants in a hazelnut grove is comparatively less than typical natural vegetation cover in the
Black Sea Region, and the root system of hazelnut plant is more shallow than typical woody species, an
average of 25 million TL/da is considered as a good estimate for uprooting cost for hazelnut. Farmers
will be given the options of carrying out the work themselves and receiving compensation, or signing up
to have the uprooting done under area contracts arranged by MARA. Private companies with experience
and appropriate equipment are available in the market, so the contracts under MARA will be tendered.
(ii) input costs for the new crops: the Project will finance the inputs (seed, seedling, fertilizer, chemicals
and diesel) for the crops selected from a menu of options. Once the farmers decide what to grow to
replace hazelnut and plant it as the new crop, a fixed payment will made for each crop, calculated based
on the recommendations provided by the research institutes. In this manner, farmers will be discouraged
from overuse of inputs which have harmful effects on environment.
(iii) preParing and tending fields: Farmers may choose to grow annual or perennial crops. In both cases,
they will need to prepare the fields for the new crops, then tend them until the crops reach full income-
generating capability. Farmers will be compensated for these costs.
Payment mechanism: Payments will be made as cash grants. After emergence of the annual crops and
planting of the perennials, the fields will be visited and checked by the staff of the Provincial Directorate
of Agriculture (PDA) and the payments will be approved. The list of beneficiaries and the individual
52



amounts for payments will be aggregated and sent to MARA central level. The Project Team under the
General Directorate of Agricultural Production and Development (TUGEM) will send the aggregated
list to the Treasury and to the MARA auditors for pre-audit. Once the pre-audit is completed and the list
is cleared, TUGEM informs the provincial and county agricultural Directorate to proceed. These
Directorates then send the list to the relevant branch offices of the Ziraat Bank for payment. Ziraat Bank
opens or uses existing farmers' account to make the automatic payments, with Treasury's approval.
MARA will be responsible to have all the control mechanisms in the system that will prevent double
registry once the system is fully automated.
Menu of options: A menu will be provided to the farmers to select from to replace hazelnut. Based on
their choice, they will benefit from the cash grants. The menu would include: i) annuals such as maize,
soybean, canola, sunflower, potato, vetch dry beans, protected and field vegetables, aromatic and
medicinal plants, ii) biennials such as animal beet, and iii) perennials such as strawberry, berries, kiwi,
persimmon and traditional fruits, cut flowers and ornamental bushes, onion, garlic, aromatic and
medicinal plants. Alder (Alnus sp.), chestnut and walnut can also be considered for areas in higher
elevations. Ministry of Forestry is carrying out some studies to allow the farmers to establish "private
forests" where they can use forest species as Alder and utilize the wood legally.
Tobacco
Issue: Tobacco is the second important crop having over supply problems. Over supply purchased by
Turkish State Monopolies (TEKEL) has usually been burned to reduce the storage costs. During 1925-
29, 5-year average production was 50,000 ton, then it increased to 150,000 during 1969-73 and boosted
in 1993 with 338,796 tons. Within a few years, tobacco cropping area has expanded to fertile low lands
and even to the irrigated areas mainly due to the government's high purchasing prices. As a result of this
expansion, production increased significantly and TEKEL had to buy the excess production. Expansion
to more fertile land and irrigated conditions degraded the quality and resulted in over supply with poor
quality. Therefore, excess production poses a serious problem mainly for the oriental types of tobacco,
for which there has been a decreasing domestic demand. This is particularly the case for the tobacco
produced in the Southeastern Anatolia. In 1994, a production quota system was introduced by TEKEL.
As a result, the 1994 production was reduced 46% (187,733 ton). However, this was not pursued in the
following years and the production started to increase again. In 1998, with a limited application of quota,
production was somewhat reduced. In fact, total production has tended to decline slightly since 1993. To
reinforce the quota system TEKEL buys on the basis of quota with 25 % tolerance. However,
productions beyond this tolerance limits are punished by lowering the price by 25 percent. In reality, this
system works differently in that producers buy quota from other producers to make up underproduction
or sell their excess production to those who produce less than their quotas. In every case, the state takes
the financial burden. With quota application in 1994, high quality tobacco which is readily exportable
was treated the same way as low quality tobacco of Eastem and Southeastern Anatolia. In fact, more
limitations should have been applied to the regions producing low quality tobacco.
Area to be reduced: TEKEL's quota for 2000 was 189,000 tons. For 2001, the quota was determined as
150,000 tons. Distribution to the regions are the following: i) 95,000 tons for the Aegean Region, ii)
25,000 tons for the Black Sea Region, iii) 4,000 tons for the Marmara Region, iv) 4,000 tons for Eastern
Anatolia and v) 22,000 tons for Southeastern Anatolia. It is known that the marketability of the tobacco
produced and sold to TEKEL in the Eastern and Southeastem Anatolia is very low and TEKEL is
planning to stop tobacco production in these regions. The component will be a useful tool to assist
TEKEL to realize their plans. Therefore, the component will be implemented on 36,000 ha of tobacco
area in 12 provinces of Eastem and Southeastem Anatolia Regions. These are; Adiyaman, Bingol,
53



Batman, Bitlis, Diyarbakir, Hakkari, Malatya, Mardin, Mus, Siirt and Van. Around 43,000 tons of
tobacco is being produced in these provinces, most of which is unmarketable.
Payments to farmers: The following payments will be made to farmers who voluntarily give up tobacco
production: i) input costs for the new crops, and ii) costs of preparing and tending fields in the transition
period.
(i) input costs for the new crops: The Project will finance the inputs (seeds, seedlings, fertilizer,
chemicals and fuel for the crops selected from a menu of options. Once the farmers decide what to grow
to replace tobacco and plant it as the new crop, a fixed payment will made for each crop, calculated based
on the recommendations provided by the research institutes for each region. In this manner, farmers will
be discouraged from overuse of inputs which have harmful effects on environment.
(ii) preparing and tending fields: Farmers may choose to grow annual or perennial crops. In both cases,
they will need to prepare the fields for the new crops, then tend them until the crops reach full income-
generating capability. Farmers will be compensated for these costs
Payment mechanism: Payments will be made as cash grants. After emergence of the annual crops and
planting of the perennials, the fields will be visited and checked by the staff of the Provincial Directorate
of Agriculture (PDA) and the payments will be approved. The list of beneficiaries and the individual
amounts for payments will be aggregated and sent to MARA central level. The Project Team under the
General Directorate of Agricultural Production and Development (TUGEM) will send the aggregated
list to the Treasury and to the MARA auditors for pre-audit. Once the pre-audit is completed and the list
is cleared, TUGEM informs the provincial and county agricultural Directorate to proceed. These
Directorates then send the list to the relevant branch offices of the Ziraat Bank for payment. Ziraat Bank
opens or uses existing farmers' account to make the automatic payments, with Treasury's approval.
MARA will be responsible to have all the control mechanisms in the system that will prevent double
registry once the system is fully automated.
Menu of options: A menu will be provided to the farmers to select from to replace tobacco. The menu
crops such as wheat, sunflower, canola, chickpea, dry beans, lentils, sainfoin, melon, maize, soybean,
cotton, aromatic and medicinal plants, vetch, vineyards, fruits, potato, vegetables, aromatic and medicinal
crops.
Implementation: Provincial Directorates of Agriculture (PDAs) under Ministry of Agriculture and
Rural Affairs (MARA) will provide a menu of crops to the farmers which will replace production of
hazelnut and tobacco. In order to assist the farmers to make educated decision, PDA staff will provide
information in advance to the farmers about each crop in the menu including the agronomic package,
input need, a crop calendar, labor requirement, marketing and agro-processing. Once farmers make
decision about what to grow, they will report this to the PDA by filling an application form. Then, the
PDA will provide training to enable the farmers to reach the potential yield levels.
The reduction programs will be implemented for three years by MARA staff at central and provincial
levels. General Directorate of Agricultural Production and Development (TUGEM) will be responsible
for the component.
For smooth implementation, some vehicles, office, training and demonstration equipment will be
provided to the PDAs in the project areas. Funds will also be made available for staff and farmer training
and technical assistance. Incremental operational costs will also be financed by the project.
54



Hazelnut          Tobacco
Uprooting                    36,000,000
Tending fields               67,000,000            6,734,016
Input                        43,000,000            8,926,920
Institutional Strengthening   2,500,000            2,100,000
Operational cost              3,000,000            3,000,000
Total                        151,500,000          20,760,936
Grand TOTAL                                                          172,260,936
Note: Figures in this table do not include contingencies
Support To Producer's Organizations
In addition to the financing of startup costs for other activities, this component would also include a sub-
component to support the development of agricultural producers' organizations in Turkey. These
organizations would ease the transition of the sector to the new policies and incentive structure. They
would be effective vehicles to deliver specific services (economic, extension and legal advice) to the
farmers. The organizations will also be much more effective than individual farmers in conveying their
views to the government and negotiating on their behalf in the course of formulation of the future
policies and programs. The FAO-funded Technical Cooperation Project can be a good basis for preparing
this component. The project would primarily fund technical assistance, training, some office and training
equipment.
The program will be carried out for three years by the General Directorate of Organization and Support
(TEDGEM) at the central level and by PDA staff at the provincial level.
Component C: Agriculture Sales Cooperatives and Unions (ASCs/ASCUs) Restructuring
(US$152.68 million).
This component will assist the government in implementing the new law on Agricultural Sales
Cooperatives which was adopted in June 2000. The law requires the budget to pay for the cost of
severance payments associated with labor retrenchment by the 16 ASCUs which need to retrench about
12,000 of thel6,500 workers employed on August 31, 2000. The Government is committed to effectively
privatize ASCs/ASCUs by removing its control over their personnel, operations and management, and by
eliminating all budgetary support after a short transition period. The government has requested the
Bank's support for this major initiative by seeking technical assistance, and financial assistance in the
form of partial funding of the severance payments necessary to restructure the ASCUs. With support
under the ASC/ASCU restructuring component of the ARIP, the primary ASCs will aim to become
independent, financially autonomous and self-managed organizations dedicated to serving their farmer
members by selling and processing crops on their behalf and by providing production inputs to farmers.
The role of the ASCUs will be significantly reduced. They will be transformed into marketing and, in
some cases, secondary processing agencies of the ASCs and providers of other services which cannot be
organized in a viable manner at the primary society level.
The new ASCIASCU law requires that a Restructuring Board be established to assist the ASCs/ASCUs
in designing and implementing: (i) restructuring measures; and (ii) cooperative development programs.
In the first phase this component will finance the costs of: (i) labor retrenchment by the ASCs/ASCUs;
(ii) staffing and other expenses associated with operating the Restructuring Board; and (iii) consulting
services procured to provide technical assistance and training to ASCs and ASCUs.
55



The Restructuring Board has seven members, including two nominees of the Ministry of Industry and
Trade and the Treasury Under-Secretariat, four nominees which would include academicians or persons
who have proven knowledge in the fields of cooperative management or business management, and a
nominee elected by the 16 ASCUs. The law provides that the Restructuring Board's four year work
program will be carried out by an Executive Unit (EX) composed of experts and advisors having
experience in restructuring, privatization, planning, audits and cooperative or business management.
A decree was adopted giving RB, mostly through its EX, the duty and the powers to: (i) approve ASCU
business plans; (ii) approve all restructuring frameworks and plans; (iii) recommend to Treasury the
allocation of credits from the revolving fund (see below); (iv) recommend to Treasury, in the case of each
ASCU, appropriate measures with respect to liquidating those debts to government, as of May 1, 2000,
relating to special organizational activities and secondary obligations such as interest and default interest
which may have accrued on the original debt as well as the indemnities which may have to be paid to
retrenched staff; (v) monitor ASCU performance in implementing business plans and restructuring
frameworks and plans (in the event the performance of an ASCU is unsatisfactory, it will not be eligible
for further assistance from the RB).
The Revolving Fund As a transitional measure, TL 250 trillion in DFIF credits has been made available
from the 2000 fiscal budget for crop procurement by the ASCUs during the 2000/2001 crop season.
With a few important exceptions, the ASCUs will be expected to repay this final credit allocation.
However, the payments will not be returned to the budget, but will flow to a revolving account with a
commercial bank (Ziraat bank) which will be used to provide working capital loans to the ASCUs until
they have become creditworthy and can obtain such loans from commercial banks. As most
ASCUs/ASCs would be considered as poor credit risks, the rate of interest on loans drawn from the
revolving account will reflect the cost of funds plus an affordable risk margin that the ASCU could
absorb. This will provide ASCUs/ACSs with the incentive to become creditworthy so that they can
obtain commercial bank loans.
Executive Unit. The RB will be supported by an Executive Unit (EX) headed by a Director recruited on
a fixed term contract and staffed by small number of long term consultants. Most of the work of the EX
related to the restructuring of cooperatives will be carried out by contractors, including consulting firmns
and investment banks. The EX staff will assist the PCU in preparing TORs for short term consulting
contractors and monitor contractor performance.
Director of the EX The position of Director of the EX will be advertised in major daily newspapers and
the RB will fill the position by selecting from the pool of candidates who have responded to these
advertisements which have been prepared in accordance World Bank procurement procedures. A
Director will be appointed only after the World Bank has issued a statement of no-objection.
Other EX Staff Other EX staff financed under ARIP will be selected from a pool of candidates. They
would include a financial specialist, a cooperatives specialist, an accounting specialist, and a
procurement specialist. The EX Director and the World Bank will agree upon the minimum
qualifications for each position and all appointments will be made only after the World Bank has issued a
statement of no-objection.
Legal Advisor. Lawyers may be hired on short term basis or a law firm may be hired on a retainer basis
as needed to provide legal advise to the RB.
56



Operations of the Restructuring Board, Revolving Fund and Executive Unit would be financed from the
loan.
ASCUs Contractors. The work to be carried out by contractors would include the preparation of
restructuring plans, sale of assets, liquidation of businesses/assets and technical assistance and training
provided to the ASCUs staff and cooperatives to support their implementation of restructuring plans.
World Bank procurement guidelines will govern the selection of contractors for specific assignments.
Final selections will be made only after the World Bank has issued a statement of no-objection. The
Manager will have the authority to sign contracts up to a commitment of US$ 100,000 . All contracts
requiring a larger commitment will be approved by the Board.
As part of the Restructuring Board, the Cooperative Service Unit (CSU) will provide or arrange for
consultancy services and training related to the cooperative development program. After the first phase of
the project, if ACSs and ASCUs so decide, CSU might evolve into a national service and apex
organization for the system of agricultural sales cooperatives.
ASC Cooperative Development Sub-Component
The development objective of the Cooperative Development Sub-Component (CDSC) is to contribute to
the transformation of the ASCs into genuine cooperative organizations which are:
*   member-controlled and operate in accordance with needs and priorities identified by their members;
*   efficiently managed and able to provide effective services to their members;
e   competitive and self-reliant and thereby able to operate in competition with other private sector
enterprises without having to depend on government subsidies and supervision.
Achievement of this objective will enable farmers to take ownership of their cooperatives and get access
to efficient services which improve farm productivity and income.
Progress in achieving the development objective will be monitored on the basis of the following key
performance indicators: (a) the number of ASCs that reach financial autonomy and profitability; and (b)
the extent of ownership demonstrated by ASCs (as reflected by the rate of participation by members in
the affairs of the cooperative, notably by contributing capital to finance the cooperative, by participating
in the decision-making organs of their ASC and by using the services provided by the cooperative).
The main sector issue is the role of government in cooperative development, especially its involvement in
the financing and in the business operations of the cooperatives. Until the enactment of the new
ASC/ASCU law, cooperatives were mainly channels for implementation of government programs rather
than member-owned cooperatives. Funded by government, the cooperatives were put under the
supervision and direct control of MIT. This control was exercised by MIT at the ASCU level through
appointment of management staff and through operational directives issued by the Ministry to the unions.
The ASCUs controlled the primary societies (ASCs) which operated as de facto branches of the unions
rather than independent cooperatives responsible for their own finances, management and operations.
The dominant role played by government proved to be detrimental to the development of the
cooperatives and their capability to provide efficient services to their members. Being controlled from the
top and being financed by funds flowing from the government, the cooperatives had no incentive to
develop their operations, nor were they given the opportunity to do so. Having to work as agencies for
price subsidies to farmers, the cooperatives could not become profitable. Their losses were aggravated by
57



the fact that they were compelled to employ staff in excess of their requirements, at wages far above
comparable private sector levels.
Another critical consequence of the intervention by government in the operations of the cooperatives
was, and still is, that members developed no real feeling of ownership of their cooperatives. This is
illustrated by a very low rate of participation in general assembly meetings in practically all societies.
There is a widespread perception among cooperative members that they are owners of their societies in
name only and that, in reality, the cooperatives are government entities. This has important implications
on member participation, member share capital contributions and member loyalty. Furthermore, with
access to government funds and being managed through directives from above, the cooperatives at the
grassroots level did not develop sufficient financial and business management skills. Therefore, they are
now ill-equipped to assume responsibility for their own operations which they will have to carry out in
competition with other private agro-business enterprises.
The large majority of the ASCs are today entirely dependent on the ASCUs to which they are affiliated,
and many will find it difficult to make the transition from a position of total dependency to the status of
more autonomous units with a capacity to run their own affairs. If not supported through capacity-
building measures, many, if not most, of the ASCs may exit from the scene or their transition will take
place only gradually over a period of many years, during which time they would not be able to provide
effective services to their members. Although the market for agricultural produce and farm inputs is
fairly well developed, a possible failure of the ASCs may expose farmers to unfair trading practices by
private traders. Therefore, it is important that efficient ASCs add to the competition and increase the
farmer's choice between various buyers and suppliers.
The role of the CDSC in relation to the ASCUs is to facilitate ownership by the primary societies of their
unions and thereby to contribute to a turn around of the top-down structure under which the unions in the
past have dominated their affiliates. However, CDSC will only operate at the primary society level and
will provide support to ASCs in order to empower them to exercise their ownership rights with the view
to directing the activities at the union level so that these secondary cooperatives meet the needs of the
primary cooperatives and their farmer members.
Main areas of support by CDSC to the ASCs
Available statistics put the number of ASCs at 330 and the individual membership at around 700,000.
* The number of active cooperatives or cooperatives having a potential to survive as autonomous units is,
on the basis of observations made during field studies, somewhat lower, i.e., probably about 200 to 250.
Although the activities of these cooperatives today are fairly uniform--primary marketing and processing,
and supply of inputs on credit to farmer members-- they display a great variety in terms of size, existing
capability and potential to become autonomous units. It is therefore clear that the CDSC program for
support to the ASCs will have to be tailor-made to suit the needs and development ambitions of each
ASC. However, there will also be standardized training and business development programs responding
to the common needs of most ASCs.
The philosophy that will guide the design and implementation of the support to the ASCs will differ
significantly from the top-down interventionist approach which characterized cooperative development
activities in the past. The key change originating from this philosophy is that of member participatipj in
the process of identifying development needs and priorities, and in defining measures to be taken to
address these needs and priorities. This means that the CDSC will be demand-driven and designed
through a participatory approach involving the members. This approach will ensure that the CDSC
58



support is relevant to the ASC needs and that it is supported by a strong commitment on the side of the
management and members of the cooperative.
The first step in implementation of the CDSC will be the design and implementation of an information
campaign targeted to members of the ASCs. This campaign will focus on two main issues:
*  the new ASC/ASCU law and articles of association, and the implications of the legislation on the
operations and status of the ASCs; and
*   the objectives and planned activities of the CDSC and the procedures to be followed by ASCs
wishing to apply for the support available under CDSC.
Cooperatives wishing to benefit from the support of CDSC would have to apply and provide basic
information on their existing activities and plans to the CDSC.
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
Implementation of CDSC is suggested to be the responsibility of the Cooperative Service Unit (CSU)
which will be part of the EB and its EX, with six regional offices in locations where the density of
cooperatives is high. The location of the branches of CSU will be determined at the time of
commencement of CDSC through an inventory of ASCs. This inventory will assess primary society
restructuring priorities, needs and potentials in the various regions of the country.
Considering that some unions, such as Taris, are already providing some training and business
development assistance to their affiliates, the regional activities of CSU will not duplicate what is already
being done. CSU will collaborate closely with the unions and will, where the necessary preconditions
exist, integrate its field activities with those of the unions. The ultimate objective is that ASCUs take
responsibility for the field activities of CSU. In the short term, however, when the unions will be faced
with the difficult task of their own restructuring, and when sensitive questions of division of assets,
functions and powers between ASCUs and ASCs will have to be settled, the primary societies should be
assisted by CSU and its branches.
The CSU will operate for the duration of the restructuring period of four years. However, should the
unions and their primary affiliates so wish, at the end of the project period CSU may transform into a
national cooperative federation with the objective of continuing training, business development, and
other services to the ASCUs and the ASCs.
Component D: Project Support Services (US$12.95 million).
This component will provide for a) Public Information Campaign that would target farming communities
through television, radio and newspaper announcements; b) advisory services connected with project
management (e.g., public relations, social monitoring and evaluation, dispute resolution), agricultural
statistics, laboratory and food testing, crop insurance and other topics that are not addressed in the other
components; c) social monitoring and evaluation; and d) a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) for project
coordination, procurement and financial management support to the implementing agencies, and
Component Implementation Units to assist the implementing agencies.
Subcomponent D-1: Public Information Campaign. Given the importance and scope of the agricultural
policy reforms undertaken by the Government, a quick-start public information campaign is needed to
provide accurate and timely information about the reforms and the support mechanisms available under
the project. The information campaign would target farming communities through television, radio and
59



newspaper announcements. The campaign would explain the purpose and timing of the reforms, describe
the support programs available, provide specific information about eligibility and application procedures,
and provide farrners with advisory services. It is anticipated that the campaign would be carried out in
three or more phases, to accommodate developments in the preparation and delivery of the support
programs. This subcomponent would also provide training for MARA extension services staff to enable
them to present accurate information about the reforms and assistance programs to their clients, the
farmers.
Subcomponent D-2: Advisorv Services. This subcomponent support advisory services to address issues
connected with the overall agriculture policy reform effort that are not specifically covered in other ARIP
components. Topics may include agricultural policy reform, agricultural statistics, laboratory and food
testing, crop insurance and other topics to be identified by the ARIP Steering Committee. Support is also
provided from this sub-component for advisory services required by the PCU/CIUs for management of
the project. These may include preparation of terms of reference, bid evaluation, and contract monitoring
needed for public relations, social monitoring and evaluation, and dispute resolution, inter alia. Advisory
services may be provided by local or international consultants.
One activity under this sub-component would support development of an efficient system for crop
insurance. Existing practices of providing ad hoc compensation to farmers in the case of natural disasters
is inefficient, politicized, and costly to the budget. The project would first provide technical assistance to
review studies in best practice for crop insurance.
Subcomponent D-3: Social Monitoring and Evaluation. The objective of this sub-component is to
monitor and evaluate the social impact of the agricultural reform program and supporting ARIP
components. The Monitoring and Evaluation exercise is designed to provide the implementing agencies
and the Bank with the feedback necessary to refine and redirect project support as necessary. The
specific objectives and activities to be undertaken in this sub-component are detailed in Table 1 below.
The heart of the Monitoring and Evaluation sub-component is an annual nation wide panel survey with
selected qualitative follow-up. The survey will follow a pre-selected stratified random sample of
approximately 5,500 households in agricultural communities and 500 households in urban communities.
The survey instrument will collect data characterizing household resource use, income formation, food
consumption, and demographics.
Data collection and sunimary will be conducted by local firms and consultants contracted directly
through the PCU and independent of the agencies implementing the project components. Data collection
will be coordinated and monitored by a Senior Project Social Advisor (SPSA) contracted through the
PCU. The SPSA will be responsible for the overall quality of the data and analysis. The cleaned data will
be made available to all agencies involved in project component management. The SPSA will
disseminate the results of the analysis and associated recommendations at the beginning of the fourth
quarter of each project year.
Table 1: Social Monitoring and Evaluati on Objectives
Objective -                          Activities
1. DIS Payments: Assess targeting and  (i) Methods: Quantitative household survey combined with farmer
magnitude of DIS payments on farm    registration database. Selected vulnerable group qualitative follow-
household resource use and income    up.
formation. Identify vulnerable groups and
provide recommendations for annual project (ii) Analysis: Statistical analysis of panel survey/farmer registration
component adjustments.               data. Summarize qualitative follow-up.
60



(iii) Indicators: Participation in DIS, support received, and
2
credit/investment, and income by socio-demographic categories.
Attitudes and perceptions of reforms by socio-demographic
categories.
(iv) Dissemination: Third Quarter each project year. DIS steering
committee, Treasury, WB, PCU, MARA.
2. Farmer Transition: Assess targeting and    (i) Methods: Quantitative household survey. Selected vulnerable
magnitude of farmer transition payments.    group qualitative follow-up.
Identify vulnerable groups and provide
recommendations for annual project      (ii) Analysis: Statistical analysis of panel survey data. Summarize
component adjustments.                  qualitative follow-up.
(iii) Indicators: Participation in Farmer Transition, support
received, cropping patterns and income by socio-demographic
categories.
(iv) Dissemination: Treasury, WB, PCU, MARA.
3. ASCU/ASC service delivery: Assess core  (i) Methods: Quantitative household survey.
service delivery and determine if it serves
the interest of member owners (farmers).    (ii) Analysis: Statistical analysis of panel survey data.
(iii) Indicators: membership, participation, service delivery.
(iv) Disseminate: Treasury, WB, PCU, ASCU restructuring
commnittee.
4. Urban Population: Assess changes in  (i) Methods: Quantitative household survey.
food consumption and expenditures on
urban households in selected communities   (ii) Analysis: Statistical analysis of panel survey data.
(Ankcara, Istanbul, Izmir).
(iii) Indicators: Food consumption and expenditure by low, middle,
and high income households.
(iv) Dissemination: Treasury, WB, PCU.
Sub-component D-4: Project Management. The ARIP will be coordinated by Treasury, which plays the
leading role within Government for economic policy reform. A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be
established within Treasury to provide overall coordination of the ARIP and work closely with the other
key agencies involved in delivery of project activities. The PCU will comprise a Financial and
Procurement/Reporting Department with nine full-time staff to address management, financial,
procurement, and reporting/communication functions. Two Deputy Directors will provide daily liaison
with MARA and the ASCU RB. The Director and Deputy Directors would be civil servants, and the
other five staff would be long term local consultants financed by the ARIP. In addition, the project will
finance short-term technical assistance and training to assist with organization and functioning of the
PCU. The PCU will be responsible for facilitation of project implementation, in particular, operating a
sound accounting and financial management (LACI) system and producing the required financial
statements to monitor eligible expenditures and meet audit requirements. In addition, CIUs will be
established in MARA and the ASCU RB (the "Executive Unit") to support component implementation.
The MARA ClUs will be staffed with 2-4 civil servants and 1-3 local consultants financed under ARIP.
2 Socio-demographic categories will include, but not be limited to: farm size, household size, labor assets, education
assets, migration assets, social assets , and geographic region.
61



The Restructuring Board Executive Unit will be staffed with contract employees (consultants) financed
from loan proceeds.
62



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
TURKEY: AGRICULTURAL REFORM IMPLEMENTATION PROJECT (ARIP)
A. Direct Income Support (DIS)                           54.50          14.71          69.21
B. Fanner Transition                                    171.60           2.36         173.95
C. ASCU Restructuring                                   140.48           7.68         148.15
D. Project Support Services                               12.92          9.44          22.36
Adiustment Loan                                          200.00                       200.00
Total Baseline Cost                                     579.49          34.18         613.67
Physical Contingencies                                 29.34           1.55         30.89
Price Contingencies                                    16.64           0.76         17.40
Total Project Costs
Interest during construction
Front-end fee                     6.00          6.00
Total Financing Required            625.47         36.49         661.96
Goods                                                     10.82         17.38          28.20
Works                                                     19.25         ---            19.25
Technical Assistance                                     30.41          10.57          40.98
Training                                                  5.11           0.01           5.12
Specialized Services (Service Contracts)                 33.97           0.64          34.61
Operating Cost                                            12.05          1.88          13.93
Severance Payment                                       148.76          ---           148.76
Transition Grants                                        153.31                       153.31
Adjustment Loan (for DIS Payments)                      200.00          ---           200.00
Recurrent Cost                                           11.78          ---            11.78
Total Project Costs                625.47          30.49         655.96
Interest during construction
Front-end fee                     6.00          6.00
Total Financing Required           625.47          36.49         661.96
63



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
TURKEY: Agricultural Reform Implementation Project (ARIP)
Economic Analysis Summary
DIS Component: The introduction of the direct income support program (DIS) in parallel to the phase
out of the unsustainable and distortionary system of subsidies - for fertilizer, credit and price supports -
was one of the agreed policy changes under the Economic Recovery Loan (ERL). The economic rationale
for this approach has been elaborated in various background documents3 and was discussed in several
policy workshops held in 1998 and 1999 which included coverage of the concepts, issues and
international experience with income support programs. The background document 'Agricultural Support
Policy Proposals: A Blueprint for Reform' provides some detail on the extent, unsustainability and
distortions of the supports, highlighting their huge fiscal cost, costs to consumers, inconsistency of the
support and the biased distribution of support benefits to the farming population.
The DIS will not fully compensate every farmer for income lost by the removal of the old subsidy
system, but rather it will cushion the blow and continue to provide adequate support to the agricultural
sector, but in an incentive neutral way. Although smaller payments will be made, the additional
incremental benefits of the new scheme would be: i) increased efficiency of resources devoted to
agriculture, ii) increased collateral and thus opportunity to access credit; iii) reduction in prices of some
products to consumers, iv) better distribution of government support to farmers, v) lower distribution
costs of the subsidy, vi) better national budget planning and execution, and vii) greater predictability of
income for farmers based on real market prices.
As the economic justification for the proposed policy change has been dealt with in the preparation of the
ERL it will not be analyzed again in this section. However, an economic analysis is required to determine
the 'best' mechanism for implementation of the DIS component of the project, this will take the form of a
cost effectiveness analysis.
Cost-effectiveness analysis examines which combination of the various investments delivers the
component objectives at least cost. In this case - what is the least cost mechanism that can be developed
to identify beneficiaries who are eligible for payment under the DIS, and deliver the payments. The
description of the component is provided in Annex 2.
The beneficiaries for the DIS are the 4 million farmers nationwide, however they are not easily
identifiable as there is no reliable registry of them in Turkey. This registry needs to be accurate, reliable
and transparent - so as to avoid manipulation and misuse - to ensure that the DIS payments reach the
intended beneficiaries.
Two options are available to build an adequate registry of farmers in the country. One is to base the
registry on the existing land registry (cadastre) records and the other is to base it on a certificate of
farmers. Both altematives can be implemented at the national level. Mexico and Romania provide some
international experience in implementing these two approaches in order to undertake a scheme similar to
the DIS. In Mexico, for instance, the registry of farmers was based on the latter approach, but there were
3 See 'Supporting Rural Development in Turkey: Effects of the Current System and some Options for Reform', John
Nash, World Bank, presented at a seminar on Agriculture Policy Reform organized with Treasury on February 9,
1999.
64



several delays caused by submission of misinformation by farmers. In Romania, the former approach was
used, 4.5 million farmers were registered following local cadastre records and the process was completed
very quickly - in about 3 months.
In addition, several options are available for the criteria for making the payments to farmers. These
include a) making payment according to area cultivated, as in Mexico, b) making payment according to
the agricultural land owned by a farmer, as in Romania, and c) making payment by type of crop grown.
The latter approach seems the least appealing as making the payment according to crop type grown
creates artificial incentives to produce more of the crops which receive the greatest payment - a problem
caused by some of the current price subsidies. In Mexico, farmers made declarations on the amount of
area planted in the last three years with verification by the MOA, which was used as a basis for payment.
Significant delays were caused because of the misinformation provided by farmers - mainly overstating
the land cultivated in an attempt to receive greater payment. There have been some arguments that this
approach allows identification of all farmers - whether they are landowners or just users (such as renters
and sharecroppers) while a Cadastre based system only allows identification of landowners. However, it
makes little economic difference who is the immediate recipient, since in the end, the payment will be
captured by the owner of the inelastic factor of production land in the form of higher rent, just as are the
current subsidies.
Two of these methods to build the registry were piloted in Turkey. The pilot program was carried out in
villages and counties in 4 provinces around the country, Ankara (Polatli), Adiyaman (Central and Katha),
Antalya (Manavgat and Serik), and Trabzon (Akcaabat and Surmene). The first method applied in Polatli
and Antalya province was based on the land registry records. The second method applied in Adiyaman
and Trabzon was based on the certifications issued by the Muhtar (headman of the village), the council,
and the TZOB (farmer association). Based on the experience of the pilot, the costs of scaling up both
methods to the national level can be estimated.
Land Registry based on Cadastre records with deed certification by farmer. This is the method
described in Annex 2. The cost per farmer, estimated at US$14.5 is lower than the alternative approaches
piloted but is slightly higher than registries developed in other countries such as Costa Rica,
Nicaragua and Colombia. The additional costs are the result of extending the registry system
from the provincial to the local level and the accelerated timetable for its completion.
Land Registry based on Cadastre records with land registry deed certification by MARA.. In the pilot
area of Polatli, once farmers had submitted their applications, it was MARA's responsibility to verify the
information contained on the farmer application with the Land Registry and Cadastre Office. This was a
time consuming activity and if scaled up to the National Level will incur significant additional costs than
the approach described in Annex 2 where the farmer is responsible for getting a verification stamp from
the Land Registry and Cadastre Office. The costs estimated were US$16.1 per farmer..
Land registry based on Muhtar, council and TZOB certification. It will require significant additional
resources to verify the accuracy of the information of the farmer applications. In the pilot areas, farmers
tended to significantly overstate the size of their land in an attempt to receive greater payment. In some
instance, disputes took significant amounts of time to resolve. The costs of expanding this method
nationwide, are greater than the other approaches. The higher costs are for additional staff and vehicles
to ensure and extensive verification process. The costs estimated were US$24.2 per farmer.
65



Table 1: Cost-effectiveness of alternative approaches to develop the registry offarmers
Alternative mechanisms to select beneficiaries                   Cost per farmer
(US$)
Land Registry based on Cadastre Records
With land registry deed certification by farmer a/                14.5
With land registry deed certification by MARA b/                  16.1
Land Registry based on Muhtar, council and TZOB                        24.2
certification c/
International comparisons with similar programs
Romania - Input Voucher Program d/                                      2
Costa Rica - System for selecting beneficiaries e/                     8-9
Nicaragua - System for selecting beneficiaries e/                      6-7
Colombia - System for selecting beneficiaries e/                       8-9
Source: DIS Pilot; Bank Project Team files
Assumptions
(a) According to the pilot experience the time spent by farmer to make the registry at county level with
this method is 10 minutes.
(b) According to the pilot experience the time spent by farmer to make the registry at county level with
this method is 20 minutes.
(c) According to the pilot experience the time spent by farmer to make the registry at county level with
this method is 40 minutes and more vehicles and equipment are required to make supervision in the
field.
(d) Bank staff estimates based on number of people and materials financed by municipalities and for data
inputting and processing.
(e) These are registries of beneficiaries for targeting social programs to the poor. They are based on
census information on demography, basic housing services, education, income and employment taken
from households living in poor urban and rural areas. The number of variables included are
typically 60 to 70 variables for each family member.
According to the table, the most cost effective method of setting up the registry is using the cadastre
records with land registry deed certification by farmer and is the approach described in Annex 2. While
the approach does not target poor farmers explicitly by means testing, it will be de facto targeted in two
ways. First, since payments will be made on a per hectare basis, with the same amount per hectare for all
farmers, it will increase incomes of small and usually poorer farmers proportionately more than that of
high-income farmers - as demonstrated in the pilot. Second, there will be a lower and upper limit placed
on the hectares eligible for the payments, thereby disqualifying larger farmers from applying for the
program and promoting the participation of the small ones.
Farmer Transition Component: The farmer transition component (Annex 2) attempts to help farmers
make the transition to alternative activities as the current governmental agricultural supports are reduced.
As a result of high support prices, there has been a large expansion of cropping area, especially for
tobacco and hazelnuts, with significant amounts of surplus production and stock accumulation.
As the current subsidies are phased out, the component will cover the one-time cost of converting from
these previously highly supported crops currently produced at high costs relative to world markets - to
crops that can be produced more efficiently. More specifically payments will be made as follows - to
66



hazelnut farmers who voluntarily uproot hazelnut groves: i) uprooting costs, ii) input costs for the new
crops, and iii) costs of preparing and tending fields during the growing cycle of new crops, and to
tobacco farmers who give up growing tobacco: i) input costs for new crops; and ii) costs of preparing and
tending fields.
A cost-benefit analysis, which describes the magnitude of expected benefits of the proposed intervention
in relation to expected costs, appropriately discounted, will be used to deternine the returns to this
component.
Incremental costs and benefits with the component.
Without the farmer transition component: The farmer transition component is a key element of the
overall project as the Govemment of Turkey would not have agreed on the larger agricultural policy
reforms if this component was not included. Thus, without this component there would not have been a
project and the current production of tobacco and hazelnuts would have continued with some level of the
corresponding support subsidies.
With the farmer transition component: With the component, 100,000 ha of hazelnuts and 36,000 ha of
tobacco will be converted to altemative crops. For the analysis, the alternative crops to hazelnuts were
assumed to be sunflowers (51%), maize (34%/O), walnuts (11%), dry-beans (3%) and potatoes (2%). For
tobacco these include - sunflowers (9%), chickpeas (27%), lentils (46%), canola (8%) and wheat (9%).
While it is likely that other crops may be grown as well, the replacement crops included in the analysis
were assumed to be indicative of the major replacement crops as estimated by MARA.
The costs and benefits for the hazelnuts and tobacco replacement are shown in Table Al and A2. The
assumptions used for the analysis are listed after the tables. Two key assumptions have been made for the
shadow price of hazelnuts and tobacco in the areas to be uprooted. For hazelnuts, the price was assumed
to be 40 percent of the current procurement price (subsidized export price) as hazelnuts produced in the
area to be uprooted are of low quality and are mainly sold to make hazelnut oil. For tobacco, the shadow
price was assumed to be 50 percent of the current procurement price. Both of these are generous, since
hazelnuts made into oil for cooking have a market value of about 10% of the support price, and much of
the tobacco grown in the areas to be uprooted is simply burnt due to over supply (to reduce storage costs)
and poor quality.
The benefits of this component, even at these shadow prices, are large, i.e., areas currently producing
crops of little or no value, at high cost are being converted to produce crops of higher value at lower cost.
Using the costs of the farmer transition component (annex 2) as well as associated costs of the
restructuring of Fiskobirlik, the hazelnut ASCU, the NPV and IRR were calculated (Table A3). For the
analysis yields, areas and prices are assumed to remain constant at 2001 levels.
The (economic) internal rate of return for the component, based on the stated assumptions, is estimated to
be about 53%. For each of the crops to be replaced, the rate of return was estimated at 35% for hazelnuts
and 337% for tobacco. The benefit per hectare from tobacco replacement are similar to that of hazelnut
replacement but achieved at lower cost thus yielding much larger retums from the initial payments. The
discounted net benefits (net present value) of the component amounted to US$303 million.
All the returns are relatively high and are amplified by the current economic losses made on the proposed
areas to be uprooted. As an illustration -- if nothing were grown on this land after uprooting the intemal
rate of return would still be about 25% for hazelnuts and 277% for tobacco, with an overall 42% retum.
67



Sensitivity analyses using switching values were also performed. The switching value of a variable is that
value at which the project's NPV becomes zero (or the IRR equals the discount rate). Table A4 presents
the results showing the percentage change in the value of variables needed to turn the components NPV
to zero. The results suggest that the NPVs are not particularly sensitive to changes in the price, yield and
production cost of hazelnuts, tobacco and their replacement crops. As an example, for tobacco, the
(economic) price oT yield would have to increase by more than 52% or the cost of production would have
to decline by 32% for the NPV for the (tobacco) subcomponent to become negative.
68



Table Al: Costs and Benefits of the Proposed Hazelnut Replacement
Revenue and cost stream'                        2001          2002          2003         2004          2005
Hazelnuts
Area                           Ha            100,000        100,000       100,000      100,000      100,000
Yield                         Kg/ha             9562           956           956          956           956
Production                    Tons            95,600         95,600       95,600        95,600       95,600
Price                       US$/ton3            5394           539           539          539           539
Value of production           US$          51,566,061    51,566,061    51,566,061    51,566,061    51,566,061
Costofproduction               US$         93,281,818    93,281,818    93,281,818    93,281,818    93,281,818
Replacement Crops
Sunflowers
Area                           Ha             15,157         35,365       50,522        50,522       50,522
Yield                         kg/ha             1,460         1,460         1,460        1,460         1,460
Production                    Tons            22,129         51,633       73,762        73,762       73,762
Price                        US$/ton            2176           217           217          217           217
Value of production           US$           4,809,613    11,222,430    16,032,042    16,032,042    16,032,042
Cost of production             US$          4,539,654     10,592,525    15,132,179    15,132,179    15,132,179
Maize
Area                           Ha              10,104        23,577       33,681        33,681       33,681
Yield                         kg/ha            4,440          4,440        4,440         4,440        4,440
Production                    Tons            44,863        104,681       149,545      149,545       149,545
Price                        US$/ton             106            106          106           106          106
Value of production           US$           4,758,241    11,102,563    15,860,804    15,860,804    15,860,804
Cost of production             US$          2,564,367     5,983,524     8,547,891    8,547,891     8,547,891
Dry beans
Area                           Ha               1,010         2,358         3,368        3,368        3,368
Yield                         kg/ha            1,500          1,500         1,500         1470         1470
Production                    Tons              1,516         3,537        5,052         4,951        4,951
Price                        US$/ton             439           439           439          439           439
Value of production           US$            665,970       1,553,930    2,219,900    2,175,502     2,175,502
Cost of production             US$           430,426       1,004,328    1,434,755     1,434,755    1,434,755
Potatoes
Area                           Ha                506          1,180         1,685        1,685         1,685
Yield                         kg/ha           26,000         26,000       26,000        26,000       26,000
Production                    Tons             13,144        30,669       43,812        43,812       43,812
Price                        US$/ton             121            121          121           121          121
Value of production           US$           1,593,170     3,717,396     5,310,566    5,310,566     5,310,566
Costofproduction               US$           333,570        778,330     1,111,900     1,111,900    1,111,900
Walnut
Area                           Ha              3,223          7,521       10,7447       10,744        10,744
Yield                         kg/ha                -              -            -          210           210
Production                    Tons                 -              -            -         2,256        2,256
Price                        US$Ikg            4,167          4,167        4,167         4,167        4,167
Value of production           US$                  -              -            -    9,400,723      9,400,723
Cost of production             US$          1,040,184     2,427,096     3,467,280     3,467,280    3,467,280
Without sub-component (continued Hazelnut production)
Aggregate value of production  US$         51,566,061    51,566,061    51,566,061    51,566,061    51,566,061
Aggregate cost of production   US$         93,281,818    93,281,818    93,281,818    93,281,818    93,281,818
With sub-component (production of alternative crops)8
Aggregate value of production  US$         47,923,236    43,066,137    39,423,312    48,779,637    48,779,637
Aggregate cost of production   USS         74,205,474    48,770,348    29,694,004    29,694,004    29,694,004
Incremental net benefit        US$         15,433,520    36,011,546    51,445,065    60,801,390    60,801,390
Project component cost
Hazelnut farmers               USS         45,903,495    63,377,952    49,196,295            -            -
Fiskobirlik                    US$         22,754,264       219,554     2,595,908    6,469,953
Institutional reinforcement    US$          4,223,276      1,803,827     600,469        33,726
Total costs                                72,881,790    65,399,770    52,393,481     6,503,679           -
Net cash flow                  US$        (57,448,270)   (29,388,224)   (948,415)   54,3297,702    60,801,390
NPV (10 years, 10% discount rate)  US$    141,004,110
Economic rate of return (10 years)              35%
69



Table A2: Costs and Benefits of the Proposed Tobacco Replacement
Revenue and Cost Stream                          2001          2002          2003          2004          2005
Tobacco
Area                            ha             22,000         36,000        36,000       36,000        36,000
Yield                          kg/ha              950           950           950           950          950
Production                     tons            20,900         20,900        20,900       20,900        20,900
Price                         US$/ton           1 ,0709        1,070         1,070        1,070         1,070
Value of production            US$         36,583,636     36,583,636    36,583,636    36,583,636    36,583,636
Cost of production             US$         56,083,691     56,083,691    56,083,691    56,083,691    56,083,691
Replacement CroPs'o
Sunflowers
Area                            ha              2,038          3,336         3,336        3,336         3,336
Yield                          kg/ha            1,460           1460         1460          1460          1460
Production                     tons             2,976          4,870        4,870         4,870         4,870
Pnice                         US$/ton           21712           217           217           217          217
Value of production            US$            646,842      1,058,469     1,058,469     1,058,469     1,058,469
Cost of production              US$           610,536        999,058       999,058      999,058       999,058
Chickmea
Area                            ha              6,042          9,886         9,886        9,886         9,886
Yield                          kg/ha              800           800           800           800          800
Production                     tons            4,8333          7,909         7,909        7,909         7,909
Price                         US$/ton            591            591           591           591           591
Value of production            US$          2,856,093      4,673,608         7,909        7,909         7,909
Cost of production              US$         2,231,058      3,650,821         7,909        7,909         7,909
Lentils
Area                            ha             10,063         16,467        16,467       16,467        16,467
Yield                          kg/ha            1,170          1,170         1,170        1,170         1,170
Production                     tons            11,774         19,267        19,267       19,267        19,267
Price                         US$/ton             455           455           455           455           455
Value of production            US$           5,351,920     8,757,687     8,757,687     8,757,687    8,757,687
Cost of production              US$         4,268,774      6,985,266     6,985,266     6,985,266    6,985,266
Canola
Area                            ha              1,818          2,975         2,975        2,975         2,975
Yield                          kg/ha            2,320          2,320         2,320        2,320         2,320
Production                     tons             4,218          6,902         6,902        6,902         6,902
Price                         US$/ton             170            170          170           170           170
Valueofproduction              US$            715,753      1,171,232     1,171,232     1,171,232     1,171,232
Cost of production              US$           624,262      1,021,520     1,021,520     1,021,520     1,021,520
Wheat
Area                            ha              2,038          3,336         3,336        3,336        3,3368
Yield                          kg/ha            2,500          2,500         2,500        2,500         2,500
Production                     tons             5,096          8,339         8,339        8,339         8,339
Price                         US$/ton           12112           121           121           121           121
Value of production            USS            617,696      1,010,776     1,010,776     1,010,776    1,010,776
Cost of production              US$           545,860        893,225       893,225      893,225       893,225
Without sub-component (continued Tobacco production)
Aggregate value of production  US$         36,583,636     36,583,636    36,583,636    36,583,636    36,583,636
Aggregate cost of production   US$         56,083,691     56,083,691    56,083,691    56,083,691    56,083,691
With sub-component (production Of alternative crops)13
Aggregate value of production  US$          32,544,971    16,671,777    16,671,777    16,671,777    16,671,777
Aggregate cost of production   US$         42,553,855     13,549,890    13,549,890    13,549,890    13,549,890
Incremental net benefit        US$          9,491,171     22,621,936    22,621,936    22,621,936    22,621,936
Project component cost
Tobacco farmers                US$          10,030,060     6,609,409             -            -             -
Institutional reinforcements   US$           4,223,276     1,803,827       600,469       33,726
Total costs                                 14,253,336     8,413,235       600,469       33,726
Net cash fow                   US$         (4,726,165)    14,208,700    22,021,466    22,558,210    22,621,936
NPV (10 years, 10% discount rate)  US$     106,680,101
Economic rate of return (10 years)              337%
70



Table A3: Internal Rate of Return and Net Present Value of the Proposed Intervention
Yrl            Yr2            Yr3           Yr4          YrS
2001           2002           2003          2004         2005
Without oroject
Hazelnuts
Aggregate value of production     US$           51,566,061     51,566,061     51,566,061    51,566,061   51,566,061
Aggregate cost ofproduction       US$           93,281,818     93,281,818    93,281,818    93,281,818    93,281,818
Tobacco
Aggregate value of production     US$           36,583,636     36,583,636    36,583,636    36,583,636    36,583,636
Aggregate cost of production      US$           56,083,691     56,083,691     56,083,691    56,083,691   56,083,691
With proiect
Hazelnut alternatives
Aggregate value of production     US$           47,923,236     43,066,137     39,423,312    48,779,637   48,779,637
Aggregate cost of production      US$           74,205,474     48,770,348     29,694,004    29,694,004   29,694,004
Tobacco alternatives
Aggregate value of production     US$           32,544,971     16,671,771     16,671,771    16,671,771   16,671,771
Aggregate cost of production      US$           42,533,855     13,549,890     13,549,890    13,549,890   13,549,890
Incremental net benefit        US$              24,924,690     58,633,482     74,067,001    83,423,326   83,423,326
Project sub-component cost
Hazelnut farmer transition        US$           45,903,250     63,376,389    49,197,103
Fiskobirlik restructuring         US$           22,754,264        219,554     2,595,908     6,469,953
Tobacco farmers transition        US$           10,030,060      6,609,409
Institutional reinforcement       Us$            8,446,552      3,607,653      1,200,939      67,452
Total costs                                     87,135,126     73,813,005     52,993,950    6,537,405
Net cash flow'                    US$         (62,210,435)    (15,179,524)    21,073,051    76,885,922   83,423,326
NPV (10 years, 10% discount)      US$          303,226,728
Internal rate of return (10 years)                   53%
Data Source: MARA
Table A4: Switching values
Crops                                                      Price/yield                 Cost of production
Hazelnuts                                                       52 %                            -40 %
Hazelnut replacement crops                                     -58 %                             91 %
Tobacco                                                         52 %                            -34 %
Tobacco replacement crops                                      -110%'                           136 %
Notes:
1/ The value and cost stream is assumed to be constant after 2005. The prices and yields were assumed to remain at constant
2000 levels. A 10 year time horizon was used to calculate the NPV and IRR.
2/ Yields are slightly higher than the country average as the areas to be uprooted include fertile plains of the Western Black Sea
where hazelnut yields are higher, but the quality is lower.
3/ The exchange rate used throughout the analysis is USS = TL660,000, this was the rate before the recent devaluation and is
used here as the exchange rate and output and input markets are still equilibrating. The assumption made in this analysis is that
all inputs and outputs are tradable, so that the devaluation resulted in an equivalent increase in TL (economic) producer prices
and costs of production. This may over-estimate the increase in production costs relative to producer prices but even if the
difference was large the returns would still be high - as reflected in table A4.
4/ As a result of the poor quality of hazelnuts produced in the areas to be uprooted, the shadow prices are much lower than the
export price, most of these hazelnuts are used to produced hazelnut oil. The shadow price was assumed to be 40 percent of the
current procurement prices.
5/ Based on discussion with the Ministry and Agriculture and Rural Affairs some assumptions were made about the replacement
crops. The 100,000 ha of uprooted hazelnuts are assumed to be replaced by sunflowers, 50,222 ha (51%); maize, 33,681 ha
(34%); walnuts, 10,744 ha (11%/6); dry-beans, 3,368 ha (3%/6); and potatoes, 1,685 (2%). The hazelnut uprooting/reduction
program will be implemented in 3 yeas - 30,000 ha in the first year, 40,000 in the second year and 30,000 in the third year.
71



6/ The shadow price of sunflowers was taken to be slightly lower than the current sales price as production quotas currently bias
prices upwards.
7/ For walnuts it was assumed that it takes about three years for walnut trees to start producing, with full production only after
four years.
8/ The sum of the alternative crops - maize, dry beans, potatoes and walnuts..
9/ The shadow price of tobacco was assumed to be about 50 percent of the current procurement price. Currently, most of the
tobacco to be replaced by other crops is burned by the Government after it is procured, to save storage costs.
10/ Based on discussion with the Ministry and Agriculture and Rural Affairs some assumptions were made about the replacement
crops. The 36,000 ha of tobacco are assumed to be replaced by sunflowers, 3,336 ha (90/o); chickpea, 9,886 ha (27%); lentils,
16,467 ha (46%); canola, 2,975 ha (8%); and wheat, 3,336 (9%). The replacement will be implemented in two years - 22,000 ha
in first year, and 14,000 in the second.
I1/ The same assumptions are made about the sunflower price as made in the previous table on hazelnuts.
12/ The shadow price of wheat is also much lower than the current procurement price which includes a large subsidy. The
shadow prices was assumed to be 30 percent lower than the current procurement price.
13/ The sum of the values and costs of the replacement crops - sunflowers, chickpeas, lentils, canola and wheat.
14/ The net cash flow is assumed to continue a$ler 2005 at the same level indefinitely, however, for this analysis a 10 year benefit
stream was assumed.
15/ While it is impossible to have price and yield decline by over 100%, this was included for indicative purposes - i.e. even if
the price and yield were zero - the NPV would be still positive.
ASCUs/ASCs: Not only are the ASCUs/ASCs overstaffed but they also pay wages which are much
higher than those paid by competing private traders/processors. Therefore, labor retrenchment would not
only increase the efficiency of the various crop sub-sectors but would also increase the prospects for
ASCU/ASC sustainability.
Under the program around 12,000 redundant ASCU/ASC employees will be retrenched. This will not
result in any reduction in production (if anything, it will increase, for reasons discussed below), while
substantially reducing the cost of production. The average cost of severance is about 14.6 times the
average monthly cost of the salary and benefits paid to each retrenched worker. An Internal Rate of
Return (IRR) of 64 percent equates the present value of the resulting savings in wages and benefits over a
three year period to the initial outlay for severance. In cases where new workers are rehired at half the
wage paid to the retrenched worker, an IRR of 40 percent equates the present value of the resulting
savings over a ten year period to the initial outlay for severance. Severance payments of any workers to
be retrenched and then re-hired will be paid by the government, not by the loan.
The core business of an ASCU is the sale of crops procured from its member ASCs. In most cases, a
shortage of working capital prevents the ASCUs from fully exploiting their core businesses. The direct
savings in wages and benefits associated with labor retrenchment would alleviate this working capital
constraint and permit the ASCUs to procure and sell a greater quantity of the crops produced by their
member farmers. Provided the incremental crop purchases can be sold at a profit the IRR's from outlays
for severance payments would be even higher than those indicated above.
Cukobirlik is a large cotton ASCU which operates 7 ginning facilities, a cotton seed oil processing plant,
a spinning mill and a fabric weaving and dying plant and a garment plant. At the beginning of crop year
2000/2001, it had 3,546 employees including a large number that had been placed on unpaid leave when
ASCU was forced to close its loss-making spinning, weaving dying and garment operations. Table 1.,
below, presents the financial projections for the ASCU assuming no labor retrenchment and operation of
all secondary processing plant. The projections indicate that, for the year 2000/2001, the ASCU would
have direct cash expenses of US$148.2 million versus sales revenues of US$96.5 million, resulting in a
gross loss of US$51.6 million. Adding inteTest expenses of US$7.3 million would bring the total losses
before depreciation to US$59 million. Also by the end of the year the ASCU would have arrears of
US$47.5 million to the revolving credit fund. The projections for the year 2001/2002 indicate that the
ASCU would have exhausted all of its working capital by July 2001.
72



Table 2. presents the financial projections for Cukobirlik assuming that loss-making operations would
remain closed and 1,364 employees would be retrenched at the end of August 2,000. As a result the
gross loss falls from US$51.5 million to US$7.2 million Also, the ASCU would have almost fully
serviced its debts to the revolving fund. However, from the projections for 2001/2002, it is clear that
additional cost cutting measures would be required. Therefore between January 1, 2001 and the end of
August 2001, the remaining workers, which earn an average wage of over TL900 million per month, will
be retrenched and replaced by 2,500 workers earning an average wage of TL 306 million per month.
This would reduce the annual wage for 2001/2002 by TL7.6 trillion. As shown in Table 3, this savings
would provide for a gross profit of US$2.2 million in 2001/2002. However, as the ASCU would not be
able to fully service its debt to the revolving fund, even further restructuring or profit improvement
measure would be required in order to achieve sustainability and restore creditworthiness.
73



Annex 5: Financial Summary
TURKEY: Agricultural Reform Implementation Project (ARIP)
Years Ending (see footnote)
YearI       Year2        Year 3       Year4
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs                347.50       205.66        74.19       16.84
Recurrent Costs                                3.80        3.93         4.06
Total Project Costs
Interest during construction
Front-end Fee                     6.00
Total Financing                     353.50       209.45        78.11       20.90
Financing
IBRD/IDA                        314.14       200.86       70.43        14.57
Govemment
Central                      39.36         8.59        7.68         6.33
Provincial
User Fees/Beneficiaries
Total Project Financing             353.50       209.45       78.11        20.90
Notes:
1. The above data are expressed to coincide with project years that overlap two consecutive years, such as 2001/2, 2002/3 etc.
2. Bank financing for a total of US$ 600 M includes US$ 200 M in adjustmnent loan.
Year          Year 2                  Year4  1Year 5            6       er7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs
Recurrent Costs               20.00      20.00       20.00        15.00      15.00      15.00     10.00
Total Project Costs               20.00      20.00       20.00        15.00      15.00      15.00     10.00
Interest during construction
Front-end Fee
Total Financing                   20.00      20.00       20.00       15.00       15.00      15.00     10.00
Financing
IBRD/IDA
Govemment
Central                   20.00      20.00       20.00    15.00       15.00      15.00        10.00
Provincial
Co-financiers
User Fees/Beneficiaries
Others
Others
Others
Others
Others
Total Project Financing           20.00      20.00       20.00        15.00      15.00      15.00     10.00
Main assumptions: The operational period for the ARIP rnay extend up to 10 years. It is assumed that the Government
will finance recurrent cost which will stabilize at US$ 10 M as of the 7k operational year.
74



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
TURKEY: Agricultural Reform Implementation Project (ARIP)
Procurement
Procurement of goods and works will be done in accordance with World Bank Guidelines: Procurement
under the IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (issued in January 1995, revised January and August 1996,
September 1997, and January 1999). Consulting Services, technical assistance and training will be
procured in accordance with the Guidelines - Selection and Employment of consultants by World Bank
Borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999. The Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents, Request for Proposals and Forms of Consultants' Contract will be used. A General
Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in the Development Business of the UN in March 2000.
Procurement Responsibilitv
The ARLP will be coordinated by Undersecretariat of Treasury (UOT), which plays the leading role
within Government for economic policy reform. UOT has limited experience in the procurement cycle
and in managing and implementing WB financed projects. UOT did not develop dedicated staff from
these projects to manage future WB projects. However UOT has agreed to select procurement specialist
who has experience with international procurement particularly with the WB projects. Therefore,
procurement under this project has been put in the high risk category.
A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be established within Treasury to provide overall coordination
of the ARIP and work closely with the other key agencies MARA and the ASCU Restructuring Bank
involved in delivery of project activities. The PCU will comprise a Financial and Procurement/Reporting
Department with full-time staff to address management, financial, procurement, and
reporting/communication functions. There will be three Component Implementation Units (CIU). Two
CIUs will be located in MARA one handling the DIS component and the other Farmer Transition
Component, and one CIU responsible for implementing ASCU component.
Procurement methods (Table A)
The project includes procurement of goods, works (uprooting of trees) and services. Procurement needs
of Components A, C and D have been identified and agreed during project appraisal. A detailed
procurement plan for these needs is prepared and included in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
During project implementation, the procurement plan will be updated every six months.
Thresholds for Procurement Methods
The following thresholds are proposed (the aggregates are given in the footnotes to the procurement
table):
(i)   ICB for goods = US $100,000 or more per contract except as provided in (ii).
(ii)   NCB for selected Goods (contract estimated to cost less than US$300,000 each) for which
foreign firms may not be interested and available in Turkey from several sources of supply to
provide adequate competition. (NCB is subject to the condition that a point system of evaluation
will not be used; domestic preference will not be applied, i/ International bidders will not be
75



excluded from bidding; and NCB bidding documents will be submitted to the Bank in draft for
review and no-objection. No bids will be rejected at the bid opening. All bids submitted on or
before the deadline for bids submission will be opened and read out at public bid opening).
The contract for the public campaign delivery, including campaign materials, TV, Radio,
advertisements, etc. will also be procured through NCB.
(iii)  International Shopping = Less than $100,000 per contract. (IS can be used to procure equipment,
material or commodities which are off the shelf. The award shall be made on the basis of
obtaining quotation from at least three Suppliers from two countries);
(iv)   National Shopping = Less than US$50,000 per contract. (Based on obtaining minimum three
quotations from domestic suppliers); and
(v)    For the uprooting of hazelnut trees under the Farm Transition Component, the following methods
will be used:
(a) In agreement with the MARA CIU, individual farmers may undertake uprooting of hazelnut
trees themselves. For this purpose, the MARA CIU shall establish rate per hectare at which a
farmer will be compensated for uprooting the trees. The CIU shall establish the unit rates
through competition, including the lowest of the rates that would be quoted by contractors for
this purpose (See item (b) below). These rates will be fixed on an biannual basis. The CIR
shall also put in place supervision and certification procedure in order to exercise effective cost
controls. It is expected that 50% of the uprooting will be undertaken and completed by the
farmers themselves; and the other 50% will be conducted by contractors in accordance with the
procedure in subpara (b) below).
(b) For uprooting of the hazelnut trees by contractors, the CIU will select contractors as follows:
(i)  contracts estimated at less than US$75,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under
lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least
three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to
complete the contract successfully. The minor works shall be advertised; and
(ii) contracts estimated to cost less than US$2 million equivalent per contract, may be
procured under contracts awarded through National Competitive Bidding (NCB). The
following procedures will be followed: (a) invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least
one national newspaper with a wide circulation, at least 30 days prior to the deadline for
the submission of bids; (b) bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to
all who are willing to pay the required fee; (c) foreign bidders shall not be precluded from
bidding and no preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders in the bidding
process; (d) bidding shall not be restricted to pre-registered firms; (e) qualification criteria
shall be stated in the bidding documents; (f) bids shall be opened in public, immediately
after the deadline for submission of bids; (g) bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis
of a comparison with an official estimate without the prior concurrence of the Bank. Also
no bids will be rejected at the bid opening. All bids submitted on or before the deadline
76



for bids submission will be opened and read out at public bid opening (h) before rejecting
all bids and soliciting new bids, the Bank's prior concurrence shall be obtained; (i)
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders; and () post-bidding
negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other bidders.
Agreement on the NCB procedures will be reached at negotiations.
Procurement of Consultants
Consultants Services will be procured through the Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) procedures.
These services shall be advertised in the GPN in the Development Business and in a national newspaper
for expression of interest, from which a shortlist will be drawn. For contracts estimated to cost less than
US$200,000, the short list may be based solely on national firms. Contracts for auditing and financial
management, legal, training and study tours will be procured following the Selection Based on
Consultants' Qualification (CQ) only if less than $100,000 each. Individuals consultants will be selected
in accordance with Part V of the Consultants Guidelines. All individual contracts will be advertised.
Under Service Delivery Contracts for components A, a large number of clerical workers will be hired for
registration of farners for DIS payments on contract basis. These contracts will be advertised locally and
then terms and conditions of contracts and unit rates will be agreed with the Bank before the contract
process begins.
Incremental Operating Costs
The Incremental Operating Costs will be procured on the basis of the annual budgets to be agreed with
the World Bank before any expenditures.
Prior Review Thresholds
(i)    All ICB contracts.
(ii)   First NCB contract for goods and the NCB contract for the public awareness campaign delivery;
first two NCB contracts for works; and first two Small Works contracts.
(iii)   All consultant contracts estimated to US$200,000 or more per contract (review of both technical
evaluation before opening of the financial proposals and full evaluation report (technical and
financial) before contract negotiations with the selected firm, and finally of the draft negotiated
contract before signature).
(iv)   All contracts with consulting firms estimated to US$100,000 or more per contract (review of full
evaluation report before contract negotiations and that of draft negotiated contract before
signature).
(v)    All consultant contracts with individuals estimated to cost US$25,000 or more per contract.
Post Review Ratio. All Bank-financed contracts which are not subject to prior review would be subject
to post review on sample basis (one in five contracts).
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
77



The project is expected to be disbursed over a period of five years. The anticipated completion date is
June 30, 2005 and the closing date is December 31, 2005. Table C shows the allocation of loan proceeds.
Disbursement Arrangements: Disbursements will take place using the traditional disbursement
mechanism as the project will not be having the capabilities for the PMR-based disbursement
methodology. Statements of Expenditures (SOE) will be used for: (a) goods contracts estimated to cost
less than US$100,000 each; (b) works contracts less than US$2,000,000 each; (c) consultants contracts
with firms less than US$100,000; (d) for services of individuals costing US$25,000 equivalent or less
each; (e) grants to the farmers; and (f) severance payments by ASCUs. Full documentation in support of
SOE will be retained by PCU for at least two years after the closing date of the Loan. This information
will be made available for review by Bank missions during project supervision and by auditors, the
minimum application size for payments directly from the loan account or for issuance of Special
Commitments is 20 percent of the special account authorization.
Disbursement of the adjustment portion of the loan will be made in two tranches on the basis of
withdrawal applications received from the government after the conditions of disbursement have been
met.
The processing, disbursement and monitoring of the allocations of the proceeds of the Loan and
Borrower counterpart financing would be managed by the PCU in coordination and consultation with the
Undersecretariat of Treasury.
Special Account. To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government will establish, maintain
and operate, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, a separate Special Account denominated
in US dollars to be managed by the PCU. The minimum amount of the withdrawal applications should
be 20% of the authorized allocation. The replenishment applications should be submitted by the PCU on
a monthly basis, and must include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting
documents. A separate account for Government contributions will also be maintained. The authorized
allocation for the Special Account will be $35 million. However, during the initial state of the project, an
amount limited to $15 million will be deposited in the Special Account. When the aggregate amount of
disbursement realizes $70 million, the amount deposited in the Special Account can be increased to the
full authorized allocation of $35 million. The Special Account will be audited annually by auditors
acceptable to the Bank. At the present time, these audits are performed by the Treasury Controllers for
all Bank projects in Turkey.
Retroactive Financing. Retroactive financing in the amount of $35 million is provided under the loan to
finance a) eligible job loss payments to redundant workers of ASCs and ASCUs prior to project
effectiveness, and b) initial consulting services, equipment purchases and operating costs required by the
PCU and CIUs prior to effectiveness.
Financial Management
Summary of Financial Management Assessment
The risks in this operation are considered moderate to high both from the financial control perspective
and reputational risk perspective. A number of measures have been/are being agreed to minimize the
risks. For example, in the area of severance payments an agreement has already been reached that all
severance payments will be pre-audited by an independent firm. Similarly, for FT grants an agreement
has been reached for the pre-audit by MARA inspectors. For strengthening the operational oversight an
78



agreement has been reached to appoint an independent firm to conduct the operational audit. As regards,
banking arrangements are concemed, which are considered weak, an agency agreement will be required
between the treasury and the Ziraat Bank stipulating maintenance of separate accounts in respect of the
project funds.
The financial management assessment conducted by an accredited FMS in May 2001 revealed that the
project authorities have put in place a computerized project financial accounting and reporting system,
developed Financial Management and Operational Manuals (financial management framework,
accounting manual, budgeting and project monitoring manual, financial management procedures manual,
internal control manual, and systems operational manual), appointed Finance Manager and Accountant to
handle the financial accounting and reporting, and are in the process of recruiting additional (internal
control officer, budget & contract monitoring officer, budget and accounting officer)staff for the PCU.
Agreements have been reached on various pre-audit and audit arrangements including the ToRs.
An agreement has been reached on standards, formats and frequency of audited financial statements and
Project Management Reports (PMRs). The PMRs would be produced quarterly. Upon satisfactory
production of PMRs for two consecutive quarters, switch over to the PMR-based disbursement would be
reviewed.
The agreed framework for making DIS payments by the district authorities and the internal controls in
the payment process has been well documented in the manuals. The first tranche ($100 millions) under
the adjustment loan will be released when at least 25% of the farmners are registered in an auditable
database, the DIS payments made to these farmers are audited by an independent auditor, consultants
appointed to design, develop, and implement computerized DIS system have prepared acceptable
functional specifications of the system. The second tranche ($100 millions) will be released when at least
50% of the farmers are registered, DIS payments made to the farners are audited by an independent
auditor, and the computerized system is implemented and the database of the farmers is updated to
include the farmers already registered and payments already made.
The project accounts would be audited by the Treasury Controller. The issue of independence of the
treasury auditors and their capacity conduct audit following Intemational Standards of Audit is a country
issue and cannot be addressed at the project level. However, two important measures to strengthen the
financial controls and provide adequate independent assurance have been agreed upon. One is pre-audit
of FT, DIS and Severance payments, and another is annual operational review by an independent firm.
The government has agreed to get FT and DIS payments to be pre-audited by MARA inspectors. The
government has also agreed to appoint an independent firm to conduct an annual operational review of
the project. It has been agreed that the severance payments would be pre-audited by an independent firm
appointed by the RB or by the Management Consultant. The terms of reference for the audits have been
agreed during the negotiations, subject to future revision by mutual consent.
The banking arrangements in the project are considered weak as a result of the Government requirement
that all transactions be routed through a state owned bank ( Ziraat bank). The situation would be
remedied by requiring an agency agreement between the Treasury and the Ziraat bank stipulating that the
Ziraat bank keeps separate accounts in respect of the project funds. Additionally, the payments by the
Ziraat bank will be govemed by financial management orders (protocol), satisfactory to the Bank, issued
by the Treasury. Ziraat Bank, though no better than other state owned banks in terms of financial
strength, has a wide network of branches in rural areas to execute payments to the farmers.
Project Financial Management Coordination and Staffing
79



The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be fully responsible for the financial management of the
project. The PCU will be supervised by the Treasury. The PCU has recruited a full-time Finance
Manager and Accountant the project Financial Management Department. In addition, a project internal
control officer, budget & contract monitoring officer, and budget and accounting officer will be
recruited.
Internal Control Procedures
The internal control procedures for major items of expenditures are as follows:
(i) Severance Payment
ASCUs will prepare Business Plan and a Restructuring Plan. All severance payments will be made
according to the approved Business Plan. Based on the Business Plan, the ASCUs will prepare Monthly
Payment Requests supported by the claims from the employees retrenched. These claims would be pre-
audited by the management accountants engaged to verify the BP (during the retroactive phase) or by the
auditors appointed by the RB to verify the performance of the ASCUs against their BPs (during project
implementation phase). After the pre-audit, ASCUs will send the request for payment to the RB. The RB,
after verifying the request, will approve it and forward it to the Treasury. The Treasury, after verification,
will issue payment instructions to the Ziraat bank. The Ziraat bank will then pass the instructions to its
branches for direct payment to the beneficiaries. The Ziraat Bank after payment send the payment advise
to PCU for accounting.
(ii) FTP Grants / DIS Payments
The MARA District Offices will receive the request for grants for the eligible farmers. Its Agricultural
Engineers will be responsible for compiling the requests and verifying them. The District Officer will
authorize the claims and forward them to the Provincial Office. The Provincial Office, after verification,
will send the claims to the PCU (Treasury). The MARA inspectors will pre-audit the claims. The PCU,
after verification and pre-audit by MARA inspectors, will issue payment instruction to the Ziraat bank.
The Ziraat bank will then instruct its branches to make the payment. The payment would be made to a
contractor who has done the uprooting of a crop and to the preparation of the land for planting the next
crop, or to the farmer directly. The Agricultural Engineer would carry out physical inspection of the work
planned or carried out.
Computerized Accounting System
The project financial and accounting system is centralized and fully computerized. The system has the
capability to (a) record and report all assets, and financial transactions and procurement activity of the
project; and (b) provide reliable financial information for managing and monitoring project activities.
The system provides financial data to measure performance when linked to the outputs of the project.
Due to the cash basis of accounting, the Chart of Account are relatively simple. The major heads of
account include contributions from the GOT and the Bank, and expenditures against heads identified in
the project Cost Table. These expenditure heads are further analyzed against the Bank disbursement
categories. The Chart Accounts facilitates easy preparation of the Project Management Report and the
annual financial statements. The system has the capability to provide comparative figures for budgeted
vs. actual, and cumulative figures for the period and project life.
Project planning and budgeting
80



The PCU would develop a consolidated Annual Work Plan (AWP) for the Project. The AWP would be
analyzed quarterly by the PCU and component PIU. AWP for the first year of implementation will be
agreed during negotiations.
A committee consisting of the Director (PCU), PIU Managers, and ASCU Chief Executives would
review the AWP. After the review, the AWP and the budget of each component would be sent to the
Treasury no later than September 30 each fiscal year.
Subsequent to the approval by the Treasury, the budget will be submitted to the World Bank for approval
by 30 November each year.
Reporting
The computerized system has the capability to generate reports on as and when required basis. For
reporting to the Bank, periodical reporting would be in the form of quarterly Project Management
Reports. Integrated to the financial reporting would be monitoring reports on physical performance
(outputs), and progress report on procurement.
Auditing
The annual project accounts would be audited by the Treasury Controller. The government has agreed to
get FT and DIS payments pre-audited by MARA inspectors. The government has also agreed to appoint
an independent firm to conduct an annual operational review of the project. It has been agreed that the
severance payments would be pre-audited by an independent firm appointed by the RB or by the
Management Consultant. The terms of reference for the pre-audit and operational audit were agreed
during the negotiations. The special account for the investment and adjustment component would be
audited annually as per agreed terms of reference.
The audited project financial statements and an audit report thereon including a management letter will
be submitted to the Bank within six months after the end of each fiscal year. The audit of the financial
statement will include: (a) an assessment of the adequacy of accounting and internal control systems to
monitor expenditures and other financial transactions and ensure safe custody of project-financed assets;
(b) a determination as to whether the project implementing entities have maintained adequate
documentation on all relevant transactions; and (c) verification that expenditures submitted to the Bank
are eligible for financing, and identification of any ineligible expenditures.
81



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category        ICB       NCB        Other      Total Cost
A. Works                                 17.64     21.44 a     39.08
(15.07)   (21.16)    (36.23)
B. Goods                      28.73      2.46      0.61        31.8
(22.53)    (2.10)    (0.47)     (25.10)
C. Consulting Services                             58.44       58.44
(48.76)    (48.76)
D. Technical Assistance and                        20.18       20.18
Training
(17.02)    (17.02)
E. Operating Costs                                  17.68      17.68
(14.57)    (14.57)
F. Severance Payments                              165.43     165.43
(139.93)   (139.93)
G. Transition Grants                               111.56     176.56
(111.56)   (111.56)
H. Incremental Recurrent                            5.62       5.62
Costs
I. Front End Fee                                    3.93       3.93
(3.93)     (3.93)
Total                         28.73      20.1      404.89     518.72
1 (22.53)   (17.17)   (357A0)   (397.10)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include
contingencies. Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.
a/ Includes: MW contracts - $1.9 million
Grants for Hazelnut Uprooting Works by farmers - $19.54 million
b/ Includes: IS contracts - $0.08 million
NS contracts - $0.53 million
c/ Includes: QCBS contracts -$11.79 million
CQ contract - $0.24 million
Individuals - $ 10.18 million
Service contracts - $36.23 million
d/ Includes QCBS contracts - $12.83 million
Individuals - $7.35 million
82



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Expenditure      QCBS          CQ          Service      Individuals Total
Category                                   Contracts
A. Firms             24.62         0.24        36.23                    61.09
(20.97)      (0.20)      (30.96)                   (52.13)
B. Individuals                                             17.53         17.53
(13.65)     (13.65)
Total:               24.62         0.24        36.23       17.53        78.62
1  (20.97)       (0.20)      (30.96)      (13.65)      (65.78)
Notes: QCCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
indivi(luals = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines)
N. B.. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                                   Contracts Subject to
Threshold                  Procurement               Prior Review
Expenditure Category          (US$ thousands)                 Method                  (USS millions)
1. Goods
>100                        ICB                         22.53
<300                        NCB                          0.43
2. Works
<2,000                       NCB                          3.50
<75                         MW                           0.14
3. Consulting Services               >100                        QCBS                         13.52
<100                         CQ                          0.24
< 25                     Individuals
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:                                             40.36
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment: High Risk
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for ex-post-rcview) during the first year, then every year.
83



Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 
Category I: Goods                                   21.44
Category II: Cash Grants for Part B                143.66
Category III: Works for Part B                      15.26
Category IV: Services including Audits              55.93
and Training
Category V: Incr. Operating Cost                    12.46
Category VI: Job Loss Compensation                 120.15
C ategory VII: Adjustment Portion of the           200.00
Loan
Category VIII: Front End Fee                         6.00
Unallocated Portion of the Investment               25.10
Loan
Total Project Costs                                600.00
Notes:
1I The front end fee is computed for a total Bank financing of US$ 600 M.
Y. The adjustment part of the loan has no unallocated part.
3. Estimation of the unallocated portion of the loan was based on the sum of all price and physical contingencies.
except for Category VI where there will be retroactive financing.
84



Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance Requirement
Review
The Treasury has limited experience in managing and implementing WB financed projects, and they did
not develop dedicated staff from these projects to manage future WB projects; however Treasury has
agreed to select procurement officer with experience in international procurement particularly with the
WB projects. In light of this lack of experience and the general procurement environment in the country
which is not conducive to economic and transparent procurement, this project has been put in the high
risk category.
Based on the findings and recommendations of the assessment of the capacity of the implementation
agency to conduct procurement, the Borrower shall undertake the following:
(i)    The PCU shall be assisted by a procurement consultant (individual) with international experience
for a period of six months. This consultant will be appointed preferably from the date of loan signature
but no later than the date of loan effectiveness, and in any case before the project launch workshop is
held (See below). Along with the procurement officer of the PCU, this consultant shall provide on-the-
job training to the staff of the ClUs with responsibility to conduct procurement and procurement-related
tasks, such as preparation of technical specifications, bidding documents, etc.
(ii)   If deemed necessary, a project launch workshop will be held for the PCU and CIU staff involved
in project implementation. During this project launch workshop adequate time (a minimum of three
days) will be spent on procurement training of the PCU and C1U staff. During this project launch, the
contents of the procurement book (See below), including all procurement related materials, such as
Annex 6 from the PAD, Procurement Schedule from the Loan Agreement, Standard Bidding Documents,
etc., will be explained.
(iii)  Immediately after Board approval the Bank staff will prepare a procurement book containing all
procurement related documents, including Standard Bidding Documents, both in hard and soft copies,
and send it to the project implementation agencies. The contents of the procurement book will be
discussed during the project launch workshop.
Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy Paper status: CPAR under
preparation.
Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions of the first year ready by negotiations.
Yes No lxi
85



Training, Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated date    Estimated date    Indicate if there   Domestic     Domestic
of project       of publication of  is procurement    preference for  Preference
launch           General          subject to       goods             for works
workshop         Procurement      mandatory SPN                      if applicable
Notice           in Development
Business
03/00/01
07.400 /01                        Yes [x]          Yes(X)           Yes
_  No(            No (X)
Retroactive financing             Advance procurement
Yes [xJ        No [I             Yes 1J        No I x]
Explain: 10% of the loan amount will be used mainly for retroactive financing under the ASCU
component
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System: A procurement monitoring system will be
established at the CIU which will collect and keep up to-date all procurement data. The CIU will use this
data in progress reports to the Bank.
Procurement Staffing
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement in
the Project: Name: Naushad Khan, Senior Procurement Specialist Ext: 32699
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in procurement: None
86



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
TURKEY: Agricultural Reform Implementation Project (ARIP)
Project Schedule                           Planned                    Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)    7                          12
First Bank mission (identification)        April 2000                  April 2000
Appraisal mission departure                I1 Sept 2000                11 Sept 2000
Negotiations                               16 Oct 2000                 29 May 2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness              29 Dec 2000                 29 June 2001
Prepared by:  Gail Lee/Jennifer Ngaine/Amy Evans
Preparation assistance: FAO, Danish CTF, TARP
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
John Nash                             Task Team Leader
Joseph Goldberg                       Senior Adviser
Amy Evans                             Environment; Implementation Arrangements
Cuneyt Okan                           Operations Officer
Naushad Khan                          Procurement
Gurdev Singh                          Procurement
Julian Lampietti                      Social Assessment
Nedret Durutan                        Farmer Transition; co-TTL
Robert Townsend                       Direct Income Support
Charles Woodruff                      Agric. Sales Cooperative Unions Restructuring
Lorenz Pohlmeier                      ASC Capacity Building
Suha Satana                           Agricultural Economist
Tunya Celasin                         Public Information Campaign
Rohit Mehta                           Disbursement
Sanjay Vani                           Financial Management Specialist
Kanagasabai Loganathan                Financial Management; ASCU Restructuring
Gennady Pilch                         Legal
Gail Lee/Jennifer Ngaine              Team Assistants
Tarsicio Castaneda/ Luisa Fernandez   Consultants, Direct Income Support
87



Annex 8: Statement of Loans and Credits
TURKEY: Agricultural Reform Implementation Project (ARIP)
Aide Memoire from April, June-July and August preparation missions
ARIP Aide Mem June-July.di ascu july mission final am.dc AM Jun-Jul Farmer Registry.d AM-MayOO.doc
Project Implementation Document
PID.doc
Government Strategy for Agricultural Policy Reform
DIS Pilot Project Final Report
LI - INTERIM REPORT 2.doc
- DIS Tables.xls
1...3
-Antalya LAND pie-chart.xls
D-J  - adyyaman_landpie-chart.xls
D1 - Trabzon_LAND pie-chart.xls
88



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
TURKEY: Agricultural Reform Implementation Project (ARIP)
TURKEY: AGRICULTURAL REFORM IMPLEMENTATION PROJECT (ARIP)
May-2001
Difference between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                                   and actual
disbursementsa
Project ID      FY        Purpose                                     IBRD          IDA                   GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.           Org  Frm Rev'd
P066511       2001       FSAL                                           777.78       0.00                   0.00       0.00      385.00       0.00        0.00
P069894       2001       PRIV SOC SUPPRT                                250.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00      239.50       4.50        0.00
P065188       2000       EFIL                                           252.53       0.00                   0.00       0.00      185.17     -67.19        0.00
P068368       2000       MARMARA EARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY                   505.00        0.00                  0.00       0.00      364.70     261.36        0.00
P068792       2000       RECONSTRUC.                                    759.60       0.00                   0.00        0.00     375.00     375.00        0.00
P044175       2000       ERL                                              0.00        0.00                  8.19        0.00       7.54       0.69        0.00
P048851        1999      BIODIVERSITY/NR MGT                              4.00        0.00                  0.00        0.00       3.31       3.13        0.00
P009073        1999      COMMODITIES.MKT.DEV.                           155.00       0.00                   0.00        0.00     133.65      -4.01        0.00
Po55877        1999     INDUSTRIAL TECH                                 369.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00      184.32     146.99       94.32
P008985        1998      EMGYFLOODRECOVERY                               13.10        0.00                  0.00        0.00      11.42       6.62        0.07
P009089        1998      CESME W.S. & SEWER.                            300.00       0.00                   0.00        0.00     150.07     148.81        0.00
P048852        1998      BASIC ED I                                     270.00       0.00                   0.00        o.0o     265.45     198.79        0.00
P009072        1998      NATrLTRNSMGRID                                  20.00       0.00                   0.00        0.00      10.97       9.11        2.67
P009095        1997      PRIV. OF IRRIGATION                             14.50       0.00                   0.00        0.00      13.93      13.93        9.60
P035759        1996      PRIM HEALTH CARE SER                            62.00       0.00                   0.00        5.00      34.07      39.07       16.94
P038091        1996      PUBLIC FINAN. MGT.                             250.00       0.00                   0.00       0.00       77.22      85.88        0.00
P009093        1995      ROAD IMPR. & SAFETY                            100.00       0.00                   0.00       14.86      44.84      35.32        1.33
P009076        1995      ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY                           150.00        0.00                  0.00        0.00      75.56      98.63       20.15
P009023        1993      HEALTH If                                       77.00       0.00                   5.10        0.00      20.55      29.49        3.58
P009065        1993      EANATOLIA WATERSHED                            129.50       0.00                   o.0o       20.00       4.89      24.13        3.07
BURSA WATER & SANITA
Notes Link
89



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
TURKEY: Agricultural Reform Implementation Project (ARIP)
90



Europ* 8   Lower-
POVERY and SOCUL                                           Central  middle-
Turkey      Asia  inwm         Development dlamond*
Population. mid-year (millions)                     64.3      475     2.094                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas mdhod, USS                  2,900     2.150    1,200
GNP AtAfas M , US$ bilJlons)                       18668    1,022     2.513
Average annual g9wth. 199349
Population (%)                                       1.5       O.       1,1      
Labfor Oc (fo )                                      2.6       0.6      1.2     GNP                             Gross
Most recent entimat (latest year availabl 19p34e                                             capita         enmaryt
PO"ty(% ofpopulation bWow naonao pov4 line)
UrLan population (% of totalpopulaton)               74        67        43
Lif expctancy at birth( lys)                         69        69        89
Intnt morty (per 1.001ive bitths)                    38        22        33
Child matnuttlion (%  cM4ren w*r5)                    10        8        t5               Access to safe water
Acosss to Improved water source (9 of populion)       ..        ..       86
hlitewacy(%o(populetionage 15+)                      I5         3        16
Gross primary enrollment (16 of school-  popultIo)  107       100       114              Turkey
Male                                              1tt       101       114              Lower-middle-inconme group
Female                                             104       99       1i6
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979    19t9      116       199lo
Economic ratbos
GOP (UIS$ bilhions)                        917    107.1      201.2    185.7
Gross domestic investmebrGP                14.1    23.5       24.2     233                     Trade
Exports of ooods and servIces/GDP           3.1    16.2       243      23.2
Gross domestc savingslGDP                  I 1.5    21.9      20.6      19.6
Gross naional savin9s/GDP                  14.4    28.6       25.9     23.5
Current account ttbaWlGOP                  -1.5      0.9       1.0     .0.7     Domestc
Interest paMen"ts/GDP                       0.3      2.5       1.7      2.4 Dorngs                          Investment
ToW debtGOP                                17.4    38.8       48.2      54.8     Savings                    Ivte
Total debt sevicelexports                  28.7    32.4       26.5      34.8
Present value of detGDP                       .,      ..      49.9
Present value of debt/exports .                      .      160.9
Indebtedness
197949  1991199    1998       1999   191943
(fverage wmas grwth)
GDP                                5.0      4.0      31       -5.1      5.5         -     Turkey
GNP,per capita                     24       2.5      2.3      -7.8       4.1              Lower-middleIncome group
Eortsf goods and servces             ..    11.0    12.0       -7.0      5.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979    1989      1998      1999     Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                27.9    17.4       18.5      15.8
Industry                                   23.8    32.8       25.0     24.3    20
Manufacturing                            18.0    21.4       15.5      14.6      0
Services                                   48.3    49.8       56.5     60.0    20                       97
Private consumption                        77.0    68.8       66.7     65.2    40 
General govemment consumption              11.5      9.3      12.7      15.2
Imports of goods and services               5.7    17.8       27.9     26.9                   GDI          GDP
(average annual growth)                 197949  1989-99      1998      1999     Growth of exports and imporh (%)
Agriculture                                 1.1      1.6       9.3     -5.2    40
Industry                                    7.3      4.5       1.8     -6.7    20
Manufacturing                             7.5      5.4       1.0      -6.0
Services                                    4.0      4.0       3.1     -3.9      o
Private consumption                           ..     4.0       0.1     -3.9    -0
General govemment consumption                ..      4.0       7.8      6.5
Gross domestic investment                    ..      4.6      -1.4     -9.5   -o
Imports of goods and services                ..    11.1        2.3     -3.7                 Evports        knports
Gross national product                      4.9      4.1       3.9     -6.4
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. I data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
91



Turkey
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                            1979    1989       1998      1999     Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                       150
Consumer prices                               ..    63.0       83.7     63.5    100
Implicit GDP deflator                       75.8    75.7       75.7     56.2
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                               o
Current revenue                               ..    21.5       24.6     25.4             94   95   98   97   98   99
Current budget balance                        ..     4.2       -5.7    -14.4            -    GDP deflator    S  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..    -5.2      -13.4    -23.4
TRADE
(USS millions)                             1979    1989       1998     Is"       Export and import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                        2,261   11,780    31,221    29,326    80ooo
Textiles                                   428    3,911    10,510    9,830
Processed agricultural products          1,081    1,971     2,141     1,840    400
Manufactures                             1,732   10,437    23,873   23,755
Total imports (cif)                        5,069   15,792    45,921    40,893
Food                                        85     890        510      444    20,000
Fuel and energy                          1,817    3,406     4,501    5,376
Capital goods                            1,403    3,953    11,033    9,062         0
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..      85        87        82
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..      90        86        84                * Exports    * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     ..      94       101        98
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                             1979    1989       1998      1999     Current account balance to GDP (%)
Expots of goods and services               2,969   17,612    52,037   44,548     2
Imports of goods and services              5,182   18,464    55,299   48,726
Resource balance                          -2,213    -852    -3,262   -4,178
Net income                                -1,009   -1,745      -481   -2,361     o
Net current transfers                      1,810    3,558     5,727    5,175
Current account balance                   -1,412     961      1,984   -1,364    -2
Financing items (net)                      1,300    1,801    -1,537    6,570
Changes in net reserves                     112   -2,762      -447   -5,206      4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        ..   9,283    29,499   34,128
Conversion rate (DEC, localAJS$)            31.1   2,122   259,627  416,686
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998     1999
(US$ millions)                                                                   Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      15,929   41,577    96,906  101,781
IBRD                                      890    5,869      3,304    2,902                     B 107 c: 80o
IDA                                       190      162       112       107              A 2,002          D: 3,783
Total debt service                         1,340    7,092    16,513   18,316       G: 23,472                   E 8,237
IBRD                                      105    1,010       924       845
IDA                                         3        6         7         7
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            52       95        37        80
Official creditors                        964    -555        -118     -760
Private creditors                        3,068    1,631      -153   -3,269
Foreign direct investment                  75      663       573       138
Portfolio equity                            0       56      2,888    -1,727                          F: 62,390
World Bank program
Commitments                               306      604       956     1,165     A-IBRD                     E-Bilateral
Disbursements                             280      419       271       384     B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                       36      506       684       616     C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                 244      -87       -414     -232
Interest payments                          72      510       246       236
Net transfers                             172    -597        -60      -468
Development Economics                                                                                             8/31100
92



TURKEY
Agricultural Reform Implementation Project
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
Letter of Sectoral Strategy for
Agriculture Sector Reform and Sustainable Development
Mr. James Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
The Government of Turkey is currently undertaking an Economic Reform Program of historic
dimensions, aimed at reducing inappropriate government interventions, thereby allowing the
economy to provide the basis for sustained growth and poverty reduction and laying the foundation
for cventual entry into the European Union. One of the most significant and challenging criteria for
EU accession is that new members must have economies that are able to compete in the unified
market. This puts the focus squarely on measures to improve productive efficiency in primary
agriculture and agro-marketing and processing. We have undertaken to meet this challenge through
a phased programn of reforns. We are beginning this program in agriculture with transformation of
the agricultural support mechanisms. These initial reforms will transfer commercial activities to the
private sector and create a pricing and incentive structure capable of sending the right signals to
private economic agents to guide their decisions. This will also have the important benefit of
alleviating the burden that the current support system imposes on both the public sector budget and
consumers. Completion of this first stage will in turn create an appropriate environment for a
second phase of the program, which will focus on three objectives: increasing the efficiency with
which thc government carries out its legitimate public sector activities. improving sectoral
institutions, and mecting the more detailed requiremcnts for EU accession. Without the fundamental
changes in the support system, both public and private investments would be made in response to
inappropriate incentives. In this sense, the first stage of the program is necessary to ensure the
maximum productivity of the investments and long-run institutional changes in the second stage.
By the end of the overall program, we envision an agricultural and agro-industrial sector in Turkey
that is competitive by world standards, with production patterns based on real comparative
advantage, rather than artificial incentives and subsidies. The sector should be profitable and
capable of supporting the rural population at a reasonable standard of living. The sector will be the
foundation of a thriving rural economic environment, with rural poverty at a low and declining
level. The public sector institutions supporting the sector should be efficient and rcsponsive to the
needs of farmers and consumers. The private sector institutions that support thc sector in developed
market economies, including commodity exchanges and a full range of rural financial instruments,
will be functioning effectively. The institutional and regulatory framework for environmentally
sustainable development will be in place.
Aniculturao SUDport Policy Reform prozram
As the first part or its reform agenda, the Govemment has developed a strategy to phase out the
current incfficient and fiscally expensive mechanisms of agricultural support. In place of these old-
style interventions, the Government will support agricultural producers with "decoupled" direct
income payments, which would not be contingent on input use or output production decisions of the
93



farmer. Thus, farmers will not suffer a precipitous reduction in income, but will be free to make
efficient production decisions based on true economic values of inputs and outputs. The payments
will bc only moderately targeted at first. But over time, these payments will be more targeted
toward the poor and integrated into the overall social safety net, and upon EU accession adapted to
the Common Agricultural Policy as it exists at that time.
Direct income support system implementation
At the heart of the reform is the direct income support (DIS) system. We have already begun
to prepare for nation-wide implementation of this system by carrying out pilot programs in
several areas of the country. The purpose of the pilots was to test logistics, rather than the
effects, of the full-blown system, so the payment amount was largely symbolic. In particular,
different mechanisms for registering farmers in areas with and without computerised cadastral
records were tested. Based on these results, the registration systems are being fine-tuned for
the national system. Because of the urgency we attach to implementing the system,
registration on a nation-wide scale will begin immediately in 2001, using the Governmcnt's
own resources, with the target of registering and making an initial payment to farmers by the
end of this year. Priority will be given to registering farmers using objective criteria, such as
areas which have been severely affected by the recunt drought, and areas that are most
adversely affected by support price and subsidy reductions (for example, hazelnut farmers in
hilly areas, who are not eligible for transition assistance). Because of time and financial
constraints, it may be impossible to automate the system until 2002; nonetheless, the
registration in 2001 will be carried out in such a way that farmers registered this year can be
easily integrated into the permanent electronic networked database to be developed with
support of the project. By 2002, all farmers should be registered, and other forms of support
can be dropped completely or reduced to minimal levels.
The actual amount of payments per hectare (excluding pasture land) to be made to farmers is
a complex issue. This decision has been based on considerations of equity, economic
efficiency, fiscal affordability, and political economy. Since compensation of individual
farmers based on their own actual losses would require a complex and non-transparent
system, we did not attempt to establish such a system. Rather the payments to all farmers will
be basically the same, with perhaps special supplementary payments in a few cases by region
where the reforms may cause particular hardship because of lack of alternative crops or other
income-generating opportunities. As a result of elimination of existing inefficient supports,
farmers will be able to adjust their decisions based on the new price structure in such a way
that their actual fall in real income (excluding direct payments) will bc smaller than would be
suggested by calculations made assuming they will continue to usc the sanie inputs and grow
the same crops as before.
Input subsidy reform
But pending the start-up of the direct income support, we have already started the support policy
rationalization with agricultural inputs and credit, and support prices for some crops. The fertilizer
subsidy has been held constant in nominal terms since 1997, resulting in a reduction of the unit
subsidy from approximately 45 percent of the total price at the end of 1997 to approximately 31
percent by August 1999. The fertilizer subsidy will remain constant in nominal terms in 2000-01
with the objective of lowering the unit subsidy. As of early 2001, the subsidy is 17% of the unit
price. The subsidy will be abolished in 2002. With regard to credit subsidies channeled through
Ziraat Bank, in December 1999, the Government introduced a program for phasing out agriculture
credit subsidies over the course of 2000. The program involved: (i) holding the nominal interest rate
on agricultural credits constant until it is cqual to 5 percent above the 3 month rolling averagc of the
12 month T-bill rate and thereaftcr allowing Ziraat Bank to freely adjust its rates as long as theyerc
no lower than the reference rate; (ii) introducing a variable rate loan option for farmers; and (iii)
providing cash compensation froni the budget to Ziraat bank for any subsidy accrued in 2000. As T-
94



bill rates fell dramatically in early 2000, the subsidy element was by March 2000 virtually
eliminated. As interest rates have risen to extraordinarily high levels in the aftermath of the recent
economic crisis, the government finds it necessary to re-introduce a subsidy element in Ziraat Bank
(as well as Halk Bank) lending rates on a temporary basis. The plan is to hold lending rates at 55
percent and make a budgetary allocation to Ziraat and 1-alk Banks to compensate for the difference
between 55 percent and its opportunity cost of funds. This will be explicitly included in the
amended 2001 budget at a level of 0.2 percent of GDP. The subsidy will be eliminated by the end
of 2001
Support price reform
With regard to agriculture support prices, the Government has begun a set of policy changes which
introduce a link between support prices and relcvant world mark-et prices and initiate a phase-out of
government subsidies via support prices by 2002. The support price for wheat in 2000 was linked
to an appropriate world reference and set at a level which reduced the premium over the world price
to approximately 35 percent. Import tariffs on grains were also reduced. In order to alleviate the
burden on consumers, further reduction in the premium over world wheat prices to 20 percent
(subject to the proviso that the increase will be no greater than the target inflation rate) and in the
tariff on grain imports to 45%  or less by June 2001 will be made subject to grain mark-et
developments in the World. In 2002, the support price mechanism based on interventions by the
state grain purchasing company (TMO) will be eliminated as the direct income support system is
implemented in the entire country. Tariffs on grain imports will be reviewed each year and further
reduced as necessary to a level consistent with an overall low and uniform protection rate. The sales
price for grain of TMO will be no less than the lower of: (a) the purchase pricc of TMO plus
storage costs incurred up to the date of sale including imputed interest charges on stocks, or (b) the
tariff-inclusive import parity price for grain of equivalent quality. This sales pricing policy is
intended to reverse the past incentives of traders and millers to refrain from buying grain during the
harvest season and storing it, leaving all storage costs to be absorbed by TMO.
The support purchase function of the state tobacco, alcohol and salt monopoly (Tekel) will be
redefined. Starting in the 2002/2003 crop year, the government will no longer make support
purchases of tobacco. Instead, all tobacco will be traded through contractual production or an
auction. The prcmium on oilseeds and cotton has been reduced by one quarter in the 2001 budget
and will bc considered to be eliminated in 2002 as the direct income support system becomes
operational nationwide. Payments under the tea pruning program will end after 2003. In the sugar
market, the Government's program calls for reforms to reduce fiscal costs and make sugar bcct
prices more market determined. During a transition period while the mills are being privatized,
Seker will allow each mill to negotiate price and quantity with the growers, without interference
after the 2002/2003 crop year.
State economic enterprise privatizarion
The agriculture reform prograrn encompasses commercialization and privatization of state assets in
the sector with the medium-term objective of withdrawing the state from a direct role in agricultural
and agroindustrial production. In the first phase in 2000, the Govemnment has imposed a hard
budget constraint on agricultural state economic enterprises (SEEs), including specific enterprise-
by-enterprise limits on Treasury loan guarantees, equity injections and budgetary transfers. In
parallel, privatization proceedings will be initiated for agricultural SEEs. In 2000, Privatization
High Council decided that the sugar company (Seker) is under the scope of privatization. The sugar
mills are expected to be privatized after a preparation period of 6 months. Some factories of the tea
company (Caykur) are expcctcd to be transferred to the Privatization Agency (PA) portfolio in
2001. The sale of Tekel's assets will also start in 200]. The agricultural input supply state
economic enterprise (T2DAS), has been transferred to the PA, and its staff reduced from 3,300 to
1,144. The privatization of its remaining assets (primarily a tractor factory) will be finished in 2001,
with all of its assets sold or liquidated, and all employees terninated or re-assigned.
95



The law regarding the demonopolization of the production of alcoholic spirits (one of Tekel 's
monopoly divisions), thereby allowing private entry into the industry, was enacted in January
2001. The new legislation which will be enacted by the beginaing of July 2001 will introducc
auctions to replace the current system of support prices which Tekel must purchase tobacco. It
will also enable the privatization of Tekel's production facilities for spirits and tobacco
products. All of Tekel's assets have been transfered to the Privatization Agency with the
target of completing asset privatization in 2002.
A new Sugar Law was passed in April 2001., which will eliminate the support pricing system, and
will allow TSFAS and private companies to negotiate prices and quantities directly with growers.
However, the Law will be applicable for 2002-2003 crop year in terms of support pricing system. In
November 2000, the support price for the growing season 2000 was increased in nominal terns by
25 percent, in line with the target inflation rate. In 2001, for the transition season of 2001/2002, a
price adjustmerni of no more than the target inflation rate will again be made. From 2002 TSFAS
will operate on a commercial basis and negotiate prices with beet farmers consistent with
elimination of its losscs. An inventory and evaluation of the sugar plants of TSFAS has begun in
2000, with the objective of preparing their privatization. The privatization process is expected to
start in 2001 and be complered by 2002. The goal is to privatize all viable factories. The non-viable
factories will be liquidated following successful implementation of the direct income support
system or the establishment of appropriate social safety net provisions. The new Law sets up a
Sugar Board to make some critical decisions in the sugar market during a transitional pcriod ending
in 2004, but after this date, the government expects that the Sugar Board and its production quota
and market entry licensing system will be terminated. The current sugar tariff of 139,5% is being
rcduced by 1.5 percentage points per year through 2004 in accordancc with Turkey's WTO
commitments. At the end of that period, the Government will carry out an analysis of the impact of
this policy on consumers and producers, with the objective of considering fuither reductions.
Caykur has already announced its new policy of buying only high-quality tea, and only tea from
pruned areas. Caykur's purchases were limited to 600,000 tons in 2000 in line with the
Government's fiscal program, and Caykur increased nominal prices about 25 percent (a reduction
in real terms) to encourage growers to sell to the private sector factories. As thesc linkages are
developed, Caykur plans to further decrease its purchases in 2001, while the production of
alternative crops such as kiwi increases. Profitable factories of Caykur will be privatized and non-
viable factories will be liquidated by the end of 2002. Because of the linkage with the tea purchase
prices, tea pruning payments will be reduced in 2001 and further reduced in 2002 and 2003, in
parallel with the introduction of the direct income support system and alternative income-generating
activities for the growers. Any tea-pruning payments will be included in the 2001 budget and will
be made using Ziraat Bank only as an agent, instead of payments from Ziraat Bank reimbursable as
duty losses.
TMO will be restructured and down-sized in 2001 to preserve only its assets necded to carry out its
minimal level of purchases and storage. In 2002, a significant part of its assets will be sold, as TMO
will be intervening in markets only to purchase an appropriate quantity for strategic rescrves and to
regulate the market duing a transitional period while commodity market mature. It will make
purchases from the commodity exchange and trade markets, cxcept in areas where such markets are
not operating, at prices prevailing in the market, with the intention of further reductions in TMO
purchases each year.
ASCUIASC reform
The new law on Agricultural Sales Cooperative Unions (ASCUs) and AgricultuTal Sales
Cooperatives (ASCs), adopted in June 2000, provides that, starting in 2001, the ASCUs and ASCs
will no longer be eligible to receive annual allocations of credit or other subsidies from the fiscal
budget. Instead, with the adoption of the law, the ASCUs and ASCs are now free to conduct their
96



business without direction from Govemment. As the transition from quasi-state agencies to
independent cooperative unions cannot be accomplished overnight, TL 250 trillion in price
Stabilization and Support Fund (DFIF) credits has been made available from the 2000 fiscal budget
for crop procurement by the ASCUs during the 2000/2001 crop season. With a few important
exceptions, the ASCUs will be expected to repay this final credit allocation. However, the payments
will not be returned to the budget, but will flow to a revolving fund which will be used to provide
working capital loans to the ASCUs until they have become creditworthy and can obtain such loans
from commercial banks.
Ycars of government intervention have left many of the ASCUs alienated from their partner ASCs,
saddled with excessive wage costs, heavily indebted and without proper arrangements for corporate
govemance. In addition, many ASCUs/ASCs lack the institutional capacity needed to survive in their
new business environment.
The first step of the reform process will be to restore proper corporate govemance in the ASCUs so
that they will work on bchalf of and be accountable to their partner ASCs and the ASCs work on
behalf of and be accountable to their farner-owners. Therefore, ASCUs/ASCs will hold elections to
fill the vacant seats on their boards of directors, boards of supervisors and their representatives to
ASCU general assemblies. All of these elections will be well prepared, organized and conducted so
that they will be transparent and democratic, meeting international standards and the rcquirements of
the International Cooperative Alliance (ICA) as mentioned in Laws 4572, 1163 and articles of
association. The represenutives of NGO's and cooperative organizations can also participate in these
elections as observers if they wish.
To assist the ASCUs to reduce their excessive wage costs, the budget will cover the cost of
severance payments to over 12,000 workers which the ASCUsIASCs intend to retrench. However,
to avoid the moral hazard that retrenched workers might receive severance payments and then be
rehired, the Treasury and the ASCUs/ASCs have agreed that once a workler is retrenched, with
severance, he is no longer eligible for employment by the ASCU or, in the case of TARIS, any of its
partner ASCUs. Also, the auditors while carrying out the annual audits of the ASCUs, would verify
that the ASCUs are in compliance with this agreement.
The law also provides for the creation of a Restructuring Board which will provide various types of
assistance to the ASCUs and their partner ASCs, on a voluntary basis, as they attempt to transform
themselves into financially autonomous and commercially viable enterprises. To make clear that
there has been a fundamental change from the old system, it is important that the Restructuring
Board operate independently of government and government agencies. Based on Law 4572 and its
provisions for the establishment of the Restructuring Board, decisions regarding restructuring
policics will be made by the Board with the help of its Executive Unit, which also will implement
these decisions. However, government retains the right to attach conditions to any financial support
given the the ASCUs and ASCs in the form of severance payments, debt relief, or others as listed
below. It is expected that such conditions would be based on the rccommendations of the
Restructuring Board.The assistance to be provided by the Restructuring Board may include: (i)
technical assistance in designing and implementing restructuring measures; (ii) technical and
financial assistance for designing and implementing capacity building programs; and (iii) relief with
respect to the DFIF debts outstanding as of May 2000, by taking into account proposals of
Restructuring Board and restructuring efforts of the ASCUs/ASCs. An implementing regulation will
be issued to clarify and confirm the mandate of the RB as generally described in Government's
Strategy for Reform of Agricultural Support Policies. In order to be eligible for technical assistancc,
debt relief or access to the revolving fund: (i) restructuring frameworks, including staffing plans
which are acceptable to the Restructuring Board will be adopted by ASCU boards and ratified by
ASCU gcneral assemblies; and (ii) subsequently, ASCU general assemblies will be required to adopt
detailed restructuring plans acceptable to the Restructuring, Board.
97



Restructuring frameworks are likely to be approved only if they demonstrate that restructuring
actions will be aimed at generating cash for working capital which can be used to purchase and sell
at an adequate profit the crops produced by their farmer/cooperators who arc also their owners. Such
restructuring actions would include drastic cost cutting measures, including labor retrenchment and
savings in personnel costs that will come from the lower wages of newly recruited personnel and
closure of loss-making operations; as well as the sale of assets which are not essential to the ASCUs'
core business, which is procuring, selling and primary processing crops on behalf of its partner
ASCs
The Restructuring Board is expected to complete its work during a period of four years . It will work
through an executive unit which will be staffed by a small team of experts who will monitor the
performance of the ASCUs and ASCs and procure the services of Turkish and international
consultants who will provide technical assistance to the ASCUs and ASCs as described above.
Important operational decisions will be taken by the Board, and other decisions will be made by the
executive unit. The executive unit will execute its mandatc received from the Restructuring Board
with a large degree of autonomy.
Thc revolving fund is also a transitional arrangement and die use of the fund will be managed by the
Treasury based on the recommendations of the Restructuring Board. As most ASCU s/ASCs would
be considered as poor credit risks, the rate of interest on loans drawn from the revolving fund will be
gradually increased over the next three years until it reaches a level at which creditworthy ASCUs
would have the incentive to borrow from commercial banks rathcr than the fund. For the crop year
2001/2002 the interest rate would be at least equal to the rate of inflation. For 2002/2003 the rate
would be fixed somewhere between thc rate of inflation and the rate charged by commercial banks.
After July 31. 2003, the rate would be slightly higher than that charged by commercial banks. The
revolving fund will be terminated by the end of 2004.
Even with the facilities provided under the law by the Restructuring Board and the budget, some of
the ASCUs/ASCs may not survive. Debt forgiveness will be provided only for those ASCUs which
have demonstrated beyond a reasonable doubt that they are serious about restructuring and
strengthening of their financial structure. An ASCU which is no longer using funds from the
revolving fund, and, instead, is either self-financing or is sufficiently creditworthy to obtain
significant financial support from commercial banks shall be considered as having achieved
sustainability. 1-owever, until sustainability is established there will bc a moratorium on the
servicing of t):c old DFIF loans. Following the cnd of the moratorium, if an ASCU fails to service
its debts to the Govemment, the Government will liquidate the assets of the ASCU to the extent
necessary to extinquish its claim, the amount of which will be determined by the Restructuring
Board.
Transition assistance
Farmers may also require assistance in switching out of crops that are no longer profitable, and for
some farmers growing crops in areas where there are few alternative crops beginning other
activities to supplement their incomes. We will set up a farmner transition program to assist these
farmers with a one-time grant for each eligible fanner. This system will provide assistance for
several years (the hazelnut program will extend over 3 years, and the tobacco program 2 years) to
help cover some of the costs of uprooting old crops (especially hazelnuts in flatland areas) and
opportunity costs of planting other crops, including planting costs, additional fertilizing costs, and
other costs incurred whilc waiting for the new crops to begin producing. During the transition
period, for the crops that have excess production (especially hazel nut), additional support (in the
form of supplemcntal DIS support) may be considered.
Medium term obiectiv,s
Institutional changes in M4RA
98



The Government will review what institutional changes ia MARA might improve its focus on its
remaining responsibilities in the new policy envirorunent. This will probably involve larger scale
reforms in the way research is funded and carried out, along the lines piloted in the World Bank's
Agricultural Research Project. It will also call for restructuring of extension to encourage better
linkages with research and more private sector provision of these services , as is best practice in
other countries. And MARA's responsibilities will need to be expanded to some of the crops over
which it has traditionally played a limited role, as the associated SEEs are privatized (tea, tobacco,
sugar).
In the scope of economic stability and agricultural reform programme, the measures aiming at
bringing solutions to the complicated structure of agricultural sector are of great importance.
MARA has already worked on thc necessary legislation.
Livestock
The Govemnment's most urgent objective in the livestock sub-sector is to ensure that private
producers have access to cost-effective private services in breeding, production and animal
health. This process has been initiated but needs stronger and more transparent
implementation and a clear timetable. Tn this light, the State will progressively disengage
from the processing of animal products, from vaccine production, from clinical animal health
services and from breeding services. It is foreseen that most of these services can be
privatized, but in some cases a mix of private/public sector activity may be appropriate (for
examplc in remote low livestock density areas). MARA will develop a system and process
whereby private entities (such as private veterinary clinics) can contract for the execution of
selected public sector programs sucb as vaccination for epizootic diseases, food safety
control, border control etc. At the same time MARA will undertake the re-organization of
aniTnal health services with a reduction in staff (i.e. those to be privatized), the development
of a transparent and cost-effective-- and possibly decentralized- oversight system to ensure
adequate standards in the delivery of animal health services, diagnostic services and vaccine
production.
EU accession
Finally, in the longer term, many actions will need to be taken in preparation for EU
accession.   It will require organizational changes in the  agricultural institutions,
harmnonization of much legislation and regulations (including veterinary, sanitary, and
phytosanitary standards), improvements in agricultural statistical systems (including both
farmer and livestock registration), and upgrading in processing plants. It will also require a
correction of the imbalance between rural and urban living standards and call for investments
in rural infrastructure. These are of course not easy tasks, but Turkey will benefit from the
experience of member and candidate countries. We stand ready to meet the challenge.
Dervis         Prof. Dr. Husnu Yusuf Gokalp      AmtinanTanriku
Minister of State for     Minister of Agriculture and  Minister of Industry and Trad,
Economic Affairs               Rural Affairs
Done in Ankara,
Date:J; 5         iC. A~op9
99



Annex 12: Social Assessment Report
TURKEY: Agricultural Reform Implementation Project (ARIP)
Background
The Government of Turkey has developed a strategy to phase out the current mechanisms of agricultural
support. The social assessment Annex identifies the groups most vulnerable to the agricultural reforms.
The most vulnerable groups to the reforms are farmers that currently receive input subsidies and support
prices for their crops, and employees of ASCUs that will be made redundant as a result of restructuring.
Farmers will be provided with DIS and Farmer Transition assistance. The bulk of this social assessment
summarizes discussions with farmers expected to experience the largest drop in support prices (tea,
tobacco, sugar beets, and hazelnuts). These discussions addressed four thematic areas: (1) Production and
marketing patterns (with an emphasis on identifying differences in these patterns between small and big
farmers); (2) land tenure and land ownership structure; (3) perceptions and expectations of the
agricultural reform program; and (4) rural to urban migration. Detailed results of the assessments are
available in the background papeT prepared by Dr. Ziya Ozcan.
There are two important vulnerable groups not discussed in the body of the social assessment. These are
the ASCU employees that will be made redundant and forestland dwellers. The social assessment for
these groups was conducted under separate projects - the Privatization Support Services project and the
Forestry Sector Review.
Description of Field-work
This section describes the fieldwork conducted among tea, tobacco, sugar beets and hazelnut farmers.
Fieldwork for tea is conducted in Rize, tobacco in Manisa and Adlyaman, sugar beets in Konya, and
hazelnut in Ordu and Samsun. Two qualitative information collection techniques were used, focus groups
and in-dept interviews. As summarized in Table 1, a total of 12 focus groups and 19 in-depth interviews
were completed. It is important to remember that while informative, the results of these interviews are
not generalizable. In the remainder of this section the results of the interviews are presented by crop and
then by thematic area.
Table 1: Summary of Fieldwork and Information Collection Technique
Province                           In Depth Interviews           Focus Groups
Hazelnuts (Samsun and Ordu)                3                           4
Tea (Rize)                                 6                           2
Sugar beets (Konya)                        4                           2
Tobacco (Manisa and Adiyaman)              6                           4
Hazelnuts (Ordu and Samsun)
Small farmers in the upland, hazelnut mono-cropping areas are very wary of the proposed agricultural
reforms. Specifically they are concerned that removal of the support price will increase dependence on
the private sector for marketing. With little faith in the state to deliver support (e.g., DIS), their
perceptions and attitudes toward the new reform are not favorable. Their previous experience with
alternative crops such as kiwi, tobacco and bee keeping was not very successful due to the low quality of
100



production and stiff market competition from other regions. Many farmers indicated that they might have
to migrate, as other members of their households had already done, in search of better income earning
opportunities. Medium size farmers have more or less the same perception and attitude toward the
reforms. However, their negative reactions were not as strong as those of the small farmers were.
Large farmers were very familiar with the problems induced by the existing system of support prices and
the burden it imposes on the state budget. They have favorable perceptions and attitudes of the proposed
reforms. Small businessmen who buy and sell hazelnut for the domestic market and export, and large
exporters welcomed the new reform and found the efforts to remove the support price system much
delayed on the part of the state. However, they pointed out the need for the state to help small farmers
make the transition to the new system.
Farmers in the flat lands appear willing to accept the new system and were aware that they were not
supposed to being growing hazelnuts in these areas. They indicated that if the state provides both
satisfactory direct income as well as technical guidance and market outlets for their alternative crops,
they could easily switch to alternative crops. With many potential cropping alternatives, even small
farmers in the flat lands did not mention migration.
In the short term, lower crop prices may reduce investment in crops such as hazelnut and therefore
accelerate labor's exit from agriculture. Large farmers expect to continue hiring temporary labor from
highland villages and the Eastern regions of the country to harvest their crops. Small farmers do not
expect to maintain their current practice of hiring labor to harvest their crop. The result might well be a
short-term decline in migrant worker income.
The issue of tying DIS payments to proof of land ownership raised concerns for many small and medium
sized farmers because they do not have land titles in their name. However, this was not considered an
insurmountable problem. Most believed that an acceptable system of registration could readily
undertaken with the help of their Muhtars and village council.
Large differences in awareness of the new reform were observed between upland and lowland as well as
small and large hazelnut farmers. Small upland farmers in Ordu had little knowledge of the reforms
whereas large and lowland farmers were more aware of the reforms. Small and medium farmers in
Samsun, which is a more developed than Ordu, are more aware of the reforms. Large farmers in both
regions are familiar with the reform program and its potential impact on farming patterns and the
economy. This signals an urgent need to inform small farmers about the new reform. While politically
sensitive, this has to be done immediately for successful implementation the reforms.
Tea (Rize)
Nearly 90 percent of tea farms are less than 10 d6ntim (I ha). Tea farmers sell their production to either
CAYKUR or the private sector. Although tea is the only crop grown in Rize, it is not the only means for
livelihood for the farmer. Tea farmers in Rize have many sources of income. They often work in either
the public or the private sector or receive retirement pensions. Almost every tea farmer has at least one
household member working for CAYKUR on either a temporary or a permanent basis. CAYKUR salaries
are quite high, and the majority of farmers depend on these jobs for the majority of their income. Small
farmers (those with I ha or less) cannot support themselves on tea production alone. Employing more
people than needed and offering lucrative salaries, CAYKUR plays an important role in the living
standard of tea farmers. Given this arrangement, the farmers did not voice concems about a potential fall
in tea prices.
101



If tea prices fall dramatically and employment at CAYKUR comes to an end, some farmers indicated that
they would migrate in search of better employment opportunities. However, since many of them own
small businesses such as shops, coffeehouses or transportation services, they were not categorical about
migrating.
When discussing the DIS, farmers were not concerned about linking payments to land ownership. They
did express a desire for the government to enforce the timing of private sector payments if CAYKUR is
privatized.
Tea farmers in Rize are not worried about being able to grow alternative crops. They did, however,
indicate in the past that they had difficulties marketing alternative crops and that they therefore expect
the government to help them if they are to make a transition.
Sugar Beets (Konya)
Small sugar beet farmers are much more pessimistic about the reforms than hazelnut or tea farmers. They
are bitter about the insensitivity of politicians to their problems and they blame these politicians for the
low price of sugar beets. Although they have heard about a reform program, they do not know details or
about DIS payments. Their expectations of receiving support from the state are high and they suggested
that a further drop in sugar beet prices would force them to migrate in search of better employment
opportunities.
While medium and large farmers did not like the idea of the reform, they adopted 'wait and see' attitude.
Medium farmers indicated that they might migrate, but they were skeptical about their ability to find
income earning opportunities elsewhere.
When discussing alternative cropping patterns, they indicated that wheat is only alternative crop they can
grow. However, due to low price of wheat this year, they are reluctant to say anything about willingly
switching to wheat in the years to come. While not disclosed by the farmers during the interviews, well
water is available on almost all of the land on which sugar beet is grown and there many different crops
can be produced. If the farmers produce alternative crops they want the government to help them with
marketing.
Tobacco (Manisa and Adiyaman)
In Manisa, fertile lands and good climate permit the production of many different crops, often twice a
year. Industrial structure is well developed and farmers are relatively well educated. The most serious
concern raised by the farmers was related to land registration. However, most indicate that they will be
able to work with the Muhtar and village council to resolve any problems. This suggests that transition to
the DIS system will be relatively straightforward in Manisa.
In Adiyaman, the problems associated with the reform program are expected to be much more severe. A
low natural resource endowment, low education, and a neglected industrial sector characterize the region.
These problems are compounded by a skewed land distribution. Seventy percent of the farmers are
sharecroppers (landless). Feudal relations reminiscent of the Ottoman period still prevail in the region
and labor intensive tobacco production perpetuates the dependency relationship between landowner and
sharecropper. Already high rates of migration and large numbers of seasonal workers are indicative of the
degree of hardship faced by sharecroppers in Adiyaman.
102



Sharecroppers indicated that the only solution to a fall in tobacco prices would be achieved through the
development of irrigation in order to support altemative labor-intensive crops. Otherwise, the large
number of sharecroppers will migrate in search of better employment opportunities. They indicated that
even the presence of income support payments would not deter them from migrating. Given the low level
of education, a large number of migrants from this region might lead to extensive social and economic
problems in the areas they migrate to.
Summary of Social Assessment
Farmers repeatedly expressed that one of the greatest difficulties they would face in switching to
altemative crops is the lack of places to sell these crops. They requested that the govemment support the
establishment of these industries prior to implementing the reform program.
Crops like hazelnut and tobacco can be grown both in flat and mountainous lands. However, many other
crops can be grown in flatlands and farmers in these areas expressed a willingness to undertake
alternative activities if they are provided with the information and technical assistance required to make
the transition.
In certain regions of the country (Central, East and Southeast), switching to altemative crops is largely
dependent on the availability of water. In these areas farmers expressed a desire to receive support in the
form of irrigation in order to facilitate the process of transition.
Many small farmers expressed concern and a lack of awareness of the agricultural reform program.
Farmers expressed a desire for more information and encouragement from the Govemment on production
and marketing decisions as well as the details of the reform program.
Replacement of stable support prices by direct income transfers exposes farmers to more volatile prices
and the farmers are concemed about this. In areas of rain fed agriculture, where risks are highest, they
requested that the government provide them with some form of insurance to offset unfavorable weather
conditions.
In order to roll out the DIS system, farmer registration must be completed as soon as possible. There will
be difficulties in areas where ownership records are not available. However, the farmers indicated that
these problems might be solved through a system of consultation with their Muhtar and village council.
Lower prices for crops are likely, in the short term, to lead to accelerated migration and shifts in labor
supply. The magnitude of these changes will depend on factors such natural resource endowments,
marketing opportunities, the presence of other income generating activities, land distribution, and the
amount of money provided through the DIS. While difficult to generalize given the complexity of the
problem, certain common themes emerged from the fieldwork. In order of importance, landless tobacco
growers in Adiyaman and hazelnut growers in Ordu are most likely to migrate if an alternative, labor
intensive crop or other income generating activities are not introduced in (Adiyaman) and hazelnut
growing is not stopped in flatlands. Tobacco growers in Manisa, sugar beet growers in Konya and tea
growers in Rize are much less likely to migrate since they have fertile land and can grow two crops a year
(Manisa), altemative crops (Konya, Rize), and have other income eaming opportunities (Rize). Of
course, those who are landless or have small lands may also migrate from these regions but the
magnitude of migration will be much less than in Adiyaman and Ordu.
103



Annex 13
TURKEY: Agricultural Reform Implementation Project (ARIP)
DIS Pilot Summary
Introduction: Consistent with the Government's decision to adopt a direct income support (DIS) system
as a replacement to the current, unsustainably high cost subsidy system for fertilizer, credit, and price
supports (as articulated in the main text of the PAD and ERL) a pilot to test alternative methods of DIS
implementation for the national system was developed. The objective for the national system is to set up
a mechanism for identifying farmers who are eligible for payments under the DIS, and a mechanism for
delivering those payments. The cornerstone of the DIS system is developing a registry of farmers in a
manner that is simple, objective, transparent and accurate. Following a government communique on May
4, 2000 the pilot phase began.
Pilot objectives: The objectives of the pilot were to test alternative methods of DIS implementation, in
particular alternative methods to develop the registry of farmers.
Coverage: The pilot program was carried out in counties in 4 provinces around the country, Ankara (-
Polatli), Adiyaman (-Central and Katha), Antalya (-Manavgat and Serik), and Trabzon (-Akcaabat and
Surmene)(Table 13.1). The process of registering beneficiaries was developed using two different
methods. The first method, applied in Polatli and Antalya province, was based on land registry records.
The second method, applied in Adiyaman and Trabzon, was based on certifications issued by the muhtar
(headman of the village), council, and TZOB (farmer association). Payment was made on a per hectare
basis up to 199 decares per beneficiary and were made in two installments. In Antalya, Trabzon and
Adiyaman - the first payment was made in July 2000 with the second payment being made in October
2000. In Ankara, the first payment was made in November 2000 and second payment was made in
December 2000. The pilot was carried out between April and September 2000, benefiting 9,681 farmers
at a total cost of US$2.3 million; the program also benefited smaller farmers (Table 13.2), unlike the
previous system of subsidies.
Table 13.1: Number of Farmers, Areas and Payment Covered under the DIS Pilot
Direct Income Support Payments for Farmers: Provincial Summary
Order  Provincial Total Number Total Direct Income Support   Total Direct Income
Number            of Farmers       land Area (Da)     Support Payments (US$)
1   Ankara         5,255            352,145                1,760,725
Polatli       5,255            352,145                1,760,725
2   Adiyaman       1,110             40,384                 201,920
Merkez          878             31,898                  159,490
Kahta          232               8,486                   42,430
3   Antalya        1,426             41,081                 205,405
Serok          1078             32,581                  162,905
Manavgat        348              8,500                   42,500
4   Trabzon        1,886             37,454                  187,270
Akcaabat      1,113             24,868                  124,340
Surmene        773              12,586                   62,930
General Total      9,677            471,064                2,355,320
104



Table 13.2: Farm number by farm size by pilot area
Size of   Antalya                     Trabzon                        Adiyaman                       Ankara   Total   %  Cumulative
land      Total   %   Manavgat Serok  Total   %   Akcaabat Surmene  Total    %    Merkez Kahta  Polatli                        %
<5       165   10.9       33  132       51  2.7       23       28      10     1.0     10       -      68      294   3          3
5.- 9     311   20.6       86  225    267  14.2       117      150      63     6.1     36       -     286      927   10        13
l0.- 19    391   25.9      107  284    720  38.2       362     358    131    12.7    127        4      695    1937  20         33
20- 39    362   23.9        70  292    671  35.6       467      204    470    45.7    328    142    1265    2768  29            61
40- 59    115    7.6        20   95    136   7.2       109       27    197    19.2    117       80     728    1176  12          73
60- 79      74    4.9       17   57       32   1.7      27        5     68      6.6     62       6     620      794    8        82
80- 99      20    1.3        2   18        5   0.3       4        1     24     2.3      24       -     365      414   4         86
100- 149    40    2.6         1   39        4   0.2       4        -     39     3.8      39       -     528      611    6       92
150- 199    11    0.7         4    7        -    -        -        -     22     2.1      22       -     338      371    4       96
> 200      23    1.5         8   15       -    -         -       -       4     0.4      4       -      362     389   4        100
Total      1,512  100.0     348 1,164   1,886 100.0    1113      773   1028  100.0    796    232    5255    9,681  100            -
105



Lessons and recommendations: A  summary of general lessons and recomunendations from  the pilot
experience is presented in Annex 2 and, for a number of these lessons, a recent review suggested more
specific recommendations, which are presented below.
Lessons:                                                  Recommnended solutions:
1. Related to Land Registration
Land registration problems related to deeds and land registry office
* Unclear descriptions of land registration (house and garden,  * Update land registry records through
house and land, house and patio).                        computerization.
* Shared titles/deeds (multiple owners) without specification   * Eliminate all fees and taxes through the process
of the amount of land that each person owns.             of registration. This will enable individual
* Lack of possession of deeds after inheritance. Inheritance  possession of shared deeds.
documents used for registration increase transaction costs    * In the communique published before starting the
significantly.                                           project, the definitions of the agricultural land
* Some land is still under court proceedings and thus, not  and farmers who are entitled to benefit from the
registered.                                              scheme should be clear and unambiguous.
* Lack of clear descriptions of land and farmers.
Land registration documents given to the producers
* Unclear, unreliable and conflicting registration procedures   * Farmers' Association (TZOB) should establish a
and documents related to land and production.            list of farmers in the locality which is reliable
* Various 'Producer Certificates' given for several reasons  and based on official records.
without any standards.
* Lack of computers in most of the farmers' associations
(TZOB), and also lack of computerized systems where there
are computers.
2. Related to Information Transfer and Creating Awareness
* Information given to farmers about the program was      * Message to the farmers should be transferred in
insufficient with the result that some farmers failed to apply    time and should be effective.
for the program, particularly in some villages.        * Training given to the staff should be a high
* Lack of training and information in most of the entities  priority and must be provided in time and
relate to the pilot.                                     effectively.
3. Related to Farmers
* Sharecroppers with no official documents did not       * Include the areas where there is cadastre first
participate.                                             and include other areas when the cadastre work
* There were problems with:                                is implemented.
* People possessing deeds to non-farm land, e.g., land that   * Speed up the completion of the nation-wide
has been flooded due to dam construction.              cadastre measurement where feasible in the 17
* Claims for benefits when the land is not agricultural.  percent of the area where it does not exist.
(Especially in the areas without cadastre).
* False Llaims made by farmers, with approval by muhtar
and TZOB, where there is no cadastre.
4. Related to Payments
* An artificial increase in the number of producers in DIS  * Strengthen the argument that the farmer
program was due to several shared titles. Most of the sharers   registration system be transparent and accurate.
are not producers.
* The fact that non-producers benefit from DIS made a
negative impact on the producers.
5. Related to Management and Coordination
* Lack of personnel and equipment in the Central          * Maintain adequate staff and equipment for the
Coordination Unit.                                       Central Coordination Unit before the project
* Lack of personnel and equipment in provinces for the      starts.
effective management of the project.                   * Establish a manager and a team in the provinces
to manage registration and DIS.
* Support provinces with adequate number of staff
106



| before the project starts.
6. Related to Registration and Application
* Period allocated for the application was not sufficient-  * There must be adequate time for application,
sufficient time is needed for registration and      information, and training.
computerization.                                  * There must be adequate time for registration.
* A very clear descriptive operation manual
should be prepared before the project starts.
* All definitions should be well articulated in the
_     guide.
In addition, there was a further assessment of the landless sharecroppers in Adiyaman, as there were
some concerns that the sharecroppers were not registered for the DIS and thus did not benefit from the
program.
Why did some sharecroppers not register for the DIS in the villages where the pilot was implemented?
The main reason that some sharecroppers were not registered was the difficulty in proving that they were
actually sharecroppers. They often did not have documents showing that they were farmers and
sharecroppers, and that they actually live in the village. Typically, sharecroppers in Adiyaman only had
Tekel quotas showing that they were producers; however, these were not accepted by MARA due to past
distortions in issuing these quotas. Sharecroppers don't usually have rental contracts for the land, and
village headmen are not always a reliable source of information. Sharecroppers often work in several
districts and provinces, thus making it difficult to register then in specific areas and to determine the
amount of payment they qualify for under the DIS.
What measures should be taken for targeting support payments to sharecroppers? Several
recommendations have been made: (a) work more closely with the TZOBs and land owners to ensure that
rental agreements are signed and that TZOB certification operates effectively; (b) work with other
relevant initiatives in the area. In Adiyaman, this includes the Project for Allocation of Pastures. The
project, working with offices in the Provincial Agricultural Directorate, is collecting various kinds of
information on production and ownership with the assistance of village headmen. Some of this
information could assist in strengthening the reliability of the registry of farmers. Solutions for disputes
between sharecroppers and land owners over the registration process could possibly be assisted by
referee boards (see Section 6 in main text).
107



Annex 14
TURKEY: Agricultural Reform Implementation Project (ARIP)
Environmental Data Sheet for Projects in the IBRD/IDA
Lending Program
Country:                                         Project ID No.:
TURKEY                                           P070286
Project Name:
AGRICULTURAL REFORM IMPLEMENTATION
PROJECT (ARIP)
Appraisal Date:                                  IBRD Amount (US$m):
11-29 September 2000                             600
Board Date:                                     IDA Amount (US$m):
25 May 2001 (to be confirmed)                   NA
Managing Division:                               Sector:
ECSSD                                            AG - Agency Reform
Lending Instrument:                              Status:
Hybrid Loan                                     Preparation
Date for receipt of EA report by Bank:           Date Assigned:
EA Category: B
Date data sheet prepared/updated:
7 April 2001
Major Project Components:
A. Direct Income Support (DIS)
B. Farmer Transition (FT)
C. Agriculture Sales Cooperatives and Unions (ASCs/ASCUs) Restructuring
D. Project Support Services
Project Location: (besides geographic location, information about the key environmental characteristics of the
area likely to be affected by the project, and proximity of any protected areas or sites or critical natural habitats)
The Government's agricultural policy reform program, supported by ARIP, is being implemented on a
national scale.
The Direct Income Support Comnponent (DIS) of the project provides a national registry of farmers
needed for the DIS payments.
The Farmer Transition Component will focus on two crops: hazelnuts and tobacco . Hazelnut grown in
the Black Sea region, hazelnut acreage is expected to be reduced by about 100,000 ha. Tobacco is grown
in 12 provinces of Eastem and Southeastem Anatolia Regions. Tobacco production is planned to be
reduced on about 36,000 ha in Eastem and Southeastem Anatolia Regions. The targeted areas are not in
the proximity of protected sites or natural habitats.
The ASCs/ASCUs Restructuring Component provides severance payments to redundant ASCU workers
and technical assistance to agricultural cooperatives and their unions, and has no direct environmental
108



impact. It is possible, however, that the project may lead to the sale or closure of some processing
facilities or warehouses (e.g., cotton ginning plants, packing houses, etc.) that may occur in connection
with the restructuring of ASCUs. The location, number and type of facilities that could be closed cannot
be known until the ASCUs begin to cany out their restructuring plans.
Environmental Issues: (identified or suspected in project)
None
Minor:
1.    The Direct Income Support Component of the project provides a national registry of farmers
needed for the DIS payments, and has no discemable environmental impact.
2.    The ASCs/ASCUs Restructuring-Component has no direct environmental impact, but it is
possible, however, that the closure of some agro-processing facilities as an outcome of implementation of
ASCU restructuring plans may present a problem of liability for any contamination caused by the facility.
3.    The Farmer Transition component of ARIP provides an opportunity for the implementation of
projects that would introduce environmentally friendly agricultural practices. Such practices would also
have the effect of reducing nutrient flows into the groundwater and rivers, ultimately reaching the Black
Sea, Aegean and Mediterranean. Except for certain areas under hazelnut production, conversion from the
three target crops to other crops is not anticipated to have any significant potential negative
environmental impact.
(i)    The main concem raised by the project is that hazelnut planted on hilly terrain well suited for
that crop should not be uprooted and replaced with less suitable crops, leading to soil degradation or
erosion. This concern is addressed by excluding those areas from the Farmer Transition program.
(ii)    A secondary concem is diversion of affected farmers into other activities that may lead to
deforestation.
Proposed Actions: (to mitigate environmental issues described above)
1.    The possible effects, under the ASCs/ASCUs Restructuring-Component. of the closure of agro-
processing facilities, as an outcome of implementation of ASCU restructuring plans, will be addressed by
timely identification of the possibility liabilities and preparation of a clean-up plan where required by
local environmental laws. The number and type of facilities that could be closed cannot be known until
the ASCUs begin to carry out their restructuring plans.
While Turkish law does not specify environmental liability for facility closures, responsibility for sound
environmental management and compliance with applicable regulations rests with the owner of the
property, and transfers with the property to the new owner. In consideration of the limited capacity of
regional Ministry of Environment (MOE) offices to monitor compliance by the previous or new owners
of a facility, the PCU will retain a qualified environmental specialist as needed to assess the
requirements and assist the MOE with compliance oversight. The details will be listed in the EMP.
2.-The Farmer Transition Component of ARIP provides an opportunity for the implementation of projects
that would introduce environmentally friendly agricultural practices. Such practices would also have the
109



effect of reducing nutrient flows into the groundwater and rivers, ultimately reaching the Black Sea,
Aegean and Mediterranean.
(i) With respect to the concerns that hazelnut uprooting could lead to extra erosion and run-off: this is
especially of concern for hazelnut planted on hilly terrain well suited for that crop. This concem is
addressed by excluding those areas from the Farmer Transition program. The identification of such areas
will be carried out jointly by MARA and the local environmental agency staff and will be Teviewed
during supervision.
Based on the surplus production, it is calculated that 100,000 ha of hazelnut area needs to be uprooted.
This will cover the three type of areas: i) counties which have no permission by Law (58,868 ha) and
consists of mostly flat land, ii) flat/low lands in both permitted and non-permitted areas where hazelnut is
produced on the land under I and II Land Capability Classes and on slopes less than 6% under the m
Capability Class (estimated as 28,588 ha), and iii) high elevations/forestry areas where most of the
production is carried out on illegally cleared forest land, irrespective of the permission list (estimated as
17,544 ha).
(ii)    Regarding the concem of diversion of affected farmners into other activities that may lead to
deforestation: The ARIP social assessment included a baseline study that is being carried out in order to
identify 'hot spot' areas where the DIS might encourage deforestation. The further incursion of farmers
into forests, and other environmentally detrimental behavior will be closely monitored used this back
ground study as the baseline. A pilot project will be launched to address specific difficulties faced by
farmers of forest lands. Furthermore, data collected in social monitoring and evaluation exercise will be
used by a research institute in MARA to track changes in cropping pattems and their impact in forest
areas. These data which are also provided to the Ministry of Environment and the environmental
consultant assisting the PCU, will be reviewed during each supervision mission for potential actions or
trends that are detrimental to the environment.
3.    Government will prepare an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) which will describe the
mitigating actions and responsible agencies. Detail of the mitigating actions are to be listed in the PEP.
The Treasury PCU will coordinate oversight for environmental monitoring with MOE, MARA and
Ministry of Forestry (should forest lands be at issue) regarding hazelnut uprooting, and with MOE and
the ASCU Restructuring Board in connection with possible factory or warehouse closures. Monitoring
will be conducted according to the methods and schedule described in the EMP and PIP.
4.     General. The Government's ambitious agricultural policy reform program, supported by ARIP,
should benefit the environment by gradually phasing out of fertilizer (and, potentially, pesticides)
subsidies. The Farmer Transition component of ARIP provides an opportunity for the implementation of
projects that would introduce environmentally friendly agricultural practices. Such practices would also
have the effect of reducing nutrient flows into the groundwater and rivers, ultimately reaching the Black
Sea, Aegean and Mediterranean. Furthermore, the experience gained from the Eastem Anatolia
Watershed Management Project in community based decision making would be very valuable in projects
aimed at sustainable agriculture. It should also be noted that the Govemment is currently in the process
of preparing a soil management regulation which could provide the legal basis for a project aimed at
introducing sustainable soil management practices. A Global Environmental Facility project aimed at
reducing agricultural non-point source pollution is also being prepared.
110



Justification/Rationale for Environmental Category: (presents reasons for environmental category seiected
and explanation of any changes from initial classification, including whether any changes relate to altematives)
The project presents no major environmental risks. Wrhile the likelihood of negative impacts from the
DIS, Farner Transition and ASCUs Components is considered minor, the size of the operation, nation-
wide scope and unpredictable reactions of local farmers to fundamental policy changes indicates that an
environmental category of "B" is appropriate.
Reporting Schedule: (Category A EA report: Start-up date, date for first draft, and current status. Category B: Is
there a separate environmental analysis? If yes, when is it due?)
An Environmental Management Plan satisfactory to the Bank is to be included in the Project
Implementation Plan..
Remarks: (gives status of any other environmental studies, lists local groups and local NGOs consulted and,
where EA reports were made public locally, tells whether borrower has given permission to release EA report. etc.)
Several environmental NGOs such as Environment Foundation, Society for Protection of Nature, and the
Agricultural Development, Education and Social Solidarity Foundation have been invited to a
consultation meeting on the project. The input from the consultation is taken into account in preparation
of the EMN.
In addition, two workshops, attended by the press, representatives from civil society, and NGOs, were
held to describe the Agricultural Reform Program and solicit feedback. In addition to consultation with
stakeholders, informal meetings were held with a number of NGOs (Union of Chambers of Agriculture of
Turkey (TZOB), Chamber of Engineers of Agriculture, Sustainable Agriculture Association, Agricultural
Development Training and Social Solidarity Foundation, Development Foundation of Turkey, Aegean
Farmer's Association and Union of Tekirdag Onder Farmers).
ASCU/ASC capacity building will rely on NGOs and local institutions for the suggestions on the
design and possibly implementation of training activities. Also, the majority of the members of
the ASC Restructuring Board will be from academia, the private sector, or ASC membership.
Signed by: John D. Nash, ECSSD                (Team Leader)   (i   L6 A
Signed by: Joseph R. Goldberg, ECSSD          (Sector Manager/Director)   e      i*.
5/2,2 0 O/
Signed by: Jane E. Holt, ECSSD                (Head, Regional Environm,pl Sectoral Unit)
-t&.t MA.Hod
1 11






MAP SECTION






IBRD 241 10
B U  L G A  R I A                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4  TTu'0- 0  TSi 
ANAKALE                                              *B .                                            KT                                             i              U K  E 
9'i~ ' \ @ SoA/</eb POPULARION CENTERS
______________________________________VNpINdwy  r____  . 4 milboNn                                                                                                                                                                INTERNATIONAL HIGHWAYS
01g ~  ~    ~    - IKAh   i      R\ AZANESEAN           MU LE~L O____R____ A                                  ~         S                                            nit/l/>                                                              .mil                     SRTAATEHIGHWAYS35
r  ', - _                     E JE '  RUSSIA                                                                                                                            MASYA                                                                                             NATIONAL CAPITAL
4                                                                                                                                                                                                        uRMAN'-"-                                                       RVER
tTURKEY             1-                           .2 rd.      3      *71amwI,,..ThS.N.N 
C REtCS g                         r                               _     ~~ 5.W7e*.Tow..ef7@*lJk -   Kslr                                                                                                                                     ->  _  ST   1T2  30 4T 50KILOMETSERS
RSEPTEMbER 1



