Report No. PID9405
Project Name             TURKEY-AGRICULTURAL REFORM IMPLEMENTATION (@)
PROJECT (ARIP)
Region                   Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                   Crops (65%); Agricultural marketing
and trade (25%); Central
government administration (10%)
Project ID               P070286
Borrower(s)              REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
Implementing Agency
Address TREASURY DEPARTMENT
Prime Ministry
Undersecretariat of Treasury
General Directorate of State Economic
Enterprises
Address: Inonu Bulvari, 06510 Emek,
Ankara, Turkey
Contact Person: Mr. Levent Yener
Tel: 90-312-212-8912
Fax: 90-312-212-0457
ARIP -- Project Coordination Unit
Address: 111 Ataturk Blvd., Ankara, Turkey
Contact Person: Mr. Ali Naili Tunaboylu
Tel: 90-312-419-2175
Email: ali.tunaboylu@arip.org.tr
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared        November 12, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      June 5, 2001
Bank Approval Date       July 12, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Background. The Government of Turkey has embarked on a structural
adjustment and stabilization program of historic dimensions. The
conceptual foundations of this were laid by the policy dialogue with the
Bank over the last several years, which has included extensive analysis of
the current system of agricultural supports, and recommendations on how to
reform it. These recommendations have been adopted almost en toto in the
Government's Letter of Development Policy (LDP) and agricultural strategy
document, which together form the basis for the agricultural component of
the Economic Reform Loan approved by the Bank's Board and made effective
in May 2000. Once completed, these reforms will make Turkey a model for
other countries' agricultural support policies.
In discussions of the ERL, the Government indicated that it would be able
to move ahead with the agreed ambitious policy agenda only if the Bank
supported the implementation of the program with the kind of investments



and TA envisioned in the ARIP. The ARIP takes as given the broad
strategic framework outlined above, and will address a number of choices
that will need to be made in the course of implementing this strategy.
An important strategic choice affecting the overall project design was to
make the project a hybrid. The Government expressed great concern that the
amount that can be allocated to the DIS payments in the 2001 and 2002
budgets is insufficient compensation to farmers for subsidies that have
already been removed. If it is perceived that farmers are bearing more
than their share of economic hardship because the DIS program is
underfunded, there would be a serious danger of a backlash that could
endanger the reforms. To address this concern, the Bank and Government
have made the strategic choice to design ARIP as a hybrid
investment/adjustment operation, to provide financing for a $200 million
quick-disbursing component against the Bank's standard negative list and a
$400 million investment component.
2. Objectives
Development Objective. The primary development objective of the
Agricultural Reform Implementation Project (ARIP) is to help implement the
Government's agricultural reform program, which is aimed at dramatically
reducing artificial incentives and government subsidies, and substituting
a support system that will give agricultural producers and agro-industry
incentives to increase productivity in response to real comparative
advantage. At the same time, the project is designed to mitigate potential
short-term adverse impacts of subsidy removal, and facilitate the
transition to efficient production patterns. Aside from promoting
allocative efficiency, the reforms to be implemented are necessary for
fiscal stabilization. The Government's agriculture policy reform program
is described in the March 2000 "Strategy for Reform of Agricultural
Support Policies." The agricultural policy reforms are supported in part
financially by the Bank under the Economic Reform Loan (ERL).
The Government's strategic objectives to be supported by this project can
be summarized in several elements. First, the Government intends to phase
out the unsustainable and distortionary system of subsidies for
fertilizer, credit and price supports--which disproportionately benefit
large farmers, regressively tax consumers, and together cost over
US$6billion a year--and to link prices to world market prices. The ARIP
will assist the Government to introduce a unified national program of
direct income support (DIS) for all farmers which will be simple,
transparent, and will not distort the incentive structure as does the
current system. The intention is not to fully compensate every farmer for
income lost by removal of the old subsidy system, but rather to cushion
the short-term losses and continue to provide adequate support to the
agricultural sector, but in an incentive-neutral way. Within the existing
legal framework, the DIS payments should be useable as collateral, thereby
giving farmers enhanced access to credit. Payments under the DIS system
will be recurrent, but these will eventually become more explicitly
targeted (and harmonized with the EU system under the Common Agricultural
Policy as it exists at the time of accession), or merged with the general
social safety net system. The second initiative under the program will
encourage farmers to quit producing crops which are currently heavily
over-produced by offering one-time payments to cover their cost of
switching to alternative activities. The third element of the program
- 2 -



focuses on turning the quasi-governmental sales cooperative unions
previously used to administer support prices into organizations dedicated
to serving their farmer members through a process of restructuring and
privatization. This will reduce government involvement in the marketing
and processing of agricultural products. Finally, the project will help
the government maintain support for the program by clearly explaining it
to the public.
A key objective of the adjustment portion of the loan is to enable the
Government to make up some of the anticipated shortfall in funds needed
for the critical first round of DIS payments, expected in late 2001 and
early 2002. The triggers for the quick-disbursing budgetary support
element of ARIP would be the satisfactory introduction of the first DIS
payments to the farmers, and satisfactory performance in the macroeconomic
and sectoral reform programs, the latter as described in the Letter of
Sectoral Strategy. Disbursements under the first and second adjustment
tranches also depend on the adoption of a revised 2001 budget that does
not introduce new or increase existing direct or indirect agricultural
subsidies and submission to Parliament of a 2002 budget that does not
include credit or fertilizer subsidies and does not increase existing
direct or indirect agricultural subsidies, respectively.
Completing the agriculture reform program is a medium-term objective. The
reforms will assist the Government in its aspirations for accession to the
EU by increasing the efficiency of the sector and the economy at large,
thereby helping it meet one of the most basic pre-conditions set down by
the EU: that the applicant states have economies that are efficient
enough to be competitive in the unified market. The challenges in
carrying out these changes will be huge, and the Government has asked for
the Bank's continued technical assistance in program design and
implementation, as well as financial support for certain elements of the
program. The financial support is crucial, given the tight budget
constraints imposed by the macroeconomic stabilization package agreed with
the IMF.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Originally, the Bank discussed with the Government a multi-component
single loan, which would have the components currently envisioned in the
ARIP, plus several others as well. These other components included
commodity market development, land management, agricultural services, and
preparation for EU accession (harmonization of legislation and
institutional improvements). However, it is clear that some of these
tasks are more urgent than others to ensure the success of the reform
program. Thus, the Government requested that we prepare a project to
support these more urgent tasks on a priority basis, leaving some of the
others for a later operation. The ARIP focuses only on the tasks that
must be started in 2000-2001 to support the transition from a heavily
government-influenced to a market-driven agricultural sector
Another option considered for this project's design is an adjustment
operation. Under this option, the Bank team would work with the
Government during project preparation to design an implementation schedule
for the reforms, with benchmarks that could be used as tranche release
conditions. During supervision, the team would work with the Government
- 3 -



to carry out this program. Necessary expenditures would be financed from
the Government's general budget, which would be reimbursed by loan
disbursements. The very real advantage of this option, as opposed to the
investment project option, is that it might have permitted faster project
preparation and disbursement of loan proceeds. The disadvantage of this
option is the lack of a mechanism to monitor and evaluate the
implementation of the reforms, and to design additional interventions if
need be.
The Bank and the Government concluded that a hybrid adjustment/investment
loan would be the most appropriate instrument, to allow for rapid
implementation of the DIS system, farmer transition component, a pilot
agricultural statistics component, and initial work on ASCU restructuring,
to be complemented by lending in two tranches of $100 million each, to be
released when the initial DIS system is in place and payments have been
made and other specific indicators of progress in the macroeconomic and
sectoral reform programs are met. This approach will keep the Bank
involved in the reform process and follow up in a "hands on" manner, while
the adjustment portion will help the Government to fund payments at a
level sufficient to meaningfully cushion the adverse effects on farmers of
withdrawal of other subsidies.
Alternative institutional arrangements for implementation of the ASCU CDSC
were considered during project appraisal. One alternative possibility
would have been to attach the local implementation teams (the CSU field
officers in the current project design) to the ASCUs, i.e., as cooperative
development sections of the unions. This was rejected on the grounds that
it would have given the unions the opportunity to unduly influence their
affiliates in the sensitive process of restructuring which will involve
difficult question of division of assets, functions and powers between the
union and the societies. However, the local field officers of CSU will
operate in close consultation and collaboration with the unions.
4. Description
Component A: Design and implementation of the Direct Income Support
system (DIS). Since the DIS will allow the government to disengage from
its current support mechanisms in a politically acceptable and humane way,
this component is at the heart of the whole program. The objective of
this component is to set up a mechanism for identifying farmers who are
eligible for payments under the DIS, and a mechanism for delivering those
payments. The effectiveness of the program will be tracked through the
ARIP social and financial monitoring and evaluation systems. This
component will finance technical assistance, training, software and
equipment to set up a farmer registry and to complete computerization of
existing land registry records. The budgetary support component would be
used by the Government to partially finance the first DIS payments.
Component B: Farmer Transition will help farmers make the transition to
alternative activities as the governmental supports are reduced. The
current inconsistent and arbitrary pattern of state purchases commissioned
to ASCUs or SEEs send very confusing messages to farmers and agricultural
processors when they are deciding what to produce and how to produce it.
It is leading them to overproduce crops which they can produce only at
high cost relative to world markets, and underproduce crops which they can
- 4 -



produce more efficiently. The objective of this component is not to
compensate farmers for income lost through removal of input subsidies and
price supports (the function of the DIS payments is to provide some
compensation for this) but rather to cover the one-time cost of converting
from previously highly supported crops. Currently the most serious
problems are with hazelnut and tobacco. As a result of high support
prices, there has been a large expansion of cropping area in these crops,
with significant amounts of surplus production and stock accumulation. It
is expected that under the reform program, the artificially high prices of
these products will decline significantly--more so than the incomes of
growers of other crops -- and many of these farmers in areas which have
good alternatives will want to stop producing them. This component will
provide grants to certain hazelnut and tobacco farmers to cover the
average cost of buying inputs for alternatives, and preparing and tending
fields in the transition period; and to hazelnut farmers to cover the
uprooting costs. It would also include a small sub-component to support
strengthening or establishment of farmers' associations which would help
in the transition.
Component C: Agriculture Sales Cooperatives and Cooperative Unions
(ASCs/ASCUs) Restructuring. The Government's Agricultural Sector Reform
Program includes the structural reform of the agricultural sales
cooperatives. As a result of earlier State intervention in the cooperative
sector, the State now plays a dominant role in the sector and its
intervention has proven to be unproductive and fiscally unsustainable.
This intervention has left the ASCs and their unions alienated from their
members, saddled with excessive wage costs, heavily indebted and without
proper arrangements for corporate governance. Under the new law on
Agricultural Sales Cooperatives and their Unions, adopted in June 2000,
the ASCUs will no longer receive annual allocations of funds from the
budget. Instead, they will be required to become, once again,
independent, financially autonomous and self-managed organizations
dedicated to serving their farmer members by selling and processing crops
on their behalf. However, as a transitional measure, an amount of TL 250
trillion has been made available from the budget as a credit to the ASCUs
to enable them to procure the 2000/2001 crop. In order to obtain this
credit, the ASCUs were required to submit detailed business plans
including their plans for cost cutting through labor retrenchment. The
repayments of these credits will flow to a revolving fund which can be
used by the ASCUs in future years or until the time that they are
sufficiently self-financing and sufficiently creditworthy to obtain
working capital loans from commercial banks.
The agricultural cooperative sector includes 16 ASCUs, 330 ASCs and around
750 thousand farmer members. The ASCUs and ASCs had around 16,500
employees at the end of July, 2000. The larger ASCUs, particularly the
three which procure cotton, have large industrial facilities for secondary
processing of the crop. Under the project, the role of the ASCUs will be
dramatically reduced and they will be transformed into sales agencies for
marketing the produce of their member ASCs and providers of business
services to the ASCs. Many of the ASCUs and ASCs have already begun to
retrench workers in order to eliminate excess labor and achieve wage
parity with their private sector competitors. A total of 12,155 workers
are subject to retrenchment. Following retrenchment, any replacement
workers will be hired at wages equal to those paid by the private sector.
- 5 -



The new law on ASCUs provides that the government's budget should cover
the cost of severance payments to all retrenched workers. As the amount
of crop procured by the ASCUs is currently constrained by lack of working
capital the savings resulting from the retrenchment program will initially
be used to strengthen the working capital position of the ASCUs. Once
this has been accomplished, future savings can be used for refurbishment
investments or be distributed among the ASCUs' farmer-cooperators.
Some ASCUs will require further restructuring in addition to labor
retrenchment if they are to become sustainable. Since most of the ASCUs
lack the institutional capacity to restructure themselves and survive in
their new business environment, the ASCU law provides for the creation of
a Restructuring Board which will provide various types of assistance to
the ASCUs and their member ASCs, on a voluntary basis. This component
would provide TA for establishing the Restructuring Board, as well as TA
to the ASCs/ASCUs to assist them in designing and implementing: (i)
restructuring measures; and (ii) business development and capacity
building programs. As mentioned above, the ASCU law also requires that
the budget pay for the cost of severance payments associated with labor
retrenchment. This component of the ARIP project will provide the
government with the resources necessary to implement the provision. To aid
in the effort of all cooperative units which decide to restructure and
attempt to become commercially viable, this component would finance
severance payments to the affected workers.
The Cooperative Development Sub-Component (CDSC) of the ASCUs
Restructuring Component will contribute to the transformation of the ASCs
into genuine cooperative organizations which are: i) member-controlled and
operate in accordance with needs and priorities identified by their
members; ii) efficiently managed and able to provide effective services to
their members; and iii) competitive and self-reliant and thereby able to
operate in competition with other private sector enterprises without
having to depend on government subsidies and supervision. Achievement of
this objective will enable farmers to take ownership of their cooperatives
and get access to efficient services which improve farm productivity and
income.
Component D: Project Support Services. This component will provide for
a) Public Information Campaign to provide accurate and timely information
about the reforms and describe the support mechanisms available under the
project to farming communities through television, radio and newspaper
announcements. This subcomponent would also provide training for MARA
extension services staff to enable them to answer farmer questions about
the program and present accurate information about the reforms and
assistance programs to their clients, the farmers, and a mechanism to
collect feedback from the public; b) advisory services connected with
project management, agricultural statistics, laboratory and food testing,
crop insurance and other topics relevant for reform program implementation
that are not addressed in the other components; c) monitoring and
evaluation to gauge the social and financial impact of the agricultural
reform program and supporting ARIP components; and d) a Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) for project coordination, procurement and
financial management support to the implementing agencies, and Component
Implementation Units to assist the implementing agencies.
- 6 -



Adjustment Component. This component provides financing for a $200
million quick-disbursing component (in 2 equal tranches) against the
Bank's standard negative list. Conditions for release of the first
quick-disbursing tranche would be i) satisfactory performance in the
macroeconomic program; ii) satisfactory performance in implementing the
general sectoral reform program (as described in the Letter of Sectoral
Policy); iii) adoption of a 2001 revised budget that : (a) does not
provide for any new direct or indirect agricultural subsidies; and (b)
does not increase existing direct or indirect agricultural subsidies, in
real terms, as compared to subsidies in effect on January 1, 2001; and iv)
initiation of DIS payments, defined as "25w of farmers registered and of
these, 50t paid".   Conditions for release of the second quick-disbursing
tranche would be i) satisfactory performance in the macroeconomic
program;  ii) submission to Parliament of a draft 2002 budget that      (a)
does not provide for credit or fertilizer subsidies; and (b) does not
increase other existing direct or indirect agricultural subsidies, in real
terms, as compared to subsidies in effect on January 1, 2001; iii)
satisfactory performance in implementing the general sectoral reform
program (as described in the Letter of Sectoral Policy); iv) further
progress in the initiation of DIS payments, defined as "509 of farmers
registered and of these, 50t paid"; and (v) by November 1, 2002, or when
the other conditions are met, whichever comes first, reduction in TMO
wheat purchases to a level satisfactory to the Bank.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $61.96
IBRD $600.00
IDA
Total Project Cost $661.96
6. Implementation
Implementation of the investment part of this project will extend over
four years. Treasury will serve as lead implementing agency, and will
establish a Project Coordination Unit (PCU). Policy guidance and
interagency coordination will be managed through a Steering Committee
chaired by the Undersecretary of Treasury and consists of the Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Affairs (MARA), Ministry of Industry and Trade
(MIT), the State Planning Organization (SPO), Ziraat Bank, the Ministry of
Finance, the State Title and Cadastre Agency, the State Statistics
Institute (SIS), and the Agricultural Chamber of Producers (TZOB). Most of
the SC members also serve on the Agricultural Restructuring Board. The
Treasury PCU will handle day-to-day coordination and implementation
duties, including procurement, disbursement, financial management and
project monitoring. MARA will establish Component Implementation Units to
manage implementation of Components A (DIS) and B (Farmer Transition).
For Component C (ASCs/ASCUs Restructuring), an Executive Unit reporting to
the ASCs/ASCU Restructuring Board will be established and will function as
the CIU for that component.
The adjustment portion of ARIP would be implemented in accordance with
standard Bank procedures and practices for adjustment loans. The ARIP
adjustment component will be implemented by the Central Bank of Turkey
based on an Implementation Agreement between the Undersecretariat of
-7 -



Treasury and the CBT. Implementation arrangements will be fully
consistent with Bank practice for adjustment loans. Upon notification to
the Bank of the establishment and initial operation of the DIS system, the
proceeds of the adjustment portion of the loan will be deposited by the
Bank into the designated Deposit Account at the CBT at the request of the
Borrower. In accordance with the Operational Directive on the
Simplification of Disbursement Rules under Structural Adjustment and
Sector Adjustment Loans (February 8, 1996), disbursements will not be
linked to specific purchases. Therefore, there will be no procurement
requirements for the adjustment portion of ARIP.
7. Sustainability
Any transition period is risky, but once the new DIS system is
established, it should be more fiscally sustainable than the current
system. It should also be politically sustainable, since DIS should be
popular with farmers. Nonetheless, there will be substantial pressure for
backsliding.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The main lesson learned from past experience in Turkey is the gross
inefficiency of the current mechanisms of support for agriculture. The
alternative mechanism of direct income support has been tested and is now
used in a number of countries, including the US for the most important
field crops and Mexico (the Procampo program) (See "From prices to
incomes: Agricultural subsidization without protection?" DecNote,
Research Findings, No. 32, 1997, World Bank, Washington, D.C.)
Component A (DIS): One of the key lessons of well functioning DIS
programs is the importance of an adequate registry of farmers. The
registry of farmers has to be accurate, reliable and transparent, so as to
avoid manipulation and misuse for other purposes. As experience in
Mexico's Procampo and other similar programs shows, the registry of
farmers has to be assembled before the program enters into operation, so
as to have the program run smoothly without practical complications and
complaints. The registry also has to be simple, containing only a few
variables needed to implement the program efficiently and in particular,
facilitate payment. Another key element is the clear definition of the
criteria on which the payment amount will be determined. Experience says
that the simplest way is to pay according to the number of hectares owned
or farmed by the beneficiary rather than in relation to agricultural
production or cultivated area in certain crops. International experience
on developing a registry of farmers provides a basis for comparing the
cost, speed and transparency of various methods. For instance, in Romania
4.5 million farmers were registered following local cadastre records. The
process was completed in about 3 months nationwide. The cost of the
registry per farmer was about two dollars, including taking the
information from the cadastre books and processing. Another example was
Procampo in Mexico where the registry of farmers was made initially on
declaration by farmers of area planted in the last three years with
verification by the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). The registry took a
longer time than in Romania because of the implications and problems with
self declarations of farmers. At the beginning of the Procampo program,
- 8 -



the criterion was to give the payment according the number of hectares
cultivated with certain crops in the three years before the program
started. Once the program was announced the farmers increased the
cultivated area of the eligible commodities. Gradually the data base has
been cleaned over the years, and disputes over the accuracy of farmers
declaration of area planted are usually resolved by a bipartite committee
composed of farmer representatives and local MOA officials. There are
other examples in Latin America of registries of beneficiaries for social
programs. Those registries have been more expensive (8-10 US dollars per
family) than the registry of farmers because those registries have been
based on censuses of poor areas and ask a great number of questions (over
65 questions) to establish poverty levels. Adequate measures have been
taken to prevent these potential problems in the design of the DIS at
national level.
Component B (Farmer Transition): One major lesson learned from the
successful implementation of the Eastern Anatolia Watershed Rehabilitation
Project (EAWRP), which is being implemented in 11 provinces of Turkey, is
the importance of giving farmers a wide range of options, rather than
pre-selecting an alternative crop for them. This project includes the
participation of the villagers in rehabilitating micro-catchment (MC)
areas. The interactive approach of the Project depends on the ability of
the villagers first to identify problems for which the Project can supply
a solution and then respond positively to the options. Communities choose
from a "menu" of options, which comprise various treatments, some of which
are conditional on, and must be adopted in, association with another. To
encourage the adoption of the treatments which have only long-term benefit
or short-term costs, the Project finances the initial investment and
establishment phase of the supporting activities. Once the participatory
plans are prepared for the MCs, members of the community also participate
in project implementation, and contribute to the costs. In the Project,
even though the MC villages are very poor, the villagers are willing to
share the cost e.g., providing the cement for the water collecting ponds,
providing transportation for the construction material, or providing labor.
For the ARIP, it will be critical that farmers be given options, as in the
EAWRP. Such a selection from the menu would encourage the adoption of and
participation in both long-term and short-term measures. The long term
benefits would be more sustainable cropping patterns , better price
formation in the market, more stable income; the less immediate benefits
would be explained and supported by a public awareness campaign. The more
direct and short-term benefits to the farmers would be provision of funds
needed for inputs such as seed, seedling, diesel, fertilizer, equipment
services, chemical supply and demand driven extension service, and
training as matching grants from the project.
Component C (ASCs/ASCUs Restructuring): The performance of rural
cooperatives in most developing and transition countries is mixed at
best. Usually, the main reason for this poor performance is excessive
government involvement. Government often mandates cooperatives to carry
out specific policies and programs (e.g. in Turkey, ASCs and ASCUs had to
implement intervention purchases on behalf of government). In addition,
through cooperative departments and sector ministries, governments heavily
controlled cooperatives and intervenes in their operations, with the
rationale that "ill-informed and illiterate cooperative members must be
-9-



guided and protected from the harsh reality of the markets". As a result
of mandated tasks and dominating management, government turns many
cooperatives into state organizations similar to SEEs.
Since the beginning of the nineties, more and more governments are
undertaking efforts aiming at redefining their role in cooperative
development in order to make it consistent with their role as a
facilitator of private sector development. In addition, cooperatives seek
support in their transition from government dependency to viable private
sector enterprises.
The design of the whole ASCU component, including the CDSC, is based on
contemporary trends and experiences in the development of cooperatives and
other farmer organizations. There is evidence from many countries in
different regions of the world that cooperatives financed and controlled
by government have degenerated into inefficient organizations, ultimately
losing the support and participation of their members. Ownership, member
participation and relevance of services in relation to members' needs are
key concepts in the new cooperative development strategy which has emerged
after failure of the government-controlled cooperative systems.
Experience from cooperative reform projects in other countries--e.g. the
Agricultural Development Project in Poland and the Intensive Cooperative
Management Improvement Project in Kenya--illustrate the difficulties
involved in moving from a system of government control and dependency to
cooperative autonomy. Cooperatives find it difficult to graduate to
autonomous, member-controlled enterprises able to compete effectively in
an open market. In order to make the transition successful, cooperatives
need a comprehensive range of support services over a comparatively long
period of time. Such services need to be tailored to the needs of
individual cooperatives through a participatory process, involving members
in the identification, design and implementation of the support. This is
why the CDSC assistance to ASCs is based on a rather elaborate process of
member mobilization, business planning and plan implementation, and why
CDSC includes a full package of support services ranging from member
information and board member training to business management consultancy
and management systems development.
Adjustment portion:
In developing the ARIP, and the reform program which it supports, staff
have drawn on the experience of past adjustment lending to Turkey in the
1980s, as well as on the recent experience with adjustment lending across
the Bank. The core lessons learned from this experience include:
Successful implementation of adjustment loans requires intensive dialogue
with the Government and key local stakeholders. Critical aspects of the
agriculture reform program have been the subject of intensive dialogue
over several years, including national seminars in 1998 and 1999 in
conjunction with preparation of the ERL;
Conditionality must be clear and straightforward with strong Government
ownership. The ARIP design and component contents were discussed in
detail with the Government on at least three occasions prior to appraisal,
and the dialogue intensified during four weeks of continuous discussions
through appraisal, and has continued in the period before and during
- 10 -



negotiations. ;
Close cooperation with the IMF is essential. Cooperation with the IMF on
Turkey is very close. The Bank participated in all key discussions on the
Standby program. The Fund has a particular interest in agricultural
policies because of their fiscal implications and the Fund program
incorporates key agricultural policy reforms supported by the ARIP;
Adequate funding for the program is critical and has been promised for the
economic program into 2003.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  Major:   None
Other: ARIP supports the implementation of agricultural policy reforms,
financing fundamental changes in Turkish agriculture by introducing a
program of direct income support, diminishing State control of
agricultural commodity prices, and by drastically reducing price supports
for of a number of crops that, till now, received considerable State
support. The project will likely have social consequences; these are
discussed in Section E.6. below. The minor environmental risks are
related to the potential improper removal of hazelnut trees from areas not
targeted for transition to other crops (e.g., hilly terrain along Black
Sea coast that is well suited to hazelnut), and compliance with
environmental regulations governing closure of agroindustrial enterprises.
Erosion is an important problem along the Black Sea Coast. The effects of
erosion are usually exacerbated by incorrect agricultural techniques and
illegal forest clearing. Coupled with heavy rainfall, especially in the
Eastern part of the region, soils containing nutrients are washed into the
sea. Erosion is especially severe in the Trabzon and Samsun provinces
where forests are cleared for corn production. Hazelnut plantations on
areas which were gained through forest clearing also caused land slides
and soil losses.
The three most important rivers forming in the Turkish Black Sea region
are Kizilirmak, Yesilirmak and Sakarya which originate from the central
Anatolian plains. The watersheds of thee rivers are 78,000km2, 38,000 km2
and 58,000 km2, respectively. As elsewhere in Turkey, the use of
pesticides and fertilizers is intense in these watersheds and large
concentrations of nutrients flow into the rivers by way of soil erosion
and groundwater to be discharged into the Black Sea.
The applicability of OP 7.50, Projects in International Waterways, for
ARIP was considered by the project team. Given that the project has been
found to present only very minor environmental risks, that monitoring and
mitigation measures for these are to be implemented under the project, and
that the project is designed to have no negative impact on international
waterways, it has been determined that OP 7.50 would not apply.
The Government's ambitious agricultural policy reform program, supported
by ARIP, should benefit the environment by gradually phasing out of
fertilizer (and, potentially, pesticides) subsidies. The Farmer
Transition component of ARIP provides an opportunity for the introduction
of environmentally friendly agricultural practices. Such practices would
- 11 -



also have the effect of reducing nutrient flows into the groundwater and
rivers, ultimately reaching the Black Sea, Agean and Mediterranean. A
Global Environmental Facility project aimed at reducing agricultural
non-point source pollution in the Black Sea region of Turkey is also being
prepared, and would complement the Farmer Transition component of ARIP.
Conversion from hazelnut and tobacco to other crops is not anticipated to
have any significant negative environmental impact. Conversion from
tobacco to other crops is considered environmentally neutral. The
possible environmentally negative effects of conversion from hazelnut to
other crops have been addressed by the careful targeting of areas of
current hazelnut production that will be eligible for support under the
Farmer Transition component of ARIP. The only potential problem is with
hazelnut, and this has been anticipated in project designs. Based on the
surplus production, it is calculated that 100,000 ha of hazelnut area
needs to be uprooted. This will cover the three type of areas: i)
counties where hazelnut planting has been extended without permission
(58,868 ha), consisting mostly of flat land, ii) flat/low lands in both
permitted and non-permitted areas where hazelnut is produced , and on
slopes less than 6t (estimated as 28,588 ha), and iii) high
elevations/forestry areas where most of the production is carried out on
illegally cleared forest land, irrespective of the official permission
categorization (estimated as 17,544 ha). Switching from hazelnut to other
crops in flat lands and on slopes less than 6t does not present
environmental risks. The illegally cleared forest land will be replanted
with trees appropriate to the ecosystem, such as alder (Alnus sp.),
chestnut and walnut. Hazelnut areas on hills and slopes, where the
ecology generally does not allow economic production of other crops, will
not be included in the Farmer Transition Program.
The other environmental issue of moderate concern in the project is the
closure of agroindustrial enterprises (e.g., cotton ginning plants,
packing houses, warehouses, etc.) that may occur in connection with the
restructuring of ASCUs. The number and type of facilities that could be
closed cannot be known until the ASCUs begin to carry out their
restructuring plans. While Turkish law does not specify environmental
liability for facility closures, responsibility for sound environmental
management and compliance with applicable regulations rests with the owner
of the property, and transfers with the property to the new owner. In
consideration of the limited capacity of regional Ministry of Environment
(MOE) offices to monitor compliance by the previous or new owners of a
facility, the PCU will retain a qualified environmental specialist as
needed to assess the requirements and assist the MOE with compliance
oversight.
A brief environmental management plan will be developed by the Borrower to
address:
(i) the potential minor environmental risks of project interventions,
including the hazelnut-tree uprooting, and the environmental risks
created by possible factory closings or changes in ownership. Mitigating
actions will be listed for interventions where such risks are identified;
(ii) the current legislation and procedures to monitor and mitigate the
effects of possible outcomes such as uprooting and factory closings;
- 12 -



(iii) the local institutional set-up and capacity to monitor these
interventions and their impact;
(iv) the methods, and agencies that will provide environmental oversight.
Given the fact that the project poses no major environmental risks, an EMP
is considered sufficient instead of a full EA. The draft EMP (dated April
13, 2001) was reviewed prior to negotiations and found generally
satisfactory. The final EMP satisfactory to the Bank will be adopted by
the Government not later than July 15, 2001.
Several environmental NGOs based in Ankara and the Black Sea region, where
hazelnut growing is prevalent, are to be consulted by Government regarding
the environmental issues associated with the project prior to
negotiations. Inputs from the consultation will be taken into account by
Government in preparation of the final EMP.
Treasury as lead agency for the project is responsible for monitoring and
evaluating all aspects of the project. The Treasury PCU will coordinate
oversight for environmental monitoring with MARA and Ministry of Forestry
(should forest lands be at issue) regarding hazelnut uprooting, and with
the ASCU Restructuring Board in connection with possible plant closures.
Monitoring will be conducted according to the methods and schedule
described in the EMP.
As noted in the following section a background study is being carried out
in order to identify 'hot spot' areas where the DIS might encourage
deforestation and where the DIS registration process should be speeded up.
If necessary a pilot project will be launched to address specific
difficulties faced by farmers of forest lands. Also, data collected in
social monitoring and evaluation exercise will be used by a research
institute in MARA to track changes in cropping patterns and their impact
in forest areas.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Mark. R. Lundell
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-458-4655
Fax: 202-614-0696 / 0697 / 0698
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 13 -



