                                     Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR00001155




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IBRD-46310)

                                        ON A

                                       LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$600 MILLION

                                      TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

                                      FOR AN

           AGRICULTURAL REFORM IMPLEMENTATION PROJECT



                               November 23, 2009




Sustainable Development Department
Turkey Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective November 11, 2009)
                    Currency Unit = Turkish Lira [TL]
                          TL 1.00 = US$ 0.681
                          US$ 1.00 = TL 1.46

                               FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1 ­ December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACC     Agricultural Credit Cooperative
ARIP    Agricultural Reform Implementation Project
ASC     Agricultural Sales Cooperative
ASCU    Agricultural Sales Cooperatives Union
CATAK   Environmentally Based Land Utilization Subcomponent
DFIF    Support Price Stability Fund
DIS     Direct Income Support
DSI     State Hydraulics Works
ERL     Economic Reform Loan
EU      European Union
GDAR    General Directorate of Agrarian Reform
GDRS    General Directorate of Rural Services
IPARD   Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance- Rural Development
IRFO    Institutional Reinforcement of Farmers Organizations
LC      Land Consolidation
MARA    Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MIT     Ministry of Industry and Trade
NRF     National Registry of Farmers
SEE     State Economic Enterprise
TAKOG   Joint Venture of Cooperative Unions - formed to execute the IRFO sub-
        component for the General Directorate of Support and Organization
TEKEL   Turkish Alcohol and Tobacco Company
TKGM    General Directorate of Turkish Cadastre and Land Registration
TMO     Turkish Grain Board
TUGEM   General Directorate of Agricultural Production and Development
UoT     Undersecretariat of the Treasury
TL      Turkish Lira
VBPIP   Village Based Participatory Investments Programs




                         Vice President: Philippe H. Le Houerou
                      Country Director:     Ulrich Zachau
                        Sector Manager:     Dina Umali-Deininger
                     Task Team Leader:      Holger A. Kray
                     ICR Team Leader:       Holger A. Kray
                                         TURKEY
                     Agricultural Reform Implementation Project (ARIP)


                                                     CONTENTS




A. Basic Information ........................................................................................................ i
B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................... i
C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................ i
D. Sector and Theme Codes............................................................................................ii
E. Bank Staff ...................................................................................................................ii
F. Results Framework Analysis .....................................................................................iii
G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs ................................................................. v
H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................vi
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................ 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes........................................... 12
3. Assessment of Outcomes ......................................................................................... 15
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 29
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance...................................................... 29
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 31
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 32
Annex 1: Agricultural Reform Implementation Project - Loan Funds Summary by
Project Components ...................................................................................................... 33
Annex 2: Outputs by Component................................................................................. 33
Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................ 65
Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............ 69
Annex 5: Beneficiary Survey Results .......................................................................... 71
Annex 7: Borrower's Comments on ICR ..................................................................... 72
Annex 8: Comments of Cofinanciers and other Partners ............................................. 81
Annex 9: List of Supporting Documents...................................................................... 82

MAP IBRD 33501
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Agricultural Reform
Country:                Turkey                  Program Name:             Implementation Project
                                                                          (ARIP)
Program ID:             P070286                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-46310
ICR Date:               11/25/2009              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SAD                     Borrower:
                                                                          TURKEY
Original Total
                        USD 600.0M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 521.3M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 521.3M
Implementing Agencies:
 Undersecretariat of Treasury
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:        06/15/2000    Effectiveness:                               07/17/2001
                                                                                  05/24/2004
Appraisal:             11/10/2000    Restructuring(s):
                                                                                  05/16/2007
Approval:              07/12/2001    Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2005        12/31/2008

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower                       Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory    Government:                         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                                        Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                        Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                   Quality at Entry
Program at any time        No                                              None
                                                   (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                            Quality of
                        Yes                                                Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agricultural marketing and trade                                      25                   25
Central government administration                                     10                   10
Crops                                                                 65                   65


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Debt management and fiscal sustainability                             33                   33
Land administration and management                                    17                   17
Rural policies and institutions                                       33                   33
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization                 17                   17

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Philippe H. Le Houerou               Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:          Keiko Sato                           Ajay Chhibber
Sector Manager:            Dina Umali-Deininger                 Joseph R. Goldberg
Program Team Leader:       Holger A. Kray                       John D. Nash
ICR Team Leader:           Holger A. Kray
ICR Primary Author:        Joseph R. Goldberg


F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The primary development objective of the Agricultural Reform Implementation Project
(ARIP) is to help implement the Governments agricultural reform program, which is
aimed at dramatically reducing artificial incentives and government subsidies, and
substituting a support system that will give agricultural producers and agro-industry


                                                ii
incentives to increase productivity in response to real comparative advantage. At the
same time, the project is designed to mitigate potential short-term adverse impacts of
subsidy removal, and facilitate the transition to efficient production patterns. Aside from
promoting allocative efficiency, the reforms to be implemented are necessary for fiscal
stabilization. The agricultural policy reforms are supported in part financially by the
Bank under the Economic Reform Loan (ERL).

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target       Formally         Actual Value
                                               Values (from         Revised          Achieved at
    Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                 approval            Target        Completion or
                                                documents)           Values         Target Years
                   Increase of real value added in agriculture (net of subsidies) at target rate of
Indicator 1 :
                   3% per annum
                                                                                27.3 billion TL in
Value              21.2 billion YTL                                             real 2001 prices;
                                            26.1 billion YTL
(quantitative or   (quadrillion old TL) in                                      3.99% avrg.
                                            in 2001 prices
Qualitative)       real 2001 prices                                             increase per annum
                                                                                over project term
Date achieved      12/31/2001               12/31/2008                          12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                               Values (from                       Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                 approval                       Completion or
                                                               Target Values
                                                documents)                       Target Years
                   Share of farmers registered in National Register of Farmers and receiving
Indicator 1 :
                   Direct Income Support (DIS)
                                                                              Almost 100% of
Value                                       EOP target is 95%
                                                                              2.75 eligible and
(quantitative or   0                        of 3.1 million
                                                                              registrable farms
Qualitative)                                farmers
                                                                              are registered.
Date achieved      12/31/2000               12/31/2008                        12/31/2008
Comments
                   Target value as established in 2000 a) overestimated total number of eligible
(incl. %
                   farmers and b) did not anticipate structural change.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :      Agricultural Sales Cooperatives Unions (ASCUs) which have been



                                                iii
                   restructured or ceased operations by end of project.
                                                                             10 restructured, 1
                                                                             ceased operations, 4
Value                                      All 16 restructured
                                                                             implementing
(quantitative or   0                       or ceased
                                                                             restructuring plans,
Qualitative)                               operations
                                                                             1 show little
                                                                             activity
Date achieved      12/31/2000              12/31/2008                        12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :      Land Titling Sub-component activities
                                                                             6.6m parcels
                                                                             completed in
                                                                             overall TKGM
Value                                                                        program o.w. 2.8m
(quantitative or   0                       3.3 million parcels               parcels (4.7m ha)
Qualitative)                                                                 with direct ARIP
                                                                             funding benefiting
                                                                             400,000 rural
                                                                             families.
Date achieved      12/31/2000              12/31/2008                        12/31/2008
                   2.8m parcels ARIP funded; remaining 3.8m parcels completed with TKGM
Comments
                   revolving fund replenished land registration fees from ARIP activities.
(incl. %
achievement)
                   Work on 0.5m parcels continues with GOT funding.
Indicator 4 :      Village Based Participatory Investment Sub-component activities
                                                                              1,097 investment
                                                                              projects completed
                                                                              in three rounds(135
                                           200 public and 200                 public, 196
Value                                      individual and 110                 individual/group,
(quantitative or   0                       group proposals                    and 766 individual
Qualitative)                               for $ 30 million                   under
                                           grant funds.                       machinery/equipme
                                                                              nt regulation in
                                                                              Round 3) for $ 52.4
                                                                              million grant funds
Date achieved      03/31/2005              12/31/2008                         12/31/2008
Comments           Achievement level exceeds original target following the initiation of a third
(incl. %           round of investments in 2007 and reallocation of loan resources to this sub-
achievement)       component upon CD approval
Indicator 5 :      Land Consolidation Sub-component
                                                                              65,662 ha including
                                                                              1,094km of field
Value
                                           52,640 ha of area                  access roads
(quantitative or   0
                                           to be covered.                     covered in 77
Qualitative)
                                                                              villages under 19
                                                                              contracts.


                                                iv
Date achieved      03/31/2005                12/31/2008                        12/31/2008
                   7 contracts completed by Oct 2008; 9 completed by Dec 2008. 3 contracts
Comments
                   initiated under ARIP completed thru GOT financing in 2009 (GOT declaration
(incl. %
                   of budget availability has been precondition to issuance of no-objections for
achievement)
                   initiation of these activities
                   Environmentally Based Agricultural Land Utilization Sub-Component
Indicator 6 :
                   (CATAK)
                                                                               4,060 ha; GOT
                                                                               expanding program
Value                                                                          to 5 further
(quantitative or   0                         5,000 hectares                    provinces in 2009
Qualitative)                                                                   and 10 further
                                                                               provinces in 2010
                                                                               4,060 ha.
Date achieved      03/07/2005                10/20/2008                        12/31/2008
Comments
                   GOT expanding program to 5 further provinces in 2009 and 10 further
(incl. %
                   provinces in 2010 using own state budget resources
achievement)
Indicator 7 :      Institutional Reinforcement of Farmers# Organizations (IRFO)
                                                                            2,517 managers /
                                           staff of 400 FOs                 board members of
                                           provided with                    750 FOs provided
                                           management and                   with managerial
Value              no capacity building to organizational                   support/training; -
(quantitative or   Farmers' Organizations support - members                 37,760 FO
Qualitative)       (FOs) provided          and staff of 2,100               members of 1,350
                                           FOs provided with                FOs provided with
                                           training and                     training/education
                                           education services               services; - 959
                                                                            trainers trained
Date achieved      03/07/2005              10/20/2008                       12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                             DO                         IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     09/11/2001           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   21.00
  2     12/13/2001           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   46.83
  3     05/07/2002           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   60.05
  4     07/18/2002           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  160.05
  5     12/12/2002           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  167.37
  6     05/12/2003           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  169.17
  7     12/04/2003           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  188.78


                                               v
  8    05/28/2004       Satisfactory            Satisfactory           201.21
  9    11/23/2004       Satisfactory           Unsatisfactory          308.57
 10    06/01/2005       Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory    326.29
 11    09/02/2005       Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory    331.29
 12    12/12/2005       Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory    347.17
 13    06/27/2006       Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory    355.74
 14    01/11/2007       Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory    394.30
 15    07/25/2007       Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory    422.08
 16    06/17/2008       Satisfactory            Satisfactory           493.25
 17    06/15/2009       Satisfactory            Satisfactory           521.31


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
 05/24/2004               S       S         201.21
 05/16/2007               S      MS         415.01




                                       vi
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

      1. Turkey was hit by a series of economic crises in 1999, 2000, and early 2001, products of
         increasingly interventionist and populist macroeconomic and sectoral policies combined
         with deficit financing and a crawling peg foreign exchange regime. While real GDP
         contracted by 4.7% in 1999 and 7.5% in 2001 (interspersed with a period of vigorous
         growth in 2000), the real crisis during which the Agricultural Reform Implementation
         Project (ARIP) was appraised and approved by the World Bank Board of Directors was
         one of hyperinflation, banking illiquidity, and massive budgetary and foreign exchange
         imbalances.


      2. Agriculture was a prime sectoral source of many of these problems. Still holding over
         35% of the labor force (and a similar proportion of the population), it had long been the
         subject of a complex variety of both budgetary subsidies and quantitative protection
         (tariffs and quotas) seeking to appeal to various rural voter blocs. The price of every
         significant agricultural product (including those primarily exported, such as hazelnuts)
         was held above world price levels through a combination of purchases by official (state
         economic enterprises - SEEs) and unofficial (Agricultural Sales Cooperative Unions -
         ASCUs) parastatals, and tariff protection. Every agricultural input was also heavily
         subsidized, with the largest expenditures on credit. Annual fiscal transfers to agriculture
         in 1999 increased to a great extent1, while Turkish consumers paid billions more for
         overpriced goods which were actually cheaper on world markets. Despite this
         expenditure, agriculture had been growing extremely slowly for decades, the livestock
         subsector was lagging behind crops rather than becoming the leading edge of agriculture
         as in most rapidly developing countries, about half of the officially irrigated area would
         receive no water in any given year, and the rural areas and population were falling further
         behind their urban counterparts despite constant heavy internal migration.


      3. In this situation, the Bank's work in agriculture focused first of all on trying to
         reintroduce the rudiments of economic rationality to the sector, initially in 1998 through a
         series of policy notes proposing the partial or total privatization of such SEEs as TEKEL
         (cigarettes and hard spirits), SEKER (beet sugar), CAYKUR (tea), TMO (grain), and the
         de facto privatization of the panoply of ASCUs handling cotton, hazelnuts, figs, grapes
         and raisins, olives and olive oil, sunflower seeds, mohair, and several other commodities.
         The price support functions carried out by these entities were also proposed to be
         abandoned, in fairly gradual but nevertheless serious ways. Similarly, the subsidized
         credit functions carried out by the Agricultural Credit Cooperatives, backstopped by the
         state-owned Ziraat (Agriculture) Bank, were also abandoned, following legislative
         adjustments for public banks. A highly innovative concept in the policy package was the
1
    According to World Bank estimates annual fiscal transfers to agriculture totaled over US$ 6 billion (3% of GDP).


                                                           1
      concept of a Direct Income Support (DIS) system, to compensate members of the farming
      community for loss of the great part of the product and input price subsidies, with
      periodic direct cash payments from the state budget, without mediation by institutions of
      any sort including line ministries. Various versions of this concept had been tried in
      Romania and Mexico, as well as developed countries, and the experiences served to
      inform the DIS development in Turkey.


   4. This program of agricultural reform was a constituent part of the Economic Reform Loan
      (ERL) of 2000. First steps in capping and reducing some of the subsidies were taken in
      1997 and the following years, but the ERL set harder targets including for privatization of
      agricultural SEEs. The ERL Letter of Development Policy also spelled out the main
      features of the impending DIS, to be introduced in 2000-2002 following a piloting phase
      and the preparation of a National Farmer Registry. The focus throughout the agriculture
      section was on fiscal savings, to which agricultural reform was to contribute about 1% of
      GNP (a figure far exceeded in fact) with many more benefits to Turkish consumers due to
      lower prices. That Letter also committed to "investment project lending to complement
      the ERL," which would assist the Government with "design and implementation of the
      direct income support program, the establishment of a broader agricultural database,
      implementation of the alternative crop program, and the restructuring of the agricultural
      sales cooperative unions into autonomous cooperatives." Fifteen months ahead of ARIP
      processing, this was a fairly accurate description of the later project. The complexity of
      actually implementing this series of radical steps, persuaded all stakeholders that an
      investment program was required to provide intensive and longer-term Bank assistance
      and support.


   5. Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) linkages. As the macroeconomic situation rapidly
      deteriorated in late 2000 and early 2001, the Country Assistance strategy evolved into a
      more urgent crisis-driven mode. Thus while ARIP was included in the high case of the
      CAS discussed in December 2000, it was then conceived as a $400 million investment
      loan. In light of the crisis of February 2001, a CAS Progress Report was prepared for
      discussion in June 2001 which presented ARIP as a hybrid loan of $600 million, with a
      more urgent emphasis not only on completing the agricultural reform program (for a
      mixture of stabilization and efficiency/growth reasons), but also to help protect the farm
      community who would see subsidies radically reduced. Indeed the $200 million of
      adjustment tranches added to the loan were stated to help Turkey finance the initial DIS
      payments.


1.2 Original Program Development Objectives, Components, and Key Indicators (as
approved)

   6. Objectives. The development objectives from the Project Appraisal Document (PAD)
      are given above in the Results Framework Analysis, Section F, page iii. A somewhat
      different ordering of objectives was given in Annex 1 of the PAD. The objectives were :

                                               2
          (a) improving economic efficiency/productivity in the sector; (b) protecting farmers to
          some extent from income losses due to reform measures; and finally (c) fiscal
          stabilization. It may be argued that the real main objective of the entire enlarged CAS
          program (and the enlarged ARIP operation too) by that time was fiscal stabilization, and
          the other goals actually means to that end. Indeed, in the midst of a catastrophic short-
          term crisis of bank failures, enormous budgetary and current account deficits, inflation of
          nearly 100% p.a., capital flight, and foreign exchange rate collapse, an adjustment-
          oriented operation aimed at short-term stabilization was needed more than an operation
          aimed at sectoral efficiency through large developmental investment, aimed at generating
          or importing new technologies and disseminating them throughout Turkey.


       7. The project was aimed at all three objectives, through:
(i)       an adjustment element, consisting of two tranches of $100 million each, the first intended
          for as early as late 2001, and conditional on general abidance of macroeconomic and
          agricultural policies with written agreements, a 2001 revised budget with no increase in
          agricultural subsidies, and startup of DIS payments, defined as 25% of farmers registered
          and half of these actually paid. This tranche required extensive real work both in Ankara
          (e.g. software development, etc.) and in the field, actually canvassing and registering
          farmers. The second tranche had similar policy conditions but required twice as many
          farmers to be registered and paid DIS.

       8. The investment components were:
(ii)      Component A, Direct Income Support. This supported the Ministry of Agriculture and
          Rural Affairs (MARA) to create the National Registry of Farmers (NRF) throughout
          Turkey, and the General Directorate of Land Registry and Cadastre (TKGM) to try to
          accelerate completion of the Turkish cadastre (on which the NRF was largely based)
          through provision of computers, software, and labor services (canvassers, surveyors,
          etc.). The main areas of focus were the poorer and more remote provinces of eastern
          Turkey, where land registration activities had always lagged.

(iii)     Component B, Farmer Transition. This was intended to physically reduce areas of two
          crops in perennial oversupply, primarily hazelnuts and to a much smaller degree, tobacco.
          While production of both had been stimulated for years by mandated excessively high
          purchase prices, for hazelnuts by the ASCU Fiskobirlik, for tobacco by the SEE TEKEL,
          these entities were routinely forced to physically destroy their purchases, in order to
          maintain the price support function. The costs of these programs, buried in enterprise
          debts rolled over or forgiven, amounted to hundreds of millions of dollars per year.
          Component B was to pay existing hazelnut farmers generous allowances to uproot their
          trees and bushes, and then again to plant and raise any of a wide menu of alternative
          crops not in perennial glut. Tobacco, as an annual crop, did not have an uprooting
          allowance, but did have the alternative crop provision. This component also was the
          responsibility of MARA.

(iv)      Component C, Agricultural Sales Cooperatives and Unions Restructuring. This
          component came under the Ministry of Industry and Trade (MIT), the historical
                                                   3
         controlling agency for the ASCUs. The ASCUs were highly overstaffed with permanent
         employees (as agricultural purchasing agencies, most of their staffing should of course be
         seasonal), typically political appointees even down to menial staff, with politically
         inflated wage rates far beyond all Turkish norms. The appraisal estimate was that 12,000
         of the 16,500 permanent employees were redundant. Much of the implementation of this
         component came under a new ASCU Law of June 2000, passage of which was an
         effectiveness condition of the ERL. The law essentially specified the right of ASCUs to
         reduce the labor force, but with severance payments mandated by Turkish law. These
         payments were beyond the capabilities of the technically bankrupt ASCUs, deeply in debt
         to the Government (and many of them to commercial lenders as well), and until then
         dependent on recurrent loans and grants from Government. With that regime now
         ending, ARIP assumed the burden of financing these severance payments for 16 specified
         ASCUs stretching across Turkey. This was seen as the first step to any possible survival
         strategy to be followed by possible commercialization of these large organizations. The
         Government and Bank agreed on limiting final Government financing of ASCU crop
         purchases to a total of 250 million TL equivalent, which when repaid would be placed in
         a revolving fund for all ASCUs. This fund would be governed by the recommendations
         of an independent Restructuring Board, created under the project to govern this and all
         other Government and project assistance to the ASCUs, including TA and training of
         many kinds and assistance with business plans. The revolving fund was an
         acknowledgement that the ASCUs could not become prime commercial bank clients
         overnight, and it bore a high interest rate to compensate for this. A smaller unit was
         formed under the component to try to coach and train primary coops (the constituents of
         the ASCUs) into becoming true cooperatives commercially operated and managed by
         members.

(v)      Component D, Project Support Services. Aside from the normal project management
         and fiduciary functions, this component was intended to finance information campaigns
         to explain to the farm community why subsidies needed to be cut, how to apply for DIS
         payments, and related topics. It also covered social assessments, some research into
         topics such as the feasibility of agricultural insurance, the state of rural finance in Turkey,
         and other topics related to implementation and impact of agricultural reform in the
         country. Much of the consultancy costs for fiduciary and other general administrative
         functions were financed by the UNDP under a cost-sharing agreement.

      9. Indicators. Original indicators are covered in detail in Annex 1 of the PAD. However,
         there is some confusion in the presentation between higher level objectives of the CAS,
         and those of the project per se. Thus, listed under "sector related CAS goals", alongside
         phase-out of subsidies and privatization of SEEs, is nationwide extension of the DIS
         system (to the final coverage of 95% of all farmers registered and paid), and fairly
         detailed benchmarks for reform of the ASCU system, both of which were tied fairly
         directly to implementation of ARIP. The cumulative extension of the DIS system was
         listed both as benchmarks against specific dates, and as conditions for the two adjustment
         tranches. One goal was listed (increase in agricultural productivity) which seems only
         obliquely related to project actions, while a very specific objective (of farmers on
         136,000 ha growing subsidized crops switching to other crops) was listed for the original
         Farmer Transition component. On the other hand, a hybrid operation spanning major
         changes in sectoral policy, creation of major new institutions (DIS), and some very
                                                   4
         specific investment components, could probably be expected to have diverse and varied
         objectives and indicators.


1.3 Revised Program Development Objectives, Components, and Key Indicators

      10. The project was formally restructured in 2005, resulting in a fairly radical transformation
          of the project (see Table 1). The adjustment component was widely considered a success,
          in terms of severely reducing agricultural subsidies (at least temporarily) and bringing
          those remaining on budget rather than inflicting them as haphazardly compensated duty
          losses on parastatals and state-owned banks; of creating a working DIS reaching the vast
          majority of landowners of Turkey, and of commencing a serious restructuring process in
          most of the agricultural parastatals. Thus investment components A and C were also
          viewed as successes, though large savings had been realized in the latter. Investment
          Component B, Farmers' Transition, the largest of the original investment components,
          had failed, essentially due to the skepticism of hazelnut farmers that the GOT would ever
          actually cease supporting the price of their crop by large purchase, storage, and crushing
          programs. Takeup of the uprooting grants was so small that the great bulk of the original
          amount of over $180 million, was unused. As it turned out, freak freezes in the eastern
          Black Sea region in 2004 killed so many hazelnut trees and bushes, that the world price
          of the crop was driven to record levels, at least twice the long-term average, making
          government support programs superfluous for several years. This left a large volume of
          funds unutilized.


      11. Meanwhile, MARA, the main implementing Ministry, noted that while the severe
          cutbacks of government subsidy programs to agriculture may have been necessary, the
          Bank's agricultural program in Turkey (which by then had become little besides ARIP)
          lacked positive rural development elements. With the encouragement of the project team,
          MARA made extensive proposals for new investment programs to be financed by the
          loan, with the large savings mentioned above, and which by 2004 were increasingly
          oriented towards the sorts of programs favored by the EU for pre-accession funding. The
          two sides worked together to select and refine the series of reconfigured and new
          subcomponents which emerged. The development objectives of the operation were not
          formally changed, although the GOT and the Bank agreed on an Agricultural Policy
          Paper in April 2004, whose principles and recommended policies were incorporated into
          a Framework Agricultural Law, which the new ARIP programs were meant to advance.
          These programs were:
(i)    Expansion of Land Registration activities under Component A. From the beginning, a
       relatively small sum (about $12.7 million) was earmarked to indirectly support the
       completion of the Turkish cadastre, by providing equipment and software to TKGM to
       complete the computerization of existing land records in 19 eastern provinces (of 81 in
       Turkey). These funds were never used. In the restructuring process over $50 million was
       allocated to the full range of registration and cadastre survey services and equipment (as
       well as required aerial photography, geodetic control and base mapping), to directly
       complete the registration process in over 2,500 villages in the less developed regions of
       Turkey. This was seen as both instrumental to the rapid completion of the NRF, and also
                                                  5
as a significant good in its own right, bringing security of tenure to a region where this was
uncommon. This restructured subcomponent proceeded so well that it was later formally
expanded to over $100 million worth of work, one of the largest focussed land registration
and cadastre campaigns ever assisted by the Bank. The aggregate target was to issue first
titles to 3.3 million parcels.




                                           6
Table 1: Project Structure ­ Before and After 2005 Restructuring

                                             Project Components                                                Implementing Agencies
At Entry                                          After Restructuring
ADJUSTMENT COMPONENT                              ADJUSTMENT COMPONENT
Tranche I                                                                                                              GoT
Tranche II                                                                                                             GoT
                                      -------------------------------------------------------
DIRECT INCOME SUPPORT                             DIRECT INCOME SUPPORT
National Registry of Farmers                      National Registry of Farmers                                      MARA/SDC
Support to Land Registry & Cadastre               Expansion of Land Registration Activities                           TKGM
                                      -------------------------------------------------------
FARMER TRANSITION                                 FARMER TRANSITION
Alternative Crops Programs                        Alternative Crops Program                                       MARA / TUGEM
                                                  Land Consolidation                                              MARA / GDAR
                                                  Village Based Participatory Investments (VBPIP)                MARA / TEDGEM
                                                  Institutional Reinforcement of Farmer Organizations (IRFO)     MARA / TEDGEM
                                                  Environmentally-Based Land Utilization (CATAK)                  MARA / TÜGEM
                                      -------------------------------------------------------
ASCU RESTRUCTURING                                ASCU RESTRUCTURING
Cooperative Development                            Cooperative Development                                           RB/ExUnit
Restructuring Support                               Restructuring Support                                            RB/ExUnit
    -Job Loss Compensation Payments                   -Job Loss Compensation Payments
    - Restructuring Support                           - Restructuring Support
                                                    Licenced Warehousing
                                                      - Turkish Grain Board                                            TMO
                                                      - Agricultural Sales Cooperatives Unions                         MIT
                                      -------------------------------------------------------
PROJECT SUPPORT SERVICES                          PROJECT SUPPORT SERVICES
Public Information Campaign                        Public Information Campaign                                         UoT
Advisory Services                                   Advisory Services                                                  UoT
Social Monitoring and Evaluation                    Social Monitoring and Evaluation                                   UoT
Project Management                                  Project Management                                                 UoT


                                                                        7
       12. Four new subcomponents were created under Component B. They were:


(ii)    Land Consolidation. As in most long-settled, traditional societies, agricultural land in
        Turkey is highly fragmented, and two agencies in MARA, the General Directorate of Rural
        Services (GDRS) and the General Directorate of Agricultural Reform (GDAR) had land
        consolidation programs with real records of achievement. A large pilot program was
        designed to consolidate over 52,000 ha of farmland in 7 provinces, which was eventually
        implemented by GDAR as GDRS was abolished in 2006. An important goal of the
        program was to provide to the great bulk of enlarged parcels direct access to either existing
        or newly built irrigation canals and field access roads, with field access roads also financed
        by the project.

(iii) Village Based Participatory Investments Programs (VBPIP). This pilot program (for
      16 provinces) was specifically designed as a precursor for EU pre-accession programs. It
      consisted of public and private investment programs, with village infrastructure
      investments enjoying a higher grant element (up to 75%) and higher funding limits (for
      costs up to $300,000), than private agroprocessing investments (up to 50% grant and
      $250,000 in costs). In 2007 the public investment program in VBPIP was discontinued
      upon request of the Government. GDRS was actually more important in the field of rural
      infrastructure than in land consolidation. When it was abolished, the vacuum in that field
      quickly became apparent, until finally a new rural infrastructure progam (Koydes) was
      formulated with extremely generous funding for rural infrastructure. It was then decided
      that the VBPI program would henceforth focus on small rural industries, although a
      temporary program of supplying highly specific machinery and equipment (such as drip
      irrigation, haybalers, cold chain equipment) was also mounted as part of the program. This
      pilot became so popular that it is now being implemented in all 81 provinces of Turkey, the
      rest with GOT funds.

(iv) Environmentally Based Agricultural Land Utilization (CATAK, the Turkish
     acronym). This program was aimed at replacing environmentally intrusive agricultural
     practices with substantially less disrupting forms of land use, in areas of particular
     environmental value in terms of wildlife and other natural assets. It was initially based at
     four specific nature- reserve areas - the Seyfe Lake area in Kirsehir province, Kovada Lake
     area in Isparta province, Eregli Marshes area in Konya province, and the Sultan Marshes
     area in Kayseri province. Farmers in those areas were offered three different programs:
     Category 1, intended to form the margins of such valuable wetlands, offered the equivalent
     of US$400/ha annually for a true environmental set-aside, permitting planting of only
     permanent grasses and trees. Category 2 offered $900/ha annually for adoption of reduced
     flow (including drip) irrigation, organic farming, contour tillage, and other less polluting or
     erosion inducing methods. Category 3 paid US$ 400/ha annually to switch from annual
     cropping and intensive grazing to reduced grazing densities and pasture rehabilitation.

(v)     Institutional Reinforcement of Farmers Organizations (IRFO). Expanding on the
        initial "downsizing" involvement with agricultural sales cooperatives and their unions,

                                                   8
     IRFO was a very large technical assistance and training program for every sort of
     agricultural cooperative body present in Turkey, from water user associations to livestock
     and forestry cooperatives. The thrust of the training programs was generally basic financial
     management, commercial practice skills, and organizational management per se. The
     subcomponent was focused on 21 provinces, and was managed by a joint venture (Turkish
     acronym ­TAKOG) of seven major cooperative unions, formed specifically for this
     purpose. The formation of TAKOG was seen by the cooperative movement as a major
     achievement in itself, and indeed created the potential for further advances in farmer
     cooperation within an EU CAP ­ approximation process.

(vi) Warehouse Receipts. The final new subcomponent created by the project restructuring
     involved the ASCUs which had downsized their permanent staff under Part C of the
     project, and also involved the continuation of initiatives developed under an earlier
     Learning and Innovation Loan for commodity market development. In that earlier project,
     legal and analytical steps were taken (such as determination of official Turkish standard
     specifications for grades of wheat and cotton) which would lay the basis for warehouse
     receipts as an accepted financial instrument in the country. Aside from creating several
     operating commodity exchanges, analytical laboratories (the first in Turkey) were built and
     equipped to establish an objective framework for the trading. Here, the new subcomponent
     was intended to finance substantial high quality storage facilities which could operate as
     bonded warehouses, and eventually as destination warehouses for futures contracts. The
     storage facilities were to be funded on a matching grant (50-50) basis with ASCUs which
     abided by all ARIP project conditions, such as repayment of all credits to the government
     revolving fund. This process was governed by the project's Restructuring Board, which also
     held approval authority for the investments themselves. Such funding was also available to
     the Turkish Grain Board (TMO), and was to cover sampling and testing laboratories and
     information and communications equipment, in addition to storage facilities per se. As
     with previous activities involving the ASCUs, the MIT was the supervising authority, and
     in practice provided a substantial amount of technical assistance to the ASCUs.

1.4 Other Significant Changes

   13. The restructuring of 2005 converted a highly policy-focused hybrid operation into an
       investment program, indeed six new investment components.. Accordingly a major
       extension of the closing date of the loan was needed. At the time, an extension of two
       years (to December 31, 2007) was approved, but turned out to be insufficient for the
       completely new investment activities. Consequently the closing date was eventually
       extended for a third year (to December 31, 2008).


   14. Two further significant changes occurred over the course of the implementation period:
(i)      In a public address in January 2008, the Prime Minister announced the discontinuation of
the DIS program. This foreshadowed a substantive evolution of the Government's policy
program initially supported by the Project and initiated the replacement of the DIS with other,
still area-based, payment schemes (discussed below). This modification in payment provisions,
however, did not change the sector and rural development elements of the current policy

                                               9
program and it continued to rely on the central function of the ARIP-supported National Farm
Registry as the central IT-based integrated system for the administration and control of
agricultural support payments. Consequently the DIS discontinuation did not impact on any of
the Project activities, as ARIP had supported the creation of the administrative infrastructure for
agricultural payments (among which DIS) only, but not financed the about US$ 2 billion in
annual DIS payments.

       15. The decision could be derived from the following reasons: As a non-discretionary
           financial transfer to millions of households without mediation by MARA officials, and
           indeed with no actual link to specific agricultural activities, DIS was never particularly
           popular among MARA officials. It violated the production ethos inculcated among
           agricultural professionals for decades. A second line of argument was that the EU itself
           in recent years has begun to move the prime focus of rural support away from purely
           decoupled "area payments" and towards increasing focus on integrated rural development
           support, and that in converging to EU systems, Turkey might also do so. Other bases for
           opposition to DIS, sometimes given in the Turkish press, included the regressive nature
           of the payment distribution, since payments were based on per hectare norms up to a
           ceiling of 50 ha, and thus largely followed the distribution of landholdings. In areas
           where high value crops (e.g. figs, grapes, dates, hazelnuts, irrigated cotton, citrus) are
           grown, farms of even 10 or 20 ha generate very high incomes. A figure frequently
           quoted, was that 50% of the payments went to 17% of the landowners, closely mirroring
           the distribution of land. Indeed Bank staff foresaw this result during preparation, and
           argued strongly for much lower caps on payment hectarages, e.g. 20 ha and even 10 ha,
           which would have enabled higher payments per ha and more progressivity. The PAD
           actually indicates that higher progressivity would be achieved after startup of the program
           - though without legal backing. The major Bank study of the impacts of the agricultural
           reform program2 argued for increasing the per hectare payments for the smaller half of
           farms (under five ha) and substantially reducing the per hectare payments for cultivated
           farmland above the median farm size. But this approach was rejected by MARA and
           other policy-makers, with a typical argument being the possibility of cadastral
           subdivision among members of wealthy families. Thus over the years, MARA persuaded
           the Bank to accept a reduction in the hectare norm for payments (from US $100 to $70),
           and a gradual decline in the initially dominant proportion that DIS represented in
           MARA's expenditure programs. Still, as late as the 2004 Agricultural Policy Paper, it
           was agreed that DIS would represent over half of the value of all rural support programs,
           this was incorporated into the Framework Agricultural Law for the period 2006-2010,
           and indeed was actually adhered to into 2008.


       16. At the time of its development and initial implementation, the DIS was intended as partial
           but quick, temporary and non-distortionary compensatory payment to the farm
           community for the withdrawal of the enormous panoply of output and input subsidies. It
           is thus considered to have already served this critical purpose at the time of the
           restructuring. At project entry the Bank team had no strong position on the duration of the

2
    Turkey: A Review of the Impact of the Reform of Agricultural Sector Subsidization, January 7, 2004.



                                                                      10
   DIS program (no such position is conveyed in project documents), but the 2005
   Restructuring package reiterated the medium-term intent for a shift from direct income
   support to integrated rural development assistance. ARIP's adjustment tranches were
   not used to help fund DIS payments in early years, as some anticipated. All such
   payments were made from the Turkish budget.


17. With the macroeconomic reform programs of 2000-2001, not only was subsidized
    agricultural credit largely eliminated, but closure of rural branches of state-owned
    commercial banks (especially in eastern Turkey, where such branches typically were
    unprofitable) compounded the reduction of credit to the poorer rural areas. DIS payments
    certainly helped cushion the effects of sudden disintermediation. In several respects,
    therefore, the presence of DIS was a major boon to Turkey's rural areas, and this presence
    was due largely to MARA's effective implementation of the scheme. Whatever the
    institutional attitudes of MARA toward the program, its execution of it (especially the
    extremely rapid creation of the NRF) over all of Turkey's 81 provinces, entailing
    overtime work of thousands of field staff over the early project years, was exemplary.


18. In many respects, the program has been discontinued in name only. When the program
    was discontinued in 2008, two new programs with more conventional names were
    instituted, ostensible subsidy programs for diesel and fertilizer. However, the two
    "subsidies" are distributed to all farmers in the NRF as area payments (on the basis of
    landholding), and the payments are not linked to any actual usage of fertilizer or diesel
    fuel. From a support classification perspective they therefore do not represent input
    subsidies but "renamed" decoupled area payments. The sum of the two programs
    amounts to a substantial proportion (about 2/3) of what the latest DIS would have been.
    Thus, while the stated rationale of the DIS program seemed to gather political opposition
    as the years went by, the substance of the program apparently did not, and still continues
    today.


19. Various investment subcomponents newly added or expanded at restructuring underwent
    major changes in scope or content as they were implemented. As noted above, extension
    and modernization of the cadastre became a major program of world class size and
    quality, now being assisted by a separate Bank project. The VBPI program both changed
    in content (losing its rural works aspect) and expanded nationwide too, and attracted EU
    interest for future financing. On the other hand, the Warehouse Receipts subcomponent
    never fulfilled the expectations of 2005. Based on legal provisions preventing state
    commercial entities (here: TMO) from receiving Bank loan funds, this investment was
    discontinued after considerable progress had been made. On the ASCU side, serious
    adherence by the Restructuring Board to project and government loan conditions
    eventually restricted this program's clientele to three or four of the 16 ASCUs, and then
    various commercial and procurement difficulties eliminated all but one ASCU investment
    program from inclusion. Marmarabirlik, a major olive cooperative (with about 30,000
    members) in the Marmara Sea Region, is now completing investments started with

                                           11
      project funds at two complexes, to store and process black olives and to store olive oil.
      However, the great bulk of loan funds allocated to this sub-component were cancelled.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry

   20. Project preparation in many respects faced a daunting task. The magnitude of the
       distortions which had molded Turkey's agriculture sector over several decades was
       enormous. The main line ministry concerned, MARA, was like most line ministries in
       the world, focused on production, yet the task at hand required downsizing. Across the
       board, whether looking at pensioning off excessive staff at ASCUs, reducing hectarage of
       hazelnuts and other highly subsidized crops, and removing subsidies on dozens of outputs
       and inputs, the project's task was to cut back. Even the one unambiguously positive
       aspect of the project, creation of the Direct Income Support system, was not unanimously
       popular throughout MARA. On the other hand, the project did not stand alone. It was
       embedded in a long stream of other reform loans, and as noted above was previewed in
       policy terms by the ERL of the previous year, on which the same Bank agricultural team
       worked. This reform momentum greatly facilitated the project's ability to engender
       radically innovative steps.


   21. Much of project preparation was spent on analyzing reform and investment programs
       which never really came to fruition. While an idealistic activity was designed to assist
       (chiefly through TA) in the conversion of the basic cooperatives which constituted the
       ASCUs, into true member-driven coops, it is not clear that such a conversion ever really
       began, even with the later addition of the IRFO subcomponent under the restructuring of
       2005. Only a few ASCUs took the radical transformational steps needed to turn
       themselves into such truly commercial entities. Taris Olive Oil, Marmarabirlik, and
       Trakyabirlik - all three in western Turkey - may be approaching this commercial ideal.
       Tremendous analytical effort was also put into calculating the investment needs for
       replacement of hazelnuts and tobacco by a wide menu of other crops, by means of a
       farmer's transition grant system, which never actually took off, and was then largely
       obviated by weather events.


   22. But given the untried nature of the program prepared, which had to be tailor-made to
       Turkish conditions if it were to have a chance to succeed, it is not clear in retrospect
       whether the parts that succeeded and those that failed could have been distinguished in
       advance. It is clear that the overall thrust of the ARIP did indeed engender the radical
       change in agro-economic policy required to save the GOT billions of dollars equivalent
       of annual spending, at least on a temporary basis, and that these savings were indeed
       required, and achieved for enough years in a row, to enable the country to emerge more
       prosperous than ever from the end-of-century period of crisis. ARIP was not subjected to
       a specific review of quality at entry by QAG, but it was reviewed in 2006 by QAG for
       Quality of Supervision, which at that time included a section on quality at entry. This
       was deemed satisfactory, with the following elements highly satisfactory: relevance of
                                             12
      planned outcomes and key indicators in the results framework to project activities,
      linkage of planned outcomes to the CAS, borrower commitment to the project, and extent
      to which implementation problems were identified during design.
2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation

   23. Implementation did start quickly. While each policy tranche was disbursed somewhat
       later than originally planned, by the time each was released, the main positive trigger -
       the proportion of all farmers registered in the NRF and the proportion actually paid their
       DIS - was far exceeded. This excellent early performance was due to good and thorough
       preparation, the momentum of reform as noted above, the obvious desperation of the
       economic situation (which made the budgetary relief of reduced subsidies an absolute
       necessity), and ownership of the analytical basis of the agricultural reform program by
       the Government of Turkey (GOT). This was extremely strong on the part of the Treasury
       and other core economic agencies, weaker but not negligible within MARA.


   24. Regarding preparation, one specific point might be noted which contributed to the early
       success of the DIS rollout. There was a debate, both within the GOT and within the
       Bank, as to whether DIS payments should be made on the basis of land operated by each
       farmer, or land owned by each landowner. Proponents of the former approach stressed
       the equity of rewarding or compensating the actual farmer, the man or family actually
       working the land. Proponents of the latter stressed administrative feasibility - land
       ownership can be known with a reasonably high degree of certainty (especially with the
       virtual completion of the cadastre under this same project), while it was felt that no real
       certainty would attach to protestations of how many dunams (decares) were operated by
       different families. Economic theory was also quoted to the effect that given certain
       standard theoretic conditions, benefits from land-based payments such as DIS would
       accrue to owners and tenants/lessors in the same proportion no matter which choice was
       made - rental/tenancy arrangements would simply readjust themselves to reestablish
       equilibrium. A pilot project was executed during the agricultural year of 2000, in five
       villages across Turkey, whereby mukhtars (village headmen) had to certify statements of
       how much land each family actually operated. The result was that in each case, the stated
       total of operated farmland was a multiple of the total arable land available. On the very
       practical principle that DIS credibility could not be based on such a dubious factual
       foundation, the decision was made to base payments on ownership. Criticisms of DIS on
       the basis of excessive concern for the interests of landowners would thus seem to be
       misplaced, and this particular aspect of the credibility of the program was never thereafter
       an issue. A strong lesson here, as in many other similar cases, is that a proven path to
       rapid implementation of a new program or activity is a pilot program trying out either the
       new design, or its obvious alternative.


   25. The project was essentially completely redesigned at restructuring, largely at the urging
       of MARA, which wanted some positive development impact on the rural sector other
       than that which might filter down from macroeconomic reform and discipline. This was
       an extremely risky maneuver, since six different projects of various sizes and types (see

                                               13
           Chart 1) had to be prepared and appraised within budgets and a timeframe allocated for
           supervision of one large, already complex project. However, in retrospect it is concluded
           that the result was extremely innovative programs with strong indications of continuing
           support and sustainability (VBPIP and CATAK), a strengthened indigenously designed
           land consolidation program worthy of scaling up, and the very large land registration and
           cadastre program which has virtually completed horizontal coverage of Turkey and is
           now subject to a technological modernization process with the aid of a separate Bank
           loan. Partnership and collaboration with EC staff, based both in Ankara and in Brussels,
           was quite intense during this process. Only the licensed warehouse development
           program and IRFO have fallen short of expectations and may well decline with project
           closure. In total, the restructuring process seems a good example of creative
           opportunism, where during implementation government agencies and a Bank team
           combined to expand a project's impact far beyond what the original design alone would
           have achieved.
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation, and Utilization

     26. Throughout implementation the Project Office was able to keep and report accurate,
         timely data bearing on the implementation of project activities, augmented by the
         reporting of MARA agencies entrusted with various subcomponents, of MIT regarding
         ASCU activities and the status of various agro-industries, of TKGM regarding progress
         in land registration and cadastre, and others, which the PO regularly consolidated and
         edited. But the project team also repeatedly sought independent external views on both
         the performance and impact of project activities. For such a broad and diverse program
         as ARIP, it is not at all clear that a purely statistical M&E system could have done
         anywhere near as well as the qualitatively-oriented approach of major, targeted, M&E
         assessments.


     27. For example, during preparation a series of agro-economic papers (modestly titled rapid
         social assessments) was commissioned from leading Turkish academics, detailing the
         economic and social conditions surrounding the production of tobacco, tea, sugar beets,
         and hazelnuts. These served as a strong baseline for all subsequent work, and ensured
         that the team completed project design with knowledge of actual conditions in the field,
         and provided the best picture available of the likely impact of the reform program and
         indeed the need for DIS. During project implementation a comprehensive "panel-like"
         survey of 5,500 farm households in 500 villages was executed twice - in 2002 and 2004 -
         to measure program impacts and guide subsequent policy-making. 3 Another large
         survey effort, by a consortium of Turkish firms working on the project's public
         information campaign, canvassed over 2,000 of the general public, over 2,000 farmers,
         over 1,000 members of interest groups (i.e. stakeholders), and held 131 direct in-depth
         interviews with interest groups. Their report, of April 2003 ("Initial Research Findings")
         is a compendium of Turkish views of the economic crisis, the agricultural reform
         program, the ARIP project, the DIS system, Turkish politics and governance (including

3
   A thorough review and analysis of the survey results is presented in "Different Perspectives on Agriculture in Turkey", January 2007, by Erol
H. Chakmak, then of the Middle East Technical University and Senior Project Social Advisor for Monitoring and Evaluation, ARIP.



                                                                      14
      corruption), and numerous other topics of interest. These large-scale M&E initiatives
      were bunched in the early years of the project, as the reform process was then a very
      urgent and fast-moving one, as was the need to extricate the country from its
      macroeconomic crisis. The impact study by the Bank's ARIP team itself (see footnote 1
      above), was well-timed as the closure of the "radical reform" period was under way,
      some backtracking was starting with the election of a new government, and pressures for
      creation of a rural development investment program with the remainder of the loan were
      intensifying. This large study captured much data and analytical insights which would
      have been lost if its execution were put off to the end of the project, and indeed this ICR
      depends heavily on its findings (see below).


   28. Finally, in the later years of the project, a different and fairly unique approach was
       employed to capture the reality on the ground, of the implementation of several of the
       new subcomponents as they spread across their various geographical coverages. These
       new programs were subjected to rapid "windscreen" consultant surveys, typically in all or
       the great majority of the provinces in which they were implemented, at the village level,
       employing individual interviews, focus group meetings, and whole village meetings.
       Reporting on these long field surveys employed statistical methods where these made
       sense, augmented by direct analysis. These surveys sometimes unearthed unexpected
       problems, or problems potentially larger than were anticipated. The assessment of the
       cadastre program (October 2007) uncovered a major problem with titling of former forest
       lands, and recommended paths to solution, while the assessment of the Village Based
       Participatory Investment program (July 2008) detailed the problems which had emerged
       in the village infrastructure line of the program, which was shortly thereafter dropped.
       One such multi-province assessment, of the Land Consolidation subcomponent
       (November 2006), was largely aimed at a single question: given that the Turkish land
       consolidation program, including the ARIP subcomponent, moves faster and more
       efficiently than most in the world, including in Western Europe, just how participatory is
       the program? Here the report focused on recommendations for improvement of a
       program which does seem generally participatory and worthy of international support and
       indeed emulation. If such valuable and independently motivated personnel can be found
       in other countries, it is possible that hiring them to perform such thorough and articulated
       rural appraisals is a highly efficient approach to rapidly gaining true and accurate pictures
       of rural programs and conditions, even across countries as large as Turkey.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance, Achievements, and Sustainability of Policy Program

   29. The agricultural reform program was a major element in the overall structural adjustment
       program of Turkey in response to the macroeconomic crisis of 1999-2001. As such, and
       as noted above, some of the reform elements of the package were presaged by the
       agricultural sections of the ERL of 2000, and indeed by analytical work and formal
       discussions between virtually the same team of Bank staff and Turkish government
       officials stretching back to at least 1998. Some of the elements of the reform program,
       such as cuts in fertilizer subsidies, thus actually began before approval of ARIP in July

                                                15
                        2001, but taking ARIP as a process and not merely a loan, it would seem fair to attribute
                        some of these earlier actions to the operation.


     30. Much has been written on ARIP's achievements and shortcomings, as a pillar of the
         overall agricultural Turkish reform effort of those years. Here, four papers will be briefly
         referred to, the two mentioned in footnotes 1 and 2 above, and two other papers written
         by Turkish observers. 4 The Bank study of early 2004 is the earliest of the group, and
         closest to the closure of the reform period (which Prof. Akder dates at 2003), and thus
         focuses most strongly on the outcome of fiscal stabilization. It notes enormous fiscal
         savings in the year 2002 alone, as shown in the graph and table below, borrowed from the
         Bank report (Figure 1.2 of pg. 4 and Table 1.2 of pg. 5, of the subject report).




                                                                  T ren ds o f F iscal T ran sfer s b y Type
                        3,500.0

                        3,000.0

                        2,500.0
        US$ Thousands




                        2,000.0

                        1,500.0

                        1,000.0

                          500.0

                            0.0
                                            1 999                           2000                               2001                          2002

                             Trans fe rs to Agric ultural SO Es         Trans fers to ASCU s                          D irect O utput Su bsidies
                             Input subs idies                           Credit Subs idies                             D irect Inc om e Support


                                                Figure 1: Trends of Fiscal Transfers by Type


4
    These will be a conference paper by Koska, O.D. Atahan and S. Cagatay, "Impact of Agricultural Policy Reform on Regional Rural Poverty
in Turkey," International Conference on Regional and Urban Modelling, June 1-2, 2007, Brussels, Belgium, and a new paper by Prof. A. Halis
Akder, to be published in the International Journal of Agricultural Resources, Governance, and Ecology, entitled "Policy Formation in the
Process of Implementing Agricultural Reform in Turkey" in 2009.



                                                                                     16
             Table 2: Scope and Incidence of Agricultural Subsidy Phase Out, 2002 compared to 1999
                Million US $                    Decline in Fiscal     Change in Agricultural
                                                      Cost             Transfers to Farmers       Efficiency Gain
Transfers to SOEs                                            3,063.0                   -1,026.0               2,037.0
Transfers to ASCUs                                             814.2                     -325.7                 488.5
Direct Output Subsidies                                         -23.6                      23.6                    0.0
Input subsidies                                                290.2                     -290.2                    0.0
Credit Subsidies                                             1,387.6                   -1,110.1                 277.5
                                  Sub - Total                5,531.5                   -2,728.4               2,803.0
Direct Income Support                                       -1,246.7                    1,246.7                    0.0
                                        Total                4,284.8                   -1,481.8               2,803.0
Source: World Bank calculations



  31. These fiscal savings occured in comparison to 1999, which may be considered a fair
      baseline for this operation, standing between the peak year for input (such as fertilizer)
      subsidies, of 1998, and the year 2000 when much of the subsidy retrenchment program of
      both the ERL and ARIP had already started. By 2002, the large costs of the ARIP-
      induced alternative to the subsidy program, the DIS, had already reached substantial
      levels, nearly 70% of their eventual peak.              With these two forces operating
      simultaneously, fiscal costs declined on a net basis by nearly US$ 4.3 billion (2.1% of
      GDP) between the two years, while farmers' incomes (from these factors) decreased by
      nearly US$ 1.5 billion, only a little more than one-third of the savings. The remainder,
      US$2.8 billion per annum or nearly two-thirds of the savings, derived from a reduction in
      the extraordinarily high transfer costs of the input and output subsidy system. As Prof.
      Cakmak concluded in his 2007 paper, "the results indicate that area payment (i.e. DIS) is
      the most effective tool if the intended target is to increase the income of farm households
      at the lowest possible cost to society" (pg. 35). He found that farm households (farm
      landowners and laborers) received 82% of all DIS benefits between 2001 and 2004, while
      only 19% of input subsidies, 41% of market price support, and 47% of deficiency
      payments reached those farmers. In each of the other three types of programs, more
      benefits went to input suppliers than to the farm community. In this regard, ARIP was an
      obvious success.


  32. But there was another contribution to the welfare of the Turkish population, almost as
      large as this fiscal one (to taxpayers) but rarely noted aside from the Bank paper, and this
      was the reduction in consumer prices for agricultural products largely due to reductions
      in tariffs and quotas which also were part of the agricultural reform program. Here the
      Bank report estimates (pg. 11) implicit consumer taxation to also maintain high internal
      prices, at about 7.2 billion Turkish Lira equivalent in 1998, 6.0 billion in 1999, 5.5 billion
      in 2000, and 1.9 billion in 2001. The 1999 figure was worth about US$ 5.2 billion,
      equivalent to 22% of all consumption of agricultural goods. Turkish consumers financed
      55% of the overall support provided to the farmers, in the form of higher food prices;
      about 45 % of support came from the budget.              This was cut to about 8% of the
      consumers' food budget by 2002. As all Turks purchase some of their food, and as many
      in the large urban majority of Turkey earn incomes in similar brackets as the farm
      community (and those poor spend more of their incomes on food than do the wealthier),
      this progression was a second major contribution to the Turkish economy. Technically,

                                                           17
   while the Producer Support Estimate (PSE) declined from 24% in 1999 to 10% in 2001,
   the Consumer Support Estimate (CSE) increased from -22% to -8% in those years. The
   PSE increased to 13% in 2002 with the first tranche of DIS payments, but was still
   among the lowest of OECD countries.


33. Fiscal savings over the years 2002, 2003, and 2004 alone probably exceeded US$10
    billion equivalent, clearly attributable to ARIP, and this contribution to the overall
    program in those early years was probably critical to the emergence of Turkey from its
    short-term crisis and long-term inflationary cycle.


34. The above is not to diminish the fact that there was real income decline in the farm
    community, only half of which was compensated by DIS. According to the Bank report,
    agricultural income fell by 16% (US$ 2.7 billion) between 1999 and 2002, only 4% due
    to declines in output. "The cuts in agricultural subsidies lowered agricultural commodity
    prices and raised input prices, bringing both closer to world price levels" (pg. vii). But
    this depression of agricultural value added and income did not last very long. As the
    table below indicates, agricultural GDP rose sharply to record levels by 2003, and has
    continued to grow (except for serious drought-induced setbacks in 2006 and 2007)
    rapidly since then. Thus farmers did bear a substantial share of the costs of recovery of
    the Turkish economy, as was to be expected since the sector was so highly subsidized
    beforehand, but they also quickly recovered. One may note the rapid recovery and
    growth of the aggregate economy after 2002, a signal that the overall reform program
    was highly successful, and one reason for the declining share of agriculture in total GDP.
    Additionally, this share universally declines with sustained development, but in this case
    has been hastened by drought conditions, unfortunately not well countered by inefficient
    irrigation systems.




                                           18
                                          Table 3: Agricultural GDP

                                   GDP          Share of ag. GDP
               GDP total
                               agriculture        in total GDP
              [billion US$]
  Year                         billion US$]         [percent]
1999              249.8             25.5               10.2
2000              266.6            26.3                 9.9
2001              196.0            16.9                 8.6
2002              232.5            23.5                10.1
2003              303.0            29.4                 9.7
2004              392.2            36.3                 9.3
2005              483.0            43.9                 9.1
2006              530.9            42.6                 8.0
2007              647.1            48.0                 7.4
2008              730.0            55.3                 7.6

(source: TUIK, SPO. Weighted average annual exchange rates from the World Bank Development Data Platform.)



3.2 Relevance, Achievements, and Sustainability of Original Investment Components

    35. Judgments on design and performance of these activities are largely presented above, in
        sections 1.3, 1.4, and 2.2. As originally designed, these investment components were
        largely handmaidens of the policy program, and so would seem to be fairly judged
        similarly to that program. Thus the implementation failure of the Farmers' Transition
        component was largely irrelevant given the success in capping government expenditures
        and losses (at least for several years until fiscal stabilization was achieved) on the ASCUs
        and parastatals, and specifically on hazelnuts and tobacco. One major originally intended
        project expenditure in this area, not yet mentioned, was severance payments for
        retrenched employees of the ASCUs. Slightly over US$ 128 million of the loan was
        originally budgeted for this purpose. This figure was amended downward in the 2005
        restructuring process, and finally resulted in 12,601 employees retrenched and receiving
        payments of slightly over US$ 103 million, or about US$ 8,175 per staff, in accordance
        with Turkish law. This made further survival of many ASCUs and cooperatives feasible,
        and at any rate helped cap government losses in terms of supporting the affected ASCUs.


    36. Two activities of the original DIS component have left highly sustainable legacies - the
        creation of the National Registry of Farmers (NRF), and the virtual completion of the
        coverage of the Turkish cadastre. Both of these efforts were seen as foundations of the
        DIS system, which is why they were included in the project. But both outgrew that
        original purpose during the life of the project. The NRF has become the basic rural
        database of Turkey, and will become increasingly valuable in that role as the base for
        several major EU pre- and post-accession funding programs. The nearly complete
        cadastre and land registry - far ahead in area coverage terms of many countries already in

                                                         19
      the EU - is a prerequisite for a modern and secure banking system and real estate
      industry, and is a huge achievement in its own right, generating enormous revenues and
      general benefits, and will be covered separately in the next section.
3.3 Relevance, Achievements, and Sustainability of Restructured Investment Components

   37. Expansion of Land Registration Activities. At the start of the project both the degree
       of reliable cadastral map/land registration coverage, and the ease of completion of this
       coverage, were optimistically overestimated. National territorial coverage was estimated
       at 83%, which was later reduced to 70%, and even much of this proved to be inaccurate.
       In part, the yawning magnitude of the task paralyzed TKGM, which had to regroup and
       consider how to tackle the initial systematic cadastral survey of 13,000 villages, when the
       agency's capacity was only 350-400 villages per year. TKGM faced a 35-year work
       program if they continued to rely on in-house teams using traditional manual methods.
       The project has made two important contributions here by pushing reliance on private
       sector contractors - which was at first time-consuming since the private cadastral
       surveying industry had to be largely generated from scratch by the tendering process.
       The project also paved the way for increased reliance on rectified orthophoto mapping -
       using as a basis maps consisting of amalgamated aerial photographs with distortions
       removed, a proven technique internationally. Thanks largely to these two breakthroughs,
       four years later (i.e. since the restructuring of the project) 12,400 of those villages have
       their cadastral survey and land registration completed, representing an acceleration of
       initial cadastre and registration work by at least 10 times.


   38. A second factor which made this achievement possible was the decision by the
       government and TKGM to throw part of the huge revenues from the land administration
       process into the campaign, thus financing with their own funds about three times the
       volume of work financed by the loan, but with the same technical specifications,
       contracting procedures, and approaches. Thus in 19 provinces of eastern Turkey, the
       large south-central province of Konya, and four provinces in the rest of Turkey (Antalya,
       Kayseri, Trabzon, and Canakkale), ARIP has financed the survey and registration of 2.9
       million parcels of land in 2,300 villages or other units. TKGM has itself funded (with a
       minor government contribution of US$ 20 million) 8.5 million parcels in 8,100 villages,
       through 392 million Turkish Lira worth of contracts, some of which are still being
       finished. Remaining villages typically presented security or access problems, or complex
       cases of villagers farming (sometimes for generations) one-time forest land, still
       registered officially as such. The total area of land titled was 100,000 km2, or 10 million
       ha, which is larger than many small countries.


   39. This was a remarkable catalytic effect, even considering that US$ 109 million of loan
       funds were finally invested. Equally gratifying were the independent survey reports (see
       section 2.3) showing general satisfaction of beneficiaries, and their strong respect for the
       professionalism and integrity of TKGM staff. The actual cost of cadastre and registration
       work was about US$ 30 per parcel, against an initial estimate of US$ 44. TKGM has
       been generating revenues (fees and taxes) of some TL 1.35 billion per annum, of which it

                                               20
          was allowed to retain TL 180 million per annum for this effort. Finally, beneficiaries of
          the ARIP-funded program alone numbered over 400,000 families (2.7 million people),
          with three times more covered by the self-financed program. A follow-up stand-alone
          project (Land Registry and Cadastre Modernization Project), aimed largely at
          technological enhancement, is now underway. This subcomponent was thus both highly
          successful and sustainable.


     40. Land Consolidation Subcomponent. This subcomponent was intended to cover over
         52,000 ha in 7 provinces at a cost of US$20 million, or about $400/ha5, with roads being
         30% of the cost. Land consolidation in highly developed societies such as the EU
         countries, is normally an extremely slow-moving activity. Typical projects in Western
         Europe, much smaller than this subcomponent in terms of hectares or numbers of farmers
         involved, have varied in duration from 2-4 years in Norway, 10-12 years in Netherlands,
         16-17 years in Germany, and 8-12 years in Finland. Thus there was initially some
         concern that there might be an undue element of agency compulsion in the generally
         successful and quicker process in Turkey. But the majority decision-rule in the Turkish
         program (consent from no less than two-thirds of the population who own more than 51
         % of the land) is virtually the same as in Denmark (the historical leader of land
         consolidation in Europe) and Switzerland, and repeated independent surveys (see e.g.
         Section 2.3 above) have confirmed that no actions were taken in any village until this
         benchmark was passed.


     41. The microgoals were to ensure that every post-project land parcel abutted on a field
         access road (either old or new) and an irrigation canal if the area were irrigated. Parcels
         were also to have more regular shapes, more amenable to machinery operations. All of
         these are major aids to agricultural productivity. All of these criteria were met in all
         surveyed project villages (almost half those in the program) except one, named Gospinari
         (Konya Province), where a local elite opposed to losing certain advantages appear to have
         confused enough villagers with rumors of unfounded consequences, as to prevent the
         achievement of the required double-majority. Repeated visits to the village by GDAR
         and Bank staff and consultants could not undo the damage, and the village had to be
         dropped from the program.


     42. As implementation commenced, GDAR expanded the work (this was foreseen in the
         Amendment paper presented to the Board in 2005) by signing 19 contracts with 7 firms
         covering 65,700 ha in 81 villages in 12 provinces, under 18- and 22-month terms. The
         work entailed inventory (including consultative evaluation of land parcels by soil type,
         location, fertility, and sometimes market price to ensure equivalency for each farmer),
         design, consultation, land leveling, titling, uprooting of trees on old boundaries and

5
   These costs are about half the comparable costs of village land consolidation in Finland. These and following data on Western European
programs are derived from Vitikainen, Arvo, "An overview of Land Consolidation in Europe", Nordic Journal of Surveying and Real Estate
Research, 2004.



                                                                     21
   planting on new boundaries - no dwellings were touched as Turkish villages separate
   housing areas from farmland. About 50 of the villages are now complete, with the rest to
   finish in 2009 (according to GDAR) or 2010 at the latest, with government funds. Roads
   were contracted separately with project funds, and about 1094 km (of 1347 originally
   planned) are now complete in 14 contract areas. About US$ 11 million has been spent.


43. Results of the nearly three-year effort (so far) are quite impressive. In the 18 contract
    areas (i.e. aside from Gospinari), 106,935 original parcels have been reduced to 50,625, a
    consolidation rate of 53% which is acceptable if not exemplary. The fact that 96% of
    current parcels are judged to have a regular shape is more encouraging. While 70% of
    the original parcels had no road frontage, all 50,000 plus of the new ones do. 1838
    concrete bridges over irrigation canals were constructed to ensure road access for all. In
    the short time available to plan and mount this effort, much more than a pilot has been
    achieved, rather a very large demonstration that there is at least a partial cure for land
    fragmentation in Turkey. Access of thousands of farmers to roads and water is now
    incomparably better than before the subcomponent, and farmers have also noticed large
    tractor fuel savings which have multiplied in value with fuel price increases. Regarding
    sustainability, GOT has announced budgets for GDAR land consolidation in 2009 of TL
    184 million (US$112 million) for the normal national program, and an additional TL 157
    million (US$96 million) for land consolidation work in newly developed areas in the
    GAP (Southeast Anatolia) Region. Together this creates one of the larger land
    consolidation programs in the world, and a very professional and humane one.


44. Institutional Reinforcement of Farmer Organizations (IRFO) Subcomponent. This
    subcomponent appears to have been an attempt to carry forward original activities,
    intended to try to redevelop primary cooperatives (in the ASCU system) into true,
    member-directed bodies. The decades of government domination of the national unions
    of cooperatives, which had converted them into parastatals in all but name, had also
    converted the small primary coops into essentially village branches of those parastatals -
    awaiting orders and subsidies, but with no real autonomy. Parts of the original ASCU
    component aimed at trying to redress and restore this autonomy from the bottom
    upwards, had never been activated, due to lack of effective organized interest within the
    system. In addition, "institutional reinforcement" activities designed to assist farmers
    participating in the aborted Farmers Transition component had also never been activated,
    due to lack of participation in that activity.


45. Thus the IRFO subcomponent was one more attempt to create this strengthening of
    grassroots cooperative institutions, now much more broadly than the ASCU system,
    embracing central cooperative unions for forestry, agricultural credit, village
    development, livestock, fisheries, irrigation, and tea growing. These seven unions were
    organized under the leadership of the Central Union of Forestry Cooperatives (OR-
    KOOP) into a joint venture (TAKOG) specifically to implement a very large program
    (US$ 11 million) of research (mainly of the needs and capabilities of Turkey's

                                           22
   cooperatives), capacity building, and training. While a MARA agency (TEDGEM) was
   assigned supervisory responsibility for IRFO, Bank staff made clear that operational
   management by the cooperative structure itself was the only possible path to generating
   the hoped-for autonomy. The stated purposes were rather large but also vague, which
   was probably the major cause of subsequent problems.


46. From the beginning of implementation, Bank staff expressed their concerns with the slow
    pace of implementation of what, to them, was essentially a training program. There were
    repeated strong direct conflicts on this issue, with the Bank team seeing training of coop
    boards, managers, staff, and members in practical business skills as at least one
    measurable and presumably useful output of the exercise. Managers and staff (largely
    consultants) of OR-KOOP and TAKOG seemed to prefer to postpone that phase and to
    spend more time on inventories and research hopefully leading to the larger goals of
    cooperative movement consciousness and development. In the end, a very large volume
    of training at all levels of the cooperative system (mostly, but not entirely, in 21
    provinces and Ankara) was done, with at least 44,000 individuals completing at least one,
    if not several courses in the areas of business administration, accounting and auditing,
    management, project preparation and evaluation, marketing, law and tax legislation, and
    training methodology itself (there was considerable training of trainers). In the later
    years, the role of farmers' organizations in EU countries was added to the menu. A large
    volume of often high quality training materials was produced and distributed.


47. It is virtually impossible to confidently assess the impact of such a dispersed program.
    Indeed it is not clear that there were concrete objectives to such a volume of instruction,
    or real indicators of either quality or impact of the training provided. The implementing
    units report such facts that during the program, "technical" staff as a proportion of total
    coop staff in the 21 provinces rose from about 6% to about 35%, and related to this
    upgrading the number of coops undertaking development projects rose from 21% to 47%.
    The member participation rate in coop general assembly meetings reportedly rose from
    55% to 85%, and several measures of commercial activity are said to have increased.
    These developments across a substantial swath of Turkey cannot be independently
    confirmed. By project completion US$ 6.2 million had been disbursed. However much
    was indeed accomplished, it seems clear that clearer specification of concrete outcomes,
    and more time discipline in moving towards them could have resulted in more substantial
    strengthening of cooperative functions in these areas.


48. Village Based Participatory Investments (VBPIP) Subcomponent.                     This
    subcomponent was probably the one most consciously aimed at developing a program
    which could be easily supported by EU pre- and post-accession funding, much like actual
    SAPARD/IPARD programs in EU countries. It originally encompassed two parallel
    community-based, demand-driven programs, one for public sector activities, and one for
    private. As noted above, the public village works program was replaced by a national
    village works program (Koydes) in 2007, while the commercial agro-industry based

                                            23
   investment program was enhanced with a focused machinery supply program. The
   subcomponent spent over US$ 38 million (TL 50.5 million) in its three years of operation
   in 16 provinces, while the national program based on it was budgeted at TL 300 million
   for 2009, later cut to TL 271 million when budgetary cutbacks were mandated.


49. Survey results indicate that the program has had substantial impacts on the participating
    villages, but that it could have had greater effects with design and agency improvements,
    which likely would have required a longer, more conventional project period to develop.
    The closure of the GDRS rural development agency in 2006 was probably more
    problematic in terms of provision of technical expertise in rural provinces and districts,
    than it was in terms of financing - which could be (and was) quickly replaced. As a
    result, the flow of new, tailored, innovative designs for rural works radically diminished
    before the subcomponent's public works program was terminated, and some works using
    recycled designs may have been suboptimal. For the agro processing investment
    program, rural entrepreneurs, farmers, and village groups had to depend on consultants
    available to them locally for advice and design work, which was typically weakest in the
    most remote and poorest provinces. For these reasons, very poor provinces like Artvin
    and Batman had extremely small investment programs whether in public rural
    infrastructure, commercial agroindustry, or machinery and equipment purchase.


50. On the other hand, the benefits created by the VBPIP are also undeniable. In
    development of pressurized irrigation (drip and sprinkler) alone 1300 farm families
    received advanced (and water saving) irrigation on 3,590 ha from the public investment
    and equipment supply arms of the program, and this was a small part of the total
    subcomponent. At least 1,100 new permanent jobs were directly created by project
    investments, additional part-time employment of at least 1,000 was also generated, and
    many new firms were created. These benefits were only in the 16 project-supported
    provinces, the other 65 provincial programs funded by the government obviously
    generated multiples of such benefits. This program in sum would seem to be a timely
    and innovative contribution to Turkish rural development, it was relevant, and it is
    certainly sustainable.


51. Licensed Warehousing Subcomponent. The initial ARIP focus in dealing with the
    ASCU system was to eliminate the huge losses they inflicted on the Government of
    Turkey, estimated over the long term at US$ 1 billion per year. This was achieved by
    stopping Treasury financing of these entities with a final TL 250 million (US$ 156
    million) revolving fund (which by 2008 had grown to over TL 600 million, with
    repayments at high interest rates) to cover urgent investment and working capital needs
    until they might achieve commercial creditworthiness, and by ARIP financing of US$
    103 million of severance payments to about 75% of the permanent staff of the ASCUs,
    hired at above-market salaries for political reasons. Beyond this, there were some
    substantial technical assistance programs for various levels of cooperative organizations
    and the excellent business governance and practical TA provided by the Restructuring

                                           24
   Board created by the project. However the project was officially indifferent to the
   survival of any or a substantial number of ASCUs: The main indicator called for "100%
   of ASCUs restructured or have ceased operations by end of project."


52. At the 2005 restructuring, a more positive approach was taken, via creation of a project
    window of over US$ 40 million, to finance on matching grant terms investments in
    storage facilities (e.g. silos, warehouses, bins) and IT systems and laboratories to sample,
    test, and grade commodity produce. The concept here was to create high quality licensed
    warehouses which could serve as reference terminals for futures contracts and as issuers
    of warehouse receipts which could be used as collateral by farmers. This concept
    followed up on a successful Learning and Innovation Loan for Commodity Market
    Development, which established clear Turkish grades for wheat and cotton, helped
    establish commodity markets for those commodities in Turkey, and provided laboratories
    to two of those markets. The new and enlarged program was open to all ASCUs abiding
    by certain project rules (such as repayment of debts to the revolving fund) as certified by
    the Restructuring Board, and to TMO, the State Grain Board.


53. The most rapid response to this opportunity was by TMO, which already had excess grain
    silo capacity but needed to upgrade its 18 testing laboratories at silo complexes around
    the country. They tendered for a wide range of IT and testing equipment, selected
    suppliers with Bank approval, and commenced installation. Based on legal provisions
    preventing state commercial entities (here: TMO) receiving Bank loan funds under the
    existing Loan Agreement, the ARIP Loan Agreement was amended on September 24,
    2007, in order to legitimize TMO's past disbursement from the Loan. After this
    amendment, TMO continued its program with its own funds.


54. For the ASCUs, no investments were possible unless a) the sponsoring ASCU passed the
    Restructuring Board's tests for commercial behavior and viability, and b) the ASCU
    found such investments in storage commercially interesting.         This combination of
    criteria proved elusive over the years 2005-2008. One large sunflower seed ASCU,
    Trakyabirlik, passed the Restructuring Board's tests, designed its silos project but then
    received only one extremely high bid for its tender, far above its own calculations of
    economic viability even given the ARIP contribution. In the end, only one ASCU
    (Marmarabirlik) met all criteria and pressed ahead with two large black olive storage and
    processing schemes in its home region, to which ARIP contributed TL 7.5 million (about
    US$ 5 million) or about 40% of pretax total investment costs. The largest contribution of
    this subcomponent to commodity trading in Turkey was probably via the TMO program,
    which was quickly repaid. This subcomponent failed to provide ASCUs a line of
    business as licensed warehouses, or to advance the use of warehouse receipts in Turkey,
    and indeed most of the allocated funds were never touched. Thus while the added
    objectives of this subcomponent were fairly relevant, they were achieved to only a small
    extent, and such achievements are likely not sustainable.


                                            25
55. Environmentally Based Land Utilization (CATAK) Subcomponent. This was
    probably the most innovative and challenging of the new subcomponents introduced in
    the restructuring of 2005. The reason for this judgment is the cultural change it required
    in a ministry (MARA) focused largely on increasing agricultural production since the
    early period of the Ataturk revolution - a cultural orientation largely shared by agriculture
    ministries worldwide. Not only was this activity implemented by MARA rather than a
    Ministry of Environment (arguably a more natural home), but within MARA by
    TUGEM, the General Directorate of Agricultural Production and Development. The
    main difficulty was with the grant Category 1 (described in para 12 above), the actual Set
    Aside category intended for lands abutting on the sensitive and valuable wetlands, where
    only perennial grasses and trees could be planted as buffers to prevent pollution of the
    resource. Here a supervision mission in 2006 found farmers required to dig drains,
    remove stones from fields, deep plough land which should have better been left
    untouched.      This resulted in thorough discussions with TUGEM and MARA
    management, which resulted in an understanding of the true agro-environmental aims of
    the program.


56. In the end, the CATAK program was enthusiastically promoted by TUGEM, although the
    different provinces focused on different categories in actual implementation. Konya,
    Turkey's largest province, large parts of which have been thoroughly desiccated by
    overdrafting of groundwater for irrigation, focused on Category 1, the actual set-aside.
    Kayseri and Isparta focused on Category 2, for adjusted cultivation practices, where
    much of the funding was used for water-saving drip irrigation; between this
    subcomponent and VBPIP, the project helped advance drip irrigation in Turkey. Kirsehir
    Province focused on Category 3, for meadow-pasture rehabilitation. Wells which
    irrigated sugar beet were reportedly closed by the local government to protect Seyfe
    Lake, which pushed local farmers to a dairy cattle focus based on grazing. Significant
    synergies were reportedly achieved then in planting leguminous sainfoin species for dairy
    cattle forage, which also stimulated bee populations and honey production. This
    experience underlined the good agricultural outcomes possible with attention to
    protecting natural resources.


57. In 2009, after the Closing of the ARIP, five more provinces were added by MARA to the
    CATAK program. Nevsehir and Nigde Provinces saw excessive use of fertilizers on
    potato lead to a serious virus infestation and a quarantine on potato planting; Canakkale
    had a national park which required protection; and Karaman and Kahramanmaras both
    suffered desiccation, the former primarily from wind erosion, the latter from excessive
    groundwater overdraft. In 2009 a total of TL 9.5 million is budgeted for CATAK
    programs in the nine provinces.




                                             26
   58. For 2010, the plan is to canvass 25 new provinces regarding interest to join the program,
       of which 10 will be selected and added for that year, bringing the total to 19 provinces.
       Each of the 25 will be asked to identify their environmentally sensitive areas, and
       appropriate CATAK responses to their threats. There now seems to be wide awareness
       that this program does bring major and unique benefits to Turkey, and that it aligns well
       with several EU and EU accession programs. In sum, this subcomponent, despite its
       rocky start, now seems both highly relevant to Turkey's rural future, and sustainable.
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

   59. First and foremost, the ARIP policy package played its designated role in the overall
       stabilization program of 2000-2003 in large part by quickly stemming the massive
       government expenditures which had been inefficiently supporting the agriculture sector.
       While eventually some reintroduction of activity-specific support schemes took place,
       long after rapid growth had resumed, even today, with a GDP 2.5 times greater than in
       2000, aggregate agricultural subsidies do not approach those of 2000. Secondly, the DIS
       system, designed as a compesatory scheme to partially offset farmers' losses due to
       subsidy withdrawal, was indeed implemented fairly rapidly, and did function to
       efficiently inject funds into the rural economy into 2008. Fiscal savings to the GOT
       were extremely large (billions of dollars equivalent per year) even after deduction of
       the costs of the DIS program. This accounts for two of the three PDOs of the project.
       Regarding the third, increasing economic efficiency of the agricultural sector, this was
       also achieved on both the macro and micro-scale by 2004. Programs which failed, such
       as the Farmers Transition component or the attempt to commercialize the ASCUs, were
       conceived as instruments to support these three main goals, and turned out to be not
       crucial to their attainment. Having fully fulfilled the PDOs, the policy package and
       associated original investment program are judged satisfactory.


   60. Of the new or enhanced investment subcomponents resulting from the major project
       restructuring of 2005, two are judged to have had highly satisfactory outcomes. The
       small initial Land Registry and Cadastre subcomponent was developed during
       supervision into one of the largest cadastre programs in the world, with project support
       massively augmented by the agency's own self-generated revenues. Technical and
       private sector contracting innovations introduced under ARIP were critical in the
       achievements here. The Land Consolidation subcomponent also has been a standout in
       worldwide terms, and merits a highly satisfactory rating. Village Based Participatory
       Investments and the highly innovative CATAK program are both rated as satisfactory in
       outcome, and both will likely be taken up by EU IPARD-financed programs. On the
       other hand, the Licensed Warehousing and IRFO cooperative training programs are
       judged unsatisfactory. On balance, the set of investment programs introduced at
       restructuring are judged satisfactory, leading to an overall outcome rating of satisfactory
       for the entire operation.
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

   61. (a)    Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
                                               27
      In the broadest sense, the massive removal of subsidies under the reform program did
      reduce agricultural incomes sharply through 2002, as detailed in Section 3.1. But then by
      2003 agricultural GDP had recovered to record levels, and generally advanced further
      ever since, thus reversing poverty impacts quickly. DIS was specifically developed to
      mitigate the temporary impact. The 2007 paper referenced in footnote 4 above analyzes
      econometrically the relationship between DIS receipts by village and poverty rates, and
      finds that "direct income support has no significant impact, either on poverty or on (the)
      poverty gap." However in the technical findings of the study is the finding that "share of
      direct income support in agricultural income however results in a rise in poverty gap."
      The meaning here may be not that receiving higher DIS payments caused more poverty in
      villages, which would be hard to explain, but rather that there was a degree of targeting of
      DIS towards poorer villages which would actually be a positive result. No specific
      efforts regarding gender or social development were included in project objectives.

      (b)     Institutional Change/Strengthening
      Several important agencies of government were strengthened, and acquired new skills
      and expertise, by their responsibilities under the project. One reason for this was the
      delegation to them of responsibility for implementing all substantive activities. The PO
      performed well but was largely restricted to fiduciary activities (procurement and
      financial management), liaison, and reporting. MARA had the largest range and intensity
      of activities, had to create a new organization to implement the NRF and DIS, and had to
      delegate to various of its agencies new activities like CATAK and VBPIP at the
      restructuring, all of which in the end worked well. The project, through the pilot nature
      of its components, supported MARA's capacity building and programming towards
      implementation of EU pre-accession funds, and the recent 2008 EC monitoring reports on
      Turkey's progress towards EU accession acknowledged that the NRF office is now well-
      prepared to implement the Integrated Administration and Control System of the Common
      Agricultural Policy. While TKGM and MARA's GDAR implemented land registration
      and land consolidation programs they were well experienced in, under ARIP their scale
      and pace of work increased substantially, helped by new techniques and processes. Only
      in the cases of MIT's ASCU office and TAKOG in the case of IRFO, did the project fail
      to build lasting improved capacity.          One temporary institutional structure, the
      Restructuring Board under the PO, performed well in governing Treasury relending to
      ASCUs, and in trying to encourage their commercialization. This could be a model for
      similar industrial restructuring tasks elsewhere.

      (c)    Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)
      There is nothing significant to report.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

   62. Two major formal surveys of beneficiaries and stakeholders were conducted in the early
       years of the project, and are reported on in section 2.3 above. The detailed panel survey
       of farmers, conducted in 2002 and 2004, is reported on in detail by Professor Cakmak as
       noted in footnote 3. Among many other findings, he found significant improvements in
       farm level productivity between the two years. The large 2003 survey of the general
       public, farm community, and interest groups may also be found in the project file, as will

                                              28
       the series of windscreen surveys of 2006-2008 covering the subcomponents created at
       restructuring.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
   Rating: Low

   63. The achievements of ARIP are now part of history. The stabilization of the Turkish
       economy over 2000-2003 is now a historical fact, as was the necessity of ratcheting down
       the wasteful levels of fiscal support for agriculture which preceded that multi-faceted
       reform period. In the years since, expenditures on these areas have never again
       approached such destabilizing levels even in absolute terms, and growth of both the
       aggregate economy and the agricultural sector have been exemplary, after a brief (one-
       two years) period of recession and consolidation. DIS served its purpose in substantially
       ameliorating the impact of subsidy removal on the countryside, and survives under other
       names as a relatively inexpensive safety net for rural dwellers. Regarding four of the new
       investment programs - for nationwide cadastre and land registry, land consolidation,
       village level agroindustry investments, and environmental agriculture/set-aside, their
       achievements continue today and into the future with enhanced GOT funding (even after
       budget cuts), soon to be augmented by EU programs. There is thus little risk to either the
       original PDOs, or to the additional substantial achievements of the major activities added
       in the 2005 restructuring.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

  Rating: Satisfactory

   64. First, the Bank team had intensively studied reform needs of the Turkish agricultural
       economy well before the economic crisis reached its climax. They had also engaged
       Turkish expertise in this field (including academia) in widely publicized seminars and
       discussions, so that both the issues and possible solutions were widely debated and
       known. Third, the same Bank team were engaged in those studies, prepared the
       agricultural aspects of the Economic Reform Loan of 2000, and prepared ARIP, so that
       continuity and trust between the Turkish and Bank teams were good. Fourth, world class
       expertise was brought in for various issues - e.g. Latin American experts with real inside
       knowledge of DIS-type schemes in Mexico and Colombia (as well as in Romania and
       Western Europe) repeatedly joined appropriate missions. For the restructuring, land
       administration experts with relevant experience in over 30 countries participated in
       redesigning and upgrading the land registration and cadastre program. Design errors
       were made in some of the instrumental programs, particularly Farmers Transition, but
       such errors were largely corrected during implementation and did not affect outcomes.


(b) Quality of Supervision
    Rating: Satisfactory


                                              29
   65. Supervision throughout the project life was intensive, timely, well-staffed and generally
       well-budgeted, and cooperative with the Turkish counterparts. Its high point was the
       period encompassing the impact study issued in early 2004, the mid-term review, the
       creation of the new investment components, and their ratification in the restructuring of
       2005. The restructuring itself (as opposed to simply closing the project with the
       achievement of the PDOs) was an extremely bold move, given the short time left (even
       with anticipated extensions) to actually implement new, diverse, and innovative projects,
       but the team was committed to responding to its main counterpart, MARA, in a positive
       way, and its response was successful. The final supervision phase of 2005-2008 helped
       turn the CATAK subcomponent from possible failure to success, reformulate the VBPIP
       subcomponent, and extract maximum benefits for the borrower from the land registration
       and cadastre subcomponent.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
    Rating: Satisfactory

   66. Based on the ratings and rationales above, overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.


5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
    Rating: Satisfactory

   67. The various government ministries were consistently highly professional in the
       performance of their roles. Treasury, aside from its role as chief Bank interlocutor and its
       institutional interest in effecting the large fiscal savings promised by the project, also
       became the coordinating implementing agency as the home of the PO. This was done to
       provide a neutral coordinating base between higher level institutions such as MARA,
       MIT, and TKGM. MARA was the main implementing ministry. Its relationship to the
       project was more conflicted than Treasury's, as it was losing the power to extend many
       large subsidy programs and the budgets that went with them, and related influence in the
       countryside. It was also associated with the failed Farmers Transition program. But it
       ensured establishment of the National Registry of Farmers and the implementation of the
       DIS in very impressive fashion, and assigned and supervised various of its agencies (see
       below) to take up the new VBPIP, CATAK, and Land Consolidation subcomponents, in
       each case successfully. MIT was limited in this operation to coordinating activities
       pertaining to the declining ASCU subsector, but did so in a consistently competent and
       honest manner. The performance of these three ministries, representing the Government
       of Turkey, is therefore assessed as satisfactory.


(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
   Rating: Satisfactory

   68. The specific agencies under the main ministries also did well. First the PO under the
       Treasury was consistently competent, discrete, and quick to react to (and help solve)
       problems from preparation to project completion. TKGM, and GDAR under MARA,
       performed highly successfully, as noted above. TUGEM and TEDGEM under MARA

                                               30
      produced successful subcomponents, one which is now spreading to more provinces
      every year, and one (VBPIP) which became a national program after one year of
      implementation. Only in the case of TAKOG, the union of cooperatives organized to
      implement the IRFO subcomponent, do we have an unsuccessful performance. TAKOG
      resisted continued strong urging by both the Bank team and the PO, to focus sooner on
      the pragmatic task of actually training cooperative officials, staff, and members in
      business management and other skills as opposed to surveying and analyzing needs for
      several years, and hence lost at least a year (perhaps two) of valuable time which could
      have been invested in actual implementation. Most of the real cooperative training under
      this subcomponent was thus crowded into 2008, which did not fully capitalize on the
      potential of the program. Overall, the performance of the many agencies involved in
      ARIP is satisfactory.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
    Rating: Satisfactory

   69. Government performance, therefore, over this largest and very possibly most complex
       agricultural operation ever financed by the Bank, was satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

   70. A main lesson learned is that in reforming rural support modalities, direct income support
       (DIS) schemes are feasible and economical alternatives to input and output subsidization
       programs. But they probably do require:
      a) a credible land registry and cadastre;

      b) a large and well-managed field force of staff (many of whom may be temporary) to
         register as many farmers as quickly as possible, and later to informally audit farmer
         participation; and

      c) if at all possible, a cap to be instituted on the hectarage per family to be financed,
         possibly with larger payments for the first few hectares and less for higher
         increments.

   71. A second lesson is derived from the experience whereby a pre-project pilot in several
       regions of Turkey tested paying farmers on the basis of attested land operated (actually
       farmed) rather than owned. The total failure of this pilot saved the project, the
       Government, and the Bank from implementation problems when the full project was
       actually implemented. Thus in designing radically new programs where no in-country
       experience exists, it is always best to pilot new approaches (or their obvious alternatives)
       before scaling up.


   72. The design of the DFIF revolving fund as a final Treasury stop-loss mechanism for credit
       to ASCUs (see Annex 3) is worthy of consideration in other venues, in Turkey and
       globally, where subsidized credit lines from government to favored entities is being
       discontinued. Typically such companies will not be immediately commercially
                                               31
       creditworthy, and should not be forced on the commercial banking sector straightaway.
       The revolving fund gives such sectors or groups of companies time (and incentive) to
       achieve financial discipline, while putting a ceiling on further government losses. It even
       generates peer pressure from other entities in the same program, to repay the fund. This
       worked well in ARIP.


   73. One reason for the relatively high degree of success of the diverse investment program
       introduced at the restructuring in 2005, was that the new subcomponents were generally
       delegated to regular line agencies rather than stand-alone project management units, thus
       building ownership and expertise ready and able to carry on after project closing.


   74. A macro-scale lesson may be derived from the wide range of good effects, in cadastre,
       land consolidation, environmental land use, village industries and works including water-
       saving irrigation - which came because both the Government and the Bank restructured
       the project. Both remained alert to the possibilities of using this vehicle to try new and
       innovative programs, rather than the easy road of simply closing down an operation, and
       their courage was rewarded.


   75. A final general lesson is that one of the best forms of monitoring and evaluation,
       particularly of new, dispersed programs, is to conduct windscreen surveys or rural
       appraisals by proven, experienced and independent experts. In a couple of weeks, very
       large samples of participants across as many as 15 provinces can be interviewed in depth,
       near their homes, workshops and fields, with possibly more candid results and fuller
       understanding than produced through formal statistical surveys.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

   76. None

(b) Cofinanciers

   77. None

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

   78. None




                                               32
Annex 1: Agricultural Reform Implementation Project - Loan Funds Summary by Project Components
                                                                                                            Current for the period ending April 30, 2009 - in US Dollars
                                                                                                                     ALLOCATIONS                                                                   ACTUAL EXPENDITURES
                                                 Implementing             at 2001 Approval      at 2005 Restructuring                        at 2008 Loan Closing                             at end of Grace Period (April 30, 2009)
Project Components
                                                 Agencies
                                                                                Loan                   Loan                   Loan            Counterpart (i)       Project Total           Loan          Counterpart         Project Total

DIRECT INCOMESUPPORT                                                            46,700,000               124,000,000       116,500,000              34,800,000        151,300,000         117,225,582        31,792,738         149,018,320
 National Registry of Farmers (ii)                MARA/SDC                       34,100,000                20,000,000        11,000,000              13,700,000         24,700,000           8,512,150        12,442,968          20,955,118
 Support to TKGM                                  TKGM                           12,600,000               104,000,000       105,500,000              21,100,000        126,600,000         108,713,432        19,349,770         128,063,202

FARMER TRANSITION                                                              178,800,000                85,550,000         89,850,000             42,570,000        132,420,000          74,047,818        44,845,858         118,893,676
 Alternative Crops (ii)                           MARA / TUGEM                  169,600,000                13,500,000          3,915,000                 77,500          3,992,500           3,912,392            77,323           3,989,715
 Land Consolidation                               MARA / GDAR                             -                20,000,000         16,800,000              3,360,000         20,160,000          11,613,952         2,049,521          13,663,473
 Village Based Participatory Investments          MARA / TEDGEM                           -                32,050,000         49,050,000             36,910,000         85,960,000          44,197,987        41,865,248          86,063,235
 Institutional Reinforcement                      MARA / TEDGEM                   9,200,000                11,000,000         11,000,000              2,200,000         13,200,000           6,414,670           846,706           7,261,376
 Environmental Set-Aside                          MARA / TÜGEM                            -                 9,000,000          9,085,000                 22,500          9,107,500           7,908,816             7,060           7,915,877

ASCU RESTRUCTURING                                                            150,700,000               161,430,000        122,770,000              24,113,400        146,883,400         115,107,693       19,195,749          134,303,442
 Cooperative Development                          RB/ExUnit                       9,600,000                  6,500,000         1,100,000                220,000           1,320,000              36,784            4,087               40,871
 Restructuring Support                            RB/ExUnit                     141,100,000               114,310,000      106,750,000              12,349,400        119,099,400         106,829,457        12,086,832           118,916,289
   Job Loss Compensation Payments                                             128,400,000               104,000,000        103,003,000              11,600,000        114,603,000         103,001,660       11,528,660          114,530,320
   Restructuring Support                                                       12,700,000                10,310,000            3,747,000                749,400           4,496,400           3,827,797        558,172             4,385,969
 Licenced Warehousing                                                                      -               40,620,000       14,920,000              11,544,000         26,464,000           8,241,452          7,104,830           15,346,281
   Turk ish Grain Board                           TMO                                     -                4,500,000         3,700,000                 740,000          4,440,000           1,380,184          243,562             1,623,746
   Agricultural Sales Cooperatives Unions         MIT                                     -              36,120,000          11,220,000              10,804,000         22,024,000            6,861,268      6,861,268           13,722,536

PROJECT SUPPORT SERVICES                                                        17,800,000                11,520,000          8,220,000              1,649,000           9,869,000          8,811,796         1,217,336           10,029,132
 Public Information Campaign                      UoT                             3,200,000                 1,700,000          1,000,000                205,000           1,205,000            909,668           203,377            1,113,045
 Advisory Services                                UoT                             5,500,000                 2,500,000            500,000                100,000             600,000            322,144            51,018              373,163
 Social Monitoring and Evaluation                 UoT                             1,700,000                 1,250,000            650,000                130,000             780,000            580,446           107,737              688,183
 Project Management                               Uot                             7,400,000                 6,070,000         6,070,000              1,214,000           7,284,000          6,999,538            855,204            7,854,742

ADJUSTMENT PORTION                                                             200,000,000               200,000,000       200,000,000                       ---      200,000,000         200,000,000                   ---     200,000,000
 Tranche I                                                                      100,000,000               100,000,000       100,000,000                      ---       100,000,000         100,000,000                  ---      100,000,000
 Tranche II                                                                     100,000,000               100,000,000       100,000,000                      ---       100,000,000         100,000,000                  ---      100,000,000

FEE                                                                              6,000,000                 6,000,000            6,000,000                    ---          6,000,000           6,000,000                 ---        6,000,000

UNALLOCATED                                                                               ---             11,500,000                   ---                   ---                    ---             ---                 ---                   ---

TOTAL                                                                          600,000,000               600,000,000       543,340,000             103,132,400        646,472,400         521,192,889        97,051,681         618,244,570

(i) Counterpart Funds include both government contributions and beneficiary contributions (of Village Based Participatory Investments ASCU-Licenced Warehousing).
(ii) Counterpart Funds for National Registry of Farmers and Alternative Crops include bank commissions of USD 11,122,032.98 for Direct Income Support and USD 14,818.10 for Alternative Crops payments, respectively.
Source: ARIP Project Office records.




Annex 2: Outputs by Component

        79. This annex attempts to summarize operational results which may not be covered in detail in the main text. It consists of a matrix
            summarizing recorded outputs and expected outcomes by investment components, then sections on environmental management,
            TA activities and studies under Component D, and then reviews of outputs of three major subcomponents dealing with land
            consolidation, cadastre and land registration, and village based participatory investments.




                                                                                                                                                                        33
                                Recorded Outputs and Expected Outcomes by Investment Components


Project Components                      Recorded Outputs                                           Expected Outcomes


DIRECT INCOME SUPPORT
 National Registry of Farmers           ·   Established a complete IT-based registry of farms in   ·   Enhanced efficiency in agricultural policy
                                            Turkey, hosted in MARA with high-capacity                  planning, execution, monitoring, and impact
                                            interfaces to all provincial agricultural offices          assessment
                                        ·   Registered almost 100% of 2.75 million eligible and    ·   Contribution to the establishment of an
                                            registrable farms in Turkey, with annual updates           Integrated Administration and Control
                                        ·   Established interfaces with the national population        System for future EU-funds administration
                                            registration system (MERNIS) and the national land         purposes, assessed by the European
                                            title registration system (TAKBIS), as well as to          Commission as "beyond the requirements"
                                            insurance and banking sector                               for respective CAP IACS systems
                                        ·   Strengthened MARA-IT's capacity with regard to
                                            support program administration and control
  Support to TKGM                       ·   Surveyed and titled 2.8 million parcels (4.7 million   ·   Improved security of tenure for large
                                            hectares) belonging to 400,000 owners in 24                numbers of the poorest rural residents in
                                            provinces of Turkey                                        Turkey
                                        ·   Leveraged national funding for survey and titling of   ·   Provided access to secure, transparent,
                                            another 3.8 million parcels across Turkey                  tradable property titles and thus to collateral
                                        ·   Contributed to developing a private surveying              for rural credit and income generation
                                            industry to implement this large program                   purposes
                                        ·   Strengthened TKGM's capacity with regard to land       ·   Contribution to further activation of rural
                                            adjudication and registration                              land markets country-wide

FARMER TRANSITION
 Alternative Crops                      ·   Provided financial support to farmers of 500ha of      ·   Program was overtaken by significant world
                                            hazelnuts as income compensation after uprooting           price increases due to international supply
                                            hazelnut trees for market stabilization purposes           shortages
                                        ·   Provided financial support to farmers of 5,522ha of
                                            tobacco as income compensation for discontinuation
                                            of tobacco production for market stabilization
                                            purposes
                                        ·   Replanting of former tobacco area with cereals and



                                                                      34
Project Components                          Recorded Outputs                                               Expected Outcomes

                                                legumes
  Land Consolidation                        ·   Contracted land consolidation activities covering          ·   Increased efficiency of agricultural
                                                65,662 ha including 1,094 km of field access roads in          production due to more economic parcel
                                                77 villages                                                    shape/size, increase in yields, and reduction
                                            ·   Land consolidation activities in about 50 villages fully       in tractor fuel use and tractor use time
                                                completed; activities in remaining 17 villages will        ·   Increased land value because of shape, road
                                                complete within a year under government financing              and irrigation canal frontages
                                            ·   Reshaped 106,935 original parcels averaging 0.5 ha to      ·   Enhanced irrigation water use efficiency
                                                50,625 parcels averaging 1 ha                              ·   Activated community cooperation required
                                            ·   Provided road frontage to every single new parcel,             for democratic land allocation procedures
                                                whereas 70% of the old parcels had no frontage             ·   Strengthened capacity of GDAR to conduct
                                                                                                               the forthcoming national land consolidation
                                                                                                               initiative
  Village Based Participatory Investments   ·   Completed 481 village-based investment projects and        ·   Increased quality of life (sanitation, health,
                                                767 investments in machinery and equipment in 16               accessibility) in 135 villages through public
                                                provinces of Turkey                                            investments; continuation as national
                                            ·   Contributed to upgrade of sewage and water supply              KOYDES program
                                                systems and/or village roads in 135 villages               ·   Enhanced competitiveness , value added
                                            ·   Financed 196 agro-processing and other agro-industry           generation, and creation of permanent jobs
                                                investments, and created 1,100 permanent jobs in               in rural areas
                                                investing enterprises                                      ·   Increased water-use efficiency in an
                                            ·   Financed procurement of quality-enhancing and/or               increasing drought environment
                                                water-saving on-farm equipment for 766 individual
                                                farms; provided 3,590 ha with watersaving irrigation
                                                benefiting 1,300 farm families
                                            ·   Strengthened MARA-TEDGEM's capacity for
                                                programming and implementation of integrated rural
                                                development programs and EU IPARD-type support
                                                programs
                                            ·   Catalyzed the scale-up of the program to all 81
                                                provinces of Turkey under government financing
  Institutional Reinforcement (IRFO)        ·   Created joint venture of agricultural cooperative          ·   Strengthened stakeholder participation in
                                                unions to adminster program implementation and to              policy programming and implementation
                                                strengthen stakeholder participation in policy             ·   Improved business skills of Farmers
                                                programming and implementation                                 Organizations in 21 provinces of Turkey
                                            ·   Provided 2,517 managers and board members of 750           ·   Enhanced capacity of Farmers


                                                                           35
Project Components                  Recorded Outputs                                             Expected Outcomes

                                        Farmer Organizations with managerial support and             Organizations to provide improved services
                                        training                                                     (e.g. advise on funding applications, project
                                    ·   Provided 37,760 members of Farmers Organizations             planning and implementation,
                                        with training and education services                         representation) to their members
                                    ·   Trained 959 trainers for future multiplication
  Environmental Set-Aside (CATAK)   ·   Supported adaptation of environmentally sound            ·   Enhanced environmental sustainability of
                                        production techniques on over 4,000 hectares in four         agriculture, reduction of erosion, and
                                        environmentally sensitive provinces of Turkey                protection of salt marshes and wildlife
                                    ·   Incentivized set-aside of over 800 ha adjacent to salt       sanctuaries in environmentally sensitive
                                        marsh areas to reduce land use intensity                     zones of Turkey
                                    ·   Incentivized use of water-saving irrigation equipment,   ·   Inclusion of agri-environmental support
                                        planting of wind breaking hedges, contour plowing,           scheme into programming for EC IPARD
                                        and reduced fertilization on about 2,000 ha                  program
                                    ·   Incentivized meadow/pasture rehabilitation and
                                        reduced grazing intensity on about 1,200 ha
                                    ·   Catalyzed expansion of program to 5 new provinces
                                        under government funding in 2009; another 10
                                        provinces planned for 2010

ASCU RESTRUCTURING
 Cooperative Development            ·   Provided continuous advise and training to               ·   Improved managerial and operational skills
                                        participating ASCUs; established and maintained              of ASCU leaders and staff
                                        records/databases for financial and administrative       ·   Enhanced commercial performance of the
                                        structures in 16 nation-wide operation ASCUs                 agricultural marketing cooperative system
                                    ·   Provision of continuous training to about 9,000
                                        managers and staff Production of extensive printed
                                        and audio-visual materials for use in and beyond the
                                        participating ASCUs
  Restructuring Support             ·   Established a Restructuring Board (incl. government,     ·   Avoidance of continued fiscal support to
                                        ASCU, and Treasury delegates) overseeing and                 ASCUs previously averaging US$ 1 billion
                                        steering the entire ASCU restructuring process, to           annually
                                        include provision of oversight of the DFIF revolving     ·   Scaling down permanent staffing of ASCU
                                        fund to finance working capital of the ASCU system           system to sustainable levels
                                        (establishment of a stop-loss mechanism)
                                    ·   Provided severance payments to 12,601 permanent
                                        staff declared redundant as part of the ASCU


                                                                   36
Project Components                   Recorded Outputs                                              Expected Outcomes

                                         restructuring process
  Licensed Warehousing               ·   Installed grain quality testing and sampling systems in   ·   Improved market integration providing fair
                                         18 grain storage facilities belonging to the Turkish          pricing to about one million farmers and
                                         Grain Board                                                   quality assurance to processors through
                                     ·   Constructed two major olive processing and storage            professional grain grading technologies
                                         facilities in the Mamara Region                           ·   Enhanced revenue generation in olive sector
                                                                                                       through improved marketing and storage
                                                                                                       systems for 30,000 olive-producing family
                                                                                                       farms

PROJECT SUPPORT SERVICES
 Public Information Campaign         ·   Conducted a full program of stakeholder and public            ·   Increased political acceptance of the
                                         information campains, to include brochures, national              fundamental policy reform program
                                         radio and television spots, and face-to-face events           ·   Enhanced understanding and
  Advisory Services                  ·   Provided intense advisory activities for participating            acceptance of farmers, rural families,
                                         implementation agencies                                           businesses, and the stakeholder
  Social Monitoring and Evaluation   ·   Conducted a full program of stakeholder surveys and               community
                                         econometric studies of impact. In later years, Field          ·   Absence of any serious concerns
                                         Implementation Reviews of the sub-components                      regarding procurement and receipt of
                                         added at restructuring                                            DIS among 3 million participating
  Project Management                 ·   Conducted regular implementation (decentralized) and              farmers, thousands of participating
                                         fiduciary (centralized) tasks                                     businesses, and 12,000 redundant
                                                                                                           ASCU staff
                                                                                                       ·   Creation of sustainable knowledge on
                                                                                                           program management in participating
                                                                                                           agencies




                                                                    37
Environmental Management

  80. Original Project: A satisfactory project Environmental Management Plan
      (EMP) was prepared, disclosed and adopted by the Borrower prior to appraisal, in
      full conformity with Bank policy. The main environmental issue identified for
      the original project design was related to erosion risk from hazelnut uprooting in
      hilly areas under the Farmer Transition component. The EMP addressed this risk
      by specifying that the project would not support uprooting in hilly areas. Overall,
      the hazelnut uprooting activity was not (practically speaking) implemented, with
      only 850 ha uprooted in appropriate flatlands and moderately rolling terrain. Due
      to the very minimal hazelnut uprooting activity, the planned recruitment of the
      project environmental specialist did not occur in the initial phase of the project.


  81. Restructured Project: The project restructuring required a revision and updating
      of the EMP to take into account the new sub-components. The addition of sub-
      components for land consolidation, village-based participatory investments
      (VBPIP), expanded capacity building for farmers organization (IRFO), set-aside
      payments for farmers in environmentally fragile areas (CATAK), and introduction
      of warehouse receipts by Agricultural Sales Cooperative Unions (ASCUs) and
      Turkish Grain Board did not change the Environmental Category "B" rating of
      ARIP.


  82. The environmental management plan prepared for the original scope of ARIP was
      updated during FY06 to cover the repositioning of inter-farm roads under the
      Land Consolidation component, the review of the small scale investments for
      income generation and rehabilitation of public service infrastructure under VBPIP
      sub-component, and the expansion of warehouses under the Warehouse Receipts
      sub-component. Closure of agro-industries was monitored by the Executive Unit
      of the ASCUs Restructuring Board, and was not found to have raised any
      environmental issues. The revised EMP provided adequate guidance for
      screening, identifying and mitigating minor environmental impacts that may arise
      with the closure of agro-industrial facilities. The planned advisory and training
      activities supported under IRFO sub-component did not pose any environmental
      risks, while those activities supported under the CATAK sub-component were
      designed to generate localized environmental benefits.


  83. For VBPIP, the Provincial Directorate of Agriculture (PDA) followed Turkey's
      Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) procedures in reviewing and appraising
      investments. These procedures and requirements incorporated the regulatory
      requirements for Environmental Review (Regulation on Environmental Impact
      Assessment published in Official Gazette No: 25318, dated 16 December 2003,
      from the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF). The procedures are


                                          38
   reflected in the revised EMP, and essentially consisted of Environmental
   Screening, Environmental Documentation, and Environmental Mitigation where
   necessary. Initial Environmental Screening was carried out by PDA at an early
   stage in their project review procedures to determine the appropriate
   environmental risk category for the investment/project with the Provincial
   Directorate of MoEF (PDE). Certain types of investments/projects involved with
   construction of physical facilities, required additional screening from the PDE to
   determine if an EIA would be necessary. Following screening, environmental
   classification of the investment was recommended. The beneficiaries were
   responsible for securing any environmental documentation and for confirming
   that the proposed sub-projects comply with national environmental regulations
   and/or guidelines, and for obtaining the necessary clearances/approvals from
   appropriate regulatory authorities. Nearly all investments/sub-projects were
   found not to need EIA. The MARA CEU monitored application of the EA
   procedures and advised beneficiaries, but did not have strong capacity for this.
   Application of these procedures during the proposal and evaluation stage was well
   documented in the VBPI project files maintained by MARA CEU.


84. Land Consolidation (LC): The main environmental concern for LC related to
    tree removal and replanting. An assessment of the first LC phase revealed that
    only one village (Bafra in Samsun) encountered the need to uproot and replant
    trees. As this was not included in the original budget, GDAR requested additional
    funding for the Samsun contract to inter alia co-finance the costs of boundary tree
    removal and planting of fruit trees and acacia (good for beekeeping) as new
    border markers. GDAR clearly learned from the Bafra experience and
    subsequently screened the works proposed under the new contracts carefully to
    identify and cost tree removal and replacement planting as an integral part of the
    sub-project design and budget. Guidance was provided for updating the EMP for
    tree removal and replanting under the LC program, to include a) identification of
    types of trees; b) consultation with land owners and costing; c) selection of
    replacement trees; and d) monitoring. In no cases were trees of endangered
    species removed under the LC program.


85. Consideration was made of the application of the social safeguard policy on
    Resettlement (O.P 4.12) to the Land Consolidation (LC) sub-component in FY06,
    but the supplemental Social Assessment demonstrated that this policy is not
    triggered since the LC process did not involve any land taking, and entails only
    transferring the location of peoples' holdings. All land owners in villages
    participating in the land consolidation process received replacement agricultural
    land of equivalent productive potential. There was no physical displacement of
    people, physical relocation of residences or other permanent assets of those
    affected by the sub-component. Further, the LC process, while clarifying the
    rights of use and access and identifying current encroachments, did not adversely
    impact the livelihood of marginal and vulnerable sections of the population as


                                        39
   Treasury lands were allocated for a nominal charge for persons deemed eligible
   by national legislation.


86. PO environmental specialist: After much delay, the PO recruited an
    environmental specialist consultant in 2008 to oversee ARIP compliance with the
    EMP. The consultant was to have prepared three monitoring reports and a final
    assessment of environmental aspects of the project. The first two reports, based
    on extensive site visits, were prepared and reviewed by the Bank team. The
    reports provided rich detail and good insights on how the EMP was used in
    implementation of the project. Overall the reports revealed a lack of familiarity
    with the provisions of the EMP on the part of the implementers and beneficiaries,
    and shortcomings in planning and budgeting for environmental mitigation. For
    example, many of the VBPI projects visited for the first report were found to have
    moderate to potentially significant negative environmental impacts (e.g.,
    untreated sewage discharge from septic systems into streams).                  The
    recommendations in the report tended to focus on monitoring the status quo and
    improving future projects rather than indicating how the PO and MARA could
    ensure that the identified problems would be adequately addressed.


87. Comments:        On balance the environmental performance of ARIP was
    satisfactory, with good formal compliance with the EMP and relevant Turkish
    environmental regulations. However, there were some troubling gaps in
    application of the EMP provisions during implementation, particularly for the
    VBPIP as was revealed in the PO environmental specialist's reports. Project
    participants, for example the GDAR LC senior managers were found as late as
    February 2007 to be completely unacquainted with the EMP. There had been
    very little or no coordination by CATAK participants with local environmental
    authorities in the project design or to provide for soil and water analyses for
    pesticides and nutrients. Budget should have been provided from the project to
    cover these costs, as the monitoring is specified in the EMP. The local staff of
    MARA in the CATAK pilot regions was also not familiarized with the EMP.


88. These shortcomings were due in large part to the lack of an environmental
    specialist on the project team until almost the end of the project. Other factors
    include the lack of capacity at the local level for environmental design and
    oversight (particularly for the VBPIP projects), and failure to budget adequately
    for environmental costs (e.g., sampling and lab analysis, mitigation), although
    costing had been specified in the EMP. These weaknesses are common in
    Turkey's relatively small and understaffed rural provinces, and both the strong
    points and the weak of several of the newer subcomponents were that they were
    deeply embedded in Turkey's mainstream jurisdictions and agencies.



                                       40
Technical Assistance Activities and Studies under Component D

   89. A broad range of TA activities and studies was implemented under Component D,
       aside from project administration and fiduciary tasks. Among them were the
       following, with much of the factual basis derived from the Borrowers' ICR
       prepared by the Project Office.


   90. Public Information Campaigns. Public information, initially on the overall
       program of agricultural sector reform and subsidy reduction, was disseminated via
       the mass media, the internet, and the agricultural extension service of MARA.
       Efforts quickly focussed on getting the overwhelming majority of farmers
       registered in the NRF and assisting them in getting their DIS payments. Although
       tendering for consulting firms to help the PO and MARA in this effort started
       immediately after project approval (July 2001), contracts were not signed with
       consortia until January 31, 2003. Before this, public information activities were
       carried out by project agencies for the DIS and Alternative Crops subcomponents,
       and via ARIP's website. Although major surveys of stakeholders nationwide
       (noted in Section 2.3 of the main text) were eventually executed by the
       consultants, the process was considered both slow and expensive, with the
       tendering process always producing work and results far behind new
       developments. Hence at the MTR in 2004, it was decided to revert to public
       information by each agency tailored to the work of each subcomponent. This
       seemed to work better than a centralized effort.


   91. Operational Review. A consulting firm was engaged in 2002-2003 to help
       Treasury review operational progress of various project components. After
       project restructuring in 2005, it was again decided that the respective project
       agencies should monitor their own programs, identify their own problems, and
       propose their own remedies, for the second part of project implementation. This
       was augmented by the series of ad hoc surveys funded by the Bank, and quite
       intensive PO oversight.


   92. Agricultural Crop Insurance. This was a topic of great interest to the GOT and
       MARA, given the frequency of droughts and other disasters in Turkey, so a large
       sum (US$ 1.45 million) was initially allocated to studies of the issue and
       assistance to redesigning the Turkish system. Study tours were mounted to Spain,
       Mexico, and USA, but in the end most real assistance was provided by Bank
       specialists themselves, under the ARIP supervision budget, no consultancies were
       executed after 2004, and a new Agricultural Insurance Law was enacted and put
       into effect.




                                          41
93. Agricultural Credit Cooperatives (ACCs) Restructuring Strategy. One set of
    coops reviewed but not included in ARIP were the ACCs. Four individual
    consultants were selected by MARA and the ACC Central Union and started
    studies in June 2005. A final report was issued in January 2006. The report
    became part of a major Bank study of rural finance in Turkey, and both were
    thoroughly discussed between GOT, Bank teams, and consultants. The Bank was
    actually considering a large operation for the ACCs at the time, which may have
    been the main reason no rural credit element was introduced in ARIP. However,
    domestic policy constraints hindered development of a rural finance project, and
    this topic did not again arise in the last two years of ARIP implementation.


94. Review of Crop Subsidy Programs.             MARA requested and received a
    consultant study titled "Deficiency Payment System as an Agricultural Support
    Instrument in Turkey: Discussion of Feasibility and Economic Analysis of the
    System". In the end, this was financed by the parallel UNDP Cost-Sharing
    Agreement, mentioned in Section 1.2 (v) of the main text. The study commenced
    in June 2005 and was completed in January 2006.


95. Environmental Management Plan (EMP). While the original EMP was
    prepared by GOT in 2001, a major revision was needed for all the new
    subcomponents introduced in 2005. For this purpose a consultant was engaged
    (again with UNDP Cost-Sharing Agreement funds) in March 2006. The plan he
    prepared was finalized only in July 2007, and two monitoring reports were
    prepared by him in March and November 2008. The late schedule of reporting
    remarked above in the EMP section of this annex, was largely due to the late
    introduction of the new activities, and careful observance of procurement
    formalities in recruiting the specialist.


96. Social Surveys. The project initially funded both a (part-time) consultant Senior
    Project Social Advisor (SPSA), and a series of large-scale panel surveys of the
    farm population of Turkey, to be undertaken by consultant firms once per year
    over four years, under the direction of the SPSA. The contract was signed with a
    consortium of firms (including Baskent University) on July 31, 2002. Two
    surveys were actually executed, in 2002 and 2004, after which the ARIP Steering
    Committee (with Bank acquiescence) cut off further funding, apparently for
    reasons of economy. The second survey was duly reported by the consortium in
    2005, and a completion report was approved by the second SPSA in 2006. This
    expert, Prof. Erol Cakmak, did his own scholarly analysis of the two surveys
    (including changes between the two) in the report cited in the main text, Sections
    2.3 and 3.1, and footnote 2. The richness of this data indicates that a third and
    final survey, perhaps executed in 2006, would have been extremely valuable in



                                       42
         analyzing trends in agricultural productivity and rural poverty across Turkey,
         based on a 4-year interval between the first and last surveys.
Land Consolidation Subcomponent

    97. This subcomponent introduced in 2005 had a goal to undertake participatory land
        consolidation tasks covering a total of 52,000 hectares in 7 provinces aiming to
        benefit about 9,000 families including the issuance of new titles to the new
        parcels. The majority of the work ­ inventory, design, consultation, land leveling,
        titling - was contracted to private sector firms with contract terms of up to 3 years.
        The majority of these areas had existing irrigation schemes therefore one of the
        objectives was to reduce the number of parcels ­from an average of 3 down to 1
        or 2 - though also aiming to assure direct access by all parcels to irrigation canals
        and to the new rural road lines. There was no goal of reducing the number of
        farmers in the area of the scheme. At loan closing 60% of the investments had
        been made with about 50 villages successfully completed. The remaining villages
        will be completed by GDAR by the end of 2010 using GOT funds.


    98. Background: Turkey's agricultural lands are characterized by a highly
        fragmented parcel structure resulting from the division of land among heirs over a
        number of generations.6 The current distribution of parcels limited the efficiency
        of agricultural production significantly for a number of reasons: difficulties in the
        use of agricultural machinery as a result of mis-shapen plots, poor or no access to
        roads or only across neighboring plots, little or no direct access to irrigation
        canals or pipes, all contributing to limited crop rotation possibilities and lack of
        technology choices.


    99. The goal of this sub-component was to improve agricultural productivity by
        enabling farmers to have fewer, larger and better-shaped parcels with resulting
        improved access to rural roads and, where present, irrigation lines. In
        implementation a demand driven approach was aimed at.


    100.      The subcomponent provided: the re-design of parcels to achieve regular
       shapes for all land owners, land leveling relative to irrigation lines if present, tree
       removal from the old boundary lines and where practical the planting of new trees
       on the new boundaries, the construction of new inter-farm roads within or
       adjacent to the new parcels, and on some schemes the placing of cross-overs over

6
   The 1991 Agricultural Census showed that 57% of farming families cultivated more than four plots, and in practice
many of these are further sub-divided unofficially for separate cultivation among heirs. Fragmentation has continued in
the past fifteen years: a recent field survey in eight sets of villages in Thrace, Central Anatolia and the Black Sea
regions indicated that the average number of plots cultivated per farmer ranged from 8-30.




                                                         43
         existing irrigation channels. No physical relocation of the residences of farmers,
         or other built assets was involved as each of the sub-projects have nucleated
         settlement patterns involving just village housing with no one living on farming
         parcels. In all locations the principle of obtaining consent from no less than two-
         thirds of the population who own more than 51% of the land to be consolidated,
         as per existing Turkish law, was obtained at the start of the process in writing.


    101.       Implementation: The land consolidation subcomponent was implemented
       by the General Directorate of Agricultural Reform (GDAR) from its regional and
       where available provincial offices, which operate under the Ministry of
       Agricultural and Rural Affairs (MARA). The work was contracted out to 7
       private sector firms under NCB procedures.


    102.       During preparation an in-depth Implementation Assessment was
       conducted in 12 villages in 2004/5 to understand the participatory nature of the
       consultation and implementation procedures used in the past and ongoing land
       consolidation processes, the perceived and real impacts on the different categories
       of farmers, the risks of marginalization of vulnerable groups, approaches to
       reconciling competing claims of stakeholder interests, and rules for determining
       valuation and allocation of property.


    103.       It was found that GDAR practiced sound consultative processes to ensure
       landowner participation in the land consolidation process. Technical criteria
       including soil, location, fertility, and sometimes market price indices were used in
       the valuation of land by a committee that included local representatives, and the
       resulting land grading equivalency table was displayed publicly for review and
       comment. Objections were considered and an iterative process of consultation
       followed to arrive at improved designs. Conflicts and competing requests were
       resolved through the consideration of several key issues including determining
       new plot locations: an equivalency principle7, direct access to roads, kinship and
       adversarial relationships, etc. The study revealed near unanimous agreement that
       small-scale farmers, who are most likely to cultivate fragmented pieces of land,
       benefit the most from the land consolidation process. Transparency and social
       accountability mechanisms, including appeals and grievance redressing
       mechanisms with GDAR, were used. As a result of the survey certain
       improvements were made to the processes.




7
  All land owners participating in the LC process will receive replacement agricultural land of equivalent productive
potential.




                                                          44
   104.       During subcomponent implementation in late 2006 another study was
      conducted by a team commissioned by the Bank to assess whether the land
      consolidation rules were being followed in the sub-projects and whether
      unintended impacts had occurred. Focus group studies where conducted in 17
      representative villages (out of the 35 villages that had been contracted at that
      time) in 6 provinces involving 499 interviews including 12 village leaders. The
      following conclusions were reached: The double majority had been achieved in
      all cases except one (in Gospinari); the land consolidation procedures of GDAR in
      the technical specifications were being observed by all parties in the process, that
      GDAR officials listen to the owners and act as a result; however there was a
      bottleneck in the lack of a timely delivery system of new titles at the end of the
      process by TKGM (this involved getting the price right between the contractors
      and the TKGM regional offices); and there is a clear need for more GDAR staff
      on the job; there is also a need for more attention to publicity at every stage; more
      use of multimedia tools needed including video, study visits by farmer leaders to
      other land consolidation sites to view best practice, plus a need for better
      coordination with other agencies ­ DSI (water resources), Ministry of
      Environment, and TKGM (land registry and cadastre).


   105.      The so-called 2B forest land question issue which emerged in the TKGM
      support subproject caused delays in at least two land consolidation subprojects.
      Some lands in two land consolidation subprojects (e.g., Samsun ­Bafra) were
      impacted by some of the lands being classified as `forest land' even though those
      lands had lost their forest characteristics many years ago. In these two cases
      GDAR applied to the forest department to convert those lands back to Treasury
      lands thus allowing eventual agriculture use. After 2 years of waiting, however,
      GDAR decided to go ahead with the status quo and keep the forest land
      designation. It is apparent though that the actual use will stay as agriculture used
      by adjacent owners, with the ownership actually staying with the forest
      department.


Results


   106.      Goals as set in the Loan Amendment 2005 include: land consolidation to
      be conducted in 7 provinces covering an area of 52,640 ha, plus the construction
      of 1347 km of rural roads and with an estimated cost of US$ 20m. As contracted
      the overall task was set in 12 provinces, over 65,700 ha in 81 villages, involving
      1094 km of rural roads, contained in 19 contracts contracted to 7 private sector
      firms in 22 month and 18 month contract terms. The village of Gozpinari was
      excluded from the results presented in this write-up as no actions took place from
      2006-2008 (for Force Majeure reasons). As of the December 31, 2008, 13 of the
      19 contracts covering 30 villages have had their new parcel plans accepted by


                                           45
            GDAR. Three contracts have completed all of the stages including final
            payments, less the one year retention amount. Some 64% of the contracted
            amount has been paid to the contractors. The rural roads have been completed
            successfully in the 14 areas with such roads.


      107.      GDAR stated that they expect that all land consolidation tasks will be
         completed by the end of 2009 to the "temporary acceptance' stage. It should be
         noted that one subproject in Gozpinari village in Aksehir, in Konya province, is
         now in abeyance due to reasons of conflict within the village community. As of
         April 30, 2009 loan expenditures of US$ 11.61 million had been made.
Results Indicators

      108.              GDAR and CEU have generally used the following success indicators:

                        ·     Reduction of the numbers of parcels
                        ·     Parcels fronting onto rural roads and parcels with direct access to
                              irrigation,
                        ·     Rural roads completed
                        ·     Channel cross-overs laid

      109.    Table A at the end of this annex shows the results achieved as of
         December 31, 2008.


      110.       Reduction of the numbers of parcels: In the 18 land consolidation areas
         the original number of parcels numbered 106,935 and this was reduced down to
         50,625 parcels with 96% judged to be regular in shape.


      111.       Consolidation Rates:8/ In the five complete schemes consolidation rates
         of 66%; 87%; 40%; 34%; 56% have been achieved. Rates of 50% to 75% are
         optimum in this area of Turkey. Parcels fronting onto rural roads, parcels with
         direct access to irrigation: Before the land consolidation process 70 % of parcels
         had no access to a road. However after the land consolidation all 50,625 parcels
         had road access. Separate figures for access to irrigation channels are not
         available but in areas where channels were present this became an equal primary
         objective-- to give all parcels direct access to the channels from at least one side
         of the parcel.



8 Consolidation rate = (original number of parcels ­ final number of parcels) / (original number of parcels) X 100%




                                                                       46
   112.      A total of 1,094 kilometers of rural roads were constructed in 13 out of the
      18 land consolidation schemes. Also 1,838 concrete crossovers were constructed
      across existing irrigation channels to give the parcels better access to the rural
      roads.


   113.       Tree Removal and Replanting: As a result of the land consolidation and
      the resulting reduction of the number of parcels and the shifting of boundary
      positions, in 8 out of 18 areas some 134,000 trees on the old boundary lines were
      removed. In two areas some 85,000 trees (of the 134,000) of no economic value
      (in Amasya and Isparta) were removed many including the stumps. GDAR
      developed a policy of tree replanting (e.g., on boundaries) and many of the sub
      projects acted on it some buying suitable trees from project funds for the farmers.
Lessons Learned

   114.       Timeframe for land consolidation sub projects needs to be extended: It is
      clear from the 18 contacts undertaken under ARIP support that the sub project
      timeframe should be longer than 2 years, indeed most of the contracts took at least
      3 years to reach the accepted new parceling plan stage. Out of necessity the later
      contracted areas were initially given just an 18 month implementation period to
      the end of the initial loan closing date, but ultimately when the loan was extended
      they were extended to December 31, 2008 - about 30 months ­ this was still not
      enough time. This need arises as the land consolidation process is participatory,
      consultative, indeed democratic meaning that many briefing sessions are involved
      with the beneficiaries especially with reviewing and redesign of the new shapes of
      the parcels and deciding which owner gets which new parcel.


   115.       Each new area should be the subject of an initial study with a customized
      action plan developed along with a specially designed public awareness campaign
      and training series for beneficiaries and local stakeholders. At an early stage a
      project management plan should be developed, stakeholders identified and initial
      meetings held, and resource requirements identified.


   116.      GDAR believes the area undertaken in the ARIP (average 3,300 ha)
      should be bigger in future projects. This would be recommended to be at least
      5,000 to 30,000 ha to capture economies of scale.


   117.      As a result of the ARIP GDAR has decided to incorporate `environment
      concerns' into its land consolidation programs, especially water management,
      wetlands sensitivities, eco-system management, and EIA for its sub-projects.



                                          47
       GDAR is currently seeking donor support for TA to help it introduce environment
       matters into its land consolidation procedures and to allow it to build staff skills.


   118.       A greater effort should be made to build community awareness of land
      consolidation especially what is involved, the benefits, and what are the duties of
      the communities subject to the process. More time should be allocated for
      interviews and farmer training.


   119.       At the start of each new area a data base should be developed of the
      participants and of geographic information giving their contact details and
      preferences, land use, real property holdings ­ an inventory. Much valuable and
      important information about the land is collected during land consolidation which
      impact on success. Information should be in cross-referenceable files/folders . A
      geographic information system approach should be adopted. As well an archival
      approach should be adopted - as records must be maintained for future use.


   120.      A near first action is that a multi agency board should be set up for each
      land consolidation sub project at the start of each separate project and this should
      form the basis for management.


   121.       Limiting further Fragmentation.       During project implementation, the
      importance was recognized of halting fragmentation especially on areas that have
      been consolidated under ARIP and other GDAR land consolidation work over the
      last 40 years. During the ARIP project GDAR staff undertook successful land
      consolidation study visits to northern and southern Germany and to the
      Netherlands which included reviewing ways of limiting fragmentation. With the
      Law on Soil Protection and Land Use, a non-fragmented minimum land area is
      determined at 2 hectare size. Amendment to the Civil Law were also carried out
      to prevent fragmentation of agricultural lands through inheritance.


Sustainability


   122.      While the land consolidation sub component was not fully completed at
      the time of loan closing, the Government of Turkey through the State Planning
      Organization gave its assurance that the necessary funding for completing all the
      land consolidation started under ARIP support would be made available under
      GOT funding in 2009 and 2010 (if necessary). GDAR has funding for its non
      ARIP land consolidation work in 2009. GDAR is part of the Prime Minister's


                                            48
GAP (Southeast Anatolia Project) program for 2009-2012 under which GDAR
has already been allocated funding for 2009 ­ 2012 land consolidation work.
GDAR stated that it is ready to contract 1 million hectares of land consolidation
tasks for GAP during 2009. It has an approved budget of at least TL 100 million
(about US$ 60m) for 2009 for this purpose.




                                   49
50
       Table 3: Results ­ GDAR Participatory Land Consolidation Projects (ARIP) ­ as of December 31,




2008




                                                    51
Land Registry and Cadastre Subcomponent

   123.      This sub component was included in the original 2001 PAD design.
      Originally it was envisaged that it provide financial support to TKGM which
      would include funds for the completion of the computerization of existing land
      records to contribute to DIS implementation, especially the formation of the
      National Farmers Registry. An amount of US$ 12.7 m was allotted to it however
      this component did not disburse during 2001-2004.


   124.       Revised Policy Areas and Components               The specific goal after
      restructuring, of this `Support to land registry and cadastre' was expanded to help
      with the completion of the cadastre and registration for the whole of Turkey by
      undertaking a field program in selected provinces in the east of Turkey; those
      which had the least percentage of titles registered. Titles would be issued to
      beneficiaries and by so doing the cadastre would be nearly completed for the
      whole of Turkey.


   125.       The rationale was that such titling and surveying would result in increased
      security of land holding and following increases in investment and labor could
      contribute to increases in productivity in the agricultural sector. The geographical
      scope of project implementation was agreed by TKGM, MARA and the Bank to
      focus on 19 provinces in the east of Turkey namely: Adiyaman, Agri, Ardahan,
      Batman, Bingol, Bitlis, Hakkari, Sivas, Siirt, Kars, Erzurum, Sirnak, Rize,
      Diyarbakir, Igdir, Van, Malatya, Mardin and Mus. The selection was made based
      on those provinces in the east with the least titling and cadastre. Later in 2006,
      some parts of Konya, Kayseri, Trabzon and Canakkale, and Antalya provinces
      were included. It was clear to all parties that by this focus the beneficiaries in
      those 24 provinces - the most unsurveyed rural areas would be in the more remote
      sections of Anatolia would be mostly low income farmers and rural people.


   126.      With the Loan Amendment in 2005 this sub component was expanded
      from US$ 12.7m to US$ 50.6 m arising from the mid term review in 2004.
      Finally it was increased to US$ 104 million in 2006, considering the good
      progress made in achieving targets. At the end of the loan US$ 109 million had
      been disbursed (the additional US$ 5 million recognizes the 15% appreciation of
      the TL against the US$ during 2007/2008.


   127.      New indicators from 2005. The most suitable indicator for this expanded
      cadastre/ registration task from the list in paragraph 12 of the Memo to the Board
      (2005) was 3.3 million parcels, which TKGM used to guide the implementation
      goals 2005-2008. The associated unit cost mentioned in the document was


                                           52
      misstated to be US$ 15 per parcel (without including mapping and other costs).
      The final contracted cost amounted to about US$ 34 per parcel.


   128.        The ARIP and GOT-funded work was executed by the General Directorate
      of Registration and Cadastre (TKGM) and its 1400 offices across Turkey. Some
      121 contracts for titling and surveying including 3 for aerial mapping in selected
      provinces were executed under the sub-project. About 85 Turkish companies
      were mobilized in addressing the target of 3.3 million parcels between 2005-2008.
      Overall it was successful, however, there were some delays in at least 15 contracts
      because of the remote locations near Georgia, Syria and Iraq which resulted in a
      scarcity of bids to undertake the work. The last 500,000 parcels required to reach
      the ARIP target are already contracted, funded by TKGM own funds, and will be
      titled in 2009 or at latest in 2010.


   129.     Outputs achieved with ARIP funds at the end of the Loan December 31,
      2008:


      Parcels addressed The number of parcels undertaken using ARIP funds was
      2.799 million covering 4.7288 million hectares. The parcels included private
      lands, Treasury land and forestry land.

      The parcels covered parts of 24 provinces ­ within 2518 villages or settlements.
      The goal was to achieve coverage of 2980 villages / settlements; remaining
      villages will be completed by the end of 2009 using TKGM revolving funds.

                            Table 4: Parcels Titled and Registered

                                   Number                   Area (ha)            Average area (ha)
      Total parcels                2,799,545                4,728,886
      Private Parcels              2,734,930                2,506,986                     0.9 ha
      Treasury Parcels              44,615
      Forest parcels                21,459                  2,221,900                     10 ha
      It is estimated that 400,000 families benefited from the sub-project and a population of 2.7 million was
      impacted.

   130.      Aerial photography and orthophoto maps (OPM) were produced as
      follows:
A total of 2922 maps covering 17,532 sq km; TKGM stated that by the use of OPM
savings of 20% had been made as compared with standard methods.

Bank Financing Part of a National Program



                                                      53
   131.       The TKGM support under ARIP loan funds was part of an overall TKGM
      / Government of Turkey program undertaken between 2004 and 2008 (now
      continuing at least until the end of 2009). By the end of 2009 the program will
      have addressed 11,090 villages and settlements covering 11.44 ha million of
      private, Treasury and forest lands. Of the TL 540.8 m invested ­ about US$ 386
      million (exchange rate 1.4) US$ 109 million was loan funds, US$ 20 million from
      GOT with the balance from the TKGM revolving fund about US$ 257 million.
      As at December 31, 2008, as a result of the total program some 6.6 m parcels had
      been surveyed and mapped and 5.05 million titles issued. It is therefore clear that
      the ARIP funding served as a catalyst for the mobilization of the TKGM
      revolving fund monies and accordingly involving significant numbers of TKGM
      staff and private sector firms.


   132.      This overall effort by TKGM has resulted in one of the largest titling and
      surveying operations undertaken in the world in the past three years.
The Challenges of the TKGM work

   133.       Due to the size of the task and the complex nature of the cadastral
      activities, TKGM decided to involve the private sector on a large scale. Both
      worked in combined or collaborative teams which proved highly satisfactory. In
      terms of output of titled and mapped villages addressed, a 20 times increase in
      productivity was achieved between 2004 and 2008 output levels.


   134.       The challenges in doing the work were:
   (a) regional conditions, including security issues, in some of the provinces slowed the
       start-up of titling and mapping activities;

   (b) out-migration ­ the continuing movement of people from rural lands to urban
       areas especially from forest villages- the absence of owners from their holding
       makes the job very difficult as owners and neighbors are central to the process;

   (c) difficult and remote topograpy (mountainous, forest and high plant cover),
       making for difficult access to the properties;

   (d) Forest land issues related to forest/ private boundary determination. The sub-
       project supported TKGM to help it deal with the 60 year old 2B forest land
       question that the Bank team estimates to impact on about 20% of forest land
       throughout Turkey. Indeed in January 2009 a new law was passed by Parliament
       as a first stage in addressing this complex issue. The issue is under what
       conditions does forest land lose its forest characteristics and become eligible to be
       Treasury land and available for lease or similar? The project team estimated that
       about 1% of ARIP parcels were impacted by this issue, that is about 15,000 forest


                                            54
       parcels or about 4,000 households were unable to be issued with titles as their
       land was ruled to be forest land, not private lands. As a result while such
       landholders continue to hold the land (now declared forestland), it has made no
       difference to their access to the land, to its use and their access to livelihood
       resources; i.e., their rights have not changed.

   (e) short working season by law and in fact, in the east due to the climate;

   (f) the time consuming coordination of participation of agriculture and forestry
       experts in their participation in commissions, administrative boundary disputes;
       and
   (g) selection of village experts in support of the cadastre commissions, their
       sometimes unwillingness to perform as needed, and their lack of availability to
       sign the final papers.

Indirect Benefits

   135.      As a result of legislation changes in 2005, forest and related works
      cadastre was able to be carried out by TKGM. Because additional resources were
      not needed to carry out the separate Treasury and Forest cadastres with them
      being combined into the work of TKGM, it is estimated that total savings of 15-
      20% were achieved over the cost of the activities. Disputes that prevailed over
      many years regarding the real estate of citizens were resolved and titles were
      provided promptly.


   136.      As a result of the above activities, it is estimated that employment was
      generated for about 15,000 technical staff from the private sector, comprising
      5,000 engineers and technicians, and 10,000 administrative staff. The skills
      developed will be used in the new 2008 Land Registry and Cadastre
      Modernization project, financed by the Bank.


   137.       Monitoring and Evaluation. TKGM set up a quarterly M and E system
      for tracking the numbers of titles and parcels issued over the 4 years. It also
      tracked payments to contractors. TKGM also monitored implementation on a
      weekly basis through project appointed supervision staff in its regional and
      provincial offices that ultimately had to do the work. An ad hoc implementation
      survey of the sub-component was undertaken in 2007 using focus group
      interviews which highlighted the forestry land question and other due diligence
      checks.


   138.      Relevance of Restructured Investment. This subcomponent contributed
      to more secure property rights and thus better allows farmers to invest their labor


                                            55
       and capital with more confidence into the land and the potential of greater
       production.       This subcomponent contributed to the recorded increases in
       productivity in the agricultural sector.


   139.       This TKGM subcomponent was rated in 2007/2008 as a HS. It started to
      be rated as such during implementation in 2006/2007 and became a model for
      ARIP and other Turkey IBRD support. TKGM invested both loan and revolving
      funds to the campaign, and undertook the management and supervision of all
      tasks including the M&E. It applied for follow-on Bank support under another
      project, which became effective in 2008, which has a loan amount of EUR 135
      million and TKGM intends to again conduct in parallel revolving fund support of
      up to TL 500 million over the 5 year project period.


Sustainability of the Investment


   140.      TKGM in its daily transactions generates fees and taxes of some TL 1,350
      million per annum of which TL 180 million is retained by TKGM under
      agreement with Treasury. These are added to its revolving fund which it is
      permitted to use for authorised investments, apart from its small annual budget
      from GOT.




Village Based Participatory Investment Subcomponent


   141.       Objective: The objective was to support community-based demand-
      driven activities in small-scale agricultural processing, marketing and other off-
      farm businesses as well as the rehabilitation of infrastructure used in the provision
      of public services in remote rural areas. The sub-component also aimed to
      strengthen capacity at provincial and community levels in executing the design,
      implementation, and impact monitoring of demand driven investment programs in
      anticipation of the future wider availability of funds, including such programs
      from the European Union during the pre-accession period in Turkey.


   142.    Agencies: The overall responsibility of VBPIP implementation belonged
      to MARA's General Directorate of Organization and Support (TEDGEM) that


                                           56
   was in charge of supervising all activities and preparing yearly budget proposals.
   A small Rural Development Unit was attached to Project CEU at the central level
   (RD-CEU). At the provincial level, Project Execution Units (PEU) carried the
   implementation responsibility at the Provincial Directorate of Agriculture
   (PDA/MARA). There were also several counterpart agencies at the provincial
   level including    Governor/Sub-Governor's Office, Mayor's Office, Special
   Provincial Administration (SPA), Association of Providing Services to Villages
   (APSV) and, Village Headman's (Muhtar's) Office.


143.       Evolution of Scope, Purpose, Size: The sub-component was divided into
   both private and public sector programs and implemented in 16 provinces that
   were selected according to a set of criteria prepared jointly by the Government of
   Turkey and the World Bank. Under the private sector-focused portion of program,
   individual farmers and other rural private individuals engaged in small rural
   businesses would be eligible to participate, as well as groups of farmers,
   cooperatives, and other farmers' organizations. The first round would be limited
   to investment proposals in pre-identified strategic investments in maize drying,
   fruit and vegetable packaging, milk cooling, and greenhouses that make use of
   alternative local energy sources (e.g. hot springs). Later rounds were open to a
   wider set of activities (e.g., in crop production, grazing land improvement, animal
   husbandry, aquaculture products, forestry, handicrafts and other off-farm rural
   SMEs). The public sector portion of the program would focus on rehabilitation of
   existing public infrastructure related to the provision of public services. The
   maximum project size of public sector investments as a basis of grant financing
   would be US$ 300,000. The capacities of local organizations that bore
   responsibility for project preparation, management and implementation were
   strengthened through training and technical assistance.


144.       The grant ceilings were the following: i) Private Sector Investments : 50%
   grant for individual farmers, with a limit of US$ 17,500/project and 50% grant
   for organizations/companies with a limit of US$ 125,000/project, and, ii) Public
   Sector Investments: 75% grant with a limit of US$ 225,000/project . The
   maximum project size that would be supported by grant financing would be
   US$35,000 for individuals and US$250,000 for private enterprises, groups of
   farmers, and non-profit organizations. The grant ceilings were revised and
   converted from US$ to TL in May 2007. The new ceilings were 25,000, 175,000
   and 300,000 TL for individual farmers, organizations/companies and public
   organizations, respectively. The grants were made available in three Rounds for
   project applications and award during the life of the program. The third Round
   included a sub-program for machinery and equipment.




                                       57
145.      Main implementation responsibility belonged to the Rural Development
   Central Execution Unit (RD-CEU) at the central level that was established within
   the framework of ARIP and housed in the General Directorate of Organization
   and Support (TEDGEM). A local support mechanism, the Project Execution Unit
   (PEU), was established in each Project province. Both the CEU and the PEUs
   were too small in terms of available experts when the workload is considered. In
   the majority of the provinces, the PEU members did not work solely and fulltime
   for VBPIP. They had the continuing responsibility of their positions for the
   mandated duties of their agency. Although the staff worked under enormous
   pressure, they handled the situation remarkably well due to their commitment and
   professionalism.


146.       Until May 2008, TEDGEM prepared four Regulations describing the
   scope, eligibility, evaluation, grant size and topical coverage, protocol signing,
   procurement, disbursement, auditing and other particulars regarding VBPIP.
   Parallel to the Regulations, four Application Guidelines were published for each
   of the three Rounds and an additional one for machinery and equipment. The RD-
   CEU formulated the application guidelines to fit those for EU project preparation
   as VBPIP was envisaged also as a means to develop and/or improve the capacity
   and skills for project preparation in order to utilize a variety of donor funds,
   particularly the EU. The detailing in the guidelines attempted to assure
   transparency in eligibility, acceptance, and rejection of proposals. The documents
   also minutely described the procedures for the signing of the grant protocol,
   project revisions, monitoring and control of implementation, progress reporting
   and, project expenditures and related payments. However, while trying to make
   the system water-tight, the system was overburdened with red tape and was found
   cumbersome, time consuming and costly by all stakeholders including applicants
   and Project staff.


147.       The table below, shows the project categories and the amount of funding
   that had been disbursed by project completion.




                                       58
       Table 5: VILLAGE BASED PARTICIPATORY INVESTMENTS (VBPI) SUB-
                 COMPONENT LOAN EXPENDITURES (As of April 30, 2009)

         Type of Investment               Program         Number of    Grant
                                           Phase            Grant     Amount
                                                          Agreement    Paid
                                                                        (US$)


Economic                                         1           36          3,003,955
Infrastructure                                   1           84          5,326,239
Total Phase-1                                                120         8,330,195

Economic                                         2           56          4,223,555
Infrastructure                                   2           46          3,984,153
Total Phase-2                                                102         8,207,708

Economic                                         3           248        19,892,490
Infrastructure / Irrigation                      3            11         1,259,448
Machinery&Equipment                              3           767         6,515,080
Total Phase-3                                               1,026       27,667,018


GRAND TOTAL                                                1,248       44,204,921

Source: Project files and World Bank estimates

    148.       Summary of Impact Assessment Report (2008): The Assessment of
       the Village Based Participatory Investment Program (VBPIP)- July 2008
       (This is an evaluation of the impact of the grants in 88% of the program provinces
       on an average of 7 projects per province conducted 6 months prior to the project
       completion date.)


    149.       The VBPIP-supported investments affected the local agricultural
       production and economic activity through demand for and investments in: i) raw
       material processing by the agro-processing enterprises that increased capacity
       and/or improved technology; ii) enterprises newly entering the sector, iii)
       greenhouse investments; iii) cold storage investments; iv) rehabilitation of
       existing irrigation schemes, and v) small-scale pressurized irrigation systems. The
       projects also created job opportunities not only for the local (provincial)
       population, but also in the hinterlands. The local employment was as: i) unskilled
       and semi-skilled labor in agro-processing centers, new greenhouses and for the
       production of incremental raw materials; ii) technical advisors hired based on the
       legislation in-force. During the Study, investors provided estimates regarding the
       number of people employed or to be employed when the enterprises begin
       operations. Based on the information given, it was calculated that the VBPIP
       economic investments (out of 265 completed, 75 were visited during the Study;)


                                                     59
   would provide and/or provided permanent jobs for about 1100±10% people
   primarily at the enterprises. There were also jobs created in some secondary and
   peripheral jobs, both permanent and seasonal, such as truck driving, loading-
   unloading of raw materials, construction of the facilities, installing the equipment,
   manufacturing, labeling, packing, storing, transporting material/containers, etc..
   This meant additional part-time employment for at least 1000. The newly
   established agri-businesses that were supported by VBPIP employed/would
   employ professionals that are both university graduates as well as staff at the level
   of technicians and equipment operators trained in food science that are needed in
   order to comply with the existing laws.


150.       There is no doubt that the VBPIP built the capacity of investment project
   processing (planning, preparation, evaluation and implementation) in the
   PDAs/MARA through the PEUs that will be useful in the implementation of the
   national rural development program and if new external funds are accessed in the
   future. The PEU staff also gained valuable experience in convincing
   communication to inform, inspire, persuade, and motivate the local entrepreneurs.
   Although they received no formal training in communication, which should have
   been foreseen in design, they learned by doing during the three Rounds of the
   program. VBPIP was also educational for the PEU and CEU for teamwork.
   Throughout the VBPIP process, the PEUs and the CEU showed their keenness
   about the program that pushed them to move on, despite difficulties of the work
   itself and the interaction with various stakeholders and keep working until the
   projects were completed. Both the CEU and the PEU staff have developed
   capacity that would be extremely useful for MARA, TEDGEM, and
   PDAs/MARA in the future. The program increased the awareness of PEU staff
   regarding current technologies in agro-processing as well as marketability of
   products.


151.       However, capacity improvement in SPAs and APSV was poor except in
   isolated cases. It was dependent on the approach, attitude and ownership of the
   governors and county governors. Those who considered VBPIP as an opportunity
   for the development of the villages under their jurisdiction, mobilized resources
   both for project preparation and implementation, resolved problems, and
   monitored progress closely to benefit from the program to the extent possible.
   However, generally, the VBPIP was considered an additional burden over and
   above their already cumbersome routine bureaucratic procedures. In fact, both
   much preferred to move on with KOYDES that has more familiar procedures as it
   is based on the traditional national bureaucratic system.


152.      Although not originally intended, the VBPIP required project proposal
   preparation detail that went far beyond the capabilities of the potential


                                        60
   entrepreneurs. This forced the applicants to hire private consultants to handle the
   cumbersome and complex application, preparation and procurement procedures.
   However, in this case, the market was not ready. While there were capable private
   consultants and consultancy firms in large cities, comparatively lesser developed
   regions and provinces were almost totally lacking in local access to such services.
   Particularly for small projects, the work was not a financially worthwhile
   undertaking and many of the experienced and capable individual consultants or
   companies were not interested. Even if they were, they demanded high fees that
   were not affordable with the modest budgets of the entrepreneurs. Therefore, a
   number of applicants fell into the hand of inexperienced individuals -sometimes
   with questionable work ethic- calling themselves "consultants". However, going
   through all the processes made many aware of the fact that without being
   equipped with work ethics, knowledge of correct approaches, and, capabilities,
   they cannot survive in the market. This forced them to develop themselves as
   reliable consultants. Those who could not prepare winning proposals in the first
   Round, took it seriously in the succeeding Rounds, strengthened their capabilities
   and came out of the VBPIP exercise as winners. The competition created by
   VBPIP in the market also pushed them to be better performers. However, there is
   still far to go.


153.       The VBPIP energized the potential entrepreneurs to invest. During the life
   of the Program, a total of 1,631 applications were made by individuals, companies
   and farmer organizations to benefit from the grants to the private sector. The
   Study indicated that among the visited agro-processing enterprises, 40% were
   companies established before the project, 35% were new, established for the
   intended investments, 11% were farmer organizations, and 5% were owned by
   individuals.


154.       In Turkey, the majority of all enterprises are small and medium scale.
   Therefore, they are generally slow in upgrading the technology that they use,
   either due to lack of information or shortage of capital. VBPIP was effective in
   the modernization of the technology used in agro-processing and greenhouse
   production as well as irrigation. It gave opportunity not only to the existing
   investors to upgrade their technology but also to the newly established ones to
   enter the sector equipped with current, up-to-date technologies.


155.      The Program provided benefits to the state by assuring that the enterprises
   were registered and therefore obligated to pay taxes because financing was only
   available to registered legal entities. The program also forced the construction
   contractors, machinery and equipment suppliers and various service providers
   hired for the enterprises to register as such was a condition for projects to be
   supported. Permanent workers became part of the formal economy because their


                                       61
          workplace was registered and they came under government's social security
          system where the employer paid the premiums.


     156.       The infrastructure projects such as roads, sewerage systems and drinking
        water had an overall positive impact on social life, community health and
        women's workload. These projects might have been designed and implemented
        more carefully to respond to the beneficiaries' current needs by investing in better
        technical designs and control services. The result was limited impact. In those
        villages that benefited from the sewerage projects, villagers reported that there
        was less odor and flies, and that they didn't have to track through dirty water in
        the streets anymore. Although not yet empirically supported by the local health
        care centers, there was less illness among smaller children, according to their
        parents. In the villages where the water distribution system was upgraded, the
        villagers' lives, particularly those of women, changed. Although some still use the
        public village fountains for drinking due to its claimed better taste, they now
        handle the household chores at home. All connections have water meters that are
        checked by the village "water guard". Payments are made to the muhtar's office
        to cover the electricity costs of pumping the water from a source to a distribution
        tank that is generally located above the village. Unless the water is from a
        distribution main coming from a proximate municipality, there is no charge for
        the water itself.


     157.        In recent years, drought has significantly decreased crop production in
        some parts of the country resulting in imports even for the crops that Turkey once
        competed in on the international markets. Consequently, there has been
        substantial lowering of groundwater levels overall, resulting in dried up wells for
        irrigation9. In parallel to the Government's water saving strategies, VBPIP
        supported projects that increased irrigation efficiency. Through the public
        investment portion of the grant program, old earth canals were replaced with
        concrete ones with gates; piped systems were also financed. VBPIP supported
        irrigation equipment (for drip and sprinkler systems) also through the machinery
        and equipment sub-program, in Round III, that was timely, when the prevailing
        water scarcity was taken into consideration. Data indicated that through this sub-
        program, 684 farmers benefited from the grants and irrigated 2,785 ha by using
        the one or both types of pressurized systems. The machinery and equipment
        program and the public investments, together, put a total of 3,590 ha of land under
        pressurized irrigation with 1,300 farmers benefitting. Drip irrigation projects had
        positive impact on the environment because they: i) minimized the risk of water
        and soil loss particularly on the undulating terrain, ii) reduced water waste and


9
  Water also became a big issue in the metropolitan areas due to the water scarcity in the dams that provide utility and
drinking water to urban communities.




                                                           62
   pollution due to leaching because fertilizer application was regulated, iii) reduced
   pesticide use; iv) created less compaction, resulting in better root growth and
   healthier plants and, v) conserved energy because less power was needed to
   maintain adequate pressure in the drip systems as opposed to flood irrigation, and
   less water was needed because of the slow application that matches soil
   absorption rates. The VBPIP set excellent examples for the farming community
   vis-a-vis the non-beneficiaries who were struggling with old-fashioned irrigation
   techniques under drought conditions.


158.       In the Study, it was observed that women have significant roles in the
   agro-processing enterprises as: i) labor, ii) professionals mostly employed as food
   engineers and laboratory technicians; iii) partners in family owned companies,
   and in some cases, iv) technicians. It should be noted that women were employed
   also as consultants in the preparation of the proposals and provided technical
   assistance to the investors during implementation.


159.       It was observed that the age of the female workers ranged between 15-50,
   and the majority being between 20-35 who had completed their compulsory
   education of eight years. However, there were also high school graduates who
   could not find better jobs, or those who were not able to pass the university
   entrance exams. It was estimated that in the VBPIP projects visited, about 52% of
   the labor force, as already employed or to be employed, were female. This figure
   is only for those that work at enterprises and not in the production of the input;
   this may probably increase due to the increasing processing capacities.


160.       In semi-urban areas (population of 20,000 or less) and small towns
   surrounded by villages in close proximity, the agro-processing facilities employ
   women who reside in the villages and commute daily. In some cases, the transport
   is provided free of charge by the employer. During the Study, almost all reported
   gratitude and satisfaction with the work. It was observed that VBPIP also
   provided opportunities for the young. Many reported that they had been
   unemployed after graduating (8-year basic education or , additionally, high
   school) and did not know what to do in the village or the small town. They
   usually learned of the job opportunities from the currently employed villagers by
   the enterprises. Some had completed their military service but were unemployed
   but none had the qualifications generally required for urban jobs. They had started
   to work in the processing centers as unskilled labor in loading/unloading of
   trucks, carrying or cleaning the inputs. Later, they moved up to other jobs where
   the experienced seniors provided on-the-job training. Most of those interviewed
   want to continue working in the same place because they have social security, the
   working conditions are decent, the work is not too heavy, and it is close to where
   they live.


                                       63
161.       Some investors made arrangements to send their newly-hired young
   employees for formal apprenticeship training that is provided by the Ministry of
   Education's "Work and Train" programs. This not only prepares them for a more
   promising future but also provides the multiple advantages in terms of free
   training, on-going wages of at least minimum wage level, and social security.




                                      64
Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis


   162.       The impact of the ARIP-supported reform of the agricultural support
      regime, is covered in some detail in Section 3.1 of the main text. The fiscal
      savings demonstrated there, with unavoidable negative impact on agricultural
      incomes partially but quickly mitigated by the rapid implementation of the DIS
      system, is also described. Finally, the recovery and subsequent takeoff of the
      macro- and agricultural economies, already evident in 2002, but reaching record
      levels in 2003, is also shown.


   163.       A subsidiary point of sectoral interest much discussed during project
      formulation, was the fate of the Agricultural Supply Cooperative Unions
      (ASCUs). The project effectively protected the Treasury from further enormous
      annual losses (estimated below at US$ 1 billion per year) in two direct ways - by
      financing the severance of over 12,000 ASCU staff (see Section 3.2), and by
      proposing the government-funded stop-loss mechanism of the Treasury revolving
      fund for ASCUs, also covered below. Beyond the concern to limit (actually end)
      future fiscal liabilities to ASCUs, there was a concern as to whether the private
      agri-business sector of Turkey would rise to fill any voids left by withdrawal or
      shrinkage of ASCUs. This was important for the livelihoods of millions of small
      primary producers. The three sections below summarize findings on the general
      business performance of the ASCUs since 2001, impacts of their decline on
      agricultural marketing, and trends in fiscal impact of the ASCU system.


   164.       General ASCU business trends. Of the 13 major ASCUs in active
      business at the start of ARIP (2000-2001), only two, Taskobirlik and Kayisibirlik,
      seem to have entirely ceased their original operations, both as of 2006.
      Taskobirlik produced about 10,000 tpy of grapes, mostly for wine and raki, in the
      Nevsehir/Capadocia region. Kayisibirlik produced about 1,350 tpy of dried
      apricots, in the Malatya region. In both cases, the entities produced a very small
      part of national production (0.4% of grapes and 2.6% of apricots), and reportedly
      are easily being replaced in the marketing chain by private firms. Taskobirlik
      members are now packing fruit and bottling fruit juices and wine. The historical
      largest source of losses among the ASCUs, Fiskobirlik, handling hazelnuts across
      most of the Black Sea coast, has been removed from the hazelnut business, with
      the government having contracted TMO (the state enterprise responsible for state
      grain purchases and stocks) to purchase and store hazelnuts. TMO has leased
      Fiskobirlik's warehouses and its crushing plants, where nuts stored more than two
      years have been converted to cooking oil, probably at a substantial loss in value.




                                          65
165.       Of the remaining 10 ASCUs, only Taris Olive Oil (Izmir) made a profit on
   core business in 2006/7. Although others were profitable on core business in
   other years (e.g. Marmarabirlik on black table olives in 2001-2005), it is quite
   common for ASCUs to lose money on core business because it is here that
   (generally local) political pressure is most commonly applied, to purchase more
   product than can be handled profitably and to pay higher than market prices to
   thousands of farmers (voters). This indeed is the main source of agricultural
   parastatal losses, not only in Turkey but worldwide, and it has not ceased in
   Turkey. Four ASCUs (Antbirlik, Cukobirlik, Marmarabirlik, and Trakyabirlik)
   made substantial profits on non-core business in 2006/7, in the case of
   Trakyabirlik (sunflower seed in Thrace) large enough to turn the overall operation
   profitable in that year. Ironically, Taris Olive Oil lost money on non-core
   activities in that year, so that its overall result was a loss. Taris Cotton (Izmir),
   once the largest and most successful of the ASCUs, but having amassed enormous
   commercial debts through its consistent refusal to pay reasonably conservative
   prices to its farmers for raw material, made an extraordinary non-core profit in
   2006/7 by selling an insurance company, and hence showed an overall net
   positive result of US$ 23 million in 2006/7, dwarfed however by defaults on
   accumulated debt.


166.       In general therefore, it is probably true that whatever slight hopes of a true
   change in the behavior of numbers of ASCUs were entertained by the Bank in
   2000/2001, have been largely disappointed. None of them have yet become fully
   commercial enterprises, devoted to the interests of their farmer-members, but on a
   sustainable long-term basis, i.e. not through payment of unaffordable farmgate
   prices, hoping for continued government bailouts. While there have been
   substantial reductions in highly overpaid staff (financed by ARIP to the value of
   US$ 103 million in severance payments), and even strategic commercial
   restructuring by some, and a virtual cessation of government budgetary support
   (see below), the positive developments have often been too little, too late, in terms
   of commercialization. Combined with the continuing tradition of political
   pressure on purchase prices, the failure to achieve true commercial autonomy
   seems to have condemned most of the sector to a slow march to bankruptcy. At
   this point, hopes may still be entertained that Marmarabirlik (with whom ARIP
   financed major storage facilities for black olive maturation), Trakyabirlik, and
   Taris Raisins may achieve consistent profitability, while Cukobirlik may do so,
   but only if its huge overhang of about 100 million TL of cumulated debts, is
   written off.


167.     Impact of ASCU declines on agricultural marketing.         First, few
   ASCUs had dominant market share of the market for important commodities even
   in 2000/2001. The greatest dominance has been in sunflower seeds, where
   Trakyabirlik has on average been purchasing 45% of the national crop and
   Karadenizbirlik (Black Sea region) another 5%. In cotton, Taris Cotton has


                                         66
   averaged 11% of the crop, Cukobirlik (the eastern Mediterranean coast) about
   5%, and Antbirlik (the Antalya region) only 1%, for a combined 17% ASCU
   presence in the sector. Fiskobirlik has averaged about 12% of the hazelnuts, and
   has truly functioned as the buyer of last resort of the sector which is dominated by
   private exporters; indeed its function has been more to remove hazelnuts from the
   world market (by storing and crushing) rather than to behave as a commercial
   exporter. Taris Olive Oil has held 14% of the country's oil, while Marmarabirlik
   has processed 15% of the table olives. Taris Raisins and Taris Figs have
   produced 22% and 9% of those two commodities respectively. Now it is true that
   in their home regions several of these ASCUs have loomed much larger than
   these numbers, as a market outlet. But in terms of farmgate prices, their impact is
   probably proportional to their national market share.


168.        Over the life of the project, there has been a general overall decline in
   volume of product handled by the ASCUs, but this has not been true of all of
   them, nor have declines (where they occurred) been rapid or even consistent.
   Antbirlik has seen its cotton product decline fairly steadily from 36,000 tons in
   2000/2001 to about 9,000 tons in 2007/8, but this has clearly been more due to the
   shift in the Antalya economy from agriculture to tourism, than to any commercial
   failures on the part of the entity. Cukobirlik, whose cotton throughput has
   declined (in volatile fashion) from 124,000 tons to 83,000, has mainly lost its
   prime source of product as its home Cukurova Plain largely gave up cotton
   production in favor of more profitable commodities. Thus here there was
   obviously no damage to farmers through loss of an ASCU marketing outlet, but
   rather loss to the entity through clients shifting crops. To their credit, Cukobirlik
   has sought to diversify its product in its home region, to diversify its geographical
   base by purchasing cotton farther and farther to the east, and has also sold its huge
   headquarters building and textile mills as recommended repeatedly by Bank and
   ARIP consultants. But its long delay in ridding itself of these sources of loss left it
   so deeply in debt, that financing constraints now severely hinder its trading
   potential.


169.       Regarding the two sunflower ASCUs, in the one commodity field where
   ASCUs have been dominant, the two actually saw purchases increase (in a
   volatile fashion) from 2000/2001 to 2006/2007. It is only in recent drought years
   that their purchases have dropped off dramatically, by 35% or even more. This is
   reportedly due to early preemptive purchases by the private sector, knowledgeable
   of major production shortfalls in Russia, Ukraine, the European Union, and
   Turkey itself. These declines were larger than the increases in Argentina, India,
   the U.S.A., and South Africa, such that world production declined by 10%, and
   prices have started to rise significantly. If this scenario holds, it represents one
   more case where declines in ASCU procurement did not harm the farm
   community, but rather were the result of changes in farmer behavior, in this case
   selling to the private sector.


                                         67
170.       Fiscal impact of ASCU restructuring. First, ARIP once and for all
   stopped budgetary support to the ASCU sector. The creation of the government-
   funded DFIF revolving fund (with a one-time 250 million TL equivalent
   injection), and its functioning as a final stoploss mechanism by the government
   vis-a-vis the ASCUs, appears to have been an extremely successful maneuver.
   This innovative step should be recommended for replication both in other Turkish
   situations, and worldwide. The only other "government funds" provided to the
   sector since 2001, have been the US$ 103 million in severance payments for
   excessive ASCU staff, financed by the Bank under ARIP itself, early in the
   project life.


171.       The DFIF fund is now worth about 600 million TL, about half of which is
   owed by various TARIS ASCUs. The fund has enlarged due to interest payments,
   not fiscal injections. The relevant interest rates started at 25% in 2001 (when
   commercial rates were about 90%), rose to 37.5% thereafter (with commercial
   rates at 60%), returned to 25% in 2004/5 when commercial rates fell to that
   neighborhood, and are now set at 75% of Ziraat Bank's rate, which now is about
   13.5%. If any DFIF loan to an ASCU has to be rolled over, the interest rate
   charged rises to the full Ziraat Bank rate. The DFIF revolving fund may be
   extended to enable full collections. It should be noted that in US$ terms, the fund
   has increased in value from about US$156 million to US$517 million, which on
   paper at least would appear to compensate Treasury for most ARIP-related
   obligations.


172.       Calculation of fiscal savings due to the ASCU restructuring program is
   difficult due to uncertainties as to the true cost of the ASCU program in the last
   century. One Ministry of Industry and Trade estimate is that the ASCUs cost the
   Government of Turkey US$600 million per year before 1994, and US$5.5 billion
   total (or about US$800 million per year ) during 1994-2001. Some of this
   consisted of loans never repaid. It is known that in 2006, 1.5 billion TL
   equivalent of debts from Fiskobirlik (hazelnuts) to government were written off.
   This may actually be a small part of the legacy of ASCU costs, as about 20 billion
   TL equivalent of Ziraat Bank debt (almost entirely to agricultural entities and
   activities) has had to be written off in recent years. Given the size and political
   clout of the ASCU sector, a substantial proportion of this huge debt must have
   been borne by ASCUs. Thus an estimate of total fiscal savings to the Government
   of Turkey on the order of US$1 billion per year, due to the ASCU restructuring
   program, is not unreasonable.




                                       68
Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                        Responsibility/
           Names                          Title                  Unit
                                                                          Specialty
Lending
John Nash                 Lead Economist                        LCSSD
Lorenz Pohlmeier          Consultant                            ECSSD
Charles Woodruff          Consultant                            ECSSD
Amy Evans                 Consultant                            ECCSD
Elmas Arisoy              Lead Procurement Specialist           ECSC2
Nedret Durutan-Okan       Consultant                            ECSSD
Cuneyt Okan               Consultant                            ECSSD
Julian Lampietti          Lead Program Coordinator              MNSAR
Kasim Kutluturk           Consultant                            ECSSD
B. Michel Koshie          Program Assistant                     SDNOK

Supervision/ICR
Mark Lundell              Sector Leader                         LCSSD
Halil Agah                Senior Rural Development Specialist   ECSSD
Ayse Seda Aroymak         Sr Financial Management Specialist    ECSPS
Dilek Barlas              Deputy Executive Secretary             IPN
Joseph R. Goldberg        Consultant                            MNSSD
Lynn C. Holstein          Consultant                            ECSSD
Ebru Karamete             Consultant                            ECSSD
Ulker Karamullaoglu       Program Assistant                     ECCU6
Holger A. Kray            Lead Operations Officer               ECSSD
Jolanta Kryspin-Watson    Operations Officer                    ECSSD
Kasim Kutluturk           Consultant                            ECSSD
Zeynep Lalik              Financial Management Specialis        ECSPS
Silas Langdon Matthies    Consultant                            CEAIM
Cuneyt Okan               Consultant                            ECSSD
Irina Ramniceanu          Junior Professional Associate         ECSSD
Ibrahim Sirer             Senior Procurement Specialist         ECSPS
Radhika Srinivasan        Sr Social Scientist                   ECSSD
Hiwote Tadesse            Senior Program Assistant              ECSSD


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY00                                        28.95                     212.420
  FY01                                       103.86                     655.725


                                           69
  FY02                           5.11     22.957
  FY03                                     0.00
  FY04                                     0.00
  FY05                                     0.00
  FY06                                     0.00
  FY07                                     0.00
  FY08                                     0.00
                  Total:    137.92       891.102
Supervision/ICR


 FY00                                      0.00
 FY01                                      0.00
 FY02                           43.55    359.994
 FY03                           37.74    294.542
 FY04                           28.35    184.388
 FY05                           38.91    182.370
 FY06                           27.49    190.810
 FY07                           42.96    270.952
 FY08                           42.29    260.627
 FY09                           20.53    175.635
 FY10                            1.84     14.781
                  Total:    283.66      1934.099




                           70
Annex 5: Beneficiary Survey Results


   173.      Large beneficiary surveys were mounted in 2002 and 2004, and were
      reported on at length in 2005 and 2007, as noted in Section 2.3 of the main text.




                                         71
Annex 7: Borrower's Comments on ICR


Evaluation of Agricultural Reform Program of 2000 and ARIP

1. The Program

   174.       In line with the overall stabilization program of 2000, the Government of
      Turkey (GoT) implemented an agricultural reform program that aimed to reduce
      unsustainable and distortionary subsidies, and establish a new support scheme in
      which farmers would decide what to produce in accordance with market signals
      and needs. The Agricultural Reform Implementation Project (ARIP) was designed
      to help the GoT in implementing this program and compensating potential short-
      term adverse impacts of subsidy removal.


   175.       As ARIP has been subject to several extensions and major revisions in its
      implementation scope, it would be difficult to evaluate the expected outcomes of
      the project in accordance with its original design. It should also be underlined
      that, during project implementation, major policy developments have also been
      observed within the agricultural sector. In this respect, it would be wise to assess
      ARIP on the merit of its positive outcomes.


   176.       ARIP's main outcome has been the establishment of a strategic approach
      in agricultural support schemes. The agricultural reform program was the subset
      of a multi-sector financial stabilization program. During project implementation,
      the agricultural program established its own path but mostly stayed in line with
      the objectives of stabilization program. A sectoral strategy document was
      prepared which then led to the enactment of an agricultural law, in which not only
      the agricultural support schemes, but also the main sectoral strategies were
      identified. This new approach also helped Turkey's efforts in promoting a
      competitive agricultural sector and aligning her agricultural system with EU
      regulations and implementations.


   177.       Another positive result of the reform program was the abolishing of off-
      budget practices. A remarkable example of off-budget supports was the cotton
      premium program started in 1993. The Ziraat Bank was acting as the intermediary
      bank and distributing payments to farmers at the time. Since the GoT could not
      allocate required budgetary allocations and provide required resources to the
      Bank, it had to finance the actual transfers through its own resources and bill the


                                           72
      financial burden of the implementation to the government. While the original
      payments to farmers were less than $500 million, the financial burden of the
      system exceeded $10 billion. This heavy burden could only be eliminated by the
      GoT after 2000 as a part of the stabilization program that aimed to establish
      financial discipline. In line with the legal arrangements of post 2000 period, most
      of the agricultural support items were budgeted and the system became more
      transparent and accountable. The Ziraat Bank still acts as an agent in distributing
      agricultural transfers, but it receives budgeted commissions for the services
      extended, and all the transfers are provided from budgetary sources. Therefore, in
      the post 2000 period no financial burden are generated as a result of using
      intermediary institutions to transfer agricultural supports to farmers.


   178.        While implementing the reform program the GoT also managed to phase
      out and restructure inefficient input subsidies and credit support to Agricultural
      Sales Cooperative Unions (ASCUs) within the context of price supports. The
      fertilizer support scheme, which seemed to be supporting fertilizer producers and
      distributors rather than farmers, cost around $500 million annually before 2000.
      Though the system was abolished in 2000, the new DIS payments fully
      compensated almost every farmer for the income lost by removal of the old input
      subsidy system.


   179.       The credit support system has also been restructured so as to subsidize
      only a part of the interest paid by farmers and not all the credit. The new system
      disciplined farmers and increased the pay-back ratio.


   180.       ASCUs have been restructured. Financial viability is still a problem in
      some of the ASCUs, but they no longer continue administering support prices.
      The GoT managed to alleviate the annual burden of $600 million cash injection to
      the ASCUs. Instead, the ASCUs, were directed to a revolving fund to finance
      their purchases from member producers, with the condition of paying back their
      debts to the revolving fund.


   181.       If the financial burden of support purchases is excluded, the newly
      introduced support mechanisms of 2000 show an increased support to final
      beneficiaries. The budgeted cost of the support system before 2000 were around
      $1.3 billion. This amount decreased to $800 million in 2001, then doubled and
      tripled in the following years, as the GoT could directly support final beneficiaries
      with the newly introduced schemes.
                                                                           Million USD
Table 6                          1997    1998     1999    2000     2001    2002      2003




                                           73
Deficiency Payments (Premia)                        91            14          244       338       298           145            239
 Cotton and oil seeds                               0                0        236       312       277           124            179
 Tea premium                                        0                0            0       0         0             0                33
 Tea pruning                                       16                0            7      25        21            21                26
 Tobacco support                                   40             14              0       0         0             0                 0
 Tobacco premium                                   36                0            0       0         0             0                 0
Livestock and Animal Husbandry                      42            32             27      18        34            58                71
Direct Income Support                                0               0            0       3        68          1.248          1.558
 DIS                                                0                0            0       3        68          1.248          1.350
 Fertilizer and Diesel                              0                0            0       0         0             0            208
Compensatory Payments                                0               0            0       0         0             5                22
Input Subsidy                                      582           516          265       192        82             1                 0
Budgeted Support Purchases                          0                0            0       0         0           105                 0
  Tobacco Office                                    0                0            0       0         0            56                 0
  Hazelnut Supoort (SPS Fund)                       0                0            0       0         0            49                 0
Credit Suppot (Including SPS Fund)                 620           571          577       598       197             0                 0
ARIP Transfers (Excluding FT)                       0                0            0       0        39            23                31
Export Subsidies                                   73             50             90      70        72            91                84
TOTAL                                         1.409             1.183       1.202     1.223       790          1.674          2.004


      182.       Some progress has also been achieved in support purchases of agricultural
         state economic enterprises. Tobacco and sugar beet support purchases decreased
         as a result of legal arrangements enacted at the beginning of the reform program.
         The decrease in the overall production of these two products had a positive effect
         on this improved performance. The purchases of TMO decreased as the private
         sector became more active in the markets. The only SEE maintaining its status-
         quo was CayKur.


      183.       When the political and economic climate made it possible, the SEEs
         declared administrative prices (for their commercial practices) at lower levels than
         the support prices, but still remained higher than world prices. In this respect,
         market price support has been sustained by the SEEs dealing with agricultural
         products. The burden of market price support was shared by the tax payers in the
         form of budgetary transfers to SEEs and by the consumers who paid higher prices
         for agricultural products.


Table 7                   1997         1998              1999             2000        2001          2002               2003
Grain                     5.914.775    8.005.231         5.609.383        3.569.021   2.443.798     892.556        1.140.138
Tobacco                    124.104       39.332           185.583          182.760     130.237       63.258             58.060
      Administrative         60.952      39.330            48.601           29.581      38.854       29.318             58.060
      Support                63.152           2           136.982          153.179      91.383       33.940                    0
Sugar Beet               14.907.950   17.619.005     13.222.850          14.677.548   9.783.000   12.210.881       9.131.000
Tea                        541.878      717.969           843.072          498.600     546.966      552.347            517.074




                                                                74
     184.       Budgetary transfers were in the form of capital injections or duty loss
        transfers to the SEEs. However, some legal arrangements were undertaken to
        write-off the reciprocal liabilities between the state and the SEEs. The annual
        transfers from the budget and the off-set amounts were not directly linked with
        the actual burden of the system.
                                                                                                            Million USD
Table 8                     1997           1998           1999          2000         2001             2002           2003
Purchases of SEEs                2.950          3.543          2.629      1.918              976             984           1.136
  Grain (TMO)                    1.257          1.566            999           564           282             141            310
  Tobacco (TEKEL)                  316            535            493           381           187              98            109
    Adminstrative                  157            106            133            61           50               42            109
    Support                        158            429            360           320           138              56              0
  Sugar Beet (T FA )             1.191          1.200            883           843           395             627            579
  Tea (ÇAYKUR)                     186            241            254           130           112             118            138


     185.      A part of the financial burden has been transferred to the post-reform era
        in accounting records of the SEEs (as receivables from Treasury). In this respect,
        it would be better to use OECD PSE calculations to reflect the magnitude of
        market price support. These figures show that other than in 2001, the farmer
        income has been maintained or has increased in the post-2000 period.

                                                                                                   Million USD
Table 9                  1997            1998           1999           2000          2001             2002            2003
Transfers to SEEs               321             560       2.372               297      2.113                1.934            741
  Duty Loss                       3             34             221            64             19              367             198
  Capital                       138             95           93               204        220                   53            128
  Write-off                      62             94        1.717                 0      1.862                1.515            415
  Credit                        119             336            340            29             12                0               0


     186.       OECD support figures clearly show that Turkey managed to increase the
        support given to final beneficiaries in the agricultural sector. Before 2000, the
        financial burden of the system was higher, but the final beneficiaries received less
        support. The reform program made a great amount of budgetary allocations
        possible for the farmers.

                                                                                                            billion USD
Table 10                         1997           1998       1999         2000         2001            2002           2003
Total Support Estimate           10,83          14,09      11,95        10,35        3,97            8,05           11,83
Producer Support Estimate        6,31           8,47       5,78         5,73         0,44            4,50           8,96
Market Price Support             6,17           8,43       5,51         5,37         -0,01           4,36           8,75


2. Agricultural Reform Implementation Project (ARIP)

     187.     Initially, ARIP was designed in adjustment and investment components.
        The adjustment component of ARIP provided budget support for the
        implementation of agricultural reform program. This portion of the loan was


                                                           75
   disbursed in two tranches of $100 million each. Investment portion of ARIP
   consisted of the following 4 components: (1) Establishing a National Farmer
   Registry System (NFRS) to implement the Direct Income Support (DIS), (2)
   Implementing a Farmer Transition Program, (3) Restructuring Agricultural Sales
   Cooperatives and Unions (ASCs/ASCUs), and (4) Project Support Services.


   1- With NFR component, it was planned to establish a nationwide registry system
   to identify farmers who were eligible for payments under the DIS in order to
   compensate adverse effect of subsidy removal. This component also covered the
   technical assistance, training, software and equipment to set up the NRF and the
   acceleration of computerization of existing land registry records, the titling and
   registration of the remaining unregistered parcels.

   2- Farmer Transition component was designed to reduce oversupply of hazelnuts
   and tobacco, through an Alternative Crops Program and to support the
   development of agricultural producers' organizations in Turkey.

   3- ASCs/ASCUs Restructuring component aimed at restructuring ASCs/ASCUs
   administrative and financial structure.

   4- Project Support Services component included i) the public information
   campaign, ii) consulting services related to the project which were not included in
   the other components, iii) the monitoring and evaluation of the project to measure
   its social and financial impacts, and iv) Project Coordination Unit to coordinate
   the implementation of the project.

188.       As explained above, expected transformation in support schemes could not
   be achieved. Therefore, untill 2005, anticipated outcomes of the project were not
   fully achieved and limited progress was made in the overall the project. Some of
   the problems encountered during the implementation were related with the overall
   design of the project, such as the Project did not take prospective post-reform
   production polices into consideration. Lack of consultation with the related
   stakeholders could also be addressed.


189.        As a part of the new agricultural strategy development process, in order to
   overcome the difficulties encountered in the project, a comprehensive
   restructuring was made in 2005 which was in line with the mid-term review of the
   Project. During the restructuring some new sub-components, also mentioned in
   the new agricultural strategy, were added to the investment part of ARIP. They
   were Land Consolidation, Village Based Participatory Investments Program
   (VBPIP), Environmentally Based Agricultural Land Utilization (CATAK),
   Institutional Reinforcement of Farmers Organizations (IRFO) and Licensed
   Warehousing.




                                        76
190.      After restructuring, ARIP implementation focused more on investments,
   and less on policy development. However, the project was carried out relatively
   more successfully.


191.       Regarding land registration activities, a large part of the targeted areas
   were included in the cadastre activities and subsequently registered. Although this
   work was carried out to help the set up of NFRS, it was not achieved to share of
   registry records via online database between MARA and General Directorate of
   Land Registry and Cadastre (TKGM).


192.       Sub-component of Farmer Transition Program was maintained after
   restructuring with a limited budget. However, as the farmers were not informed
   about Program well, the prejudices of the stakeholders could not be eliminated
   during the implementation.


193.       Land Consolidation sub-component was implemented satisfactorily. This
   sub-component was not a new reform initiation, but transferring some ARIP funds
   to existing land consolidation activities. It was known then that it was necessary
   to carry out land consolidation activities in the location of the Participatory Land
   Consolidation Component implemented under the ARIP. ARIP funds helped to
   accelerate ongoing land consolidation activities and increased coordination
   between governmental agencies.


194.       VBPIP and the CATAK sub-components were also implemented
   satisfactorily. The VBPIP was initiated to increase rural income, raise social
   standards of the rural population, rehabilitate infrastructure by conserving natural
   resources, increase productivity in agriculture in line with sustainability and
   strengthening food security by taking into account the preservation of natural
   resources. CATAK sub-component of the amended ARIP aimed to protect
   environmentally fragile areas by 1- setting aside agricultural areas where there
   was excess production or where there was severe erosion and 2- replacing
   harmful agricultural farm practices with more environmentally friendly ones such
   as contour tillage, reduced flow irrigation, organic agriculture, production of
   fodder and adoption of pasture rehabilitation measures. VBPIP and the CATAK
   programs constituted an important institutional capacity which would contribute
   to the implementation of IPARD Program.


195.      IRFO initiated to provide comprehensive management and organizational
   support to Farmer Organizations (FOs) operating in different sub-sectors and


                                        77
      training services to their members, elected officials, managers and staff. With the
      works conducted under this sub-component, more than targeted number of FOs
      and its managers at the original PDO were provided with managerial support and
      training. IRFO activities were supposed to support capacity building at selected
      regional and national services. However, the results have not reached up to the
      expectations.


   196.       Another component of the ARIP was Restructuring of ASCs/ASCUs.
      Within this component, firstly ASCU Law of June 2000 came into force. Excess
      workers of 16 ASCs/ASCUs were laid off to improve financial structures, and
      trainings were provided to ASC/ASCU managers and members to implant
      corporate governance and professionalism. Though financial and managerial
      structures of some ASCUs have been improved, the ASCU system could not be
      able to restructure itself. Today, the problems of ASCs and ASCUs' especially
      related with mismanagement still continue.


   197.        Licenced Warehousing sub-component of the restructured ARIP under the
      Restructuring of ASCs/ASCUs component is another sub-component which did
      not meet expectations fully. Only one of the ASCUs could materialize
      investments under this sub-component. There were many reasons for the limited
      success i.e. limited time for implementation after restructuring, existing financial
      liabilities of ASCUs to the DFIF (Price Stabilization and Support Fund) revolving
      fund, and lack of project initiation capacity of the ASCUs. However, this process
      helped related government agencies to have better understanding of the need of
      the system and stakeholders.


   198.      The project management structures implemented during ARIP were not
      new, but were quite successful for the first time, especially in accelerating project
      implementation, providing savings in managerial spending, and increasing
      communication and coordination among project stakeholders.


Conclusion


   199.       It can be said that ARIP evolved during its implementation. Though only a
      part of the initial and newly added objectives were met, ARIP was quite
      successful to arouse a mutually accepted and shared understanding in identifying
      a strategic approach to deal with the structural problems of Turkish agriculture
      among the governmental agencies and international institutions.



                                           78
200.      The strategies and priorities of GoT with respect to agricultural sector and
   support schemes were also evolved during program and project implementation.
   However, as it can be seen in the comments of project implementing agencies in
   Annex 9, most of the original project development objectives and targets have
   been met.


201.       Although GoT decided not to continue the DIS program, NFRS was
   established within the component A-1 of the project, would be used for the
   administration and control of agricultural support payments. The NFR experience
   will be quite valuable in establishing the Integrated Administration and Control
   System (IACS) for as well Turkey.


202.        During the mid-term review of the project, the GoT also launched its first
   strategy document for the agricultural sector, which composed the base of the
   agriculture law. The project sub-components that were introduced after the mid-
   term review also helped the GoT to design new tools and techniques to adopt its
   own mechanism with the ones in the European Union. Lessons learned from the
   Village Based Participatory Investments Program would lubricate Turkey's
   efforts in establishing the framework of Turkey's IPARD program.


203.        ARIP restructuring also led new efforts to environmental protection. The
   "Environmentally Based Agricultural Land Utilisation" (CATAK) sub-component
   of the amended ARIP, would be expected to build up capacity for Turkey to align
   environmental programs with the EU. This approach is notable as the new sub-
   components were designed with the aim of harmonizing legislative and
   institutional structures for the EU accession.


204.      Although some of the components could not generate the expected results,
   ARIP was an important project in the way of changing the already financially
   unsustainable system. There are major lessons taken from the implementation of
   the Project. Besides, it increased the capacity of some of the agencies
   considerably.


205.      As the Project was restructured in the middle of the implementation four
   new subcomponents were added for the last three years of the project
   implementation, some of the achievements could not be traced as much as
   desired.



                                       79
80
Annex 8: Comments of Cofinanciers and other Partners




                                    81
Annex 9: List of Supporting Documents


Borrower's Implementation Completion Report (ICR), Agricultural Reform
Implementation Project (ARIP), Project Office, Undersecretariat of Treasury, Ankara,
Turkey, January 2009.

Comments on Agricultural Reform Implementation Project, State Planning
Organization, September 2009.

Proposed Amendment of the Loan Agreement, Republic of Turkey - Agricultural
Reform Project (Loan 4631-TU), February 23, 2005, World Bank.

Agricultural and Rural Development Policy Reform in Turkey - Status and
Priorities for Bank Engagement , Holger Kray, December 3, 2008, World Bank.

Report on the Restructuring of the Agricultural Sales Cooperatives, Agricultural
Reform Implementation Project , Kasim Kutluturk, February 1, 2008.

Hazelnut Prices Crack Record , Haig Simonian, Los Angeles Times, Aug. 29, 2005.

Hazelnut Prices to Stabilize in Forthcoming Months?, Lindsay Partos,
Foodnavigator.com, August 25, 2005.

Turkey - Agricultural Support Policy Notes, John Nash, March 5, 1998, World Bank,
including the following: A Reform Path for Agricultural SEEs; Agricultural Support
Policy Proposals - a Blueprint for Reform; A Direct Subsidy Program in Turkey:
What are Direct Subsidy Programs and Why Should Turkey Use Them?

Impact of Agricultural Policy Reform on Regional Rural Policy in Turkey, Onur
Koska, Duygu Atahan, Selim Cagatay, International Conference on Regional and Urban
Modelling, Brussels, Belgium, June 1-2, 2007.

Turkey: A Review of the Impact of the Reform of Agricultural Sector Subsidization,
Mark Lundell et al, World Bank, January 7, 2004.

An Assessment of Cadastral Activities under Turkey Agricultural Reform
Implementation Project , Nedret Durutan and Cuneyt Okan, October 2007, Ankara.

ARIP: An Assessment of the Village Based Participatory Investment Program,
Nedret Durutan and Cuneyt Okan, July 2008, Ankara.

An Assessment of the Participatory Nature of ARIP Land Consolidation Program,
Nedret Durutan and Cuneyt Okan, November 2006, Ankara.



                                         82
ARIP Public Information Campaign Initial Research Findings,
Ortak/Fre>ans/MASDAR Joint Venture, April 2003.

The Turkish Sugar Industry in the Aftermath of EU Sugar Reform, Ayla Ogus,
Cinar Ozen, Cem Kilic, International Conference on Globalization and its Discontents,
Cortland, 2007.

Different Perspectives on Agriculture in Turkey , Erol H. Cakmak, January 2007,
Ankara.

Evaluation of Agricultural Reform Program of 2000 , Levent Yener, personal
communication, February 2009.

First (June 25, 2002) and Second (June 18, 2004) Tranche Release Memoranda to World
Bank Board of Executive Directors, Turkey ARIP (Loan 4631-TU), by Mark Lundell.

An Overview of Land Consolidation in Europe, Arvo Vitikainen, Nordic Journal of
Surveying and Real Estate Research, 2004.

Policy Formation in the Process of Implementing Agricultural Reform in Turkey, A.
Halis Akder, International Journal of Agricultural Resources, Governance and Ecology,
forthcoming in 2009.

Borrower's Implementation Completion Report (ICR), Agricultural Reform
Implementation Project (ARIP), consisting of:

Report by Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs (MARA) ­ General Directorate of
Agricultural Production and Development (TUGEM) on Component A: Design and
Implementation of the Direct Income Support (DIS) Program; Sub-component A-1:
National Registry of Farmers (NRF)

Report by General Directorate of Land Registry and Cadastre (TKGM) on Component A:
Design and Implementation of the Direct Income Support (DIS) Program; Sub-
component A-2: Support to and Registry and Cadastre

Report by MARA ­ TUGEM on Component B: Farmer Transition (FT); Sub-component
B-1: Alternative Crops (Hazelnut ­ Tobacco)

Report by MARA ­ General Directorate of Agrarian Reform (GDAR) on Component B:
Farmer Transition (FT); Sub-component B-2: Land Consolidation (LC)

Report by MARA ­ General Directorate of Organization and Support (TEDGEM) on
Component B: Farmer Transition (FT); Sub-component B-3: Village Based
Participatory Investment Program (VBPI)

Report by MARA ­ General Directorate of Organization and Support (TEDGEM) on
Component B: Farmer Transition (FT); Sub-component B-4: Institutional Strengthening


                                          83
Report by MARA ­ TUGEM on Component B: Farmer Transition (FT); Sub-component
B-5: Environmentally Based Agricultural Land Utilization (CATAK)

Report by Agricultural Sales Cooperatives and Unions (ASCU) Restructuring Board
(RB) on Component C: ASCU Restructuring Program; Sub-components C-1: ASCU
Restructuring; C-: ASC Cooperative Development; and C-3: Licenced Warehousing

Report by Undersecretariat of Treasury (General Directorate of State Economic
Enterprises) on Component D: Project Support Services; Sub-component D-1: Public
Information Activities

Report by Undersecretariat of Treasury (General Directorate of State Economic
Enterprises) on Component D: Project Support Services; Sub-component D-2: Advisory
Services

Report by Undersecretariat of Treasury (General Directorate of State Economic
Enterprises) on Component D: Project Support Services; Sub-component D-3: Social
Monitoring and Evaluation

Report by Undersecretariat of Treasury (General Directorate of State Economic
Enterprises) on Component D: Project Support Services; Sub-component D-4: Project
Management




                                        84
85
86
