The World Bank
FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
,LAJ 239P?-Co
Iepwt N.L P-3678--CD
REPORT AND ECMMATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF ME
IREN&0   SNBK FO  RECONSTU O                DEVEPT
TO THE
EMJCUTIVE DIRECTORS
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN £M ? EQIVALENT ro Us$40 MLLION
TO TH
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A
POPAYAN REGION EARQAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Janary 9, 1984
-b -oum   _war*-dOwbd     dmyb   d yrdhayI  nwwsmo
ne dsdd_ws.itc_mtu   me  Dadawinbe_Zdhdwbo  WUBr   adff=t



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
C.U.L&C  unit - Peso - ColS
Averae Calendar 1981                             Average Calendar 1982
US$1  - Col$54.491                               2US$  - Col$64.102
Col$1 - USS0-01836                               Col$l - US$0.0156
Exchange Rate Effective September 20th, 1983
US$1.00 - Col$82.60
COl$1.00 '   $0.1211
Weigts and Measures
Metric System
FISCAL 'YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BCH              Banco Central Hipotecario
(Central Mortgage Bank)
BR               Banco de la Republica
(The Central Bank)
CRC              Corporacion para La Reconstruccion y Desarrollo del
Departamento del Cauca
(Department of Cauca Reconstruction and Development
Corporation)
DNP              Departamento Nacional de Planeacion
(National Planning Department)
IDB              IntcramerIcan Development Bank
IBRD             International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
UNDP             United Nations Development Programe
This docunent has a retid distribudon and may be used by rpients oly in the perormance of
their ofricial dutes. Its contents may not otherwis be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



COLOMBIA
POPAYAN REGION EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Republic of Colombia
Amount:           US$40 million equivalent, (including a capitalized front-end
fee of US$99,751.00)
Terms:           Repayable in 17 years, including a grace period of 4
years, at the standard variable interest rate.
Relending         Bank loan proceeds would be made available to the various
Terms:            project entities that will carry out sub-projects and sub-
loans. For the financially self-liquidating project works,
the proceeds would be onlent at 18% p.a. with 2 to 3 years
grace periods, and for the non-recoverable portion they
would be passed on as a grant under subsidiary agreements
between the Borrower and entities involved.
Project          The proposed project, estimated to cost US$149.4 million,
Description:     would assist the Government, through the Department of Cauca
Reconstruction and Development Corporation (CRC,, in the
reconstruction and associated planning and management
arising from the earthquake of March 31, 1983, which
destroyed a significant part of the economic and social
infrastructure of the city of Popayan and the surrounding
areas in the Department of Cauca. The Investments supported
under the project would comprise selected items of the
initial phase of a long-term reconstruction program and
would include: (i) individual credits for shelter repair and
reconstruction (47% of project costs); (ii) restoration of
basic infrastructure (15%); (iii) reconstruction of commu-
nity facilities and public buildings (12%); (iv) reconstruc-
tion of commercial, industrial and tourism assets (10Z); and
(v) provision of vehicles and equipment for rubble removal
and maintenaace of public services (4x). Institutional
support would be provided for: (i) CRC and key executing
agencies; and (ii) studies necessary for the long-term
reconstruction and development of the city and region (2Z).
The remaining 10% of the project costs would support
physical and price contingencies.
Benefits and     The benefits of the project are threefold: {i) it will
Risks:           contribute to the physical rehabilitation and economic
reactivation of the area affected by the earthquake; (ii) it
will help in the building up of an institutional foundation
needed for a coherent reconstruction effort and for further



- ii -
urban development; and (iii) it will assist in the estab-
lisbheat of a framework for dealing with emergencies of this
kind in the future in this and other geologically-unstable
areas of the country. The risks are: (i) the inexperience
of the recently-established CRC may adversely affect timely
execution of some components. To minimize this risk,
particular attention has been devoted to limlting project
size and emphasis has been placed on project uvnitoring and
supervision.  Also, whenever appropriate, components will be
executed by experienced agencies already engaged in the
overall reconstruction effort; (ii) because of the emergency
nature of many of the necessary invest-ments, there is a
risk of insufficient preparation of some of the sub-compo-
nents. However, the economic and technical evaluation to be
provided by entities with proven capacity and frequent Bank
follow-up and supervision are expected to overcome this
risk; (iii) because of the extensive physical damage and
economic loss, there is uncertainty about cost recovery of
some project components. Partial direct cost recovery is
expected for the shelter and commercial, industrial and
tourism components (57Z of project costs) and indirect cost
recovery for the infrastructure component. Overall project
cost recovery is estimated to be between 40% and 50Z which
is reasonable considering the nature of the investments
involved and the circumstances; (iv) previous Bank experi-
ence In reconstruction projects stresses the importance of
timely availability of funds (local and foreign) to keep up
the pace of reconstruction. Early assurances of counterpart
funds and the proposed arrangements for a revolving fund,
higher initial disbursement percentages and special legisla-
tion for processing local requirements are expected to
provide the necessary support.



- iii -
Estimated Project Costs:
% of
Total
---US$ million----    Project
Local   Foreign  Total    Cost
Shelter                       56.4    14.1      70.5      47
Infrastructure                15.5      7.2     22.7       15
Community Facitilies &
Public Buildings            13.8     3.7      17.5       12
Commercial, Industrial
and Tourism                 11.1      3.2     14.3       10
Vehicles and Equipment          -       6.5      6.5       4
Institutional Support          1.7      1.1      2.8       2
TOTAL BASE COST:              98.5    35.8    134.3        90
Physical Contingencies         7.0      2.5      9.5        6
Price Contingencies            0.6  I/ 5.0       5.6        4
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS          106.1    43.3    149.4       100
Front end Fee                          0.1       0.1
Total Financing ReGuired    106.1    43.4    149.5
====.=-----                  === ==
Financing Plan
BR, CRC, Government        106.1     3.4    109.5
IBRD                                40.0      40.0
TOTAL                        106.1    43.4    149.5
1/ Low price contingencies in local expenditures expressed in US$ equivalent
result from a projected rate of peso depreciation which exceeds the
difference between domestic and international inflation.



- iv -
Estimated DLsbursements:
---US$ illion-
Bank PY               1984   1985   1986
Annual                24      10      6
Cumulative            24     36      40
Economic Rate of Return: Although returns on most of the project components
cannot be reasonably quantified, they all represent
minlmum cost solutions for well-established needs.
Staff Appraisal Report:  None



INTERNATIONAL BANK e:OR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A
POPAYAN REGION EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Government of Colombia for the equivalent of US$40.0 million, to help
finance the Popayan Region Earthquake Reconstruction Project. The loan would
have a term of 17 years, including a 4-year grace period, at the standard
variable interest rate and will bear a capitalized front-end fee of
US$99,751.00
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1f
2.        An economic mission visited Colombia in July 1982 and its report
(4444-CO) was distributed to the Executive Directors in August 1983. This
section reflects the mission's major findings. Country data sheets are
presented in Annex I.
Background
3.        The Colombian economy has become more resilient to external shocks
as a result of the structural changes that have occurred over the past thirty
years. Rapid economic growth has resulted in a substantial structural trans-
formation of the country from a predominantly rural and self-contained eco-
nomy to a more diversified urban, industrial, services and open economy.
Colombia has reached a point where population pressure on land no longer
increases much, if at all. Public sector investment and output now play a
greater role, primarily as a result of increased activity on the part of
decentralized agencies and public enterprises. Also, non-coffee exports,
particularly exports of manufactured goods, expanded rapidly and the range of
products sold abroad widened considerably. The growing urban-industrial-
services oriented economic activity and a rapid expansion of surplus labor in
rural areas attracted by higher wages and better services in the cities has
given rise to rapid rural-urban migration. This phenomenon, together with
the increased participation of women in the labor force, has been instru-
mental in reducing poverty and improving income distribution over time.
Financial and capital markets have evolved pari-passu with the growing needs
of the economy, and Colombia has become an active participant in interna-
tional capital markets.
I/ This section is substantially unchanged from Part I of the report for the
Coal Exploration Project (No. P3502-CO of September 19, 1983).



- 2 -
4.        Real GDP per capita rose by about 2.3% on average during the
1950-82 period, with each succeeding decade registering greater gains in per
capita income. This was the result of lower population growth, which after
having remained in the 3.0% to 3.5Z range during the 1950s and early 1960s,
declined dramatical'y after 1965 as a consequence of a sharp fall in the
fertility rate. Greater economic and educational opportunities for women,
rapid rural-urban migration, rising per capita income and increased effec-
tiveness of family planning programs contributed to the decline in fertil-
ity. Colombia's population is presently growing at an annual rate of 2.0%.
As a result of the high proportion of women now entering childbearing years,
this rate of population growth is likely to continue until the early 1990s.
5.        The combination of rising per capita income and expanded public
services has brought about a significant improvement in the welfare of the
poorest, in absolute and relative terms. As a result of increased sanitation
control, improved diets and better health care, the crude death rate fell by
about 50% and life expectancy rose from 48 years in the early 1950s to 63
years currently. The child mortality rate declined from 11 per thousand in
the early 1960s to 3.5 per thousand in the late 1970s. Infant mortality fell
to 55 per thousand in the late 1970s, from about 124 per thousand in the
early 1950s. School enrollment ratios have increased substantially at all
grade levels since the 1960s and, by the late 1970s, 79% of urban children
aged 7 to 14 were enrolled in school. The poorest Income groups have experi-
enced the greatest increases in electricity and water services in recent
years and have benefitted more than the average of the population from
services of the national health system. In spite of this progress, Colombia
remains largely underdeveloped, with a relatively small modern sector super-
imposed on a broad, traditional and economically poor base. Development has
been concentrated in relatively few areas of the country, public services are
still not available to many of the rural and urban populations and unemploy-
ment and underemployment are relatively high. The coverage of health care
and water supply requires further improvement, and adequate housing is not
available to a substantial portion of the population. Rapid migration to the
large and medium-sized cities has created urban development problems, with
attendant social difficulties. Moreover, in spite of the steady increase in
per capita income over the past 30 years, substantial efforts are still
required to improve and extend the benefits of development to the poorest
income groups.
6.        In large part, the achievements of the past 30 years were the
results of government efforts to stimulate the productive sectors, provide
the required economic and social instrastructure and establish an effective
institutional base in the economy. In the 1950s and early 1960s, development
policy favored import substitution supported by high tariff protection and
the provision of economic infrastructure by the public sector. It was during
this period that the country's major communication and transportation net-
works were developed and the transformation to a semi-industrial economic
structure began in earnest. By the mid-1960s, the prospects for further
import substitution were substantially diminished, and the country was con-
fronted with great economic uncertainty, arising from the fact that economic
activity and the balance of payments were heavily influenced by developments
in the world coffee market. In order to ease this constraint, during 1967
the authorities adopted an outward-looking development strategy, expanding
and diversifying exports and, anong the export markets, increasingly tapping



the Andean Group countries. Export promotion policies, including frequent
small exchange rate devaluations, export tax rebates and other export incen-
tives were introduced and the authorities began lowering tariffs somewhat and
freeing capital markets from controls as means of raising efficiency and
increasing the competitiveness of Colombian goods in external markecs. These
measures were highly successful in relieving the foreign exchange constraint
and stimulating growth and employment. However, by the mid-1970s the economy
was once again experiencing difficulties caused primarily by the world
recession and by excessive Central Bank financing of the Central Government's
overall fiscal deficit.
Recent Economic Developments
7.        In late 1974, the Government introduced a wide range of measures
designed to correct the structural and policy weaknesses prevailing in the
economy at that time. Before these reforms were fully effective, the economy
was subjected to strong inflationary pressures arising from a sharp increase
in world coffee prices. The increased receipts from coffee exports, together
with some official surrender of foreign exchaage from illegal exports, caused
a turnabout in the balance of payments. Incomis rose rapidly and stimulated
aggregate demand; inflation accelerated. Economic growth also accelerated,
and unemployment fell substantially, both in rural and urban areas. Largely
as a consequence of increased coffee tax revenues, the public finances
generated overall surpluses averaging about 1% of GDP during the 1976-78
period and, by the end cf 1979, net official international reserves had risen
to about US$4.1 billion, equivalent to about 12 months imports of goods and
non-factor services.
8.        While beneficial in many respects, the foreign exchange boom had a
somewhat negative impact on the evolution of the Colombian economy, largely
as a consequence of the need for measures to stabilize the economy. Public
investment was curbed, thereby delaying some badly needed additions to econo-
mic and social infrastructure. The rate of currency devaluation was slowed,
and the conversion of export receipts into pesos was delayed to moderate the
growth of domestic demand, with adverse effects on export expansion and
diversification. Also, the Government was compelled to maintain high reserve
requirements and exDand controls over credit thereby reducing, in real terms,
the financing available to the private sector via the official capital
market.
9.        The stabilization measures were virtually unchanged from early 1977
through 1979 and were partially successful in restraining aggregate demand
growth, but relatively high inflation persisted. In response to the
increasing stabilizing effects on aggregate demand and the troublesome finan-
cial market distortions caused by inflation and the extended period of
monetary restraint, the authorities began in late 1979 to adjust the stabili-
zation program. The rate of peso devaluation was advanced to increase export
incentives and reduce borrowing abroad, and in early 1980, credit restraints
were relaxed by lowering reserve requirements. At the same time, interest
rates on time deposits captured by commercial banks and development finance
companies-and on lending therefrom--were freed from controls. To offset the
inflationary effects of these measures, the authorities further liberalized
import payments and adopted the policy, supported by the emission of new
short-term certificates, of not expanding the subsidized selective credit



- 4 -
operations of the Central Bank in excess of the resources captured from
private savings for this purpose. The authorities also increased the sur-
veillance and control of the illegal export trade. The effects of the above
measures were not immediately noticeable. Real GDP growth declined to 42 in
1980, unemployment starred to creep up, and inflationary pressures continued.
10.       In 1981 the external economic situation took a turn for the worse
and the problems continued into 1982. Real GDP growth which had decelerated
to 2.5Z in 1981 fell to 1.4% in 1982. Agricultural output was hard-hit in
1982 as the production of coffee, cotton and oil seeds dropped sharply as a
result of low international prices, reduced fertilizer use and adverse
weather. Industrial activity remained stagnant on account of depressed
aggregate demand, and unutilized capacity continued to increase, particularly
in manufacturing. After experiencing a surplus for six years, a deficit
emerged in the resource balance in 1981 of about US$1.5 billion, and a
slightly higher deficit, about US$1.8 billion, resulted in 1982. The latter
year's deficit resulted mainly from a drop in real exports by about 4Z:
major reasons were the slowdown in world demand and the reduction in
Colombia's coffee export quota in the International Coffee Agreement.
Although net foreign exchange reserves declined by about US$800 million,
Colombia's net international reserves were still equivalent to about 8.5
months of imports of goods and non-factor service at year end. Inflation
began to slow at the end of 1982, leading to a 25% average for the year.
Towards the end of 1982 the Government introduced a series of measures
designed to stimulate aggregate demand. The rate of peso devaluation was
accelerated to improve competitiveness abroad, the housing construction
industry was provided with incentives to mobilize an increasing amount of
resources, open market operations were discontinued to increase liquidity in
the economy, and in early 1983 the stabilization measures introduced in 1977
began to be dismantled, followed by government legislation designed to reduce
the fiscal deficit.
Development Strategy
11.       The Government's strategy for accomplishing its development objec-
tives is set forth in the 1983-86 National Development Plan. This strategy
emphasizes growth with equity with the purpose of expanding the benefits of
development to Colombia's population. This is to be achieved through
increasing participation of all social and regional groups in the process of
economic growth. The strategy also places high priority on the resumption of
growth while maintaining price stability.  The strategy strengthens the pre-
vious emphasis on export promotion as a means of supplementing domestic
demand and assuring balance of payments stability, and on policy measures
designed to increase economic efficiency and raise institutional capacity.
It proposes a continuation of the large effort in public investment, giving
high priority to energy and agriculture projects and to the provision of
transport infrastructure. Economic decentralization, regional autonomy and
the uniting of regional growth centers through improved transport, communica-
tion and financial links are directed towards creating an integrated national
market. The development plan's strategy also places emphasis on the promo-
tion of both small-scale and commercial agriculture as a means of diversify-
ing and increasing exports, assuring adequate domestic food supplies, holding
down inflation and contributing to the Government's nutrition and welfare
goals. Industrial policy objectives are to provide an environment of



- 5 -
certainty, along with adequate credit and infrastructure, so that entrepre-
ileurs are encouraged to invest and expand output. Because of its benefits in
opening foreign markets, creating employment and bringing in new technology,
private foreign investment is to be encouraged. The financial sector is also
to be strengthened. The Government's ap?roach to helping the poor takes on a
new orientation in tht development plan's strategy. Its efforts are focused
upon improving efficiency in the use of resources, broadening coverage of
services and strengthening the social service institutions. Programs in the
housing, health, and education sectors are to be better focused and integra-
ted, and selected low income and disadvantaged groups, such as workers in the
informal sector, children and unemployed youth, are singled out for special
attention.  Combined with a significant expansion in construction of low-
income housing and the extension of the Integrated Rural Development (DRI)
program, the new directions given to social programs are e&pected to raise
significantly the welfare of low income groups in Colombia.
12.       Colombia became a net oil importer in 1976, and by 1984 petroleum
imports are projected to absorb about 13% of merchandise exports. In the
absence of rapid energy development, energy shortages could become a major
constraint on growth later in this decade. Resolution of the energy problem
depends on the country's success in developing its abundant domestic energy
resources--hydroelectricity, coal and natural gas--and also upon increasing
petroleum exploration and development. The strategy for doing this will
require energy pricing policies that rationalize consumption with energy
resource availabilities, a l:ast cost program of investments, sufficient
domestic and external finan.ing for these investments, strengthened sector
institutions, improved progr-m execution capability and rapid carrying out of
investments. Although planning and policy making have improved substantially
in many energy sector institutions in recent years, further improvements in
overall sector planning and coordination are needed. A recently completed
National Energy study carried out by the Government is providing the basis
for seeking such improvements. Additionally, recent oil pricing decisions
have gone a considerable way towards providing the correct signals for regu-
lating consumption and encouraging production. The prices paid to producers
(primarily foreign companies) for "incremental" and "new" crude provide ade-
quate production incentives, and the retail prices of petroleum products have
been increased substantially in recent years, which on the whole reflect
international levels.
13.       Colombia's agricultural growth performance has   -wed down markedly
in recent years. Both demand and supply constraints have been responsible
for this. To increase output, utilization of additional acreage for cultiva-
tion is projected to involve greater investment than in the past, implying
the increasing need to pursue options of yield improvements. In addition to
productivity gains, additional land could and should be brought under irriga-
tion and/or drainage for more intensive cultivation. Watershed management
and forestry development should also become integral parts of a long-term
strategy for growth and for conserving the natural resources. The generation
and delivery of technological innovations should receive priority in the
array of long-term measures. Research and extension institutions are in need
of rehabilitation and strengthening. Marketing constraints also need to be
relaxed if higher production is to be sustained. Sufficient credit availabi-
lity for production and marketing is also essential. Recently the Government
initiated a major policy redirection to address these issues and the develop-
ment plan assigns a key role to future investments in the sector.



- 6 -
14.       Colombia's high transportation costs and inadequate services could
become a constraint on economic growth, affecting particularly the develop-
ment of the country's vast coal reserves and its agriculture. The State
Railway is in poor condition and the road network needs maintenance and reha-
bilitation. The authorities have begun to take steps to improve the coun-
try's infrastructure and the development plan assigns an important share of
future investments to the sector. An important part of this effort is the
ongoing Rural Roads, Railway Rehabilitation, and Highway Sector Projects.
Investment and its Financing
15.      A large increase of public sector investment will be required in
the next several years to carry out the development strategy outlined in the
development plan. Over the 1983-86 period, such investment is expected to
increase by about 5% p.a. in real terms. The energy and transportation
sectors are expected to account for the bulk (about half) of this investment;
however, real increases in investment are also expected in the small- and
medium-scale agriculture, housing, nutrition and health, industry (including
mining), water and sewerage, and education sectors, Overall, public fixed
investment is projected to average 9% of GDP during the 1983-86 period, and
is expected to total Col$1,674 billion. Private investment will have to
increase also during this period to provide the goods and services required
by the expanding economy.
16.       This increase in investment will demand a major resource mobiliza-
tion effort on the part of Colombia's public sector. The buoyancy of the tax
system (excluding coffee tax revenues and receipts from earnings on forelgn
exchange holdings), which has declined in recent years, will have to be
increased through new taxes and better tax administration, resources will
have to be used more efficiently, and the charges levied for public services
will have to be raised substantially in real terms. A package of measures to
tackle some of these issues has been recently approved by Congress. Adi-
tional measures related to broadening the base of the sales tax and strength-
ening tax administration are expected to follow. Since this effort is likely
to coincide with increased private sector demand for investment resources,
the importance of measures to expand domestlc savings cannot be over-
stressed. The recent capital market liberalization should encourage
savings. A significant increase in voluntary private savings is not likely,
however, as long as inflation remains high. Consequently, stabilization
remains a sine qua non for the country's future growth and development.
Growth and Balance of Payments Prospects
17.      Given the country's strong resource base and sound economic manage-
ment, Colombia's growth prospects for this decade are reasonably good and
significant advances in economic welfare are anticipated. However, because
of the decline in coffee prices and the weakening in exports caused by the
international recession, in addition to the need to increase imports to
develop the country's resource potential and restore higher economic growth,
the current account deficit of the balance of payments is projected to aver-
age US$2.6 billion per year during 1983-86, equivalent to 6Z of GDP. Over a
fifth of the deficit is projected to be financed by reducing foreign exchange
reserves and by direct foreign investment. By the end of this period, net
official international reserves would have fallen to a level slightly below



- 7 -
four months of imports of goods and non-factor services (a level which is
adequate for Colombia) without prejudice to the country's creditworthiness.
This should be sufficient to support an average growth of-real GDP of 3.7Z
during this period. Beyond 1986, the current account deficit should improve
as a result of increasing export proceeds (particularly coal) and a level-
ing-off of imports. The current account deficit would gradually fall to less
than 3X of GDP by 1990. To achieve real GDP growth of 3.7% per annum during
1983-86, gross fixed investment will have to be maintained at 20% of GDP, and
to avoid too large an increase in foreign indebtedness, gross national
savings would need to average about 17% of GDP.
18.       Gross external capital requirements are projected to total US$10.5
billion in current prices for the 1983-86 period, for an annual average
requirement of about US$2.6 billion. Net foreign investment is expected to
account for US$1.4 billion during 1983-86. Direct capital inflows should
provide about US$O.1 billion. The total of these inflows should provide
about 14% of the gross external financing required. Of the remaining 86Z
(US$9.0 billion) about US$4.0 billion (over two-fifths), has been either com-
mitted or is expected to be secured from multilateral and bilateral sources,
while the difference, US$5.0 billion, will need to be borrowed abroad from
financial markets and suppliers' credit sources. At the end of 1982,
Colombia's public and publicly guaranteed external debt disbursed and out-
standing amounted to US$6.2 billion, equivalent to 16% of GDP. The Bank/IDA
share of this external debt was 22%. Reflecting the recently increased
Colombian borrowing from co mmrcial sources, this share is expected to remain
at about 20% during 1983-86. The public debt service ratio at the end of
1982 was 18% and is expected to climb to 24% by 1986, peak at about 28Z in
1989 and then decline gradually. The World Bank's share in public debt
service is expected to remain below 25% during 1983-86. With continued sound
economic and financial management, Colombia is expected to maintain its
creditworthiness through and beyond the 1983-90 period.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
19.       The proposed loan, the 101th to be made to Colombia, would bring
the total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$3,648.9 million (net of can-
cellations). Of this amount the Bank held, as of September 30, 1983
US$2,831.8 million;  IDA made one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in
1961. Disbursements have been completed on 66 loans and the IDA credit.
Before 1979, disbursements averaged U',86 million equivalent per year, but
had increased to US$250 million per year by 1982. While lower than those
recorded in Latin America for similar projects, concentrated efforts to
overcome problems in project execution have resulted in significant increases
in the disbursement record over the last ten months. Improving performance
of social sector institutions, gradual containment of inflationary pressures
and increased Bank lending for infrastructure projects, all point to a higher
level of disbursements in the future. IFC has made investments and under-
writing commitments of UMS119.8 million in 29 enterprises and, as of
September 30, 1983, it held US$48.8 million. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, the IDA credit and IFC investments as of
September 30, 1983.



20.       Since the initial loan was made in 1949, Bank lending to Colombia
has become quite diversified. Although through the mid-1960s, 88X of the
loans made were for power or transport, since then the Bank has broadened its
participation in lending for agriculture and industry, and initiated lending
for irrigations and watershed management, education, water supply, telecommu-
nications, urban development and nutrition. By the late 1970s, 53Z of the
loans made to Colombia were for projects other than transport and power. Of
the loans made since 1978, 39% were for power and transport, 182 for agricul-
ture projects, 17% for industrial projects, 5Z each for projects in water
supply, telecommunications, irrigation and urban development and 5% for
education and nutrition projects. The diversification was indeed a desirable
aim as it helped provide close contact with a broader range of Colombia's
development problems. The experience gained has served to identify areas in
which the Bank's role can only be a marginal one and, thus, to enable lending
to be focussed upon sectors in which the Bank's presence can have a meaning-
ful impact.
21.       Bank lending to Colombia in FY83 consisted of loans for rural basic
education and agricultural research totalling US$78.4 million equivalent. In
addition to the loan presented in this report, the current program includes
che already approved loan for coal exploration and loan for power development
finance, agricultural diversification and multipurpose water and power
development. Work is also underway on projects for smuall-scale industry,
industrial development finance, water supply, and sewerage, electric power,
agricultural extension and marketing, fertilizers, irrigation, roads and
rural education, for possible consideration by the Executive Directors during
the next two years.
22.       The proposed Bank lending is consistent with the Government's
development strategy. To help Colombia develop renewable sources of energy,
a sizeable part of the proposed lending would be for hydropower. Bank
financing iL the energy sector would also assist in strengthening major
institutions and in mobilizing external finance, particularly through the
launching of a new power sector development facility, as most of the projects
would require substantial cofinancing.  Other future loans would finance
agriculture and industry to support the Government in its efforts to raise
overall productivity, income and employment, and to increase and diversify
exports. Closely related to these objectives would be Bank lending for
infrastructure that would facilitate the increasing inter-regional flow of
goods and services. Finally, several loans are being prepared in support of
the Government's efforts to help the poorer segments of the Colombian popula-
tion. Proposed lending for further rural development, agricultural credit,
water supply and sewerage, and irrigation projects are principally designed
to improve the standard of living of the poor.
23.       The operations of external lenrers in Colombia are shown in
Annex I. While IBRD, IDB and bilateral sources provided about 75% of total
external financing to Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share had
decreased since then to some 49% for the 1975-82 period and is expected to
decline further to about 40% of external capital requirements during the
eighties. Like the Bank, IDB has given increased emphasis to energy-related
projects in addition to those for low-cost housing, urban and rural develop-
ment, agrarian reform, university education, water supply, rural electrifica-
tion and land erosion control which are aimed at improving living standards



of the lower income population. In the future, it proposes to assist
Colombia in developing sources of domestic energy and in expanding productive
sector activities to help generate increased employment. USAID has supported
programs in education, rural development and small farm development, but is
phasing out its program in Colombia. The Government of Canada, the Federal
Republic of Germany and the Netherlands have also provided concessional
financing for basic needs and regional integration projects.
PART III - THE EARTHQUAKE AND THE RECONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
Popayan and the Department of Cauca
24.       In 1983 the Department of Cauca (IBRD Map 17426) had 820,000
inhabitants, 3% of the national population. Its capita', Popayan, with a
population of i20,C00 before the earthquake, lies at an elevation of 1,730m
in a traditional coffee and cattle raising area. Its integration with the
rest of the Cauca Department has been hampered by the lack of transversal
communications with the eastern part of the Department where 150,000 tribal
indians are located, and with the coastal lumber and fishing area in the
west, which has some of the lowest social and economic development indicators
in Colombia. Despite a yearly population growth rate of 4.3% in Popayan in
the 1970's, that of the Department of Cauca as a whole did not exceed 1% per
year, and is projected to remain virtually constant because of net out-
migration. Cauca's income per capita has remained one of the lowest in the
country, and its contribution to Colombia's economy, consisting mostly of
unprocessed agricultural goods, declined from 3.42 to 1.52 of GNP between
1950 and 1975. In contrast, its annual and per capita growth compared favor-
ably with the national average in the 1970's. Before the earthquake, under-
employment, particularly in trade and services, and unemployment were wide-
spread in Popayan although income was notably more evenly distributed than in
other cities of Colombia. Although housing conditions were poor in the
crowded rental units of the city's center, unlike most other Colombian
cities, Popayan had few urban squatters. This has been largely explained by
the slow growth of the city and the nature of land tenure in its surrounding
area (mostly private), which discouraged invasions under normal circum-
stances.
25.       Popayan draws much of its importance from its contribution to
Colombia's intellectual and artistic history. At the time of the earthquake,
the 155-year-old University, with important schools of law and engineering,
employed about 1,000 persons. Student and tourism lodging have been
important sources of revenue for the city, as has the hotel industry,
especially in the historic center. Although the guest capacity of Popayan
before the earthquake was only 2.3% of the national total, the city attracted
over 192,000 visit days in 1981, reflecting growth at an average rate of
13.7% over the four previous years. Tourism generated considerable employ-
ment and represented an inflow of US$5 million for the city in 1982. Final-
ly, much of the formal employment in Popayan has been generated by the
administrative functions associated with a Departmental capital. Apart from
a bottling plant, some small manufacturing, and traditional handicraft, there
is little industrial activity in Cauca. Whilst handicrafts and small scale



- 10 -
agro-industries could be expanded, in particular for wood, because of the
peripheral location of the Cauca Department, the nature of its resource base,
and its lack of infrastructure, the possibilities for longer-term economic
development are likely to be associated with the public administration, the
university (as source of local employment and the flow of students to the
city) and the growth of tourism.
Earthquake Damage and Reconstruction Costs
26.       On March 31, 1983, an earthquake with an intensity measured at 5.4
on the Richter scale, hit Popayan, and 11 other municipalities in the Depart-
ment of Cauca. About 250 people were killed and 1,500 injured. Damage
affected all aspects of Popayan's urban systems: shelter, production,
utility networks, public services and public administration. (IBRD Map No.
17282R).
27.       The cost of reconstruction to pre-earthquake condition, including
some essential remodelling, improvement of construction methods using
seismic-resistant standards, relocation of settlements and supporting insti-
tutions to execute it, is estimated at about US$765 million. On this basis,
a long-term reconstruction prograu' '.as been outlined, to be carried out over
the next 15 years (para. 34)-
28.       The siugle greatest damage suffered by any one category of build-
ings was that caused to religious and other non-residential historic build-
ings. Restoring the churches and the artistic treasures they housed may take
10 or 15 years to complete. Reconstruction and repair costs are estimated to
be about US$272 million (36% of the estimated total reconstruction costs).
Nearly 2,400 homes were totally destroyed in Popayan, another 6,900 suffered
major damage, and 4,500 minor damage. Some 4,000 households (24,000 persons)
were made homeless, most of them low-income tenants of one-room rental
units. The majority of these families invaded land on the outskirts of the
city, leading to severe social problems and health hazards. The large
colonial homes in the center, mostly occupied by upper and middle-income
Families, also suffered severe damage. In the rural areas, about 2,500 homes
were totally destroyed and some 2,000 damaged. The reconstruction costs
related to shelter, including units in the historic center of Popayan and in
surrounding towns are estimated at about US$205 million (27% of the total).
The cost of reconstruction of clinics, schools, universities and other commu-
nity facilities has been estimated at nearly US$56 million (7Z of the
total). The reconstruction of shops and of commercial and office buildings,
excluding those in the historic center of Pcpayan, is estimated to cost about
US$48 million (6% of the total). Repair and reconstruction of urban and
rural infrastructure (other than streets and roads) is estimated to be equiv-
alent to about US$30 million (4% of the total). Damage to urban streets and
rural roads, which have deceriorated eve-n more since the earthquake as rubble
has been retrieved, is estimated at abcit US$7 million (1%). The remaining
19% of the costs to undertake the recoistruction program include institu-
tional support, detailed design and su?ervision of reconstruction works,
physical and price contingencies and the acquisition of land to resettle the
homeless who invaded areas on the outskirts of Popayan.



- 11 -
Managing and Funding Relief and Reconstruction
(a) The Immediate Relief Effort
29.       The emergency relief effort immediately after the earthquake was
efficiently handled despite the fact there was no prior overall strategy to
deal with such a crisis. Popayan, at the peak of its most important annual
event (Easter week), was full of visitors. The dead were removed and the
injured were rescued with little delay, removal of debris started Immediately
and tourists were evacuated expeditiously. Some essential services were
restored within days of the earthquake. Human resources and equipment were
mobilized from the Cauca Valley and other areas of the country. The response
of the Government, voluntary agencies, the affected communities, professional
associations, the private sector and international relief organizations was
immediate and efficient, providing medicines, tents, clothing and food. The
emergency, however, found the Departmental and Municipal Governments in a
weak institutional and financial situation. A presidential advisor was
immediately appointed and was charged with coordinating relief efforts and
overseeing the creation of a reconstruction authority, the Department of
Cauca Reconstruction and Development Corporation (CRC).
(b) Reconstruction Measures
30.       In the six months after the earthquake, steps were taken to prepare
for the reconstruction efforts. These included: (i) creation of a national
reconstruction fund to rebuild assets and to support the operating budgets of
local institutions; (ii) negotiation of external loans; (iii) creation of CRC
as a regional reconstruction authority, (iv) strengthening of the Municipal
and Departmental Governments; (v) development of a reconstruction plan and
enactment of the various emergency decrees needed to facilitate the process;
(vi) introduction of temporary seismic-resistant building guidelines for all
new mortgage loans; and (vii) negotiation for the acquisition of the land
invaded after the earthquake.
Cc) Initial Funding for the Program
31.       The initial financing plan presented by the Government for the
reconstruction program indicated, on a preliminary basis, resources of about
US$186.3 million as follows: (a) CRC revenues from: (i) a temporary 5Z
increase in customs tariffs through December 1983 estimated to yield US$13.9
million, and (ii) bond issues for US$23.6 million; (b) a Banco de la
Republica (BR) rediscount line of US$62.5 million to the Central Mortgage
Bank (BCE) and other financial institutions (para. 44); (c) a special loan
for health purposes from the National Social Security Institute for US$6.2
million; (d) a US$1.4 million advance from the National budget to the Depart-
ment of Cauca and the Municipality of Popayan; and (e) anticipated loans from
the Interamerican Development Bank (IDB) and the Bank totalling about US$78.7
million (paras. 32 and 35). These sources thus represent about a quarter of
the estimated US$765 million financing required. Funding for the remaining
three-quarters of the program will be determined as it is executed during the
expected 15-year period.



- 12 -
32.       On August 18, 1983, IDB approved two new loans for a total of
US515.5 million for the reconstruction of the University of Cauca, and
assigned US$9.3 million from an ongoing loan to finance the rehabilitation of
265 primary and secondary education facilities in Pojpayan. These loans are
expected to become effective in January 1984. In addition, IDB approved on
the same date the use of up to US$6 million from an existing line of credit
to BCH for repairs of portions of the sewerage system in Popayan. The United
Nations Development Programme (UNDP) is implementing a pilot program of
self-help in rural housing which, subject to evaluation, will be expanded in
the future. The International Labor Organization is supporting a small
business development program. Other reconstruction aid includes new rural
housing projects funded by UNICEF, the National Federation of Coffee Growers,
and the Cauca Valley Corporation, a housing program sponsored by the
Archbishop of Popayan, and a program of reconstruction in the Municipality of
Cajibio undertaken by the Department of Antioquia.
(d) Bank Support
33.       Two Bank missions assisted the Government in the planning of the
reconstruction program. The first one, two weeks after the earthquake,
assisted in assessing the effects of the earthquake and in determining the
overall approach to reconstruction and the institutional and financial
arrangements necessary for effective implementation of the reconstruction
effort. Two and a half months after the earthquake, an appraisal mission
assisted the Government in preparing an outline and schedule for the
reconstruction program and a framework for the proposed project, including
reconstruction legislation, financial planning and institutional arrange-
ments.
34.       The proposed project would support the initial phases of the
overall Reconstruction Program and is expected to be completed in 3 years.
The project was defined by selecting those critical items of the Reconstruc-
tion Program, which focus on the essential and most urgent investments neces-
sary for the reconstruction of shelter and other physical facilities and the
restoration of key economic and social activities.
35.       The Bank, besides the proposed US$40 millon reconstruction loan,
has amended an ongoing water and sanitation loan (1726-CO) to permit the use
of US$1.5 million for financing repair of water and sewerage lines near the
areas of the squatter settlements and to extend the services to them. The
Bank is also processing amendments to an existing urban loan (1558-CO) to
permit the use of US$6.4 million to help finance basic infrastructure and
individual credits for shelter construction within the same squatter settle-
ments.
Bank Experience in Reconstruction Projects
36.       In recent years, the Bank participated in a limited number of urban
reconstruction projects following earthquakes and civil strife. The proposed
project takes into consideration the lessons learned from these previous
operations by: (a) limiting project objectives and reconstruction targets,
(b) shortening the implementation period; (c) streamlining project design and



- 13 -
administrative procedures; (d) supporting the use of existing institutions to
the maximum extent possible; (e) acquiring land in advance; and (f) con-
centrating on rebuilding essential physical assets.
PART IV - THE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Background
37.       The project was prepared by CRC, with the assistance of the Depart-
ment of Cauca, the Municipality of Popayan and BCH. It was appraised in June
1983 and negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. during the week of
December 5a 1983 with a Colombian delegation led by Dr. Jorge Serpa Erazo,
Director of Public Credit, Ministry of Finance and comprised of representa-
tives of CRC, the Planning Department and the Municipality of Popayan. No
Staff Appraisal Report was produced. A loan and project summary is placed at
the front of this Report. A supplementary project data sheet and other
project details are provided in Annexes III-VIII.
Approach, Objectives and Rationale
38.        The proposed Bank loan would assist the Government of Colombia in
handling the reconstruction management, planning, and financing issues stem-
ming from the destruction caused by the earthquake. It would support a
limited portion of the overall reconstruction program rather than concen-
trating on one or a few specific subsectors. The proposed multisectoral
approach would encompass all major aspects of the overall program: rubble
removal, shelter, production, infrastructure networks, public services,
community facilitias, and public management. This approach would support a
coherent reconstruction process and provide a foundation for the restoration
of economic activities. Emphasis would be placed on the use of labor inten-
sive methods to promote employment.
39.       Bank financing of a portion of the overall reconstruction program
would aim to: (i) contribute to the physical and economic rehabilitation of
the areas damaged by the earthquake by restoring essential facilities and
services and reestablishing a basic level of economic activity that would
minimize medium and long-term social and economic disruption and dislocation;
(ii) support a streamlined institutional arrangement appropriate for effi-
cient coordination, while strengthening the new and other existing institu-
tions involved in the planning and execution of the reconstruction; and (iii)
help develop ueasures to minimize the potential damage from natural disasters
that could be applied to this and other vulnerable areas of the country
(paras. 48(f) and 63).
40.       The selection of specific investments for Bank financing must meet
the criteria described in Annex VII, which include: (i) reconstruction of
assets of critical necessity in the initial reconstruction period; (ii)
immediate restoration of key social and economic activities in the city and
region; (iii) likelihood of efficient implementation and timely disburse-
ments; (iv) insufficient or no other financing committed; and (v) confirma-



- 14 -
tion of high priority by the Government and local authorities. The items
proposed for Bank financing in the light of these criteria are described in
para. 48.
Institutional Framework
41.       The institutional arrangements for the execution of the proposed
project (Annex V, Page 1), would meet the following objectives: (i) they
would focus on and support the CRC as a specialized regional reconstruction
authoriiy; (ii) they would be as streamlined as possible; (iii) their
disbursement processes would take account of the eme-;gency nature of the
project and the need for efficient and timely implementation; and (iv) they
would rely on the experience of BCE in shelter and urban development
finance. The principal institutional participants in the proposed
reconstruction project would be: (i) the Government of Colombia, represented
by the Ministry of Finance, as Borrower; (ii) the BR, as depository of the
revolving fund (Special Account) for the project (para. 42); (iii) the CRC,
as a special reconstruction authority (para. 43); (iv) the BCH as the main
agency for financing shelter and commercial, industrial and tourism buildings
(para. 44); (v) the Department of Cauca, (para. 45) and the Municipality of
Popayan (para. 46) as regional and local authorities; and (vi) various
existing sectoral executing agencies, already active in the region, to
implement specific sectoral investments (Annex VI). The Government would
enter into subsidiary agreements with CRC, BCH and the other executing
entities. Drafts of such agreements were presented by the Government and
those between the Government and CRC and BCH would become in full force prior
to loan effectiveness (draft Loan Agreement, Section 6.01(a)). Subsidiary
agreements with the other executing agencies would become effective prior to
Bank's approval of the respective sub-project (draft Loan Agreement, Section
3.02(a)). The following paragraphs describe the role and organization of
each of the major institutions:
(a) Role of Banco de la Republica
42.       BR would manage the proposed Special Account (para. 58) which would
be established to channel resources for reconstruction from the proposed loan
(draft Loan Agreement, Section 2.03(a)). A special decree (Presidential
Decree No. 2714 of September 22, 1983) has been passed by the Government to
substantially reduce the normal disbursement pr,cessing time by limiting the
time required for clearance of loan and budgetary withdrawal requests. The
provisions of this decree will be applied to the operations of CRC and the
other agencies involved in the execution of the proposed project.
(b) Organization and Role of the CRC
43.       The principal role of the CRC in the proposed project is to plan
and coordinate with the executing agencies the preparation and implementation
of sub-projects and sub-loans and to monitor their execution (paras. 51-52).
CRC would also represent the borrower for the purpose of loan disbursements.
CRC would approve reimbursement of project expenditures by reviewing the
works performed and authorizing payments from the Project Account (para. 59)
to the respective executing agencies.   Created less than three months after
the earthquake by Law 11 of June 23, 1983 as the specialized authority for
reconstruction and development of the Department of Cauca, the CRC has been



- 15 -
empowered with key normative, coordinating, supervisory and financial
functions for reconstruction work in Popayan and for other urban and rural
centers affected by the earthquake. CRC is di.rected by a Board comprised of
representatives of the key institutions involved in the reconstruction
process, namely the Presidency, the Governor of Cauca, the Mayor of Popayan,
the General Managers of BCH and ICT (Instituto de Credito Territorial) and
also the head of the National Planning Department (DNP). CRC is expected to
remain a streamlined and powerful organization (directly linked to the
President of the Republic) with a staff of high professional calibre total-
ling between 20 and 25 members (Annex V, page 2). The law establishing the
CRC also granted the President of the Republic extraordinary powers for 120
days (expired on October 24, 1983) to enact decrees relating to the
reconstruction, CRC's role and the establishment of a National Disaster
Fund. These powers were used to: adopt special regimes for processing
public contracts related to reconstruction and establish specific norms for
contracting; design special procedures for land acquisition; and establish
procedures for refinancing of existing private debts. During the first 90
days of its existence, the CRC prepared the preliminary Reconstruction
Program and estimated the necessary capital and manpower resources. The
final Program, which will include the long-term development plan for the
Region, is to be submitted by March 1984 and legally established by June 1984
(draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.13). CRC would be responsible for seeing
that sub-projects are prepared and evaluated in accordance with the require-
ments of the Bank (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(b)(iv). About 150
months of technical assistance from local and foreign consultants would be
devoted to supporting the planning, coordination and supervisory roles of the
CRC.
(c) Organization and Role of BCH
44.       BCE would be the main financial agency in the reconstruction of
shelter and commercial, industrial and tourism buildings. The special condi-
tions under which urban investment decisions have to be made and implemented,
the complexity of the task, and the need for an operating system of project
evaluation. required a well established institution, with strong internal and
external auditing procedures (Annex V, pages 3 and 4.). BCH's Board of
Directors is constituted by the Ministers of Finance and Economic Develop-
ment, a delegate of the Presidency, two Directors desinated by the Central
Bank, and three representatives from commercial banks.=/ Under the
direction of its former operations manager (who, in July 1983, was designated
Mayor of Popayan) BCE moved rapidly and effectively after the earthquake in
expanding its Popayan branch, opened new offices in each of the centers for
the distribution of building materials which were establishE4 in the city
after the earthquake, devised a computerized system that greatly facilitated
mortgage loan processing, and developed an action program making use of the
rediscount line of credit in the BR (para. 31). BCE's action program for
reconstruction consists of loans for: (i) reconstruction or repair of urban
structures; (ii) equipping of distribution centers of construction materials;
2/ 20% of its capital is held by public and private (including foreign)
commercial banks operating in the country. The remaining 80% is
controlled by the National Government.



- 16 -
(iii) repair and reconstruction of community facilities and infrastructure;
and (iv) new housing programs for relocation of displaced families. In addi-
tion, it introduced requirements of seismic-resistant building standards in
its mortgage loans. Seismic insurance provisions were already part of BCH
requirements.
(d) Organization and Role of the Department of Cauca
45.       The Department is divided into 28 municipalities (IBRD Map-17426).
The Departmental Government played a key role in the Initial relief effort
and in the coordination of reconstruction before the CRC was created. How-
ever, the Department's administration requires institutional and manpower
strengthening, particularly in its financial and planning activities to
adequately perform its role in the reconstruction. About 150 months of tech-
nical assistance from local consultants would be dedicated to strengthening
the Department of Cauca in its functions of coordinating with the Munici-
pality, the CRC and executing agencies as well as developing controls and
monitoring systems for road repair and maintenance, tax collection, financial
planning and management of departmental funds.
(e) Organization and Role of the Municipality of Popayan
46.       The Municipal Government, a weak institution, further weakened by
the earthquake, has been reorganized for the task of reconstruction (Annex V,
page 6). The new Mayor, who assumed his functions in July 1983, designated a
new cabinet and reorganized its structure to respond to the emergency situa-
tion. This reorganization was undertaken in light of the need for close
coordination between the Municipality and the CRC. It maintained the size of
the Municipal establishment but redefined the roles of its staff.  It now
comprises: (i) a restructured Planning Department which will develop plans
for urban reconstruction, supervise their execution and grant permits.
Within this department was established a Division of Emergency Settlements to
plan the consolidation and/or relocation of the squatter settlements created
after the earthquake, and to coordinate and supervise the activities of the
other agencies involved in the settlement program; (ii) a Secretariat of
Government, restructured to supervise the functioning of services and to
establish price controls to prevent speculation in building materials and
basic food stuffs; (iii) a Secretariat of Finance, reorganized to manage
municipal finances with emphasis on controlling revenues from taxes and
adjusting tax collection to existing conditions in the area; and (iv) a
Secretariat of Public Works, restructured to coordinate and supervise the
municipal public works program, and improve the systems of contracting,
repair and maintenance. In order to undertake the tasks described above, the
Municipal Staff would have to be strengthened. About 140 months of technical
assistance from local and foreign consultants are foreseen to assist in the
preparation of the urban development plan, the relevant norms and codes to
improve the financial resource base of the city, and organizational improve-
ments of urban management systems.
Project Description
47.       The proposed reconstruction project is estimated to cost US$149.4
million (para. 49) and has been defined by selecting critical items of the
overall Reconstruction Program in accordance with the criteria referred to in



- 17 -
para. 40 above. The project wruld be developed in the areas affected by the
earthquake in the Municipalities of Popayan, Cajibia, Caldono, El Bordo, El
Tambo, Guapi, Mercaderes, Morales, Piendamo, Purace, Silvia, Sotara, Timbio,
Timbiqui, and Tororo of the Department of Cauca (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 1.02(e)). About 90% of the project's investments would be dedicated
to Popayan. The project would provide for the resettlement of the homeless,
rebuilding of shelter in urban and rural areas, reconstruction of essential
public facilities, rebuilding of commercial, industrial and tourism buildings
and strengthening of the institutional framework necessary for the
recons truction.
48.       The project would consist of the following components: Shelter (47%
- estimated cost: US$70.5 million); Infrastructure (15Z - estimated cost:
US$22.7 million); Community and Public Facilities (12% - estimated cost:
US$17.5 million); Commercial, Industrial and Tourism buildings (10% - estima-
ted cost: US$14.3 million); Vehicles and Equipment (4% - estimated cost:
US$6.5 million); and institutional support (2% - estimated cost: US$2.8
million). The remaining 10% of the estimated costs consist of physical
contingencies (6% - US$9.5 million) and price contingencies (4% - US$5.6
million) (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 2). The numbers shown are subject
to adjustment as the specific sub-projects are submitted for approval in the
course of project execution. The components would include the following:
(a) Shelter
gi) provision of individual supervised credits averaging about
US$13,500 for the reconstruction and repair of shelter of about 3,800 low and
medium-income families residing in the city of Popayan and other towns in the
project area; (ii) credits for shelter repair or the relocation within the
Project area of about 1,000 families from houses in the damaged historic
center of Popayan; and (iii) design and supervision.
(b) Infrastructure
(i) Improvements and extension of about 155 km of water distribu-
tion and sewerage lines in Popayan, and construction and equipping of about
12 water treatment plants, 4 water pumping stations, 3 storage tanks, offices
and workshops in towns other than Popayan; (ii) extension of about 4 km. of
water and sewerage lines to the squatter settlements in Popayan inhabited by
about 20,000 people; (iii) reconstruction and repaving of streets;
(iv) re-provision of electricity, transmission, transformer and distribution
equipment; tv) renewal and extension of telephone cables; (vi) construction
of a new telephone exchange building; and (vii) design and supervision.
(c) Community Facilities and Public Buildings
(i) repair and reconstruction of the Departmental and Municipal
headquarters and administrative offices and workshops essential for the
management and execution of the reconstruction program; (ii) repair,
reconstruction and equipping of about 10 health posts, a home for the elderly
and other ancillary community buildings and facilities; (iii) repair,
reconstruction and equipping of the bus terminal, 3 public markets, a
slaughter house, cemetery and a public library; and (iv) design and supervi-
sion.



- 18 -
Cd) Commercial, Industrial and Tourism Buildings
Credits for: ti) repair and reconstruction of about 140 business
premises, S0 offices and 3 hotels in the project area; (ii) building mate-
rials der'ts for the reconstruction effort; and (iii) design and supervision.
(e) Provision of Vehicles and Equipment
Purchase of: (i) about 100 tipping trucks and miscellaneous
vehicles such as a stone crusher, 2 bulldozers, 3 mechanical shovels,
2 tankers, 2 graders and 1 compactor, for removal of demolition rubble during
the reconstruction and for road maintenance and related uses of the Depart-
ment of Cauca and the Municipality of Popayan, and I fire engine truck; (ii)
data processing equipment for municipal management (1 dual data station, I
processing unit, I expansion of memory, 1 expansion of disk space, 1 printer,
and 2 terminals); and (iii) equipment for telephone maintenance.
(f) Institutional Support
(i) Technical assistance, including consultants and the purchase of
equipment and furniture for the CRC, the Department of Cauca, the Munici-
pality of Popayan and other executing agencies for the development and/or
improvement of their technical, administrative and planning activities
related to the reconstruction program (paras. 43, 45, 46) (approximate cost
US$1.8 million); and (ii) specific studies, including: (a) the development
of national and local building codes with seismic-resistant standards (para.
30) (US$130,000); (b) the development of a national strategy for dealing with
future calaoit -es (para. 39) (US$260,000); (c) the improvement of planning
and financial management in the project area (para. 46) (US$250,000); (d) the
long-term reconstruction of the historic center of Popayan (US$130,000);
(e) the maintenance of vehicles and other mobile equipment to provide the
basis for a plan of action to avoid recurrence of existing situations where a
significant stock of vehicles cannot be made available in critical momenrs on
short notice (US$50,000); and (g) the longer term comprehensive development
of the Department of Cauca (US$150,000).
Costs and Financing
49.       The estimated project cost of US$149.4 million excluding taxes and
duties, is equivalent to about a fifth of the overall reconstruction
program. Financial projections were based on (a) average project cost
increases of 22% in 1983 and 20% thereafter on local goods and services
(project cost increases are expected to lie somewhat in excess of local
inflation which is estimated to reach 18% in 1983, 20% in the period 1984-
1986, and 18Z in 1987); (b) average cost increases on imported goods and
services of 8.0% in 1983, 7.5% in 1984, 7% in 1985, and 6.0% in 1986; and (c)
exchange rate (Colombian peso vis-a-vis US dollar) assumed to depreciate mDre
rapidly than the differential between domestic inflation and external infla-
tion in 1983, 1984 and 1985, respectively, and by this differential there-
after. The cost table presented in Annex IV estimates the project costs
aggregated by component. The detailed cost estimates will be updated and
included in the project file as they become available. Cost of the
individual subprojects will be detailed during project implementation



- 19 -
(paras. 51, 52) on an annual basis through the yearly investment plan of the
CRC (Section 3.10 of the draft Loan Agreement).  Physical contingencies range
from 0-20Z. depending on the degree of reliability of the cost data submitted
to the appraisal mission, with an overall average of about 6.0%. A total
price contingency of US$5.6 million has been applied to the US dollar value
of the project cost estimates. Consultant costs are based on 490 person-
months for institutional strengthening and 280 person-months for conducting
studies.  Foreign consultants' costs are estimated at US$11,500/person-month
including travel and subsistence and local consultants' costs at US$2,000 per
person-month. The total direct and indirect foreign exchange content has
been assessed at 29%. The loan is equivalent to about 27% of the proposed
project costs and about 92% of its foreign exchange content.
50.       Including the proposed Bank loan of US$40 million, identified
sources of funds cover about 67% of project costs (about US$100 million out
of US$149.4 million). The remaining US$49.4 million would be provided by the
hational Government through a combination of the following means: (a)
raising of the existing line of credit from BR (para. 31); b) extension of
the customs duties authorized in April 1983 (para. 31); (c) the placement of
additional national savings bonds, (d) direct appropriations from the
national budget; and (e) investment budget of the project executing agen-
cies. Funding for the works to be performed in 1984 has been incorporated in
the public investment budget and the Government is presently defining the
terms of the complementary financing for the budgets of 1985 and 1986.
Nievertheless, specific provisions Ior timely availability of the required
counterpart funds were confirmed at negotiations (Section 3.08 (c) of the
draft Loan Agreement). The project cost represents less than 1% of the total
projected public sector investment program for the 1983-1986 period whil the
total reconstruction program would amount to less than 3%, which is roug:aly
equivalent to the proportion of the Colombian population living in Cauca.
Project Execution and ?;onitoring
51.       While some parts of the reconstruction program not included in the
project will take longer to complete, those covered by the project are
expected to be completed over 3 years (paragraph 34 and draft Loan Agreement,
Schedule 2).   This period has been determined sufficient to execute the most
urgent investments in the reconstruction program necessary for the restora-
tion of economic activity. Individual components to be financed under the
loan would be submitted to the Bank as sub-projects, with previous approval
by CRC. Participating entities would present detailed economic and technical
justifications as well as updated cost estimates to the CRC which would
evaluate, selecE and establish the relative priority of components in accord-
ance with eligibility criteria agreed with the Bank (Annex VII; and draft
Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(b)(iv)). As part of its coordinating role, CRC
would be solely responsible for the submission process. Components over US$2
million would be referred by the CRC to the Bank for approval prior to their
acceptance for inclusion in the project. Smaller components would be
reviewed by Bank supervision missions on a selective basis. Should the Bank
consider that a component proposed for Bank financing has been selected by
the CRC in a manner contrary to the agreed eligibility criteria, the Bank
would reserve the right to decline disbursements (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 2.03(d)).



52.       Local coordination and supervision of the project would be perform-
ed by the CRC (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(b)(i) and (ii)). A set of
monitoring indicators by subcomponent would guide this supervision effort.
The indicators would include: indication of progress on land tenure; percent-
age of completion of on-site and off-site infrastructure; credits approved
and disbursed for the shelter component; percentage completion of the infra-
structure component by sector; progress on approval and disbursement of
credits for the commercial, industrial and tourism components; physical
completion of the community facilities and public buildings; progress and
expenditures on the Institutional support component; and comparison of actual
costs vis-a-vis estimated cost at the time of submission and approval.
53.       CRC would ensure that the sub-loans for shelter and commercial,
industrial and tourism subprojects are appraised and executed m accordance
with the criteria agreed upon vith the Bank (draft Loan Agreement, Section
3.02(b)(v)). BCH appraisal procedurees have been revieved by the Bank and
found satisfactory. A seismic-resistant construction code dill be put in
force before effectiveness. (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(a) (ii)(A)(6)
and 6.02(b)).
Procurement
54.       The following table indicates the probable procurement procedures
and respective amounts. This distribution is subject to revision as the
sub-projects and respective Implementation arrangements are developed in
detail.



- 21 -
PROCURMNT TABLE
(U$ miillions) a!
Total
Procureme,t Method            Cost
Project Element              ICB        -           -  Other
Shelter                                                 73          73
-         (17.8)       (17.8)
infrastructure                           2-3             Z          25
(5.5)        (0.5)        (6.0)
Community Facilities        14             5              -         19
and Public Buildings       (3.3)         (1.Z)                     (4.5)
Commercial Industrial        -             7             8           15
and Tourism                              (1.7)        (1.9)        (3.6)
Veticles and Equipment       5             1             1           7
(5.0)        (0.2)         (0.2)        (5.4)
Ins titutional Support       -                          3            3
(1.0)       (1.0)
Engineeriug Design           -                           7           7
aad Supervision                                         (.7)       (.7)
TOTAL                   19            36           94          149
(8.3)        (8.6)        (23.1)       (40.0)
'E  Total project cost: US$149.4 million.  Cost figures show   ll this table
include contingencies and are rounded to the nearest integer.
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts that would be
financed by the Bank. based on the average disbutsement percentage.
Because of the proposed sliding disbursement percentages, actual Bank
disbursements for each element would depend upon the timing of its
implementation.
55.       CRC has been exempted by Presidential e3ecree from the country's
procurement regulations which wiU not, therefore, be applicable to any
procurewent under the project. Instead, CRC is preparing a manual setting
out procurement standards and procedures which, upon Bank approval, would be
observed by all project participating entities.  A set of procurement guide-
lines was presented in draft for Bank review. The final procurement manual
will be put into effect as a condition of loan effectiveness (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 6.O1(b)).



- 22 -
56.       The procurement arrangements for the project are summarized as
follows:
(i) Through ICB, in accordance with the Bank's guidelines:
Contracts for civil works and goods over the equivalent of US$2 million  A
margin of preference equal to 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of imported goods
or the actual customs duties and import taxes, whichever is less, would be
allowed for domestic manufacturers.  A general procarement notice for the
project was published in the U.N. Development Forum Business Edition of July
31, 1983.
(ii) Through LCB: Contracts for: (a) civil works worth the equiv-
alent of US$2 million or less (except for small items below US$100,000), up
to an aggregate amount of US$35 million3/; and (b) goods worth the equiv-
aleat of US$2 million or less (except for miscellaneous items costing
US$15,000 or less), up to an aggregate amount of US$5 million.
(iiI) Through Other Methods: (a) Small items of civil works below
the equivalent of US$100,000 in value, up to an aggregate amount of US$2
million, may be carried out by community labor or force account; (b) miscel-
laneous goods costing the equivalent of US$15,000 or less, up to an aggregate
amount of US$1 million, may be purchased through local shopping after
obtaining a minimum of three quotations; Cc) materials and labor for the
Shelter and the Commercial, Industrial and Tourism components may be procured
through regular commercial channels and the informal labor market, respec-
tively4/; and (d) consultants would be contracted in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines.
The primary responsibility for reviewing and approving contracts would
devolve upon the CRC. However, all contracts for civil works and equipment
worth US$2 million and over would be subject to prior review by the Bank;
other contracts would be subject to selective post-award review (draft Loan
Agreement, Schedule 4).
Disbursements
57.       Retroactive financing of up to USS4 million (10% of the loan
amount) would cover expenditures made after July 1, 1983 (draft Loan Agree-
ment, Schedule 1, 4(a)), for items urgently needed to start the reconstruc-
tion effort, such as credits for the shelter component and some infra-
structure equipment, although any project item procured under procedures
satisfactory to the Bank would be eligible for retroactive financing. The
items to be financed out of the proceeds of the loan, the allocation of the
amounts to each category and the respective percentages of expenditures to be
3/ Most of the civil works contracts will be small in value (below
US$250,000) and spread over 15 cities and rural areas, and thus unsuitable
for ICB.
4/ The Shelter component - US$73 million - and a large part of the
Commercial, Industrial and Tourism component - US$8 million - would
consist of small credits to individuals for repair and reconstruction of
housing and small business premises.



- 23 -
financed in each category are presented in Annex VIII (draft Loan Agreement,
Schedule 1 (C)). The Bank would disburse 100I for the directly imported
goods and services, for an estimated amount of UF$7 mdllion.  For all other
eligible costs, the Bank disbursement proportion would follow a sliding scale
based on the aggregate amounts withdrawn from the Special Account, as
ollows:
(a) 65% for disbursements until the aggregate amount withdrawn
reaches USS8 mlllion;
(b) 35Z for disbursements taking place after the aggregate amount
withOrawn reaches US$8 million, up to US$16 million;
(c) 19Z for disbursements taking place after the aggregate amount
withdrawn reaches US$16. million up to US$24 million; and
(d) 10% for disbursements taking place after the aggregate amount
withdrawn reaches US$24 million.
This sliding scale would result in a high financing share during the first
year, %ith expected disbursements of US$23.7 million before the end of 1984,
which is consistent with the objective of facilitating project start-up.
This procedure would also allow for sufficient Bank participation through
project completion. Disbursements for local expenditures under USS2 million
would be against statements of expenditures, audited by CRC's independent
auditors (draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.02) and reviewed by Bank supervi-
sion missions on a sample basis. Other local expenditures and all foreign
expenditures would be fully documented according to Bank's usual procedures.
58.       A separate Special Account (revolving fund) would be established in
the BR (para. 42) (draft Loan Agreement, Section 2.03). It would receive an
initial deposit of US$7.15 million equivalent to the initial three months of
Bank disbursements from the proceeds of the proposed loan. The available
balance in the Special Account would be reduced accordingly wbenever the Bank
disbursement percentage is reduced. Another account (Project Account) would
also be established in a local commercial bank acceptable to the Bank to
receive deposits of counterpart funds and transfers from the Special
Account. rhis Project Account vould be the source of funds to reimburse
project executing agencies, including the CRC, for local expenditures incur-
red. It would be a condition of loan effectiveness that the Government makes
an initial deposit equivalent to US$3.85 million to the Project Account,
which is estimated to be the Government's share for the initial three months
of project expenditures. Further deposits from the Loan Account to the
Special Account and from the Special Account into the Project Account would
be conditioned on the availability of counterpart funds to ensure loan
disbursements pari-passu with counterpart funds (draft Loan Agreement,
Sections 2.03 (c)(ii) and 3.08).
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
59.       CRC would maiatain individual accounts which would record each
sub-project and groups of sub-loans financed by the Bank set rately from
other sub-projects of the reconstruction program (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 4.02(a)). Annually, the CRC would provide the Bank with accounts and



- 24 -
financial statements including the opinion of an auditor acceptable to the
Bank. Also, on an annual basis, the CRC would supply the Bank with a copy of
the audit of thnr -c'-cial and Project Accounts including the opinion of the
auditor (draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.03).
60.       The regular reporting of project progress to be provided by CRC on
a periodical basis would consist of the following: (i) monitoring tables by
component; (ii) disbursements during the preceding quarter and accumulated
for each subproject financed by the Bank, the Bank participation percentage
and amount, amounts financed to date by the Bank, and amounts pending
financing and reimburseable by the Bank; (iii) documeatation to support
disbursement applications attested by the executing agency; and (iv) a
qualitative description of progress in the overall reconstruction program,
and in the Bank-supported project (para. 52 and draft Loan Agreement, Section
3.05(b)).
Cost Recovery and Affordability
61.       In order to take account of the loss of income and disruption of
economic activity attributable to the earthquake, and the accumulation of
commitments and respective debt services on destroyed properties with new
loans, the Monetary Board set up preferential terms to be applied in the
project area for reconstruction credits to the earthquake victims. Those
credits carry a fixed interest rate of 182 (equivalent to the current infla-
tion in the country) and are secured by a mortgage held by BCH. For
reconstruction of destroyed property the credits are repayable in 15 years
(including a 3-year grace period) and for repair of damage they are repayable
in 8 years (including a 2-year grace period). The ceilings for these credits
are limited by the income of the beneficiary household, who cannot commit
more than 40X of the monthly income to the debt service. In the case of
credits for commercial, industrial or tourism activities, besides the
mortgage of the building, the beneficiary must prove reasonable repayment
capacity, on a case by case basis. However, affordability and repayment by
direct beneficiaries will ultimately depend on income trends over the project
period and beyond, and in particular on the recuperation of a substantial
part of pre-earthquake income during the reconstruction period. To take this
uncertainty into account, conservative indebtedness bypotheses have been used
in the analysis, and verified by the financial behaviour observed three and a
half months after the disaster.
62.       Since the thrust of the project is the reconstruction of earthquake
damage and not the installation of major improvements, the cost of several
components (infrastructure, community facilities and public buildings) are
not fully recoverable through increased charges to end users and would
require the allocation of funds from the nation to the CRC, the Department
and the Municipalities as grants. The local utility companies all have
operating deficits and will only be able to improve their finances once the
local economy recovers sufficiently to permit their tariffs to be adjusted
adequately. Aside from the direct cost recovery in the Shelter and
Commercial, Industrial and Tourism components, which are to be financed under
sub-loans (para. 61), indirect partial cost recovery would be achieved
through user charges in the Infrastructure component and by national levi..s
in the form of increased indirect taxes. During the first three years of
implementation of the reconstruction program, during which about US$120



- 25 -
million are expected to be invested yearly, increased taxes would constitute
less than 1Z of the annual public investment and appear affordable to the
country as a whole. After the three year period, the national effort would
represent substantially less, about 0.5% of the expected annual public
iLvestment program for a number of years. The risk associated with cost
recovery is further discussed in paragraph 67.
Project Justification and Benefits
63.       The benefits of this project are threefold: The first is related to
the reconstruction of shelter and other physical assets and restoration of
economic activity in the region of Popayan which would, in general, benefit
the 822,000 people of Cauca, and directly about 250,000 people living in the
city of Popayan and the other 14 towns in the project area. As a result, the
project would contribute to the restoration of production, employment and
income that would be forgone in its absence and would help minimize the
economic consequences of the earthquake. The second concerns additional
indirect effects namely, (a) the building up of an institutional foundation
which besides providing for a coherent reconstruction process and strengthen-
ing local public capabilities in planning and urban management will, in the
longer term, be able to promote and support the economic development of the
area; and (b) the adoption of seismic-resistant construction techniques in a
geologically-unstable area of the country. Finally, a general benefit for
the rest of the country would be to equip Colombia with a framework for
handling fcture emergencies of this kind.
Risks
64.        The foreseeable risks in this project are principally those which
refer to the need for timely execution, the adequacy of subproject prepara-
tion, cost recovery, and the timely availability of funds, local and foreign.
65.       First, because of its recent organization, CRC does not have a
performance record and its staff's capabilities to prepare, coordinate and
execute subprojects in a timely manner will have to be proven. This risk has
been taken into consideration by the scaling and phasing of the proposed
project, its reliance on components to be executed by experienced agencies
already engaged in implementing the program, the strengthening of the Munici-
pality of Popayan and the Department of Cauca, and closer monitoring and
supervision.
66.       Second, because of the urgent nature of many of the necessary
investments, there is a risk that the level of preparation of some of the
subcomponents to be financed could be insufficient. However, as designed, a
large part of the project would rely on BCH, a reputable agency with a record
of experience and proven capacity (para. 44). The project would also rely on
strengthened Municipal and Departmental administrations, as well as
experienced sector agencies. Frequent Bank supervision and follow-up would
also be planned, particularly during the first year of project execution.
67.       The third risk concerns appropriate cost-recovery.  The expecta-
tions raised by highly publicicized post-earthquake grants have cast some
doubt on the willingness of some disaster victims to pay for benefits direct-
ly received and has created some uncertainty about the acceptability of the



- 26 -
present lending terms. However, these are considered appropriate relative to
existing terms and conditions for shelter finance in Colombia. For the
Shelter and Commercial, Industrial and Tourism components, which constitute
57% of the .project, substantial cost recovery (some 70%) is expected. The
scale of the repair costs for utility infrastructure is such that indirect
recovery from beneficiaries will be limited.  OveraU  cost recovery in the
project as a whole is expected to be between 40% and 50%, which is reasonable
considering the nature of the investments and the circumstances.
68.       The fourth risk concerns the timely availability of funds (local
and foreign) and the start up support necessary for the reconstruction. Bank
experience in other reconstruction projects strongly suggests the need for
streamlined disbursement procedures and close mDnitoring in the start-up
period. The commitments obtained from the Government regarding the provision
of counterpart funds, the special legislation put in place to speed up the
fulfillment of legal and bureaucratic requirements, the higher initial
disbursement percentages, the retroactive financing proposed for the Bank
loan and frequent supervision missions are seen as a means of supporting the
start-up process.
PART V  LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Colombia and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii), of the Articles of Agreements are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
70.       Principal conditions of the loan are listed in Section II of Annex
III. Conditions of effectiveness are that (i) the Special Account at BR and
the Project Account have been opened and an initial deposit of US$3.85
million has been made to the Project Account; (ii) the final procurement
manual of CRC and the seismic-resistant building code are put into effect;
and (iii) Subsidiary Agreements are entered into between the Government, CRC
and BCH.
PART VI - RECONMENDATION
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
January 9. 1984



- 27                                            ANNEXI
w a                                         - -         - CWIG -  SeN US IT  ,
NMu                      (NW6 6UcUF EST0470S lb
s  _         _        e       r       "      sss    & a  ,." 
*W-6  191A  :=wam    LAT, 8A3IC4T%W                             ML_
Tn_aL                             112,,,     113.1       1113.9
amzcu.NL                           50s         50.5     3256.5
_  3m  3u (SS)                       210.0       n6   160.0 1w066.1                                   1w.
c13100GM   or COll. UQUW&VIT)     519.0       7130.      910.0             1107.6                  1560.
rou.Arwx.%u-ua  (romansl  1571.0    n214.              26422.0
5334  n05ATIU   6  tT5J            4a.2        59.3       64.4                5.L                    61.4
ftWm*nO D   1TO MM Z    (1oLL)                          39.3
S26T101U3. POFULA960  (WIL)                             62.0
TM  STAT n Ulr  1P6. uuen                              211e
pEE SC. 01.                      13.0        16.?       22.7              35.6                     66.0
PE so. M. aMT. .m                46.9        60.7       1.6               95.2                    157.2
POtLA?W   aE A    n1lC13 (2)
0-14 US                         46.6          .2       3.6                40.1                     1.9
15-6  VS                         50.3         1.1       6L0.2             55.                      0.9
65-mm AIM                         2.9        2.6         3.1               4.1                      7.2
I0PUATKIU GROWN RATE CS)
TomL                              3.t         3.0        2.0               2.3                      1.6
gu1                               3.7         5.2        2.6               2.1                     2.4
3c B3131  RATE (3  TlOUS)          46.7        26.6       23.4              51.5                    25.0
COE  DUSII UTZ tlQ  106)           15.D        10.1        1.1               L.                      9.1
_M   eDIo6to  UTZ!                  3.3        2.1         1.6               3.0                     1.7
M.T wA.IC                             '-
*pS2.  U2L t(ITi                   ..        24.0      mAe
VW m
u  or F0M6 PD. Ka CAS
(196-f-loS)                       1000.0      n.e        124.8             115.0                   16.4
*O-M h   Z or P     smU )        93.0        6.6      IL6               111.5                   129.6
1inUIf (36115663          36')5.0           40.         53.6              61.9                    92.5
or MIumC   DL an Fast           26.0        24.0       25.0/0            24.1                    24.6
COuR   aS 1-4) WAl 3TU             14.0        7.1         .3.               5.3                    16.4
LIFE  KrcT. 6T 31316 11*3)         52.2       53.9        63.3              66.1                    6,.2
017*3aT R. unT (        IIS1      10l.0       77.0       s55.               62.6                    n;
AccuS To san wTn0 (216)
17*L                            W06I        63.0       66.0!             66.
go"6                             s6.97e      3.0        73.077f           71.8
WUUL                              *.f fr     26.0       46.0l             44.3
ACCZs TO 31a:eb oUs(110
(1!9 Or 3ILATIOU
T                                  ..        47.0       46.41!            54.6
aENM                               ..        15.0       Go.677            69.6
313g.                              ..        e.0          2029..
UOPILATIW PDMM   ?SKicZm         2640.0     2160.0      1320.0l4          1176.0                  1036.3
POP. VC  61351  n1SON            *220.0&      720.0 o   u20e0ZX           1012.2                   12.5
P. PD 1mflTA. so
TrAL            -     -      - 366.0        450.0      60-.0ol           417.0                   26.0
R16                                ..       366.0      49@.0i            "1.                     216.0
Ram                                ..          ..         ..            192.6                       .
a1m5ton Pri uIwm                     ..        22.9      2"id               27.2                    20M
Antum sin or umausin
70O*.                              .          5.71k
Mum,                               . ,.,S
LvERaC *a. or pDSOUSIEOG
Tom1                 -             ..         1.k         ..                .
5334                               ..      1.61w           ....
gu                                             1. 6W 
RR                                 ..        2. 47
ACSS TO CWT. (a0O o     lIUM)
TOrAL                            47.0er      s./b         ..
gumaB n.GoO *1.5B
163.1                             6.01.6    13.21k
BEST COPY AVAILBLE



-28-                                       ANNEX-
TAIL    3*                                        F       2
aLOIL1A                - SOCIAL IICANU 0AT& SUE
-  LONLUA                            gwtmE   tovi  Ci S    AGES) la
off?                     Cuss? "MrEI  EsTUaIE  l
l,60~~   ~     :ICt1T~~~   KUOLE INOuNE            Pnuau    in-con
,"lb  197d- S  LA?. mAr06 G CARIS        1 ula        -
ADJUSTED ENOtLNLEN RSATIOS
RtiNAR:  TOTAL                    71.0      110.0       123.0              10S.0                   1h2.3
NaLt                   77.0       107.0       127.0             106.4                    107.2
rIFLE                  77.0       110.0       130.0             103.6                    97.9
SECONDRY: TOTAL                   12.0       25.0        46.0               40.0                     S
MALZ                   13.0        25.0       43.0               33.6                    63.4
11.0       24.0        49.0              41.2                     46.9
IOCiTIOML n or Scon?Aw)            30.8/1      20.2        21.q/d            34.0                     22.4
PM-TCA-IEAIR PATIO
PitiDAn                           38.0       36.0        31.0              30.7                     26.7
SECONDR                           11.0       17.0        20.0              16.7                     22.1
ADST LITERAC  RATE C)               63.0       80.41h      81.0              79.5                      .7
PASSVRR CARSITMOSAM POP              5.7       11.2        18.6/1            45.6                     5z.9
RLIDO  ECEIVS/TROSS POP            125.1      104.3       116.3             ZZ0.2                    165.5
TV RuECELVWSHoUSwA   Pop            9.5        31.1        86.9             103.3                    124.2
PERIsr  C-RCY WCMu
sNtrCT) ctlnoTU
PEE  MOUSA.' POPMATION             50.0              -   50.2               66.1                     96.3
CWO  A FluL ATZEIAPC1CAP              ..         ..         2.9               2.9                      2.S
TosA. LABOU FOCK (TWO)            4727.0     6353.0      3912.0
PSLE (01323?                      19.2       26.6        24.7              26.8                     56.5
AORZTURE (PERCE)                  51.4       37.9        25.3              31.3                     40.7
IISIRY (PlcE)                    19.2       21.0 -      21.2              23.9                     Us.4
PARTICIPATION RATr (PZacWN')
ToTAL                             30.0       2.9         34.0              31.3                     42.6
HAL                               66.8       45.1        51.1              49.6                     55.2
PIMLE                             11.5       14.6        16.1              14.3                     29.1
CCmhIC 01Dm15C! RASIO                1-.        1.6         1.2               1.                      O.9
paC--  or PRIVATE Tzcm,
x1 S St O F Nl.                          j   31.9Lj        ..                ..                       ..
IlRlCS  201 or Msumm        *      7.?1.7     O.1          ..                ..-
LOWEST 2i or NouSEJS              2.1- I    3.l           ....
D~~~~~~~~~~~a   1
1LOWEST` 401 Or WSI0U2MfS          6.38ja    10.1
Lovav MSS CT
UTUfANTD £350.0  POWU! 3011
LIII (55  m  CarZa)
533111                              ..         ..       21L.0H1           239..
L                                   ..         ..       197.O7            14.5.
IST207 EL ATTWE POugaw DEint
L . (USSE SCAPTa
aw                                  ..         ..       267.0/d           5V19.
RURAL.                             ..          z. l2z.o7;                 372.1                      9
RsTDUTIe POP. BELO0  ASmUTE
POrUC   305                                      . It CZ)
33611                              ..      . ..          3..0.                                        .
Mro AVATLAUL
* ro AoS"LXCAIE
Th- gsTp aVrges for each ludIatSr arte p@piatloeu hted e_Vttl*rtlc  M__. CeovriGL o eO Cmtreso sug thw
Lnltatere dopuda a,n maUAbSItt of data and so ot mifeoum.
/b  wUoo othvmtz noted. 'Dta fer 1960  tor to any yar betmeon 1939 and 1961: Data fer 1970 beflam 1969 Md
1971; aud data for 'Mat Recent  atimate- b*te.. 1979 and 1931.
fe 1978. /1 1977. /a 1944 /f 1971: LL  62; / 1973   t bA Xudl   tucher twatutla  at the third leel; Li Ecoeaetcmtty
aetiWa populutten.
Iky 1933
BEST COPY AVILABLE



- 29 -                                                                    ANNE I
WY IlfTIMe it SOIAL 1tistETiS
tat..:  Ithooc. tiis  ate trdr.er  .a-arc -gArrlly jela-d the eatsiaistielrlol. toohol eiS  ha  atd th.. i.y.  -,  s  toldb    . leteitsiiaa  i
haoat  -ta.  .0 the les-. otedad. driat.1 s el  -oAs. waS by dtFftose     ~tn,l... lot Ilcast. at . Si tam  sr. tc.sitlaaa. salit is
is-rit .e...  .mha    msl               ipaejEMSeel .tanii. eIr   rtd         .,J.  Elff ltrofsbt-- t...    ain..
ti  rt.-i  grsra cr2F I  .-i- as      cutr  grat -   Ith  esh-lat e.atly -d 23J a sat-tr ItMP .ith    e           highe .,   re  in.-  . ike th..   Ia Eivry tan .1 ttr
d          I- ltlae.  th"tidtca . .'is2 ch.    ou   f cosine. seq  Itow tL.W2IIIII dagest -  O5.  "iattatltty .2 dais ee  iset - .M.fr. ""' I.- "at ha
5 lied I  cr2 eca et.r     S.e a .....lei Ltot   -ath-c    k.eoasr. tey salfe1 is  -ffcri   the oat  .2 as tRdleata  at  eta. -ses 1. tair  eeld
Itc  - Tate: -srf-, ara  -psitis  L.M area  -1 tles eels..:    l liilli.                                   M TfldTM         * 'Lut1 efst_  at _alMMet  lyooll.
nIB eel  I'm  det.                                                                        Paastlp    fo    s..-P.0Al.dssb iera   etw
ni~`t sal      -ate       . .50d                                                                                    ta-- -   sS.aflt. a 16.        - fteta -tift
csai,tea  ath   -  liort fte    date.  100i totif;                                   *.hhtItliata  cota...-eteta.  aattet  p.oo-,sa,t stsf 2
Ilsa.  0170. eel l"It dAe,. it  e.i                                                                             ph".cotit.  titteaaopialdsl prtsiptlp tstsdte
taOt  eWtulOtrfi  Fe. car:?. -          -a epea ---  s.--- le .2-  teesrite                        aIce    so.e p.-eotty staffed tr s phatte.9  Ctbw by    Ste
eri.ery f-ry I.-t eelzw t --t.  watrokt . -a.-.Ia ope ee  sinlr-. tattloo.                     et Itet    r,  tOla    t IfthI  alta  hettoot aftomotelss    W
eelS~w     Wmrat  t.tr.1y) I.. k1ttr-a  at  -Iaa  aqateiaaior lap.                protwr*  1.15  .t. o alletfstLttitto     VeW ota.9tteLs  pafysal
tWA. lint. er   IN  1a.                                                                        st  bnai   ote,  S  prtatsotgs..e   eopitet.. ee  M,at
PPQMLATr  It5-5i "At STr"TlSTCS                                                                  Spsttettaad kptt   v  trladad coZy eor total
reel tetaleta.. sIt-bt ttr'se..at - to a   ~ IWOis. usl. a    ef tie                  lo.      %-           -  4mcii  .t.  fi  mtia..-  is Sr dlsctoqe
sasierts   u.lii   i   il   aa                                                               na    i..fbest  (srta =               r ka.sal,isd-W iatet or.  asree
Marloitee iralet"'tiae                                                                        -.    b  tes.bsi "A eti.   a bltar tf  daiirital its okraMt  hi.1  qen"S.
_.atteie ya  All..- Care bI    oate    o                        P.esr   od     ,      eeltttr  si  asia. ALI        dra   02 syorm    a  ottdlt
-.oo  a.eI.  life sepact-ty .t bIrth Iea.. aith ts.rso                                                           W iae   a   as   s5100. aSre    tpe    tatea
rtit   ot.twt L-L oat  rt.1I.TU  aopaien  atbtao   i171detea.  o                                             tat.httleac ants. eau.sedtote                        e
i-r.Tepats-Is    far I-L, tCy  ita, L-a h-o  thre tooole                              seti    ot
p=aSig p-S-t.siO   tec  s.Lste-Ltr ..It tIlaloseiae       atos. attles                    Ceatsi           iitwt           irtity ) tatri  (res5   rst
catetle   tarilt   a  Ernttiy7 troelt let psolntta  pesopl..                        of tate!. .tiba  el.  reel. deltitiat raparilty.
btraIs  lri r   L. te  ea  to th  Sail --. ar  st_ tA   052sWTc
stoior  ra ts roteot.  Itto1 ta astawadaly otfer fsnl          o,rts.etd  aats.   ai
detle  tait  rayLeeaa    troa  oi seIst  roselctte .tLe.                                      Ihadthl                asaStol      rs  oe    soa    ot
ecs.aaca .1se   rrera  tte-tf saetlp.  -h   ttoeytrststa   tess.  te rtar   ea  -wrsteesa  apoiim,
peaota  es  -    atitess  S th. kite lt 2k. rsjattd iirttr                               rl-,7 eikat-ao   ls.L-.ta   asWtey tattols  itlIres  sl IW -ti
ittic  ef 2   .artotto.  .e- risc 2002. aSd lb. ret at dlta. ot                        rsei  Wat  Ijeete  tar dtir.i Iseisth  at rrtaayeldt7 
fetitti  rats. t-P=ooo            Itwo.                                                     ia-et'taa otti. sta-4s  Snetasor.lf  sa7 --.s  IluN se
last ottaer  aalitee- me ross     - Ito 1e   ~i  sttealty                                      iS-  loo, opt!. e- halo sr shsw  its efttL.t -%-Ls SO
Patatettse i-watt.                                                  Setsitaa roiotraa et-L last far  ..ar. of s-pyoad prss   Isi ise
-. !    134-,aer pwsltitee- or, lqe   klan., (101 I'si.rIorl at                           ras   ..s-s. Ostittet  s Ie                    Lgo irttltotetrethoo  fag
1&iosa: t   Is un   sat Elm  L.te.                                                      pI .P  a.ee--y a .1   to -i ear Y 5-   a* ; earpoelsd       raaa s,
Pr   .h. ottcttrtElla.  - Csotad Me show  %f asrltttlut teeS                            saetett? atldod.
esly  tile'-, lyreee. t&I   at.Vrtos   aatstCsta   t atIti-lttslteisj.
P.P,!tts  h   crrtr    Itasha) - Ctbltdre  (0-ici4       ,)  is 1ime          - It'hae.tkse,e-ars.-  ts   eC    lt)  pst   Sud
ha  -oal.ea  rottg I   rar.sa  o.asl-so ons-     qa- at aid-oaf,                        n,oaty     5 dopris  at otidr LI  attittoa.
Ioaoo;las,tl,a    it  ae                                                              il-esk    cl-sie. eel.etoaday I                 bst sidsot  aar14ts  A.
4Pen llats  Cr-.t I-t  Itsrreti -taut- "i stel,rat   1 teatj alt-                            P%IasyseM       sae   Iow!.Itwla  by  sesr  atit                . to 2   as-
ytar rtotetia  fI- ti0ltt.tIei.altile-sI.                                                    tasdoota  :.Lew..
rasleiseCrathoas (arso) -area    aostStlk   at  a a       sks.1ft.                Metit..  rt   oat   U.--at  eltt  Clit. is roa  aa  ants)a
oPMltas   n   0_      -t  ftea-ni. sa  170-St.                                               eIaatg   ttt!as.otleoa s tI-aar cod a
trus S.2hSe,  fo   ttasol -Ineast-h  KILL. V or t                .sotf .td-
rio  ppeitow    t Ll, tie  ca  tOtde..Vittr,
Crd feI St Ur thessidl  LtI t tan   orP.  tetaisde F at d-ler                         t'snarCs  Cu  tnseee  owtetet-  easF   respese
=ni-    dMie t0l  -m      -ia   ate  ot deasbIsr  caseyIt bar ii                            ah1tiory abftttoa
Nrtti  tpofte;  tasi  ft.-y"ss  sare.                         P-,, a120  mi. as*tamtosdaaea i   eoe    otltl ,-           r :;titeaAId o   M oiatec  setodM  se  d
li4t.                                                                                        Ithtsa.d ro --ar  to toatta    W L-a-1   ~  roAls   rel irst   at nwais
Tselty   sse-herr. sut i.aset)   AlMeat tea  .1 nactgon.et                                               to o,f teat date fo  raea  Iaa asp -C to am=obt  Ids slet
at btftet.ldsc   a.   arcaslalae   el,po.o                                                   titrdwae k   1tL.a-Lo..
prqrse.                                                             Ii~~~~~~~~~~T tasostCu  thseatasestsL-  - TV Irttlatowo t-boadiasio ts
PetyFle:. -i-sr  (strwa  of  Olitsa        aats   tartdqaeluet   a slta 'dr opwtotto  .: ortls  -1tteas     Tw 1o-too-
a  f a:~eel   we'I-. noe                        ttrcartlss   im e irs   si    eteeraotts                                                 TV Mla. as  to eIffot.
l-i.  l teIda rraate -L.f- C-ti   "tIe--i.   -t.eeif se  .ajo a"                               M. -stit       t t li.et.d  n .1  !2  rairdt oo  Len . -    t t0tet.r
tea  at s  . alederPar keia.tstta     is.  Pa.e.y slts (sea                          c.- Iastelf.S eoarCioo                      r   5- las  e  tha aster at
date.                                                                           LASS ItaCt les
o..rs  seaeetaa  af  i lasasortal  aseiele t rsatr Ottepi.1 Orfrt   seaiydSe  otlrtaawe   tekews ee.. ts.rag
day.  -ettette eaplat tart.. dsetStt Lrola . ipetis te-                                      Oiotleo  at ott agem. bL.tte              hor&-rUn      & t   rartaw  oat
araas._e=e  to tint.  _t  _epatte  -."sitd  e_oL Fead, eat.                           co-poabto  lis.          -Id a   till dat.
ustttteadl toad wttto. 5   aea  te_ dttiht.                                           fuALPoI -pat  tots. fansot s                     s   of ille LAtW tans
taietrata  ers aotoe by tYAi tess  - pl.I.ya eifttl -wlda ft --,ettos                                  ot  - labor I,tans Is tsnla. twootry. k-itta  sad
Zctiwll  eat -Lith  =eladas  .eteata  t= -tair. had7 -Siapt.                                                   Ilb-Ka    ttas  ea  lsrts  til0. tilyaSlt d         ots11  ."
er 5   -   dt.-rtocEa- of pocetetti.. ee  ei-A.iie  tOors   foweat                          latat,. tear.sei  - tetot ton   to a.1tot5  loe     .als. seaftsten
at -oaId towtt: lthl'5. ti  le eelait  d.i-.                                                 ased ti Ut           . asor  e  W  P.so ..".atoa     atiltoe  tat  fawn  lilt.
ft.0  .1 2eit  oart  ef  --St. I.-r     - "de) - iwatet  tet..o           rseSl aold tamt dais
at aerpl  ofwta  ot do.  oat tapni  iroo  te *.f ta  ow ab-.                               Pet"lt teato   it. Imt  - tte   alaea  hosts - Pattoclottaafa
laou.lraaste  ar alltoatrts  atiabttitadb-y lesptsfrioe                            ticrat                                 _-WiS  eti..il. o5 f-osLa tdotr faiMls
ets.         titaes-toa  uratoiS p.-  "vre   it are  .2 stea  aid                            sena a   t teal, at. aid toasts upatLsie of eIt ease  Mol,surcin
paIn prtatit.of flabIf) ra    etot  h ealoe  prao"'aII  ThYAP                       IIS Lt.de  til  date.itooa    lo   altooi                        lart
-Isrwd Uire Iaste iS,-   ol.eo63 It srot 1o  di.: B1051-S. tilt co-ds tilT3  o
date.                                                                             latent nfStlaW.tlt--ITmM &
Itidfso  .4   ehhasltieno        siltsh    ..t-edl C-WIZ_)=   tt,:.(                                                terse (t          S.t   -  sa  lIL) - fototoa  by rtskeo. S
eramL-ineo   to             LEdt   20i .e       .taP  far set dowlaptmi                       ure.  ttaa  22 pie. -  orsl                r.tt. eel par       Got 50 urns  S9
et t.rth:  hf  tilt  el lOll date.                                    hkOd te tSatrt    t t coetdotaIt, -.m mo.
ra -. o     ormte.a  hi    tih;1'0  o   sI lii dale.                                      foals  osrrla-tdtI Att  in...l 1.0  beIta abl  a.  -.1 
era   of M. wi --tr15.5 of- soreiatl. tvct  1rta.alr -                                        to-ttaeit  oaiat dkt PI_ otai -e csbed  roeteai- ts
IrsSst e., oasI  Itis.  tt.   cal rtrei` tIt41lteL-aL.&saint  s sf0                           of-fatdibtt
esior   l.) ow pp-colele   Lef ti   .-I aots oote1-teo.  is -                             -or -m  iiasa  it_ 25or    y   Vibes loot to lor1od ira  Lb. Mtia
erba ca       mbltt  f tte..ti  or  -reeP-t eItad eat ear  seas 201 stor                     lees  aitb adjats     fathtk  set- of ttsIq IM  ins ease.
fcc e bas   -w he .oeedtsr   a hotel tithe  raaaoeMMbta sas    sf   t                       In~let      oI'lla  ate's hste   P.rt  tese  '-st (owwet)   at
i-se,  t 5c..tarose r.abtealcethAlt tapI7 Lb.. tea --oof. sr                       -   ea       .iato   .ose.  atsa    ae!   tia ae
=etha re it k tt-"skd d. wi hea is tpeA.d   diarpartisst   un- .
lesda   stssttir  its falI,. -tat   node.
rirs    st.,.  r.I ps  to.      irSo e t) ra    byaert
dt_oel       -tostcs  at their -epCtNsopltw    berate diarotit
LytnsiartetIasdLdiarnl. with - L.tth.  tsost   f                                                                          treaet   ad talat i-ta   i t
h- sesa sad ilth.  - estpitcltaat                                                                                                             lay:7   5153jltiolcblcIlt
BEST COPY AVAIL ABLE



- 30 -
btW   C ow: wl,lD 3 1_    1E 5
-_         l S I          ma         f       m  (3) 1m a _ _                  at IbW  him  (U)
a ng"m                     (t 1d         m _ im)                        (Sat dm "m)
Ia   m  1I    wm    ws.us  miss  mu    liwo    mi                                    m        ur    am
m 
Q_pe Zc  le l v                                                5.3       6.2       5.2     360.0     100.0      0.       WD.0      100.0    100.0
1_mE                         9.21      1081=      100        4.2       6.5       3.       25J1      1.          .3     31        31.0      AL
so m             U,57 ,21               1.         4.          g       17.2     L5        4L2       "A        424        .1      4.3       42.2
_1m                           z2.1        3.61      R30im     5L6        6.        GA       1u        IL.       411.2    14.2  1.7  71 .2
3mm II,                        1.43      10.141    JOm         LI        1.3       93       2035      220       17i      25          .2      27.8
bum  at  W          a 5 5d671             4.6       4.N        3.n1      4.3       3.1      15.6      34.2     '3.5       3.J      12.3      II1
boo   at p    a  M5            5.5        4.0111 69.4          463       La         .       35.5      16.2     14.6      13        143       1.2
00  twem   m'aw                3.68      8._19115    7.913     5.2       5.6       5.        M        13.0   U Io    25.Z6         z     D     .l
(at mwm gdin)
19I541    M0       1970      375 Ms19
MA. Iiiam (VW)                  *         3 4                  3.3       6.1       3.3    100.0    I01.0       100.0 oODo         I300o
'War W i                     z                               tiF   TX    MT   -W   -7r   -W7   -W    KT
bti[W onufacum                 BP                             -       23.5       5J         -       10.5      2.s       39I       L0
0br                            45r       6o                   -        4.1      4.3         -        1.4      2.3       11.9       .3
I.dmdlm hp=4 (CS)              4.1 0                           3.5       2.3       L0      100       1.LO      10.0    30L0o      110
To lV 3117                                                             - T                                  - -M  --liLo  Ci G-
lomm                           Yl        712               -A         13.0      54.0A                _         1.0     2L1       13J
MUMMY od _tmj                1m         1.Il1                5.2       4.1      11.5       2        OA        31       34.0      35.2
: ,                          2,3XI      2,313                I         5.4       6.3      3.9       3t3       SI9      41.4       J5
194       175        1nn        191       191        191     y 9          13    lm
n samw                             2J V           20Ja    2L. A.3 .1 D.l 1 2l4 2. 2
Ibw   me                               2LI       319        3417 ]L               3LI       *2A        4T.3       5         4 641
-t prim lef                           24        252L       39. 8        71.9     55L2      600L3      773J        MA    1,6
It pir       m                        236.9     215.1      13.2  375.9          430.       51L2   Ql.1           705       3.0
-    aft MU&    mI                          I 17 *I9       113.1      153L.1     111A4      I11.&     1246       110.9     3.0L
Gum    -                                                         3om        11.2       2.9
- _                                                               5.7       7.1        2.1
Sm     (+) er ddlt             t-9 X                                      .        3
Cuxft  mw"a                                                       1.3       4.6        465
7u1w  *i        1fti                                             3.3        3.1        2.3
190.70    391045    1975.
am nn
"      GWn-m  ()                                                  5.10      6.40       4.73
w pr  od            m   (Z                                        2.00      4.ii       2.61
3uT         rim paft (S)                                          5.00      4.00       4.W0
31 b                                                             3.5        3.70       5.67
13.51.1.     am                                                  0.13       0.14       0.21
Ia,!t .lintidt                                                   1.11       0.12       2.00
af Wbrld lIt  AU=
d  At in3t I:          iN<a m   Pm       d   3M t ml    .dl c        m  ad       sluo. at  tdim  aM   Ud ago&=.
;djj  1   *o    M 1970.10
canal emm..
i/ 0          Inae  at  mml hmtD d  mt   plk                 I
I hlIME Sadal 00muIty *d Iamb WaL.
I         Camtm we"s dmoc mvlmuuifl=Mit Mn MM &        M  pFm&t.
S     14. 113
Cab"& MylrIM
BEST COPY AVAILABLE



- 31 -
PapdImw: 26.935.M (ga -1U                                     vim    O        i      M      IN mL  8                                               IM.   T
Iw rar CWlt: tS51,11.31D                                                             a       p Pl)                                                .     of F
1974     1975     176       177      iw      1i          g0    1n -h    1           W.       IVA       1U 
SWAA (V 199gu1
q at -         ad mNm-tarmvm                  1,36    2,165    2,5       3.443    4,039    4.635  5.676    4.6G6    4.680    4.3Y         4.143    5.3D1    6.311
at p P   d aufAt mtV1                 2.07Z    Z.030    2.321    2.762    3,425    3.939    5.496    6.0          .44    5.765    6,261    6F,70       7.A2
lNuMazigIMMICIR                                 -214       135      416      Ml        614      719       113   -1672   -1 71      -1417   -14        -1 -5 -3134
, fma p i-F W    M   -I                                                                      -W   -IR  7W  -75r #56  -1:7y a; i;ir  
hot _WB*dftd tMOEMS                             22        3'       39       40        4                 1.6     2M2       223       23       2.        26       253
IEmt Aont  11-3                                           -         210      469       357      562       136        l   -2,242             -2.547   -2        -2,711
*     C areaW LtJg inhIWl t                       36        32       14       43        67      106        52     23       239        30D      350      4m        4rn
Wu         l ard km-Wm la"  (Mut)                207       261      12        296       47      69        692 n    i.43    1,2M       692    1.3F3    2.610    2.4W
to 1lfo r                                     tm C162)    (264)    (113)    (199)    ()    (56)    (777)  (I P9)  (1,096)    (69)  (.3110  (1,710)  (2.2W)
to privte seto                                tZS        -3     (-II)      C-3)    (-33)     (45)    (-%)    f35O)    tl0)          (0)     (5M      (M)    (200)
Wa   a tpLJ                                     -223      -56       236       64       139      -3       214       137        I        2B       29       3D       3D
c*lm1ta  hDJt 1.1mm                               20      237       352      40        253      675      95           1.7   49    1J20    1.747    2 240    2 ,
li>iu  II' Ihmxw  (- ' inmm)                     366     -139      -2       452       4610   -1.237   -1,06      =240       773    1.350       81       599    -1n
Nit  l     _mouUa.d m-r_m (official)             152      547    1,166    1,130    24112    4,316    5,416    5.3D    4,191         3.512    2,742    2.143    2.333
91iN v   inu       or l   41    1                0.9      3.2       6.D      6.0   8 .7        12.5      11.6     11.1      9.1       7.4      5.3      3.7       3.7
liEns OWI    ll d/
aEfin  gm                                       -         -        -        -         -        -         -        -        -
s diuliz.s atf lizl1gns                        376       387      257       375      299      972    3,027          1.10  1.430
0 hl1a.1                                        47        42       43        25       61       36        46       53       48
h e                                          IU)       (41)    (40)      (19)      (55)     (211)     (9)      C22      (1)
11( (-)                                                          (-) )              (          )       C-)      (-)      (-)
other Multilateal                             (2)       (2)      (3)       (6)      (6)      (6)      (37)     (31)      (3D)
#         d                                     329      3.5       14       350      M3       936      g1      1.2       1,39Z
ofia CW   nft                                (19         5)      (15)     (7)       (B )    (10a      (90)     (32)    (162)
no                                          (C5)    (103)       (75)     (I5)      (62)    (139)    (21l)    (251)    (277)
Etler multuS.amL                              (24)     (20)     (27)      (31)     (33)     (35)      (44)     (75       (66)
Privte                                       (MO)    (205)    (111)    UP2t    (IIS)    751)    (621)    (92S)    (ll79
am  (ad of ld.) d/
Gw t.Ut,1ik  adl dw1 _   w                   2.135    2,72    2,472    2.692    2.189    3.374    4.076    5,109    6,211
itfldl                                      1,628    1,72B    1,796    1.970    1,996    2,115    2,361    2.599    2,992
1397                                      (562)    (634)    (672)    (716)    (751)    (R3B)    (991)  (1,165)  (1.366)
Eal                                        (23)      (22)     (22)     (22)      (22)     (22)      (2)      (21)     (20)
V(1.063)  (1,02)  (1103)  (1.132)  (1.2)  (1.2551   (1,369   (1,33)  (1,626)
Pda                                         a510       614      673      822       613    1,29    1.717    2,5U0    3,219
lh _obn-d DIb,                                 680       660     9gm      1,426    1,527    1.925    2.592    2,9ZZ    3.501
76a1 SO1=d                                     297       239      269       315      357  6 36          52       666      911
- ddcl _ntmmt                                 103      315      125       139      168       283      276      AN       577
2SfMd . m  el guab WA
aul amvims                                   15.3     10.7      9.4       9.0      9.3      12.9      o.6     12.6      17.6
1'agmU _ Z GI                                  2.4       1.Z      1.3       1.6      1.7      2.3       IA       1.6      2.3
-Fa Olt t   en am l   (2)                     7.4       7.5      6.7      7.3       7.9    I1I        13.3     12.0      10.6
Oifidal                                      (6.2     (6.3)    (5.6)    (7.3)      a.6)    (7.7)    (3.)    (1.6)    (9.3)
3111.1.                                     (3.4      (3)    (7.6        (7.4)    (6.)   (118)   (15.7)   (14.0)   (I2L9)
m^         ty at raw lbu   (iu)              16.0      15.3     14.9      16.2     14.3     13.0      16.6     12.9      16.6
Cfdm                                        (22.7)   (26.3)   (23.5)   (18.4)   (16.S)   (17.1)   (.7.) (6p             Dl
prlW                                        (10.0)    (9.1)    (8.)    (7.9)    (9.6)   (100    (12.9)   (13.)    (9.9)
car 83mg (2) di
13w 1/taEL 11                                 2t.3      Z6.7     27.2      36.6     26.7     26.4      26.3     22.8     21.7
14 dtalJhur s/tocE*    gml   d1iimnmt         22.9      27.4      9.6      22.7     27.4     143       21.2     16.1     19.
23 dOal Uvi_twtD1 dbt mmv1m                  24.9      3L8      31.9     29.5      26.      19.5      27.3     26.3     2D.9
UK mIV atal DM                                 Li       0.9       0.       0.8       0.6      0.6       0.5      0.4      0.3
M1  di    hmam    tal. dg                      -         _        _        _         _        _         _        _        _
M%deK umrlin/tal dlc   d                       0.1      0.3       0.2      0.1       0l.      0.        0.1      0.1      0.1
kw6hld Ork ALIM Itbd~.
U/ P     SIad1ry.
d   al  ald pbUcLy 5un.td debt
lCtoher 31. 1963
BEST COPY AVAILABLE



- 32 -
Annex II
Page 1 of 4
A.  STATEIDENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS IN COLOMBIA (as of September 30, 1983)
(US$million)
Loan                                                            Amount (less Cancellation)
Nnmber  Year  Borrower                         Purpose           Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
66 fully disbursed loans and one IDA credit                    1,406.2  23.5 l1    --
1163    1975  Colombia                         Agriculture        21.0              6.2
1352    1977  Colombia                         Rural Dev.         52.0              6.1
1357    1977  B;nco de la Republica            Agricultural Cr.  64.0               1.4
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones            Comunications    58.3               29.4
1471    1977  Colombia                         Highways           90.0             12.3
1487    1978  Colombia                         Nutrition          25.0              8.8
1558    1978  Colombia                         Urban Develor-
ment             24.8             13.4
1582    1978  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power               126.0             21.8
1583    1978  Colombia                         Power              50.0             11.2
1593    1978  Zona Franca Industrial y         Industrial
Comercial de Cartagena          Export           15.0              5.1
1624    1979  Colombia                         Airports           61.0              5.9
1628    1979  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                     Power              84.0              9.3
1694    1979  Colombia                         Urban Develop-
ment             13.5             10.1
1697    1979  Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota      Water Supply       27.9              6.1
1725    1979  Interconexion Electrica, S.A. Power                 72.0             42.9
1726    1979  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                     Water Supply       31.0             26.0
1737    1979  Instituto Colombiano de la
Reforma Agraria               Agriculture Cr.   20.0              14.0
1/ Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.
The status of the projects listed In Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
Bi$t  COP3  AVAUBI r



- 33 -
Annex II
Page 2 of 4
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1983) (Continued)
Number Year  Borrower                          Purpose           Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
1807    1980  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                     Power              87.0             54.1
1825    1980  Empresss Publicas de Medellin  Communicatlons    44.0                17.8
1834    1980  Banco de la Republica            Industrial Cr.    32.0               5.3
1857    1980  Banco de la Republica            Industrial Cr.   150.0              97.3
1868    1980  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power               125.0             98.4
1953    1981  Empresas Publicas de Nedellin  Power                85.0             77.1
1966    1981  Colombia                         Rural Roads        33.0             23.0
1996    1981  Instituto Colombiano de
Hidrologia                    Irrigation         37.0             33.5
1999    1981  Corporacion Electrica de la
Costa Atlantica               Power              36.0             30.5
200B    1981  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                     Power             359.0            310.3
2069    1981  Instituto Nacional de los
Recursos Naturales
Renovables y del Hedlo        Watershed
Ambiente                      Management          9.0              8.0
2090    1982  Ferrocarriles Nacionales de
Colombia                      Railways           77.0             77.0
2121    1982  Fondo Vial Nacional              Highways          152.3            146.5
2174    1982  Colombia                         Rural Develop-
ment             53.0             52.2
2192    1982  Fondo del Ministerio de
Educacion                     Rural Education   15.0              13.3
2303 1/ 1983  Instituto Colombiano             Agricultural
Agropecuario                    Research         63.4             63.4
TOTAL                                           3,599.4  23.5
Of which has been repaid                          767.1   3.7
Total now outstanding                           2,832.3  19.8
Amount sold                           51. tj
Of which has been repaid              50.5          0.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                  2,831.8  19.8
Total undisbursed                                                1,337.7
1/ Not yet effective.



- 34 -
Annex II
page 3 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVES    TS (as of September 30, 1983)
Fiscal                                         Type of             Amount in USS Milion
Year                  ObligEor                 Business            Loan  Equity   Total
1959          Laminas del Caribe, S.A.         Fiber-board          .50             .50
1960-1965     Tndustrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                   Food products       1.98    .08      2.06
1961          Envases ColombJiaos, S.A.        Ketal cans          .70      -        .70
1961-1968     Morfeo-Productos para el
Hogar, S.A.                  Home furniture       .08   .09       .17
1961          Electromaufacturas, S-A.         Electrical equipment 50               50
1962          Corporacion Financiera           Development
Colombiana                      financing           -   2.02      2.02
1962-1963     Corporacion Finuciera            Development
Macional                        financing               2.04      2.04
1963-1967     Compania Colombian= de           Textiles            1.98   .15      2.13
1968-1969       Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970     Corporacion Financiera de        Development
Celdas                          financing           -    .81      .81
1964-1968     Forjas de Colombia, S.A.         Steel forgiLg         -   1.27      1.27
1966          Almacenes Generales de           Warehousing         1.00     -       1-00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966          Industria Ganadera               Livestock           1.00   .58      1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74    ENKA de Colombia, S.A.           Textiles            5.00   2.61     7.61
1969          Coupania de Desarrollo de        Tourlsm               -    .01       .01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(ROTURISRO)
19 69-1973    Corporacion Financiera del       Developmeat
Norte                           financing           -    .45      -45
1969          Corporacion Financiera del       Development
Valle                           financing           -    .43       .43
1970          Promotora de Hoteles de          Tourism              .23   .11        .34
Tu.-iLmo Kedellin, S.A.
1970-1977     Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                Tourism              .80    .24      1.04
1973-1975     Corporacion Coloabiana de        Housing               -    .46       .46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974          Cementos Boyaca, S.A.            Cement              1.50     -      1.50
1975          Cementos del Caribe, S.A.        Cement              3.60     -      3.60
1976          Las Brisss                       Mining              6.00     -      6.00
1977          Promotora de 1, Interconexion
de los Gas. ;._tos de la
Costa AtlanuL -a S.A.        Utilities          13.00   2.00     15.00
1977          Compania Coloubiatna de Clinker, Cement and
S.A.                            Construction
Material         1.22   1.51     2.73



- 35 -
Annex II
Page 4 of 4
B. SATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1983) (Continued)
Fiscal                                          Type of              mount in US$ Miion
Year                   Obligor                  Business            Loan   Equity   Total
1981           Leasing Bolivar                  Leasing             9.00    .17      9.17
1981-1982      Petroleos Colombianos Ltd.       Chemicals and
Petrochemicals  12. 1    3.86    16.01
1983           Frigorificos Coloubianos, S.A.  Food Processing      1.00   0.54       1.54
1984           Cecentos Rioclaro S-h.           Cement and
Construction
Material         21.91  5.00     26.91
1984           Carbones del Caribe S.A.         Mining              10.61  1.64      12.25
Total Gross Commitments                             93.76  26.07    119.83
Less cancellations, termina-
tions, repayments and sales                      61.40  9.59      70.99
Total commitments now held by IFC                   32.36  16.48      48.84
Total undisbursed                                   22.61   7.06     29.67



- 36 -
Annex III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DM1 SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events:
(a)  Tine taken to prepare project:                 6 months
(b) Agencier which prepared project:               CRC, Department of
Cauca, Mmnicipality of
Popayan and BCH
(c)  Initial request for Bank FinancIng:           April 4, 1983
Cd)  Departure of Reconnaissance Mission:          April 13, 1983
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:               June 16, 1983
5f)  Completion of negotiations:                   December 15, 1983
gg)  Planned date of effectiveness:                February 1984
Section II: Special Conditions:
Assurances were obtained that:
(a) BCH will evaluate sub-loan (for individual credits) applications in
accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank (paras. 44, 51
and Annex VII);
Cb)  physical works financed by thp Bank are constructed in accordance
with an approved seismic-resistant building code (para. 53); and
Cc) seismic insurance provisions for private and publie buildings and
other insurable assets, financed under the loan would be in place
(paras. 44 and 53);
Section III: Conditions of Loan Effectiveness:
(a) The Special Account and the Project Account would have been opened
according to provisions satisfactory to the Bank and an IniLtial
deposit equivalent to US$3.85 million has been made to the Project
Account (para. 59);
(b) the final Procurement Manual of the CRC (para. 56), and the
seismic-resistant building code (para. 53) referred to in II (c)
above, are satisfactory to the Bank and put into effect; and
(c) The Subsidiary Agreements to be entered into between the Government
and CRC, and BCH, respectively, are in effect (para. 41).



- 37 -
mmE     jPIARY  " 1994                             CODLOIA
IIfLD0N1V I72                                                                                          Annex IV
POFATMI RESION EWaRMJE RECONSTRWCTION PROJECT
JTLy 1, 13 PRICES                              SUIIAR! COST ESTIMTES                          US$ 1:  79.1  COLS
£0L. MILLIONS                     Wi MILLUIFS
-  _ MI~~~~~~~~~~~~~OEIGN
CUlM  F6EIGN   TOTAdL             LOCAL FOREIGN   TOTAL            WYlANE
4. ELTER:
RECONSTRUCTION I REPAIRS         4430.00 1107.50 5537.50            56.43   14.11   7v.53                ;C
Su1ETOTAL A                4430.00  1107.50 S537.50            5.43   14.11   70.53                 20
B. INFRSIRUCTURE
I.VATER 9L  I SEER1               655.55  290.95   36.50             9.35    3.58   11.Y93
Z.PoIER DISTRDUTIOU              240.00  160.00  400.00              3.06    2.04    5.09                40
3JIEL    S                         9.00   46.00  115.00              0.59    0.59    1.46                40
4.RMS                             91.65   49.35  141.00              1.17    0.63    I.S0                35
SUB-TOTAL B                1056.D0  536.30  1593.0             13.45    6.93   20.29                34
C. COI WUIEI;TRALeTJRI:                                                                        I
REC1STCT1I0N t REPARS            761.28  240.41  1001.69             9.70    3.06   12.76                24
SOD-TUTAL C                 -61.29  240.41  1001.69             0.70    3.06   12.76                24
D. CONKNM  FAC;LITIES/PUILIC FMUS
1.HBTH                            49.00   21.00   70.00              i.62     3.27    0.9?               30
2JSU TERMNL                       21.00    ;.W    30.00              0.2      0.11    0.39               30
3.4KIINISTRATIVE CEITERS         971.72  245.97 1117.59             11L.1     3.13   14.24               22
D-TDTIL D                   941.72  275.97 1217.59             11.?W   3.51   15.51                 3
E. UEMICLES I EWIPENIT                0.00  50.60  508.60               3.00    6.49    6.49               No
:B-TOTAL E                    o.00  50.60  509.0                0.00    6.43    6.49               100
F. iNSTITUTIONAL SUPIRT
1. TEDIG L ASSSTCE                86.40   57.60  144.00              1.10    0.73    1.93                40
2. STIJJS                         45.60   30.40   76.00              0.59    0.37    0.!'                v0
0l9-TOTAL F                 E32.00    9.o00  220.00            1.6S     1.12    2.90               40
B A S I C  C O S T a i;F! 7321.20  Z;s6.8 I0077.B              ?3.25   35.11  128.36               Z7
6. FINL  DESIGNS                    1;27.07   19412  191.1              2.1?    0.24    2.44                10
R. SUPERVISIN                       £40.89   26.77  267                 3.7    0.34    3.41                 10
50B-TOTAL (A-)             7!734.17 2902.56 10536.73           e8.51   35.70  134.21                27
r. PHTSICAL CONINGENCIES            54.53   199.76  747.29              i.9?    2.53    ?.52                27
SU0-TOTAL :A-I            S922.;70 3001.32 11294.02           105.50   39.23  14;3.7                27
J. PRIME CONTINGENCIES  t          392.00 1859.00 5;-l.00               0.56    5.V7    5.63
TOTAL  CO S .S   U  12204.70 4860.32 17065.02                 106.06   43.30  149.36               2
S PRICE CONTINGENCY CALCLWTIONS ARE DISCUSSED IN PARA 1
AND ARE PRSET    IN TIE PIC' FILE.
SI DETAILED CALCiLaTIQI ARE AVAILABLE IN THE PROuJECT FILE.
BEST CQPY AVAILABLE



COLOMBIA
to                                       POPAYAN REGION EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
cv                                                      Instltufonal Arrangements
mmI8                                                  *   I                  -IoRt#*NTO
W          ~~~~CO#MTRCION Y AEL
BANCO DE LA                 A,G A, EtSX
DLECOfORCEU             OTHER         CCf
SP      UR &                ENMPO>        DdG*4          ON     ,Md
EXWUM                       D(Ew           EXWJM          emcuOM Wd S
CiAGINCA E                                                               OM,
AWn                         AAPi           as            Od cLmR
.~~~~~~~~OH ic                                                                                                    z1CDt§kA  f
SIP  WFA  EOAPOCAWA      DdG            DNP          M~bkdG8*t                  I



__ _{__    II              3ti           l
I~~~~~~ E~Ii  cL@
9 JO Z waw
- 6E -



COLOMBIA
POPAYAN REGION EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
BCH
Organization Chatt
General Management
oafcroRs
I aal f_____PPA  ------  m   ln
CCMMAIIC1NSUA
OfFCE                                                         CEN.TER -
'OfFK:_,OO 
#MANGENRL                        FORSU                       FOR MOM                 A| 7  MACNAGE
COIAMLINIC
COOROSIOR  _                .~~~~EONWAALSI
I   DNSONa''=   I                                           *_   R^CE                        I'CC|Nt 
1   MSIONOF                     1      DlIO                         DS                   nN
At O SIS>JFM                            RDD & ADINS              ECOOhlCULYS| 
TRI- ONM90N OFO CRE2531 aO                                         C
_   ENQ^ ER  _      DNN_                         NSN_l
'Ii
|  DM901iJ Of | . | SL | 11-



COLOMBIA
POPAYAN REGION EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
BCH
Organizatlon Chart
Popayan Branch
. - --- l                         E               ._. I *IGEW GER                I
I    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                   RCAL
LLi                                 -       ON6-0NCWff  0   Li    JC H ER  ILI     OM90NCHE i
CONSUPAAN  TCRDALUSN1                                                                        ECE
BOARD           SJPEIN15                                                                       2
C_ WRCILDiSiON a                           Wm Wlf                            A&AIT *    Mwwsr_ONRC
9YE~~~~J~~            I ~     AClAWUI                                                                    &-~
2    ALIXRYSUJRISOR                   I   NXIAR I CReDHT ANWT               2       LIERK
SA.FERIMSO aI                  I   AXLLXAR MI CWI7ANALWT                      ACHE
I FIED SWEIMSCR                    I   APJI4ARCF                         I        W101!  -
2    CASHIER                          i   AJJXJA I0MAW42CI
4     AaLL4AM MAN!
VA nki*-25312
_ 



COLOMBIA
POPAYAN REGION EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Department of Cauca
Organlzatton Chad
DepWfvmt                            ..........
~2I
Boo*d           Eduo*tknd                      d Flbllc I            dI
Go%4rnmef i           Rnonice            Eduication          PiMc Wodbs           A'OI1Ut?r            Sceaa 
.  . _ . . s   . ..*._    _



COLOMBIA
POPAYAN REGION EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Munpoipaly d Popayan
Organization Chad
|I                       I                                            IBoa r  i
IG II                    I.
I  F | q I                              Ie
eomd of    _                            L        d Nt
rennd                                 .           _
iTnunqwd JL1i
SawetAefVda      SScEtcV d        Sacelauvd oOtetad                            Id              l
c4v w            pm l  lI           Rnwcr   l  l                    Va J Ydatt Wa Hn Tnnh
Gown,ent                                                             V       
Co4cJ                              Cini             P                acU                                                   O
CouncZ  . . . _ . . >~~~~~~~~4un
V*WBar&-2



- 44 -
ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 2
LIST OF PROJECT ENTITIES
EXECUTING SUB-PROJECTS AND SUB-LOANS IN CAUCA
A. Shelter
Reconstruction and Repairs of               BCH
Shelter                                     ICT
General Direction for
Integration of Community
Development (DIGIDEC)
Nunicipality of Popayan
B. Infrastructure
Secondary Water and                         Popayan Water and Sewerage
Sewerage Works                                Company
Sanitary Works Enterprise of
Cauca (EMPOCAUCA)
Health Service of Cauca
Electricity                                 Electric Company of Cauca
(CEDELCA)
Telephones                                  Municipality of Popayan
Urban Streets                               Municipality of Popayan
C. Commercial, Industrial
and Tourism
Building Materials Centers                  Carvajal Foundation
BCH
Colombia Chamber of
Construction
Commercial/Industrial/                      YECH
Tourism Reconstruction                      Tourism Corporation of Cauca
(CAUCATU--
Commercial banks and finance
companies



- 45 -
ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 2
D. Community Facilities
and Public Buildings
Health                                      Ministry of Health
Health Service of Cauca (SSS)
Recreation                                   Municipality of Popayan
Colombian Institute for the
Youth
Transport                                    Transport Terminal of Popayan
Municipality of Popayan
Administrative Centers                      Municipality of Popayan
Department of Cauca
Other municipalities
E. Equipment and Vehicles
Purchase and use of Vehicles                Department of Cauca
and Equipment                               Municipality of Popayan
F. Institutional Support
Technical Assistance                         CRC
Department of Cauca
Municipality of Popayan
Studies                                     CRC
Ministry of Health
Department of Cauca
Municipality of Popayan
Secretary of Public Works of
Cauca
Colombian Institute for
Technical Standards
Colombian Institute for
Culture
National Department of
Statistics
Colombian Fund for Scientific
and Technological Research



- 46 -
Annex VII
Page 1 of 2
Criteria for Eligibility and Approval
of Sub-projects and sub-loans
A. Eligibility
1. All sub-projects and sub-loans must meet the following general criteria:
(a) are part of the 1983-1986 Earthquake Reconstruction program for the
Department of Cauca;
(b) are part of the annual investment plan of the CRC, approved by the
Bank;
(c) have no alternative source of or insufficient financing available;
(d) have cost-effective design standards and represent least cost solu-
tions;
(e) are likely to be implemented by the executing agency in a timely
manner; and
(f) physical works must have taken place after July 1, 1983.
2. Sub-loans for reconstruction and repairs must meet the following specific
criteria:
(a) must meet the financial terms and conditions established by the
Monetary Board in its Resolution 32 of April 4, 1983, unless agreed
otherwise by the Government and the Bank.
(b) utilize appropriate seismic-resistant design and be insured against
seismic risks;
(c' for shelter, sub-loans: (i) household monthly income should not
exceed four minimum salaries and, at least, 75% of the aggregate
amount of such sub-loans should be lent to households whose income
does not exceed three minimum salaries; and (ii) debt service should
not exceed 40X of the beneficiary household income; and
(d) sub-loans for repair of commercial, industrial or tourism buildings
should not exceed the equivalent of US$30,000.
3. Sub-projects for infrastructure must meet the following specific
criteria:
(a) aim at restoring a service previously existing before the earthquake,
or at providing a new service to meet the new demand arisen as a
result of the earthquake relocation; and



- 47 -
ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 2
(b) the investments and services must comply with sound financial and
technical standards.
4. Sub-projects for community facilities must meet the following specific
criteria:
(a) aim at repairing or reconstructing a facility existing prior to the
earthquake, or an essential facility serving the settlements which
developed as a consequence of the earthquake;
(b) utilize appropriate seismic-resistant design criteria;
(c) be located on publicly-owned land; and
(d) be located on land zoned for that use.



- 48 -
Annex VIII
Page 1 of 2
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.        The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed
in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated                X of
(Expressed in           Expendltures
Category                      Dollar Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works                        6,000,000             65Z
(2)  Goods                              6,500,000              00OZ of foreign
expenditures and
65% of local
expenditures
(3)  Sub-loans                                                65% of the
amounts disbursed
(a) for shelter                   11,600,000             by BCH
(b) for commercial,
Industrial and
tourism buildings              2,100,000
(4)  Consultants' Services              1,700,000             100% of foreign
expenditures and
65% of local
expenditures
(5)  Initial Deposit                    7,150,000             Amount due under
in Special                                               Section 2.03 (b)
Account                                                  of this Agreement
(6)  Fee                                   99,751             Amount due under
Section 2.06
(7)  Unallocated                        4,850,249
TOTAL                   40,000,000



- 49 -
Annex VIII
Page 2 of 2
Amounts Disbursed                                Reduction in
from the Special Account                             Percentages
(a)  $8,000,000 or more but less                           from 65Z to 35Z
than $16,000,000
(b)  $16,000,000 or more but less                          from 35Z to 19Z
than $24,000,000
(c)  $24,000,000 or more                                   from 19Z to 10Z



W~O  7730               710
VALLE  DEL  CAUCA
-aCjfiC            - 
Oceaon            -F_                        
N  A  R  IN
aLtOWETER5 Sx                            k>;X/ Ci-g<O--
7 7130         : V  w \  S
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' A A>-     t                    l 
_ T ( > B ~~~I A                 nw wow,,s w-s sf-r mmm
L ~~~~ )    I          . ~~~~~~ftr soe _ovc dof "      
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rmfr a: is acaW                              isbr  _J
\   ,P9PCZqXsf^v  V;        i~~d~ useof dm Ybe   SW *  
*flMBtOtft       -afm  hedwvnwb
_\ P~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~a _;3         ow 4sd7e not# i- .  m me
j                                                L       -
PESRtu                    -  
F                 ,r-
200~~ ~ 0    0 3    0    0 5 



COLOMBIA
POPAYAN REGION EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PR(
City of Popayan
Earthquake Damage
IROT
NlETfR                          \        g                  <
so nmdws _d a acLove to, rw    or  Vvdd 8 NW                                          I                         -.Ca=
n*.~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ 0bp-t Th1 n-h_ b  -t                                                      F  1  -    J  7 fIpn'
9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
I -mmxs C.MMahm fFw d&V-mbcm ~ aFYK gw DM!1-.S Km_ m En mW c
xxcmvwmmmarvpapmm~l- ~ 
NN.~ ~~rvmmvl



IBRD 17426
rO C                77W'                           ro Ce/li       Io Cal 7oh0                                                      AUGUST 1983
VALLE DEL CAUCA
F                                     P~~~~~~~~~~~UERj                  
~g                                       N
a                                                   COLOMBIA
POPAYAN REGION EARTHQUAKE
RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
DEPARTMENT OF CAUCA
n.v .                                                                                           _? >        \      - I_ Area sveely affected by ea"'ha"h3e
Popoy.. Municipality
L.,PADL    Cities includtd in EMPOCAUCA
PDLA EmergencY Plcn
IV    Deportmwnt Capital
Municipal CaPitlcs
l{ -e"FIor nci    S j(-0    Selected Towns
Primary Roads
*1 f    ?=    l      ~         )     2~/                          -       Secondary Roads
4A  /                   Municipal Boundories             130
Departrment Boundaries
/                             *_*-~  Internatiol Boundaries (inset)
ncodwf 1  vev           |-       /            )                *'   JElvat-lons in meters
1.lt                            IW_)-__'___ =<   3000
Fdidtanke                                                                                   .2000
nomneha1000 tooo
iit.S an VW\                                                                                I o
sc* SW                                                     -v                       C            A   Q   U         E    T    A
61,,* en- -te
acc.b_nwof                 PUTUMAAYO
1w
77*Q 7W3                                                                                                            75-30'



IBRD 17282R
rrf ^_    GUS~~GVT 1983
-ONSTRUCTION PROJECT=.                                                                        < 
ige                                 '                         _/ D
Buildmg5damag~~~~~~~~~~Maordaaed
-i   t W / /      <      : ;      s     a~~~~~~~~~~~~~z r-0°   Major public btildings
,,^                                                HD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6-1-Z  Historic center
_ = 9 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Metropolitan boundary
| (t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Q                                     *Poarh n  Se  r--                      1\2
_g ,_ E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CUAOR r  BAZIL
-/<S  z _// t''\i~~~~~P                              NAM
(}'1) 29<-''j ~~~~~~~~~~~Moteso                                             VE  EZUELA



