Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10704
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
POPAYAN REGION EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2379-CO)
JUNE 1, 1992
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Official    Parallel
Rate         Rate
YEAR            ($b/US$)    ($b/US$)
1977                 20        N/A
1979                 25        N/A
1982                196        N/A
1983                500        N/A
1984              9,000       25,000
1 985 (May)      45,000      150,000
(Sept)    100,000   1,500,000
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
mm                 - millimaeter (0.03937 inches)
cm                 - centimeter (0.3937 inches)
1 meter (m)        - 3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)  - 0.62 mile
cm?                - square centimeter (0.1550 square inches)
m2                 - square meter (0.764 square feet)
ha                 - hetare (2.471 acres)
km2?               - square kilometer (0.386 square miles)
1                  - liter (0.264 US galions)
1/cd               - liters per capita per day
1/sec              - liters per sec. (15,833 US gallon per min)
m3/sec             - cubic meters per sec. (86,400 m/day)
m3/day             - cubic meters per day (264 US gallons per day)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AC        D  Accion Communal, The Community Development Department of the
La Paz Municipality
BANVI     a  Banco de la Vivienda - The National Housing Bank
BC        -  Banco Central - The Central Bank
BISA      -  Banco Industrial, S.A. - The Industrial Bank
BPC       -  Bolivian Power Company
CONAVI    -  Consejo Nacional de Vivienda - The National Housing Council
CONES     -  Ministry of Education's Department of Education Construction
FOMO      -  The National Manpower Development Agency
HAM       -  Honorable Alcaldia M.inicipal - The Municipality of La Paz
JV        -  Juntas Vecinales - Neighborhood Committees
MH         -  The Ministry of Health
MPC        a  The Ministry of Planning and Coodination
KUV        -  The Ministry of Urbanization and Housing
SAMAPA    -  The Autonomous Water Supply and Sewerage Agency of La Paz
SSE        -  Small-Scale Enterprises
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFCML USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of D,recto-Genefal
Opetation Evaluateoin
June 1, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Colombia
PoRavan Region Earthquake Reconstruction Proiect (Loan 2379-CO)
Attsched, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Colombia - Popayan Region Earthquake Reconstruction Project
(Loan 2379-CO)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office.
No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department
at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance  |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
POPAYAN REGION EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2379-CO. 1558-CO PART F AND 1726-CO PART L)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pare ND.
Pre      face ...............................................                 i
Evaluation Summary          ..       ...       .............. * ...............  ii
PART I       PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity    .       .............. .   1
B. Bac':.round ........                     .................  1
C. Project Objectives and Description.                           2
D. Project Design and Organization             .    ...    3
E. Project Implementation .        . ..............................   4
F. Project Results         ........................ .    7
G. Impact and Sustainability of Project Benefits..               8
H. Borrower Performance ......      .. .. ....... ... ..    9
I. Bank Performance          .     . .....................10
J. Project Relationship a t i o n sp...... ..........          10
K. Consulting Services                                          '0.......... '.0
L. Project Documentation and Data .10
M. Lessons Learneda                 r      n      ed..................   11
PART II      PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE         ..   13
PART III    STATISTICAL DATAATA....................  14
Table 1: Related Bank Loans.                         ..  14
Table 2:  Project Timetable        ...............    15
Table 3:  Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements..  16
Teble 4:  Project Implementation. ................O..  17
Table 5A thru 5F:  Project Costs and Financing .22
Table 6:  Project Results.... ... . . . ...                     28
Table 7: Status of Covenants                 ..31
TAble 8:  Use of Bank Resources.         .................    37
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dut;es. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
POPAYAN PF'GION EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2379-CO, 1558-CO PART F AND 1726-CO PART L)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Popayan Region
Earthquake Reconstruction Project in Colombia, for which Loan 2379-CO in the
amount of US$40.0 million was approved on February 2, 1984. Additional
financing for the Project was obtained by the reallocation of US$6.4 million
from Loan 1558-CO (First Urban Development Project) through an amendment
approved on February 27, 1984, and of US$1.3 million from Loan 1726-CO (Third
Medium and Small-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project) through an
amendment approved on November 8, 1983. These funds were fully disbursed when
the loans were closed in December 1988 (Loan 2379), July 1986 (Loan 1558) and
June 1986 (Loan 1726).
The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure and Energy Operations
Division of the Latin America and the Caribbean Country Department III
(Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III). The Borrower contributed
extensive financial statistical information, which has been incorporated in
the report. On June 6, 1991, the Bank sent the Borrower Parts I and III with
the request to prepare Part II, but .o reply was received.
Preparation of this report is based on, among other things, the
President's Report, the loan agreements and amendments, supervision reports,
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower contained in the Project
Files, on a field visit to the project area, and on interviews with relevant
project executing agencies and representatives of the Borrower.



ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
POPAYAN REGION EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2379-CO, 1558-CO PART F AND 1726-CO PART L)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.          The objective of this project was to assist the Government of
Colombia, through the Department of Cauca Reconstruction and Development
Corporation (CRC), in the reconstruction and assoziated planning and
management arising from the earthquake of March 31, 1983, which destroyed a
significant part of the economic and social infrastructure of t:'e city of
Popayan and the surrounding areas in the Department of Cauca. Specifically,
project investments were to: (i) contribute to the physical and economic
rehabilitation of the areas damaged by the earthquake by restoring essential
facilities and services and re-establishing a basic level of economic
activity; (ii) support a streamlined institutional arrangement appropriate for
efficient coordination, while strengthening the new and existing institutions;
and (iii) help develop measures to minimize the potential damage from natural
disasters that could be applied to this and other vulnerable areas of the
country (para. 4).
The Multi-sectoral Proiect Package
2.          The Project was appraised three months after '-he earthquake.
While the appraisal documentation argued for a quick response, it took nearly
11 months from the date of the earthquake to get the Project (Loan 2379-CO) to
the Board. At the same time, the First Urban Project (Loan 1558-CO) and the
Third Medium and Small-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Loan
1726-CO) were nearing completion. The devaluation of the Colombian peso had
led to less than the expected dollar amounts being disbursed. To enlarge the
Bank's response to the earthquake, it was decided to take advantage of these
savings by reallocating them to eligible expenditures in the Popayan region.
Disbursements under amended Loan 1726 (water supply) began 13 months after the
eartnquake and under Loan 2379 (the main loan) 17 months after it. Delays in
finalizing the subsidiary project agreements under amended Loan 1558 (shelter
in squatter areas) held up disbursements until nearly three years after the
earthquake (paras. 13-14).
Implementation Experience
3.          The coordinating agency for this project, CRC, efficiently managed
the execution of twelve subsidiary agreements under Loan 2379-CO and nine
subsidiary agreements under Loan 1558, in addition to executing parts of the
project directly. Investments under Loan 1726 were supervised by the national
water supply agency (INSFOPAL) and executed by the municipal water and
sewerage company, Acueducto y Alcantarillado de Popayan.



iii
4.          Although the emergency nature of the project precluded extonsive
preparation of some components, execution closely followed the original plan.
Flexibility was maintained during implemantation by choosing subprojects
according to set criteria rather than specifying all components in advance,
when information was insufficient. Major variances occurred only with respect
to on-lending ternns for shelter and productive sub-loans when, in 1986,
Congress lowered the 18% p.a. interest rates --at a time when market rates
were 28-36%-- to 6% p.a. for shelter sub-loans and 102 p.a. for productive
sub-loans. These changes prompted the Bank to cease disbursements against the
shelter component (paras. 16-17).
5.          Resettlement of the homeless in 17 new or reconstructed
neighborhoods under Loan 1558 was completed with delays caused by political
unrest in squatter settlements during the mid-1980s and by less-than-efficient
performance of some of the agencies involved. While the physical objectives
of this part of the project were satisfactorily achieved, these implementation
problems resulted in costs exceeding original estimates by approximately 129
percent in local currency (paras 21, 28).
6.          Water supply and sewerage works under Loan !726 were completed in
three-and-a-half years. Technical defects in the design of the water
treatment plant sab-project financed under this loan caused delays and cost
overruns, which required additional financing from the CRC (para. 21). All
other sub-components were satisfactorily completed on schedule. The loan
amounts were fully disbursed when the loans were closed in Deaember 1988 (Loan
2379), July 1986 (Loan 1558) and June 1986 (Loan 1726).
Project Results
7.          The Popayan Region Earthquake Reconstruction Project achieved its
rehabilitation and reconstruction objectives, even though there were some
delays, as well as substantial strengthening of national institutions to plan
and manage reconstruction projects. Additional benefits were obtained from
the strengthening of local planning and implementation capacity and from the
massive training of local manpower. Unfortunately it fell short in the area
of disaster preparedness at the national level. Direct cost recovery also
fell short of expected levels, so that the project's financial objectives were
only parLly achieved (paras. 23-33).
8.          Project design met clearly identified priority needs.  Sufficient
institutional and financial resources were mobilized. Physical and
institutional results matched or exceeded appraisal targets. The one-and-a-
half year delay in project completion in comparison with the original schedule
was mostly due to the delayed start-up and is rather small given the multi-
sector complexity of the reconstruction program. That most project components
were executed according to plan is an unusual outcome in emergency
circumstances.
9.          At the same time, the project bears out some of the conclusions
reached by the Bank-wide task force on emergency lending whose report was
issued in mid-1989. In particular, the delays in start-up epitomized some of



iv
the difficulties the Bank has in responding as quickly as it would wish when a
disaster strikes. The institutional mechanisms for a successful line-of-
credit operation take time to establish in the best of circumstances. The
complicated procedures requ:'red by Colombia's legal and financial systems and
the comDlexity of :elations between its central and local governments are not
the best of circumstances. They contributed to the two-year delay becween
aDp-oval and effectiveness for the amended Loan 1558 (the squatter areas
compor.ent). Differences of view between the Bank's Projects and Programs
Departments slowed down processing within the Bank. Overall, this was not a
quick response to the disaster. (It may ba noted that the Jamaica Emergency
Reconstruction Import Loan in 1983 became effective only four months after the
' rricane. It benefited from not having to deal with two levels of government
--national and local. It also benefited from the Bank's 1987 reorganization,
which abolished the Projects/Programs dichotomy in favor of a single line of
authority and put all infrastructure sectors under a single division.)
10.         While its start-up was slow, the Popayaii Project's final outcome
was genera'lly satisfactory. This can be attributed to the Covernment's strong
commitment, whi-h enabled the Bank's assistance to be used effectively to
restore assets and productivity and ninimize the longer-term impacts of the
disaster. Restoration standards met historical specifications and the best
part of Popayan's unique historical patrimony was salvaged. Displaced
population and activities were relocated at minimum social cost.
11.         Although cost-benefit calculations were not practicable, either at
appraisal or at completion, project results suggest that the economic benefits
accruing from the investments made have been substantial and will be sustained
over time (paras. 34-35).
12.         Implementation arrangements were efficiently designed ._nd carried
out, based on the central coordinating role of the CRC. However, during
preparation, more attention could have been given to the transfer of
responsibilities to the CRC regarding the complementary amended loans. This
transition was difficult under Loan 1558 and did not occur at all under Loan
1726. INSFOPAL, the national water agency, was weak at the outset of this
project and was abolished in 1987. Bank supervision of the water and sewerage
component, which came under a different division, was inadequate (paras.
13-14, 39).
13.         The most negative result was that the Borrower's early commitment
to cost recovery was not sustained. Although participating agencies
contributed about 40 percent of project costs, many of those funds came from
central government transfers. Direct cost recovery from beneficiaries has
been disappointing. The project's less-than-satisfactory financial
performance partly reflects the lack of political will to support market-rate
lending terms for sub-loans soon after such an extensive disaster. It is
important to note, in addition, that reinstating the finaiicial soundness of
the CRC remains a priority which requires the Borrower's attention to
collections of inter-agency loans by CRC, of utility tariffs by local
agencies, and of shelter and productive sub-loans by the financial
intermediaries involved in the project (paras. 17, 33, 37).



v
Lessons Learned
14.         For the Bank, the project experience suggests the following
lessons (para. 43):
(a)   The type of assistance which the Bank is good at takes time to
deliver; it is unrealistic for it to aspire to deliver assistance
in the short intervals (up to six months) which disaster relief
agencies aim for.
(b)   The timing of the first mission is an important matter of
judgment. Sf it gces too soon, it may misjudge the scope and
nature of the assistance neede<   the physical needs are then very
apparent but the institutional   .blems may be hard to recogr.ize.
But if it waits too long, the Government may have embarked on a
relief program that we find ill-conceived; we may lose our
opportunity to take part in its design.
(c)   The multisector project design may be worth replicating, provided
that the institutional set-up is strong enough and not too
complicated.
(d)   Amending existing loans may be an effective way to mobilize
additional resources quickly for an emergency project.
(e'   Emergency opArations justify retroactive financing on a larger
scale than a.lowed in normal operationas.
(f)   Continuity in Bank staffing for a piroject from appraisal to
completion has a substantial pay-off in the quality of the
dialogue with the borrower, ease in modifying project scope when
necessary and, in general, cost-effective supervision with
relatively few missions.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
POPAYAN REGION EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2379-CO. 1558-CO PART F AND i726-CO PART L)
PART I. BANK REVIEW OF THE PROJECT
A.          Proiect Identity
Project Name:  Popayan Region Earthquake Reccastruction Project
Loan No.:       2379-CO
1558-CO Part F (First Urban Development Project)
1726-CO Part 2-L (Third Medium and Small-Size
Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
RVP Unit:       Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Country Department III
Country:        Colombia
Sector:         Urban
Subsector:     Reconstruction
B. Background
1.          Earthquake Damage and Immediate Relief Effort:  On March 31, 1983.
an earthquake with an intensity measured at 5.4 on the Richter scale hit
Popayan and 11 other municipalities in the Department of Cauca. About 250
people were killed and 1,500 injured. Damage affected all aspects of
Popayan's urban systems: shelter, production, utility networks, public
services and public administration. The immediate relief effort was
efficiently handled. Some essential services were restored within days of the
earthquake; medicines, tents, clothing and food were made available. Relief
actions by the Government, voluntary agencies, the affected communities, the
private sector and international relief organizations were prompt and well
coordinated.
2.          Transition Between Relief and Reconstruction:  Once the relief
efforts were underway, the Government proceeded to take the necessary measures
to prepare for the reconstruction. Key actions at that stage included: (i)
creation os' the Cauca Rehabilitation and Development Corporation (CRC) as a
regional :-cunstruction authority and strengthening of the municipal and
regional governments; (ii) establishment of a national reconstruction fund and
special budgetary allocations; (iii) negotiation of external loans; (iv)
development of a reconstruction plan; (v) enactment of various emergency
decrees to facilitate the reconstruction process; (vi) introduction of
seismic-resistant building guidelines; and (vii) negotiations for the
acquisition of land invaded after the earthquake. The reconstruction strategy
consisted in a 15 year comprehensive plan with an initial phase of 3 years
focused on priority investments.



- 2 -
3.          Bank Response co the Emergencv:  Two weeks after the earthquake a
Bank identification mission was able to assist the Borrower in preparing a
comprehensive reconstruction program, which provided the basis for financing a
multisectoral time-slice reconstruction operation. This timely Bank
assistance also helped coordinate the participation of other donors and led to
a coherent reconstruction process. Project appraisal followed in early July,
three months after the earthquaka.
C.          Proiect Objectives and Description
4.          Proiect Objectives:  The project objectives were to (i) contribute
to the physical rehabilitation and economic reactivation of the area affeczed
by the earthquake; (ii) help build an institutional base capable of managing a
coherent renonstruction effort and further urban development; and (iii) assist
in the estauiishment of a framework for dealing with similar emergencies in
the Popayan region and in other gec gically-unstable areas of the country.
5.          Project Components:  The project consisted of the following
compcnents:
(a) shelter (32% of actual project cost) through individual credits
for home repair, reconstruction, and/or relocation benefiting
approximately 8,250 families whose houses were damaged by the
earthquake;
(b) restoration of basic infrastructure (14% of actual project cost)
including repairs, replacement, and/or extension of: (i) water and
sewerage networks, treatment plants and pumping stations in
Popayan and neighboring municipalities; (ii) reconstruction and
repaving of streets; (iii) re-provision of power transmission,
transformers and distribution; and (iv) renewal and extension of
telephone cables and construction of a new telephone exchange
building;
(c) reconstruction of commercial, industrial and tourism assets (16%
of actual project cost) through productive credits for repair and
reconstruction of industries, offices, hotels, micro-enterprises
and cooperatives, benefiting approximately 300 firms;
(d) reconstruction of community facilities and public buildings (18%
of actual project cost) including regional and municipal
headquarters, workshops, health posts, primary schools, a bus
terminal, three public retail/wholesale markets, a home for the
elderly, a cemetery, a public library, and othe- community
facilities;
(e) provision of vehicles and equipment (17% of actual project cost)
for rubble removal and maintenance of public services; and
(f) institutional support (3% of actual project cost) including design
and supervision, technical assistance, and specific studies.



- 3 -
6.          The project was expr,cted to be completed in three years.  Its cost
was estimated at US$164.8 million equivalent, 71 percent to be financed by the
Government and 29 percent by the Bank, including US$40.0 million from Loan
2379-CO and US$7.7 million from on-going loans: US$6.4 million from Loan
1558-CO Part F (First Urban DeveloDment Project) ond US$1.3 million from Loan
1726-CO Part 2-L (Third Medium and Small-Size Cities Water Supply and Sewerage
Project). The most severely affected municipality of Popayan would absorb
about 90 percent of the project's investments. The balance was allocated to
other damaged areas in the Department of Cauca including the municipalities of
Cajibio, Caldono, El Bordo, El Tambc, Guapi, Mercaderes, Morales, Piendamo,
Purace, Silvia, Sotara, Timbio, Timbiqui and Tororo.
D.          Proiect Design and Organization
7.          The Popayan Earthquake Reconstruction Prcject was one of the few
projects of this kind to have been approved in the context of the Bank's
emergency lending operations.- Its innovative feature was to finance a
multisectoral time-slice operation covering the most urgent initial phase of a
longer-term reconstruction program. Since speed was deemed essential to the
operation's success, its preparation phase was shortened, basically consisting
of identification of sector priorities and definition of criteria for
selection ot sub-projects eligible for Bank financing.
8.          Sub-projects were to have prior approval by CRC and meet the
following criteria: (i) reconstruction of assets of critical necessity in the
initial reconstruction period; (ii) immediate restoration of key social and
economic activities; (iii) likelihood of efficient implementation and timely
disbursements; (iv) insufficient or no other financing committed; and (v)
confirmation of high priority by the Government and other authorities. In
practice, the majority of the sub-projects were identified during preparation,
and it was possible for the participating agencies to proceed with detailed
design and execution at a relatively rapid pace.
9.          The original scale of the operation was appropriate to the
objectives of the project and its multisector scope well suited to the nature
of the emergency. Adjustments to project scope were expected and handled in
an orderly manner through correspondence between the Borrower and the Bank,
periodic Bank supervision missions, quarterly reports, and annual action
programs. The accelerated three-year schedule was ambitious but not
altogether unrealistic except in so far as it underestimated start-up delays.
1/ At the time of appraisal of the Popayan Region Reconstruction Project, the
Bank had approved 43 emergency operations totaling US$1.5 billion, starting in
FY47 with a series of post war reconstruction projects. Previous earthquake
reconstruction projects included a Road Reconstruction Project in Peru (FY71),
multisector earthquake reconstruction projects in Nicaragua (FY73), Guatemala
(FY77) and Romania (FY78), and three transport earthquake reconstruction
operations in Yugoslavia (FY80).



- 4 -
10.         Prvject organization contributed to the success of the project by
establishing clcar roles for channeling financial resources through the
Central Bank (Banco de la Republica-BR), for the general management of the
operation through the CRC, and for the financial intermediation for sub-loans
primarily through the Central Mortgage Bank (BCH). Responsibility for the
execution of sub-projects was allocated to public and private agencies
experienced in their respective sectors. This organization was supported by
appropriate legislation and by effective technical assistaace to the CRC, the
Cauca regional administration and the Municipality of Popayan. Also important
was the support provided by the National Planning Department (DNP) throughout
the implementation of the project, ensuring coordination between the
reconstruction program and the national investment plan. On the other hand,
the transfer of responsibility for the execution of the sub-projects under
Loan 1558-CO from the Secretariat for National Integration of the President's
office (SIP) to CRC was iess well handled, causing serious start-up delays.
11.         Issues raised during appraisal:  The appraisal raised issues about
how large the Bank's loan should be, which financial intermediary the Bank
should disburse to, and whether the loan should be to the financial
intermediary or to the Government. First estimates of the damage inflicted by
the earthquake put the cost at some US$400 million, wo the Bank proposed to
lend 10% of this amount. The Government subsequently raised its estimate of
its financing needs to US$764 million and requested a Bank loan of US$80
million. The Bank, however, was reluctant to raise its loan above US$40
million. It considered its lending envelope for FY85 essentially fixed and
did not want to take away funds from other projects. Doubts were also
expressed about the riskiness of committing larger sums in the face of
uncertainty about the institutional capacity of CRC, a newly created agency,
and the Government's commitment to cost recovery. Instead, the issues/
decision memo proposed a possible second loan at a later date, if justified by
the needs and CRC's capacity. It also proposed that disbursements under the
first loan be front-loaded. (Under the formula finally adopted, disbursements
started out at 65% and were reduced gradually in three steps to 10%.) In
parallel, the Bank began processing the amendments for Loans 1558 and 1726, to
provide modest additional amounts from savings. Subsequent developments made
the idea of a second loan moot (para. 17).
12.         The issues/decision memo also considered lending directly to BCH
as a single-tier operation, rather than the two-tier financial intermediation
through the central bank that was subsequently adopted. The latter was
preferred because of the substantial fiscal contribution implied by the below-
market interest rates to be charged. The rediscounting mechanism under the
latter worked satisfactorily; the outcome gives no reason to fault the
decision reached. Finally, the issues/decision memo considered the
alternative of lending to the central bank (BR) with the guarantee of the
Republic, rather than lending to the Republic itself. It was held to offer no
significant advantage; hindsight, again, finds no quarrel with this decision.
E. Project Implementation
13.         Loan approval and effectiveness:  The amendment to Loan 1726 was
approved in November 1983. The main project was negotiated in December 1983



- 5 -
and approved in early February 1984, 11 months after the earthquake. The
amendment of Loan 1558 was approved later in Februaty 1984. Disbursements
under Loan 1726-CO Part 2-L began first, in April 1984, primarily because only
one subsidiary agreement was required for effectiveness. At the time of the
first supervision mission in May 1984, the Borrower had made an initial
US$3.85 million deposit of counterpart funds to the Project Account, put into
effect a new seismic-resistant building code for the Popayan Region, finalized
a procurement manual for the CRC and entered into subsidiary project
agreements with 12 project entities, thus meeting all the conditions of
effectiveness for Loan 2379. Disbursements from that loan began in August
1984.
14.         In the case of the amendment to Loan 1558-CO, however,
difficulties in managing the transition between SIP and the CRC and in signing
the subsidiary project agreements between CRC and nine executing agencies
delayed effectiveness until December 1985, nearly three years after the
earthquake. This start-up delay might have been avoided if transition
arrangements had been more clearly defined during negotiations.
15.         Implementation schedule:  Project investments had alreadv begun in
mid-1983 with clearance of debris and installation of provisional fi.ilities
for critical public services. The Bank disbursed approximately US$5.2 million
in retroactive financing under Loan 2379 during the first year after Board
approval. There were some delays in preparing withdrawal applica.tons and
issuing import licenses during FY84 and FY85, while the CRC was still in the
process of strengthening its financial management. In general, however,
project implementation progressed satisfactorily from mid-1985 through
completion, albeit necessitating an 18-month extension of the closing date of
Loan 2379.
16.         Critical variances in proiect design:  The physical results of the
project closely matched its original design (see Table 4). Nevertheless,
three intervening factors had important impacts on project outcomes, namely:
(i) changes in on-lending terms for sub-loans disrupted the project's cost
recovery plan, (ii) one specific study on national disaster-preparedness was
not carried out, and (iii) sharp exchange rate adjustments led to unexpected
loan surpluses mid-way through project implementation. Each of these
variances is analyzed separately in the following paragraphs.
17.         Cost recovery variances:  The original on-lending terms agreed by
the Borrower and the Bank ensured an adequate level of cost recovery conducive
to the restoration of normal economic practice as quickly as possible after
the earthquake. These terms, mandated by Resolution 32 of the Monetary Board
in 1983, established interest rates at 18% p.a. for all sub-loans --at a time
when market rates were 28-36%-- with terms varying from 2 years for productive
loans with one year grace period, to 15 years for shelter sub-loans with 3
years grace period. Political pressures for continued relief led Congress to
approve Law 132 in December 1985 reducing interest rates and extending loan
terms for both types of reconstruction sub-loans. The new law remained
ineffective for several months but had the immediate impact of causing
disruption in the Popayan credit market, sharply depressing demand for shelter
credit due to uncertainties as to lending terms, and effectively hampering the



- 6 -
operations of BCH and other financial intermediaries in the project area.
From April 1986 through December 1987, complementary legislation, decrees and
regulations were enacted. The legislation was made retroactive to April 1983
through February 1987 and affected 53 percent of the estimated project cost.
By mid-1986, when regulations were finally enacted, the Bark had already
disbursed approximately US$12.2 million equivalent for shelter and
approximately US$3.6 million equivalent for productive sub-loans. The Bank
then decided to halt further disbursements on shelter sub-loans but continue
disbursing against productive sub.-lo.as.
18.         Variances in disaster-preparedness measures:  Changes made to the
scope of the study addressing the development of a national strategy for
dealing with future disasters reduced the intended goal of this component of
the project with respect to development of guidelines to avoid or reduce the
impact of future disasters. The original study was replaced by a detailed
analysis of the Popayan earthquake which, albeit highly skillfully completed
by a team of experts, was no substitute for the intended disaster-preparedness
strategy. One should note, however, that Bank experience of
disaster-preparedness at the time was limited and the change did not raise
objections on the part of the Bank. Other studies were modified but their
changes ht.d no negative impact on project results.
19.         Financing Adjustments:  In April 1985 the loan disbursement
percentage was reduced from 65% to 50% consistent with the front-loading
formula (para.11). However, by mid-1985 it became clear that macro-economic
adjustments affecting the peso exchange rate would substantially reduce total
project cost in US$ equivalent. Devaluation between the time expenditures
were made and reimbursement made from the Bank loan also reduced the amounts
disbursed. These two factors left some implementing agencies unable to cover
all their counterpart obligations. The loan was therefore amended in late
1985 to raise the disbursement percentage such that the average Bank
contribution to the components financed went up from 27% to 46%.   The
amendment also incorporated additional investments in productive sub-loans,
maintenance equipment, and reconstruction of public buildings, while reducing
the allocation to shelter sub-loans.
-.   -   Project Costs:  Project costs at completion are estimated at
US$94.7 equivalent or 42.5 percent lower than estimated at appraisal (see
Tables 5A,B,C,D Part III). For the most part, the observed difference can be
attributed to the devaluation of the Colombian Peso. In Colombian Pesos the
project cost at completion is estimated at Col$ 17.6 billion or only 4 percent
below the Col$18.3 billion appraisal estimate. Records of direct foreign
exchange costs amount to approximately US$5.5 million equivalent, but the
available dEta are insufficient for estimating indirect foreign exchange cost.
The Bank loans-ftilanoed 50.4 percent of estimated total project cost or
significantly more than the 29 percent contribution originally envisaged. Due
to the above adjustments to project design during implementation, the actual
costs by component (with the exception of infrastructure) differ significantly
from the appraisal estimates (see Table 5F).
21.         For sub-pro4ects under Loan 1558-CO Part F, estimated costs at
completion are much higher than expected and, in this case, actually reflect



-7-
cost overruns associated with implementation difficulties, rather than charges
in project design. Shortcomings in the original design for the water
treatment plant, under Loan 1726-CO Part 2-L, led to additional costs which
were financed by CRC to permit the completion of the plant.
22.         Disbursements:  Table 3 and the accompanying chart compare the
actual and estimated disbursement schedules for the project. During the first
six months following effectiveness (FY85), practically no disbursements
occurred. In FY$6 the pace of disbursements picked up and they were virtually
completed in FY88. Thus, once the initial obstacles were overcome, the
disbursement curve approached the appraisal forecast. Actual disbursements
compare very favorably with the average Bank urban project and with profiles
for all loans in Colombia and the Latin American Region during the FY76-FY85
period.
F.          Proiect Results
23.         Proiect Objectives:  The project achieved its physical
reconstruction objectives, reactivated the local economy and significantly
strengthened regional and municipal institutions. It fell short of expected
levels in terms of cost recovery and in improving national preparedness to
handle future calamities (see Table 6).
24.         Physical Results:  Overall, the physical objectives of the project
were achieved. Performance of local contractors was satisfactory and local
artisans were successfully involved in the process of reconstruction of
historical buildings. A decision to phase the reconstruction of the municipal
headquarters in five tranches was appropriate and contributed to the success
of the project.
25.         Operationally, infrastructure networks, social services and other
public buildings began functioning immediately following completion of the
civil works. Provisional facilities were orderly demolished once their
respective functions could be relocated. An exception to this norm occurred
in the new Las Palmas public market (representing about 1.4% of project
investments), which remained unoccupied for over a year due to difficulties in
re-locating merchants to what they saw as a commercially less attractive site.
26.         With regard to residential and commercial real estate assets, very
few affected structures are still visibly damaged. The majority were rebuilt
with sub-loans financed by the project. Many new settlements built to
accommodate lower-income Popayan families made homeless by the earthquake,
actually now house additional families who came from neighboring
municipalities, attracted by the new construction jobs in the city.
27.         A solid waste treatment plant and municipal and department
workshops for equipment maintenance were added to the original set of
sub-projects. As planned, several reconstruction activities continue in
progress, such as further expansion of networks and water treatment
facilities, but at a considerably slower pace than during project execution.



- 8 -
28.         The settlement component financed through the Loan 1558-CO and
executed by SIP suffered from poor community participation and its excessively
physical planning approach to civil works. The component did not benefit from
the community organization experience of SIP as intended, and for this reason
its efficiency was reduced.
29.         Institutional Results:  The project was also largely successful in
meeting its institutional objectives. The technical assistance resulted in
strengthening the CRC as well as the governments of the Department of Cauca
and the Municipality of Popayan.
30.         Special studies expanded the technical capacity of the Popayan
water supply company and of Cedelca, the regional power company. Local
maintenance capacity was improved at the departmental and municipal levels,
through the development of programs for routine and periodic maintenance of
roads, equipment and utility systemus. The base for further urban development
in Popayan was established through a long-term comprehensive urban development
plan complemented by useful land tse, traffic and zoning plans.
31.         Appropriate seismic-resistant building standards were incorporated
into the local building code and applied to all reconstructed and new
buildings. The high-level technical study of the earthquake impact (para. 18)
not only scientifically documented the event, but clearly identified the
geologically vulnerable areas and recommended measures to mitigate the impact
of potential future earthquake damage to the region.
32.         In terms of preservation of the historical patrimony, a
building-by-building historical research exercise assisted in the appropriate
reconstruction of the historic center of Popayan, thus enhancing the capacity
of both the public and the private sector in this area.
33.         Financial Results:  Overdll project cost recovery was estimated at
appraisal to be between 40% and 50% of project investments assuming partial
direct cost recovery from sub-loans and indirect recovery through utility
tariffs. These targets are not being met for several reasons: (i) the
majority of the shelter and productive sub-loans were re-financed at highly
negative real interest rates; (ii) both BCH and ICT face substantial arrears
on their shelter portfolios; (iii) approximately 60 percent of the Col$ 6.1
billion transferred by CRC to project entities (in the form of loans or equity
participation) is unlikely to be recovered; and (iv) tariff collections by
local utility companies continue to fall short of desirable levels. In sum,
although the project anticipated unusually high levels of central government
subsidies on account of the emergency, actual subsidies are likely to be even
higher than expected.
G.          Impact and Sustainability of Proiect Benefits
34.         Cost-benefit calculations were not practicable, either at
appraisal or at completion. However, the physical results of the project
suggest that economic benefits accruing from project investments are
substantial and will be sustained over time. Levels of economic activity and
employment in the region have declined in comparison to the most intensive



reconstruction years (when almost full employment was achieved), but compare
favorably to pre-earthquake conditions. Although national preparedness to
handle disasters has not improved as a result of the project, the risks of
future earthquake damage to the city of Popayan are now lower on account of
the adoption of the seismic-resistant building code.
35.         Long-term maintenance of the project assets has been ensured
through the technical assistance and acquisition of the necessary equipment.
The PCR mission was satisfied with the maintenance standards observed in the
project area two years after project completion. As to the substainability of
institutional benefits, further attention is required to reduce the current
operating deficit of the CRC through reactivation of collections and other
appropriate financial remedies.
H.          Borrower's Performance
36.         The Government's commitment and strong support for the
reconstruction effort contributed significantly to the success of the project.
It assigned high priority to the emergency and took immediate and efficient
measures which maximized the mobilization of public, private and ir.ternational
resources in aid of the reconstruction effort. Specifically, the Government:
(a) established CRC immediately after the earthquake, as a regional
reconstruction authority responsible for coordinating the relief
effort, for developing a reconstruction plan, and for managing its
execution;
(b) created a national reconstruction fund to rebuild assets and
support operating budgets of local institutions;
(c) enacted various emergency decrees to facilitate the reconstruction
process;
(d) negotiated external loans;
(e) promptly acquired land to accommodate population and activities
displaced by the earthquake; and
(f) recruited competent professional staff for the CRC and engaged
experienced local and r.ational agencies in the reconstruction
effort, thus minimizing the risks associated with insufficient
preparation of some project components.
37.         With one exception, Loan Agreement covenants were fully complied
with, albeit at times with some delay (see Table 7). On the management side,
the deployment of qualified staff and introduction of new management and
control methods was accomplished by virtue of concerted efforts on the part of
the CRC Board of Directors, the Governor of the Cauca Department, and the
Mayor of Popayan. Strong community participation and the active involvement
of the private sector were also key elements in achieving the overall
objectives of the project. In retrospect, the policy change regarding cost



- 10 -
recovery was the Borrower's only weakness of lasting impact on the project
outcome.
I.          Bank Performance
38.         The Bank maintained continuity of staff involvement throughout the
project cycle, which proved an important factor to the success of the
operation. Staff time in the field was predominantly used during project
preparation (76%), providing the Borrower with strong support at the time of
greatest need (see Table 8). Supervision averaged only one mission per year
but benefitted from the quarterly monitoring and annual program revision
systems set up at the CRC with Bank assistance. The Bank's decision to halt
disbursements against shelter sub-loans in 1986 was justified, in view of the
disruption to the project's cost recovery plan imposed by the legislative
change of the on-lending terms. The Bank was also justified in not allowing
exceptions to the agreed procurement guidelines for technical control and
supervision of project works. The Bank's performance was less effective in
advising the Borrower in the area of disaster-preparedness, and in supervising
the water supply components under Loan 1726-CO (which came under a different
division).
J.          Project Relationship
39.         Working relationships between the Bank and the Borrower's staff
were supportive and helped streamline project execution and quality control.
Weaknesses were apparent only in relationships with third parties,
specifically with regard to the transfer of responsibilities over parts of the
on-going Loans 1558 and 1726 from SIP and INSFOPAL to CRC. (INSFOPAL was a
weak agency at the outset of this project and was abolished in 1987.) These
difficulties might have been avoided if clearer transfer arrangements had been
agreed upon during negotiations.
K.          Consulting Services
40.         Local consulting services were used in the project for design and
supervision and for the preparation of the specific studies. Three of the six
studies were changed during implementation but within the modified scope the
consultants' performance was generally satisfactory. The quality of the
consultants in the case of the geological analysis of the earthquake impact
and in the detailed restoration of historic buildings was outstanding. Also
worth noting was the photo-study of fractures caused by the earthquake to the
water supply network, financed under Loan 1726, which greatly helped in
repairing the system.
L.          Proiect Documentation and Data
41.         The abbreviated loan processing documentation was helpful to the
emergency nature of the operation and covered all key aspects of the project,
and was well understood by the parties involved. The Loan Agreement exhibited
the same level of satisfactory coverage and clarity of content as the
President's Report, although the complementary amendments to the on-going
loans were less clearly and/or comprehensively drafted.



- 11 -
42.         Availability of Relevant Data to the PCR Mission:  The CRC
provided extensive financial reports on the execution of the project covering
Loans 2379 and 1558 Part F, which proved invaluable to the preparation of this
PCR. Much less comprehensive information was available to the mission on the
sub-projects executed under Loan 1726 Part 2-L but, upon request, the
essential data was later supplied by the executing agency. Finally, although
experts from the Controller General's office and the Central Bank published
useful analytical articles on the outcomes of the project,2/ the final audit
of the project accounts was not submitted to the Bank, possibly because a
small number of subsidiary agreements had still not been finalized in late
1990.
M.          Lessons Learned
43.         For the Bank, the project experience suggests the following
lessons:
(a) The type of assistance which the Bank is good at, takes time to
deliver; it is unrealistic for it to aspire to deliver assistance
in the short intervals (up to six months) which disaster relief
agencies aim for. Even though the Bank's first mission was in the
field only two weeks after the earthquake and appraisal
documentation was streamlined (no SAR was prepared, only a
President's Memorandum), the first disbursements were not made
until 17 months later.
(b) The timing of the first mission is an important matter of
judgment. If it gpes too soon, it may misjudge the scope and
nature of the assistance needed: the physical needs are then very
apparent but the institutional problems may be hard to recognize.
But it it waits too long, the Government may have embarked on a
relief program that we find ill-conceived; we may lose our
opportunity to take part in its design.
(c) The multisector project design may be worth replicating, provided
that the institutional set-up is strong enough and not too
comflicated. By ensuring that no sector was ignored, it increased
the Bank's influence and effectiveness and facilitated
coordination of the entire reconstruction effort. On the other
hand, the multiplicity of implementing agencies delayed
2/ See Revista del Banco de la Republica, "El Sistema Financiero en la
Reconstruccion de Popayan 1983-1988", by Dario Delgado, Jorge Trujillo
Figueroa and Gonzalo Alberto Valencia Barrera, in two parts published
respectively in March and April, 1989. See also, Banco de la Republica,
Informe Especial, "La Corporaci6n Regional del Cauca y la Reconstruccion de
Popayan", 1990.



- 12 -
implementation, because of the time it took them to agree on
subsidiary project agreements.
(d) Amending existing loans may be an effective way to mobilize
additional resources quickly for an emergency project.
(e) Emergency operations justify retroactive financing on a larger
scale than allowed in normal operations. (In this case up to 18
percent retroactive financing was permitted under Loan 2379-CO).
(f) Continuity in Bank staffing for a project from appraisal to
completion has a substantial pay-off in the quality of the
dialogue with the borrower, ease in modifying project scope when
necessary and, in general, cost-effective supervision with
relatively few missions. The grouping together of all
infrastructure sectors into one division since the Reorganization
should make it easier to achieve the cross-sectoral co-ordination
that was lacking under this project.



- 13 -
PROJEC'i COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
POPAYAN REGION EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(LOAN 2379-CO. 1558-CO PART F AND 1726-CO PART L)
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S FERSPECTIVE
The Borrower contributed extensive financial statistical information for
the preparation of the PCR, which has been incorporated in the report. On June
6, 1991, the Bank sent the Borrower Parts I ard III with the request to prepare
Part II, but no reply was received.



- 14-
PART III:   SUMMARY OF STATISTICAL DATA
Related Bank Information
Table 1: Related Bank Loans 1/
Year of      Original
Title             Loan No.  Approval Amount  Disbursed   Comments
Urban Development    1558-CO    1978        2'i.8    24.5    Closed 6/15/88 2/
Canceled $0.3
INSFOPAL III          1726-CO    1979       31.0     30.5    Closed 6/30/86 3/
Canceled $0.5
Water & Waste         2961-CO    1988      150.0      15.0    4/
1/    Source:  IBRD Statement of Loans, Vol II (EMENA & LAC Regions),
November 30, 1990.
2/    In February 27, 1984, Loan 1558-CO was ameinded re-allocating US$6.4
million (25.8% of the loan amount) to the Popayan Region Earthquake
Reconstruction Project for the upgrading of squatter settlements which
developed in Popayan as a consequence of the earthquake, including
streets, storm drainage, water, sewerage, electricity, public
telephones, credit for shelter improvements, community services and
facilities, credit for artisan enterprises and technicail assistance.
Actually US$6.44 million was disbursed for the p.ject.  A balance of
$345,645.37 was canceled at loan closing on 6/15/88.
3/    In November 8, 1984, Loan 1726-CO was amended to provide US$1.3 million
for rehabilitation and repair of the water treatment plant; installation
of about 34 km of water mains and networks; constructi.n of a pumping
station, storage tank and a water main extension of about 3 km;
rehabilitation and repair of about 3,000 house connections, including
replacement of water meters; rehabilitation and construction of sewer
collectors (18 km); acquisition and utilization of maintenance and
operation equipment; and consulting services to carry out a census of
water supply and sewerage customers, a leak detection and repair
program, and an assessment of damages in the sewer system.
4/    One of the sub-projects financed by Loan 2961-CO (executed through the
Fondo Financiero de Desarrollo Urbano) is a new water treatment plant
for Popayan that expands considerably the capacity of the old treatment
plan rebuilt under Loan 2379-CO.



- 15 -
Table 2: Proiect Time Table
Appraisal
Forecast                Actual
Initial Request for
Bank Financing                                               4/04/83
Reconnaissance Mission                                        4/19/83
Appraisal                                                     7/13/83
Negotiations                          8/29/83                  12/15/83
Board Approval                                                2/02/84
Loan Signature                                                2/27/84
Loan Effectiveness                    2/00/84                 6/26/84
Loan Amendment                                                4/15/85 (*)
Loan Closing                          6/30/87                 12/23/88
Loan Completion                       12/31/86                06/30/88
(*)   Reducing disbursement percentage from 65 to 50 against local
expenditures.



- 16 -
Table 3:
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(Loans 2379-CO, 1558-CO Part F and 1726-CO Part 2-L)
USS million
IBRD FY                    1984    1985   19&6   1987   1988   1989
Estimated (2379)              24.0    '6.0   40.0   40.0   40.0   40.0
Act.al (2379)                  0.0    15.4   25.8   31.5   37.1   40.0
Actual as Z of
Estimated (2379)               0.0    42.8   64.5   78.8   92.7  100.0
Estimated (1558F)              2.6     6.4    6.4    6.4    6.4    6.4
Actual (1558F)                 0.0      2.4    3.6    6.4    6.4    6.4
Actual as Z of
Estimated (1558F)              0.0    37.4   55.5  100.5  100.5  100.5
Estimated (1726L)              0.7      1.3    1.3    1.3    1.3    1.3
Actual 1726L)                  0.0     0.7    1.1    1.3    1.3    1.3
Actual as Z of
Estimated (1726L)              3.3    57.2   85.4   97.7   97.7   97.7
Estimated (Total)             27.2    43.7   47.7   47.7   47.7   47.7
Actual (Total)                 0.0    18.5   30.5   39.2   44.8   47.7
Actual as Z of
Estimated (Total)              0.1    42.4   63.8   82.2   93.9  100.0
Date of Final Disbursement:
Loan 2379-CO:         12-DEC-88
Loan 1558-CO Part F: 17-JUL-86
Loan 1726-CO Part L: 21-JAN-87
Source: IBRD LDSLOA1060 Reports.



Table 4: Project Imltementation (Page 1 of 5)
Planned                                                             Actual          Comnents
A. Shelter Credit
Loan 2379-CO:
1. (BCH) Low and median income housing (about 3,800 credits)        3,245 credits   Shelter credit expenditures not reiibursed by IORD
2. (CCH) Housing in historic center (about 1,000 credits)             789 credits   after 1986 due to change in credit terms umndated
by Colombian law No.18/87. This determination applies
to credits under loan 1558-CO as well.
Loan 1558-CO:
1. (ICT)Low income housing (squatter settlements)                  4,413 credits   Of which, 1,286 for new housing and 3,127 for repairs
About 3,450 credits for reconstruction and repair                                and improvements.  All property titles were issued.
including tenure legalization                                                    lmplementation began in 1984. Loan disbursements
began a year later due to delays in signing the Loan -;
Amendhent.  Political unrest slowed implementation in
1985.  Large post-earthquake in-migration vastly
increased the number of squatters needing housing.
Approximately 600 qualified applicants remained
unserved at project completion. Cost were
significantly higher than originally estimated.
S. Business Credit
Loan 2379-CO:
1. (BCH) Credit for repair and reconstruction of 140 business         263 credits   The m dber of credits and average credit amount
premises, 50 offices and 3 hotels in the project area                            was i.-reased in response to demand.
Loan 1558-CO:
1. (CFP) small business credit (including cooperatives)              608 credits   Of Which, 101 by CFP and about 500 by Corpocauca.
Corpocauca also provided training and technical
assistance to micro-enterprises. CFP withdrew from
the project in May 1986 due to lack of comparative
advantage vis-a-vis CORPOCAUCA in the micro
-enterprise credit market. CORPOCAUCA continues the
program with CRC financing.



Table 4: Prolect Imtlementation (Page 2 of 5)
Planned                                                            Actual          Comments
C. Infrastructure
Loan 2379-CO:
1. Water distribution and sewerage lines (155 km) in Popayan       140 km          Plus an additional 80 km extension to El 8o-do.
2. Water treatment plants & pumping stations
in nearby municipalities                                       7 systems        Water & sewer systems build in the municipalities of
Cajibio, Caldono, El 7ambo, Morales, Piendamo, Timbio
and El Bordo. Municipalities shared approximately
25% of the cost.
4. Offices and workshops in nearby municipalities                  2 Offices       Municipal offices (Alcaldias) in Piendano y Cajibio.
5. Extension of water lines (4 km) to squatter settlements         Completed
6. Reconstruction & repaving of streets in Popayan                 Completed
7. Re-provision of power transmission, transformers and            1 plant &       Main power plant (Florida 1); 4 sub-stations:
distribution lines                                              4 sub-stations  Principal, North, Tulcan, and Central.                 oo
135 km lines    Approximately 70 km low-tension and 65 km high-
tension distribution lines in rural & urban areas.
8. Renewal and extension of telephone cables                       5,000 lines     Construction of new central exchange (AXE-10)
building completed. Existing lines could not be
repaired and were replaced by new lines instead.
Loan 1726-CO:
1. Repair of El Tablazo Water Treatment Plant in Popayan          Completed        Design errors and defects in filtration technique
resulted in need for additional funds (USSO.5m) from
CRC to complete the plant. A larger treatment plant
(not included in the project) is currently being
built, partly financed by IBRD Loan 2961-CO.
2. Installation of 34 km water mains & networks                    Completed       Northern neighborhoods.
3. Construction pumping station (115 t capacity)                   Completed       El Tablazo pumping station.
4. Construction storage tank (3,000 m3)                            Completed       El Tablazo storage tank.
5. Extension water main (3 km)                                    3 km             Water main extension.
6. Rehabilitatien 3,000 house connections/meters                  Completed        In Popayan urban area approximately 40% connections
are now metered; the meter repair shop is operating.
7. Rehabilitation & construction sewer collectors (18 km)          18 km           Sewerage collectors.



Table 4: Prolect Imrlementation (Page 3 of 5)
Plnnied                                                              Actual           Comments
C. Infrostructure (cont.)
Loan 1558- CO:
Urbanization of 17 neighborhoods (squatter settlements)              690,000 m2       Land acquired and urbanized for approximately 1,900
residential lots and for community facilities.
1. Vater suply and sewerage (mains, distribution lines
and house corrections)                                            Completed
2. Pubtlic lighting and house electricity connections                Completed
transformers & switch gear
3. Publie telephones                                                 Completed
4. Streets and pedestrian ways, curbs, gutters & storm drainage   Completed
D. Commnity Facilities and Public Buildings
Loan 2379-Co:.
1. Reconstruction Departmental Headquarters                          Completed       Old facade restored, new offices (4,800 m2) built.
2. Reconstruction Municipal Headquarters (CAN)                       Completed       Restoration in 5 phases after extensive historical
research, using local artisans and materials.
Provisionat installations build and used during the
CAN reconstruction.
3. Repair 10 health posts                                            Deleted         Repairs completed under Loan 1558-CO.
4. Repair hone for the elderly                                       Changed         Construction of new building for 162 elderly instead
of repairs to old building.
5. Repair other community facilities                                 5 facilities    Accounting Office (Contraloria), Case  Caldas",
Toribio Naya school, and the Legislative building
were restored. A new vehicle maintenance workshop
facility was build.
6. Reconstruction bus terminal                                       Completed       Reconstruction and expansion of the urban transport
terminal, meeting seismic-resistant standards.
7. Reconstruction 3 public markets                                  Changed          2 markets (S & U) were restored and are in operation.
The third market (Las Palms), a new building,
remained unoccupied for over a year due to location
problems and weak demand, in early 1991, 80X of the
stalls were occupied.



Table 4: Proiect Imwlementation (Page 4 of 5)
Planned                                                               Actual           Comments
D. Community Facilities (cont.)
8. Reconstruction slaughter house                                     Changed          Replaced by construction of municipal workshops.
9. Reconstruction cemetery                                            Completed
10. Reconstruction public library                                      Deleted          Public library restoration deleted.
Loan 1558-CO:
1. Construction of primary school classrooms
and ancillary facilities in squatter settlements                   Completed       The schools and health posts were repaired,
2. Construction of health center in squatter settlements              Completed        expanded and equipped.  All were fully
operational at project completion.
E. Provision of Vehicles
and Ecuijment      Loan 2379-CO:
1. Road construction/maintenance equipment including:                 113 acquired    Of the heavy equipment acquired for the Dept of
(100) tipping trucks and miscellaneous vehicles,                                   Cauca, 13 were transferred to the Municipality
3 mechanical shovels, asphalt tanker, 2 water tankers,                             for street maintenance.
2 graders, 1 conpressor, 2 bulLdozers
2. Water/sewerage pipes, valves, Fximps and fittings                  Acquired
3. Solid waste processing equipment                                   Acquired        A solid waste treatment plant was built.
4. Fire fighting equipment                                            Acquired
5. Passenger vehicles (station wagons)                               Acquired         Vehicles for CRC and Dept of Cauca.
6. Computer equipment & software for CRC & Municipality              Acquired          In operation at CRC and the Municipality.
7. Electric transformers, cables, switch gear & accessories          Acquired
8. Telephone cables, equipment & maintenance spares                  Acquired
Loan 1558-Ca:
1. Equipment for primary school and health center                    Acquired         In new settlements.
2. Equipment, vehicles, materials and tools for training in
self-help housing construction                                    Acquired         By SENA.
3. Equipment and materials for electricity distribution
and public telephones                                             Acquired         By CERELCA and ENTEL.



Table 4: Proiect lmplementation (Page 5 of 5)
Ptarmed                                                            Actual          Conments
E. Goods (cont.)     Loan 1726-CO:
1. Water & sewer pipes, fittings, pumps & spares                 Acquired
2. Computer data processing equipment for Acueducto               Acquired
3. Water meters, registers & hydrants                             Acquired
4. Leakage detection equipment for wate, & sewer lines            Acquired
5. Sewerage cleaning equipment                                    Acquired
F. Studies
Loan 2379-CO:
1. Building code with seismic-resistant standards                  Completed       Published as "Reconstruccion de Popayan: Plan de
Accion, Cartilla Guia de Construccion" Popayan,
1983, 46 pp. Applied to new buildings and
restorations.
2. National strategy for dealing with future calamities            Changed         Replaced by detailed analysis of the earthquake
under the coordination of INGEONINAS, published as
"El Sismo de Popayan del 31 de Marzo de 1983" Bogota,
1986, 320 pp.
3. Long term coaprehensive development of Dept of Cauca            Changed         Replaced by "Popayan Urban Development Plan - Year
2003"1, deemed unrealistic and lacking in analytical
depth.
4. Maintenance of vehicles and other mobile equipment              Completed       By Dept. Cauca.
5. Improving of local planning and financial management            Completed       Land use and zoning plans completed by Municipality;
Financial & Administrative Technical Assistance
provided to the Municipality.
6. Long-term reconstruction of the historic center of Popayan      Changed         Each historic building was object of detailed study
prior to restoration works.
7. Reduction of power losses caused by clpndestine connections    Completed        By Cedelca.
Loan 1726-CO:
1. Photo-study of network fractures caused by earthquake          Completed        By Acueducto.
Loan 1558-Co:
1. Census of the population of 23 squatter settlements               Completed       By OCA assisted by ICT.  ICT updates this census.



- 22 -
POPAYAN REGION EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TABLE 5A - COMPARISON BETWEEN APPRAISAL ESTIMATES AND ACTUAL COST
(Loan 2379-CO)
Total Cost in USS millions /1                Total Cost in COLS millions
........... .       .........       .       ..
Actual                                       Actual
as X of                                      as X of
Estimated      Actual    Estimated           Estimated       Actual    Estimated
--                 -    -- ..-                                 -    -..
A. Shelter Credit          70.53        23.24            33          5,537.50    3,338.56             60
B. Infrastructure          20.28         7.88            39          1,592.50    1,841.82            116
1. Water & Sewer        11.93        4.68            39             936.50    1,134.47            121
2. Power distrib.        5.10         0.42            8             400.00       106.78            27,
3. Telephones            1.47         0.36            24            115.00        99.00            86
4. Roads                 1.80         2.42           135            141.00       501.57           356
C. Commercial/Industrial/
Tourism Credits         12.76        14.58          114           1,001.69    2,990.47            299
D. Community Facilities/2
Public Buildings        15.51        16.26          105           1,217.59    3,556.15            292
1. Health/Educ           0.89         1.67          188              70.00       302.83           433
2. Bus Terminal          0.38         0.16           43              30.00        32.45           108
3. Adn Centers          14.24        14.42           101          1,117.59    3,220.87            288
E. Vehicles & Equip.        6.48        14.05           217            508.60    3,040.07            598
F. Inst. Support            8.65         1.16            13            678.85       256.4',           38
1. Tech. Assist.         1.83        0.06             3             144.00        27."2            19
2. Studies               0.97         0.31           32              76.00        62.99            83
3. Engineering           5.85         0.79            13            458.85       166.12            36
1. Contingencies           15.15         0.00            0           6,528.29         0.00             0
J. FEFEE                    0.10         0.10                            7.87         9.99
TOTAL                  149.46        77.27           52          17,322.21   15,033.49             87
Sources: IBRD Report No. P-3678-CO page 37; C.R.C. "Ejecucion Financiera Convenio de Prestamo
BIRF 2379-CO" (2 vols.) Octubre 1990; and IBRD Report LOA1060 of December 4, 1990.
1/ Direct fore:g* exchange cost at comrletion is estimated at USS5.17 million
equivalent (7.3% of total cost) but no iuiformation is available on indirect foreign exchange costs.
2/  Health and educational facilities include reconstruction of the cemetery and new building for
an elderly home; the adminstrative centers include state, municipal and CRC buildings.



- 2 3 -
POPAYAN REGION EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TABLE 5 - COMPARISON BETWEEN ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL PROJECT COST /1
(Loan 1558-CO Part F)
Total Cost In USS millions                Total Cost in COLS miLlions
.....................................     .....................................
Actual                                     Actual
as X of                                   as % of
Estimated     Actual   Estimated          Estimated      Actual    Estimated
................. .........................................................   .....................................
A. Shelter Credit          4.08        7.52          184            321.71      949.67          295
S. Infrastructure          4.27        3.11          73            336.36       579.14          172
C. Small Enterprise
Credit                  0.50        0.57          114            39.43       99.45           252
D. Community FaciLit       1.27        0.85           67            100.47      158.95          158
E. VehicLes & Equip.       0.51        1.10          218            39.95       145.82         365
F. Tec Ast/Training       0.25         1.06         417             19.98      202.30         1013
1. Contingencies          0.96        0.00            0             75.70        0.00            0
TOTAL                  11.84       14.21          120           933.58    2,135.32          229
Source:  Cost estimate figures based on loan allocations as per Amendment to Loan Agreement (Loan
1558-CO) dated February 27,1984.  Cost estimates in Colombian Pesos based on the 1983 average
exchange rate of CoLS78.85 = US$1.00. Actual cost from CRC, op.cit. Vol.3, Oct.1990. Adjustments
made to CRC figures are available in the project file.
1/ Actual direct foreign exchange cost is estimated at USS290,210.02 equivalent. There is no
information on indirect foreign exchange cost.



- 2 4 -
POPAYAN REGION EARTHWAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TABLE SC - COMPARISON BETWEEN ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL COST
(Loan 1726-CO, Part L)
Total Cost in USS millions                TotaL Cost in COLS millions
.. ..... ... .................    .....   ............... ............
Actual                                    Actual
as X of                                   as % of
Estimated     Actual   Estimated          Estimated      Actual    Estimated
.... ..... ...... ...........  ..    ..............  ....... .............. ... ...._. _.............. . ........
A. Water & Sewerage       3.50        3.27           93            275.98     407.36          148
Civil works            2.28        2.11           93            179.38     263.15          147
Goods                  1.10        1.04           94             86.93     129.95          149
Consultants            0.12        0.11           93              9.66      14.26          148
TOTAL                  3.50        3.27           93            275.98     407.36          148
Sources:  Actual cost figures from Alcantarillado de Popayan S.A., "Programa BIRF III 1726-20",
Report dated March 1, 1991. The distribution of cost by type of expenditure was estimated based on
IBRD loan disbursement records from Report: LOA1060 of 30-JAN-91. Cost estimates are based on
Amendnent to Loan Agreement (Loan 1726-CO) dated November 16, 1983.



- 2 5 -
POPAYAN REGION EAR HQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TABLE 5D - COMPARISON BETWEEN APPRAISAL ESTIMATES AND ACTUAL COST (CONSOLIDATED)
(Loans 2379-CO, 1558-CO Part F and 1726-CO Part 2-L)
Total Cost in USS millions                  Totat Cost in COLS millions
Actual                                      Actual
as X of                                     as % of
Estimated      Actual    Estimated          Estimated       Actual    Estimat_d
A. Shelter                 74.61       30.76            41          5,859.21    4,288.22             73
B. Infrastructure          26.82       13.10            49          2,108.24    2,684.11            127
L. Commercial/Industrial/
Tourism Loans           13.26       15.15           114          1,041.12    3,089.92            297
D. Comwunity Facilities/
Public Buildings        16.78       17.11           102          1,318.06    3,715.10           282
E. Vehicles & Equip.        8.09       16.19           200            635.48    3,315.84            522
F. Inst. Support            9.03        2.33            26            708.48       472.98            67
I. Contingencies           i6.11        0.00             0          6,603.99         0.00             0
J. FEFEE                    0.10        0.10           100              7.87         9.99           127
IClk L                 164.80       94.74            57         18,282.45   17,576.17            96
S.urces:  (a) Actual cost: C.R.C. "Ejecucion Financiers Convenio de Prestamo BIRF 2379-CO y
1558-CO" (3 vols.) Octubre 1990; and Alcantarlltado de Popayan S.A., "Programa BIRF III 1726-20",
Report dated March 1, 1991; (b) Estimated cost: IBRD Report No. P-3678-CO oage 73; IBRD Report
LOA1060 of December 4, 1990 and Amendments to Loan Agreement (Loans 1726-CO and 1558-CO) dated
November 16, 1982 and February 27, 1984, respectively. The methodology used to estimate project
cost at completion is available in the project file.



- 26 -
TABLE SE - PROJECT FINANCING
POPAYAN REGION EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
(Loans 2379-CO, 1558-CO Part F and 1726-CO Part 2-L)
-------------------------------USS million.------------------
Source                Ptanned                 X          ActuaL        %
................................................. ................................................................. .......
Loan 2379-CO              40.0                             40.0
Loan 1558-CO               6.4                               6.4
Loan 1726-Co                1.3                              1.3
SubtotaL IBRO              47.7            28.9              47.7   50.4
BR,CRC,Government               117.1            71.1             47.0   49.6
TOTAL           164.8           100.0             94.7 100.0
Sources:   IBRD Loan and Disbursement documentr; CRC project
financiaL statements.



- 27 -
Ttble 5F: Allocation of Loan Proceeds (Loans 2379-CO, 1588-CO Part F and 1726-CO Part 2-L)
Category                           Original Allocation            Actual Disbursements           % Change
Loan 2379-CO:                       -------------------- in USS 
(1)   Civil works                          6,000,000.00                 10,982,187.19              183.04
(2)   Goods                                6,500,000.00                  8,987,886.64              138.28
(3-A) Shelter sub-loans                   11,600,000.00                 11,110,978.28               95.78
(3-8) Productive sub-Loans                 2,100,000.00                  7,937,336.43              377.97
(4)   Consultant services                  1,700,000.00                    831,900.69               48.94
(5)   Initial Deposit in
Special Account                      7,150,000.00                     49,959.77                0.70
(6)   Fee                                     99,751.00                     99,751.00              100.00
(7)   Unallocated                          4,850,249.00                           0.00               0.00
Subtotal                 40,000,000.00                 40,000,000.00              100.00
Loan 1558-CO Part F: /1
(7)   Civil works, studies
and supervision                      2,770,000.00                  2,506,990.50               90.51
(8)   Goods                                  380,000.00                    581,278.02              152.97
(9)   Shelter loans in
squatter settlements                   940,000.00                  2,038,597.12             216.87
(10) Shelter loans to other
low-Income borrowers                1,100,000.00                   1,104,865.09             100.44
(11)  Micro-enterprise Loans                 250,000.00                    203,387.21               81.35
(12) Initial Deposit in
Special Account                        960,0C0.00                          0.00               0.00
Subtotal                  6,400,000.00                  6,435,117.94              100.55
Loan 1726-CO Part 2-L:
(2-L) (i) Civil works                               N/A                            N/A
(ii) Equipment, pipes,
materials, supplies                       N/A                           N/A
(iii) ConsuLting services                       N/A                            N/A
Subtotal                  1,300,000.00                   1,269,550.69              97.66
Project Total                 47,700,000.00                  47,704,668.63             100.01
Sources: LDSLOA1060 Reports and Loan Agreements.
1/ A baLance of USS345,645.37 from Loan 1558-CO was cancelled.



Tabte 6: Proiect Resutts (Loans 2379-CO. 1558-Co Part F and 1726-CO Part 2-L) (Page 1 of 3)
Earthauake Damaae and Reconstruction Program:  On March 31, 1983, an earthquake with an intensity measured at 5.4 on the Richter scale, hit Popayan and 11
other municipalities in the Department of Cauca. About 250 people were killed and 1,500 injured. Damage affected all aspects of Popayan's urban systems:
shelter, production, utitity networks, public services and public adninistration. The cost of reconstruction to pre-earthquake condition, was estimated at
about USS765 miltion. On that basis, a tong-term reconstruction program was outlined, to be carried out over a period of 15 years.
Bank Supmort:  I1RD support for the Popayan Region Earthquake Reconstruction Project corresponded to the initiat phases of the overall Reconstruction
Program and was expected to be completed in 3 years. The project's physical targets focused on the essential and most urgent investments necessary for the
reconstruction of shelter and other physical facilities and the restoration of key economic and social activities.   The project's institutional targets
aimed at strengthening the regional development corporation (CRC) and the department --id municipal administrations. Financially, the project aimed at cost
recovery of between 40X and 50X of project costs. IBRD support amounted to USS47.9 million equivalent, as follows: USS40.0 mitlion from Loan 2379-CD; USS
1.5 million from Loan 1726-CO; and USS 6.4 million from Loan 1558-CO.
Proiect Description and Results:
A. Physical Obiectives                                   Apopraisal Target                      Results & Comments on Performance
(1) Shelter: credits for shelter repair or relocation         Loan 2379-CO (4,800 credits)           4,034 credits (84X completion)
within the Project area, including squatter areas.            Loan 1558-Co (3,450 credits)           4,413 credits (12a% completion)
(2) Comnmercfal, Industrial, Tourism, Micro-Enterprise:       Loan 2379-CO (193 credits)             263 credits (136X completion)
Credit for repair and reconstruction of business               Loan 1558-CO (W/A)                     608 credits (N/A)
premises and working capital for micro-enterprises
(3) infrastructure:
3.1 Wate. supply and sewerage distribution lines,         Loan 2379-CO: 155 km lines,            140 Km water & sewerage lines in Popayan plus 80 km
treatment plants, pumping stations, storage           repairs to 7 systems in nearby         extension to El Bordo
tanks, offices and workshops                          municipalities.                        7 systems completed
Loan 1726-CO: Repair to treatment
plant, pumping station &               Completed
storage tank; 34 km water mains        Completed
& 18 km sewerage collectors.           Completed
Repair 3,000 house connections.        Completed
Loan 1558-CO water & sewerage          Completed in 17 new neighborhoods
distribution to squatter areas.



Table 6: Proiect Results (Loans 2379-CO. 1558-CO Part F and 1726-CO Part 2-L) (Page 2 of 3)
A. Physkcal Obiectives (continued)                     Aopraisal Target                     Results & Cnents on Performance
3.2 Power re-provision, transmission,                   Loan 2379-CO (N/A)                   one power plant, 4 sub-stations, 135 km of low and high-
trnnsformer and distribution services,                                                   tension lines in urban and rural areas.
including urban area, squatter settlements          Loan 1558-CO (distribution           Street lighting and house connections in 17 new
and nearby municipalities                           lines in squatter settlements)       neighborhoods completed
3.3 Roads: reconstruction and re-paving of              Loan 2379-CO (urban and rural)       Compteted
urban streets and rural roads, including            Loan 1558-CO (squatter areas)        Completed in 17 new neighborhoods
squatter areas
3.4 Telephone:  renewal and extension of telephone      Loan 2379-CO (urban system)          5,000 new lines installed.
cables, including public telephones in squatter    Loan 1558-CO (squatter areas)         Public phones installed in 17 new neighborhoods
areas. 
3.5 Offices and workshops in nearby municipalities      Loan 2379-CO                         Nunicipal offices coapleted in Piendamo and Cajibio.
4.  Community Facilities and public buildings including    Loan 2379-CO                           Public buildings completed with the following exceptions
Department of Cauca headquarters, Nunicipal head-                                            and/or changes: (a) public library and health posts
quarters, home for the elderly, bus terminal, 3 public                                       deleted; (b) slaughKer house replaced by municipal
markets, 10 health posts, slaughter house, cemetery,                                        workshops. "Other community facilities consisted of
public library, other community facitities.  In                                              4 historical buildings.
squatter settlements primary schools and health posts. Loan 1558-CO                          Schools and health posts in 17 neighborhoods were repaired,
expanded, and equipped.
5. Vehicles and Eouipment:  road construction equipment, Loan 2379-CO (111 items)                113 pieces of heavy road maintenance and fire-fighting
fire-fighting equipnent, office computer equipment,   2 computer work-stations               equipment acquired. Computers acquired. Power, telephone,
power and telephone, water pipes end fittings.          Loan 1726-CO (water)                 and water supply equipment acquired.
Equipment for schools and health posts                  Loan 1558-CO (schools/health)        Vehicles and equipment for training and for schools and
health posts acquired
Overall chysical objectives satisfactorily achieved.



Table 6:  Proiect Results (Loans 2379-CO. 1558-CO Part F and 1726-CO Part 24)  (Prge 3 of 3)
S. Institutional Obiectives
6.  Institutional SuoPort:  technical assistance for           Loan 2379-CO (T.A., 6 studies)         Three of the 6 studies were changed.  Studies on national
CRC, Department of Cauca, and the Municipality;                                                   strategies and long-term development were replaced by
and 6 studies.                                                                                    by local studies.  Technical assistance succeeded in
strengthening local institutior-   A power-losses study
was added.
Water losses study                                        Loan 1726-CO                            Completed
Training for self-help construction and                   Loan 1558-CO                            Coffleted
census of squatter settlements
Overall institutional obiectives satisfactorily achieved.
C. Financial Obiectives
7.  Financial Objectives: Partial direct cost recovery         Loan 2379-CO                           (a) Direct cost recovery:  The majority (59%) of the BCH
was expected for the shelter and commercial,              Loan 1558-CO                            shelter portfolio was re-finarced at subsidized (6O)
industrial and tourism components; overall project                                                interest rates.  As of June 1990 28% of the portfolio was
cost recovery was estimated to be between 40% and         (direct cost recovery)                  6 months or more in arrears (practically all non-refinanced
50% which was considered reasonable given the                                                     accounts).  BCH commercial portfolio shows 10-12% arrears,
nature of the investments and the circumstances.                                                  considered normal.  Information on collections by ]CT, CFP
Sub-loans for shelter and commercial firms were                                                   and Corpocauca was not available.
to be repaid by borrowers at market interest rates.
(indirect cost recovery                (b) Indirect cost recovery:  CRC plamed to recover about
and cost-sharing by                    62.4% of project cost from the executing agencies (40.4%
executing agencies)                    cost-sharing and 22% in loan repayments.)  As of 811990
CRC had received 41.9% from the agencies (40.4% cost-sharing
1.5% in loan repayments). Ten agencies are current or have
completed payments (BCH, CFP, Transport Terminal, ICT,
Salud, SENA, ICCE, Fire Dept., Cafeteros, and Archdiocese).
Nine agencies are in arrears (Corpocauca, Acueducto,
Cedelca, Municipio, Dept.Cauca, Empocauca, and Emtel).
Financial objectives only partly achieved.



Table 7: Status of Covenants of Loans 2379-CO and 1558-CO (Part F) (Page 1 of 6)
(Compliance Ratings:  1 - Full Compliance; 2 - Partial Compliance; 3 - Non-Compliance; N/A Not Applicable)
Covenant                                                             Status                                Comments
Article II - The Loan
2.03 (a) Maintenance of a Special Account in the Banco
de La Republica (BR).                                          1
2.03 (c) Withdrawals from Special Account to be deposited
into the Project Account by the BR after:  ti)
CRC provides documented request; (ii) deposit of
counterpart funds into the Project Account.                    1
2.04     Procurement to be in accordance with Schedule 4.               1            CRC requested a waiver to the procurement conditions for the technical
control and supervision of project works which has been denied by the
Bank. Comptiance with Schedule 4 was satisfactory.
2.05     Closing Data shall be June 30, 1987.                           2            The Closing date was changed to December 23, 1988.
Article III - Execution of the Proiect
3.01     The Borrower will carry out the Project with the
participation of the project entities and provide
funds, facilities, services and other resources required.    1
3.02 (a) Borrower represented by CRC to enter into agreements
satisfactory to the Bank with each project entity.             I



Table 7: Status of Covenants of Loans 2379-CO and 1558-CO (Part F) (Page 2 of 6)
Covenant                                                               Status                                 Comments
3.02 (b) CRC to:  (i) represent the Borrower; (ii) coordinate             2             Items (i) through (iv) in full compliance.
and Integrate; (ii) monitor and supervise; (iv)                               Item (v) non-compliance as of 1987 due to circumstances beyond the
evaluate and approve each sub-project; (v) ensure that                        control of the CRC, namely, Congress modified Resolution 32/J.M. of April
lending program under part A is carried out in                                1983 thus changing on-lending terms for shelter and commercial sub-loans
accordance with agreed lending terms and conditions;                          (see Note 1, below).
(vi) ensure that goods and works are procured in                              Items (vi) through (viii) in full compliance.
accordance with agreed procedures; (vii) carry out                            Item (ix) partial compliance due to delays in submitting withdrawal
studies under Part F and/or monitor the carrying out                          applications during the first year of project implementation.
by other project entities; (viii) receive, process and                        In general, CRC coordinated project implementation in highly
submit to the Project Account and to BC documentation                         satisfactory manner.
to support withdrawals; (ix) submit to the Bank
withdrawal applications; tx) prepare each year the
investment plan; (xi) furnish information upon request.
3.02 (c) BCH to comply with its agreement with the Borrower, and
ensure compliance of its contracts with each Beneficiary.    1
(d) Borrower to comply with subsidiary agreements.                   1
3.03     Employ consultants satisfactory to the Bank, to be               1             The consultants contracted by CRC were satisfactory to the Bank.
selected In accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Bank.
3.04 (a) Imported goods insurance, transportation and delivery.           1
(b) Cause all goods and services to be used exclusively for
the project.                                                    I
3.05 (a) Furnish promptly upon preparation plans C...) and any            I
meterial modifications.
(b) (i) Maintain records and procedures to monitor progress          1            CRC computerized quarterly reports were sent to the Bank about a month
of project; (ii) allow Bank access to project; (iii)                           after the end of each quarter, starting in 1985.
furnish information at regular intervals.



Table 7: Status of Covenants of Loans 2379-CO and 1558-CO (Part F) (Page 3 of 6)
Covenant                                                               Status                                 Comments
6d) Furnish completion reports.                                      1             CRC provided detailed financial reports on the execution of the project
covering Loans 2379-CO and 1558-CO Part F to the Bank PCR mission.
3.06     Acquire land and rights as required and furnish to
the Bank satisfactory evidence.                                 1
3.07     Take all action necessary to enable project entities             1
to carry out the project.
3.08 (a), (b)
Establish and maintain a Project Account, in COP, and            1
make initial deposit.
6c) Ensure that (i) aggregate amounts In Project Account             1             The implementation of the project benefited from excellent management of
do not fall below 3 months estimated counterpart                              the Project account by CRC and the Banco de La Republica.
expenditures, and (ii) funds are promptly deposited
in Project Account.
3.09     CRC to issue a procurement manual satisfactory to
to the Bank.                                                     1
3.10     CRC to (a) furnish to the Bank by September 15 of                1
each year an investment plan for the project and for
the Reconstruction Program; (b) afford the Bank
reasonable opportunity to review and comment and (c)
promptly revise and approve plans accordingly.
3.11     The Municipality of Popayan to issue a building code             1             Issued and applied to project works.
that includes seismic-resistance standards
satisfactory to the Bank.
3.12     Furnish all information as the Bank shall reasonably             1
request when presenting a sub-loan or a technical
assistance program for approval.



Table 7: Status of Covenants of Loans 2379-CO and 1558-CO (Part F) (Page 4 of 6)
Covenant                                                             Status                                Comments
3.13     EstabLish by June 15, 1984 an Earthquake                       1
Reconstruction Program, acceptable to the Bank.
Article IV - Other Covenants
4.01     No other external debt to have priority.                       1
4.02 (a) Maintain records and separate accounts in respect              1
of the project.
(b) Maintain records in support of project expenditures            1
consistent with sound accounting practices.                                                                                                              w
(c) (i) Have Project Accounts audited and furnish to               2            Borrower in full compliance with audit covenant except with respect to
the Bank through CRC; (ii) furnish certified copy                           the final audit of project accounts which was not submitted to the Bank.
of audit no later than 4 months after end of each                           During implementation CRC introduced modifications in its financial
fiscal year, including auditor's opinion in respect of                      management in compliance with recommendations made by external auditors.
project expenditures and separate accounts; and (iii)
furnish such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
4.03 (a) Have Special Account and Project Account audited               1
annually; furnish certified copies to Sank no
later than 4 months after end of each fiscal year.
(b) BR to furnish the Bank each month certified                   N/A
statements of Special Account and Project Account
and such other information as BAnk shall reasonably
request.
4.04     Ensure timely procurement of goods and services for            1
the project.



Table 7: Status of Covenants of Loans 2379-CO and 1558-CO (Part F) (Page 5 of 6)
Covenant                                                              Status                                 Comments
Schedule I
Uithdrawal from the Proceeds of the Loan
4 (a)    USS4 million for retroactive financing for all                  1             The Bank accepted that retroactive financing be increased to about USS7.2
categories of costs incurred between 01-JUL-83 and                           million.  ApproximateLy US$5.2 miltion of retroactive financing has been
27-FEB-84.                                                                   disbursed.
(b)    No withdrawals be made for sub-project estimated               N/A            There was no sub-project costing as much.
to cost USS2 million or more, or technical assistance
program without Bank approval of this sub-project or
program.
tc)    No withdrawals be made for project entity other than            1                                                                                        un
CRC and BCH untit (i) Bank receives duty executed
subsidiary agreements and (ii) these have been certified
to be legally binding on parties.



Table 7: Status of Covenants of Loans 2379-CO and 1558-CO (Part F) (Page 6 of 6)
Note 1: Change in lending terms for sub-loans
The Borrower and the Bank agreed on the lending terms for sub-loans by BCH (Loan 2379-CO) and ICT (Loan 1558-CO Part F) as mandated by Resolution 32/83 of
the Junta Monetaria (JM). These conditions were, for shelter: (i) term 15 years incLuding 3 years of grace; (ii) 100% rediscounted; (iii) 15% interest
rate.  For commercial sub-loans:  (i) term 2 years plus one year grace; (ii) 18% interest rate; (iii) 100% rediscount at 15% interest rate.
Modifications: The original JM resolution was modified several times by: Law 132 of December 31, 1985; Decree 1226 of April 16/86; Law 18/87; Resolution
18/87 J.M.; Resolutfon 56/87 J.M. and by Resolution 80/87 J.M. The principal changes introduced were, for shetter sub-loans: {i) increased term to 20
years; (ii) reduction of interest rate to 6%; (iii) extension of the grace period to 5 years; and (iv) reduction of the rediscount rate to 3 percent. For
commercial sub-loans:  (i) increased term to 5 years; (ii) lower interest rate to 10%;          X extend grace period to 2 years; and (iv) lower the rediscount
rate to 7 percent.  In addition the various laws and resolutions increased the amoun.  o X rediscounted by the Banco de ta Republica and specified April
1983 through February 1987 as the rediscount period for credits made by BCH, ICT, Caja Agraria, FNA and other public financial entities on Popayan
properties damaged by the earthquake.
Bank Response:  Given the negative interest rates mandated by Congress, the Bank considered the Borrower in non-compliance with Section 3.02 (b) of the Loan
Agreement. Although the changes in lending terms applied retroactively, the Bank did not cancel disbursements atready made but limited further
disbursements to shelter sub-loans made up to 10/22/85. The last disbursement against this category was made in May 1986 for Loan 2379-CO (3-A); and in
July 1986 for Loan 1558-CO (category 10). Disbursement applications for commercial sub-loans continued were honored by the Bank through 1988 (Category 3-B
under Loan 2379-Co).



Table 8: USE OF BANK RESOURCES - MISSION DATA (Page 1 of 3)
Performance
Month/           Number of       Days in       Specialization         Rating/
Stage of Project Cycle            Year             Persons         Field         Represented /a         Status a       Types of Problems/Comments
Through Aooraisal
Project identification          April 1983         5               7           E, Ec, F, L, LO, P, UP
Appraisal                       July 1983          8              18           E, Ec, F, L, LO, P, UP
Aporaisal to Board Anproval       no missions
Board Approval                  February 1984
Board Acproval to Effectiveness
Nay 1984           4               6           E, Ec, P, UP                1       Project being implementec rapidly and
satisfactorily. Effecciveness of
to Loan 1558-CO is pending on that of Loan
2379-Co.
Effectiveness                   June 1984



TabLe 8: USE OF BANK RESOURCES - MISSION DATA (Page 2 of 3)
Performence
Month,/          Nber of       Days In       Specialization        Rating/
Stage of Project Cycle          Year             Persons        Field         Represented le       Status /b      Types of Problems/Comments
.................... ........................................... 0..... ....  .....     ..  .........         ..............             .........
Sumervision
September 1984     1             3           Up                         1       Financial problem: delays in transfer
counterpart fundk sub it withdrmawl
applications and issue fiport licenses.
October 1984       1             3           Ec                         2       Finrncial m_ngemnt: bstlet pproval
by Congress; amendent 1558-CO pending. 
may 1985          2              5           Ec, UP           (2379-CO) 2       Financial  _wgmnt remins weak. 
Disbursements delays.  orrower taking    I
steps. Total cost reduced. Chanes in
dbemnd for helter credit.
(1558-CO) 3()    Effectiveness pending due to unsigred
subsidiary agreements; SIP coordination
of budget nd execution umsatisfactory.
February 1986     2              3           E, Ec            (2379-CO) 1      Satisfactory progress. Law 132 (12/31/65)
modifying tending term for sub-loans.
Bank reifursments under cateory 3-A
limited to sb-loans made u  to October
22, 1985. Prodchtive subltoan not
affected.
(1558-CO) 3      Amendment effective. Unsatisfactory
project manaement in squatter
settlements, lack of coemity
participation.
) Amendmt to Loan 1558-CO effective December 1985.  Prior to effectiveness, in January 1985, IBRD disbursed USS1.9 m against categories 7, 8, 9 and 10.
Disbursements resutmd on December 20, 1985.



Table 8: USE OF BANIK RESOURCES - MISSION DATA (Page 3 of 3)
Performance
Nonth/           Number of       Days in       Specialization         Rating/
Stage of Project Cycle            Year             Persons         Field         Represented la         Status ab      Types of Problems/Corments
._.... ... .... ......................................... ............................................................................................................ ...................
Sueervision (cant.)
October 1986       2               3           Ec, Up            (2379-CO) 1       Project administration satisfactory.
Law 132 has not been regulated.
CRC and 3CH are trying to develop
feasible and acceptable atternatives
to use loan surplus. Municipal Gover.&a.
strengthened by transfer of trained
staff.
(1558-CO) N/A     Last disbursement July 1986.
October 1987       1               4           Ec                (2379-CO) 2       Project execution delayed by the chage of
government, extensive fiscal and
adninistrative reform, and delays in
budgeting. Loan surplus expected. IBRD
requests proposal to reassign USS3.1 m of
loan proceeds. Maintenance plan
requested. Original closing date
retroactively extended to 12/23/88.
/ (E) Engineer; (Ec) Economist; (F) Financial Analyst; (L) Lawyer; (LO) Loan Officer; (P) Plamner; (UP) Senior Urban Planner.
b/ Status/Performance Rating: (1) No problem to minor problems; (2) moderate problems; (3) major problems; (4) grave problems.
SUWURY OF NISSION:
Through appraisal:                  179 staff/days
Appraisal to Board approval:          0      n
Board approval to effectiveness:    24       n
Supervision:                         32      n
Total:          235 staff/days



