Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCLAL USE ONLY
Rqxt No. 13639
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2547-IND)
OCTOBER 27, 1994
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Rupiah
At Appraisal in 1985
US$1.00 = Rp 1,100
Rp 1,000 = US$0.909
Annual Average
1986     1987      1988      1989      1990      1991     1992      1993
1,283    1,644     1,686     1,770     1,843     1,950    2,030     2,080
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB            -  Asian Development Bank
BAPPENAS    -  National Development Planning Agency
CAL            -  Central Analytical Laboratory
CITS           -  Center for Instrumentation and Technical Services
CPIU           -  Central Project Implementation Unit
DAA            -  Directorate of Academic Affairs, DGHE
DGHE           -  Directorate General of Higher Education
IPB            -  Institute of Agriculture, Bogor
ITB            -  Institute of Technology, Bandung
IUC            -  Inter-University Center
JMO            -  Joint Management Office
LPIU           -  Local Project Implementation Unit
MOEC           -  Ministry of Education and Culture
NGEC           -  National Graduate Education Council
OU             -  Open University
P3T            -  Offices of University Planning and Development
PARB           -  Program Advisory and Review Board
Repelita       -  Five-Year Development Program
Si             -  Undergraduate degree program
S2             -  Master's degree program
S3             -  Doctoral degree program
SAR            -  Staff Appraisal Report
SETNEG         -  State Secretariat
TA             -  Technical assistance
TAMU           -  Technical Assistance Management Unit
UGM            -  University of Gajah Mada
UI             -  University of Indonesia
URGE           -  University Research for Graduate Education Project



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
October 27, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Indonesia
Second University Development Project (Loan 2547-IND)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Indonesia - Second
University Development Project (Loan 2547-IND) prepared by the East Asia and Pacific
Regional Office. The Borrower prepared a detailed and thoughtful Part II. The PCR
provides a good account of the project experience.
The project's central objective was to support the country's efforts to train
its own university teachers and researchers. The main vehicle for this was the
establishment of sixteen Inter-University Centers (IUCs) at five universities. This
innovation was supported by the development of five new fields for undergraduate studies
and by an upgrading of university planning and management.
Despite an implementation delay of about two years, caused mainly by
protracted budgetary difficulties in the mid-1980s, the project outcomes are rated as
satisfactory, although the actual process of upgrading an entire university system will of
course cxtend well into the future. Uneven advances of individual IUCs and in specific
fields of study should therefore be expected. The project is a substantial feat of institution
building for which sustainability appears likely, given the ongoing integration of the IUCs
into their host universities and continuing Bank and other international support.
An audit of this project is planned for FY95.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Ks contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2547-IND)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface  ...............................                            ii
Evaluation Summary  .......................                         iii
Part I:   PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity ........         .................               1
Project Background  ......          ................              1
Issues in Higher Education  .....          ............          2
Government Strategy  .....................                        3
Project Objectives and Description ....        .........          3
Project Design and Organization  ....         ..........          4
Project Implementation ....................                       4
Project Results ........          .................               9
Project Sustainability  .....................                     12
Bank Performance .......            ................              12
Borrower Performance ....................                         13
Project Documentation and Data  ....          ..........          13
Part II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S
PERSPECTIVE .15
Part III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION .28
Related Bank Loans .28
Project Timetable .29
Loan Disbursements .29
Project Implementation .30
Project Costs  ............................                         31
Project Financing .........................                         32
Project Results ........          ...................                33
Status of Covenants ........................                        40
Use of Bank Resources .41
MAP        IBRD 18230R
This documnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






INDONESIA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2547-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second University
Development Project in Indonesia, for which Loan 2547-IND in the amount of US$147.0
million was approved on May 21, 1985. The Project was completed in December 1993.
Final disbursement from the Loan and cancellation of the undisbursed balance of 0.7
million was made on May 26, 1994.
The PCR was prepared jointly by the Population and Human Resources
Division, Country Department 3, East Asia and Pacific Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation Summary and Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II). The following
supporting documents are also available in the files: a comprehensive quantitative
evaluation report prepared by the Government in Indonesian Language, and 1992
evaluation reports for the Inter-University Centers (IUCs).
Preparation of the PCR commenced during the final supervision mission
in November 1993 and is based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement,
supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower and the project
files of the Bank and the Borrower.






- iii -
INDONESIA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 2547-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
i.          The overall long-term objective of the Project was to develop Indonesia's
capacity to train its own university teachers and researchers.  This was to be
accomplished by: (a) development of new graduate-level programs in selected fields of
study and research, through the creation and development of academic infrastructure to
strengthen graduate research and instructional programs at 16 Inter-University Centers
(IUCs) at 5 universities; (b) initiation of five specialized undergraduate fields of study
which were then not available in Indonesia; and (c) strengthening of overall university
planning and management (para. 5. 1).
Implementation Experience
ii.         Implementation of the Project started very slowly, mainly because of
budgetary constraints caused by a sharp fall in oil prices in mid-1980s which affected the
overall government budgeting for all projects. The delays were also caused by various
regulations related to implementation that were not identified during project preparation
including very low allowable unit rates for several items being financed, various limits
on financing overseas short-term training and foreign consultants, the requirement that
construction management firms be hired for all building sites, etc. (para. 7.2). A
'project management, monitoring and supervision" category was added to Schedule 1
of the Loan Agreement to make up for some of the budgetary deficiencies. The
Government financed 9 percent rather than the expected 40 percent of the cost of the
Project (paras. 7.3 and 7.5). These delays led to two one-year extensions of the original
December 31, 1991 Closing Date to December 31, 1993 (para. 7.1).
iii.        The project implementation units performed very well throughout under
difficult circumstances. Staffing was remarkably stable and several senior staff worked
fulltime implementing the Project. All buildings were constructed, equipment was
procured, technical assistance and fellowships were completed, and research activities
were initiated during the implementation period in spite of procedural delays and other
implementation problems.  Several components including the domestic non-degree
training program and the development of prototype instructional materials were
implemented as planned or exceeded the appraisal targets.



- iv -
Results
iv.          It is too early to evaluate the full impact of the Project with respect to its
ultimate objective of developing Indonesia's capacity to train its own university teachers
and researchers (para. 8.1). Progress in building the physical and human resources has
been made towards that goal. The physical infrastructure is now in place at the IUCs
which allows the necessary research to take place, and a large number of university
faculty have been trained overseas under the Project. In addition, the domestic non-
degree training provided by the IUCs was very popular and exceeded the appraisal
estimates by about one-third. Also exceeding the estimate were the number of prototype
instructional materials developed and the number produced. The level and quality of
research and advanced training activities in the IUCs were found to vary from one center
to another (para. 8.3). Underutlization of the facilities was influenced by several factors:
(a) inadequate incentives for full-time commitment from staff and mechanisms to ensure
accountability for performance; (b) delays in various inputs slowing down start-up of
research and training activities; (c) IUC research and training activities were often not
well articulated with the structure of the host universities.
v.           Under the component to improve undergraduate education, fellowships
were provided, and master plans for the five new programs were developed as planned.
One of the programs has received full funding from the Asian Development Bank (ADB),
and classes have begun in temporary quarters for the remaining four (para. 8.6). Under
the component to strengthen university planning and management, several of the councils
and administrative units established during implementation continue to function (para.
8.7).
Sustainability
vi.          A change in the administrative placement of the IUCs in their host
universities is currently taking place which will ensure their future support through these
universities. The Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC) has stated that the IUCs
will continue to maintain their inter-university role, as well as to spearhead subject
studies, but that the universities will be responsible for assigning a critical mass of
academic staff to the IUCs (para. 9.2). As a second step in developing centers of
excellence and in improving the quality of domestic graduate education, the Government
has decided to develop competitive grants and fellowship programs to he funded under
the University Research for Graduate Education (URGE) Project, approved on June 14,
1994. The latter project was developed based on the experience of research proposal
evaluation under this project as well as competitive grant schemes developed by the
DGHE under the Second Higher Education Development Project. The IUCs are
expected to compete for the funds that will become available under that project (para.
9.3). One of the undergraduate programs developed under the project has already been
funded for implementation by the ADB, and the others are being implemented with
existing facilities in smaller scale.



Findings and Lessons Learned
vii.        The main lessons learned during implementation include the following
(para. 13.1):
(a)   in establishing new institutions, careful planning, continuous adjustments,
and commitment are critical for ensuring adequate financial incentives and
effective structural relationships with other units. The objectives for new
institutions should also be simplified to ensure effective institutional
development;
(b)   institutional arrangements and methods for equipment procurement needs
to be improved to enable quicker purchase of relevant items especially
those needed for research, while still following Bank guidelines;
(c)   closer monitoring of building designs by the end-users and the Bank would
help to avoid costly revisions once the buildings are under construction;
(d)   greater attention should be given to ensuring Government commitments
for counterpart budget during appraisal and subsequently;
(e)   Bank staff who have appraised a project should preferably also supervise
the project, and Staff Appraisal Reports should include a specific method
of monitoring project outcomes;
(f)   continuity of Government staff in project implementation is another critical
determinant of implementation.  Sufficient incentives must also be
provided to hire suitably qualified and capable project implementation staff
which will allow them to work full-time;
(g)   more than one consulting firms/agencies may be used for technical
assistance on academic exchange and fellowship support, especially if
universities from various countries are expected to participate under a
project; and
(h)   consultants must be appointed on time to ensure smooth implementation
start-up.






INDONESIA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMEENT PROJECT
(Loan 2547-IND)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.    Project Identity
Project name            Second University Development Project
Loan number             Loan 2547-IND
Loan Amount             US$ 147 million
RVP unit                East Asia and Pacific
Country                 Republic of Indonesia
Sector                  Education
Subsector               Higher Education
2.    Project Background
2.1        The shortage of trained manpower, especially technical, professional and
managerial, constituted one of the most pressing constraints to sustained economic
development in Indonesia at the time the Project was appraised.  If the country's
development programs were to be implemented as planned, human resource development
was to continue to receive high priority. The educational system had made impressive
gains during the ten years before appraisal of this Project, in expanding access to education
and improving the skills of the labor force. At the primary level, universal access to grade
one of primary school had virtually been achieved, and dropout and repetition rates had
declined despite rapid enrollment increases. Enrollment at the junior secondary level had
tripled between 1971 and 1982, and the enrollment rate had reached 41 percent of the
cohort. At the senior secondary level, enrollment had grown by four times from 1971 and
1982, about half of which was in public schools. The resulting enrollment rate was
24 percent.
2.2        The number of university students had increased from about 10,000 in 1950
to 810,000 in 1983, equivalent to an annual growth rate of about 15 percent. Nonetheless,
university enrollment was still relatively low, and much of the education was of inadequate
quality. Enrollments were only about 4 percent of the total age cohort in 1983, which
compared favorably with enrollment ratios in some countries in the region, except for
Korea, the Philippines, and Singapore which had enrollment ratios of about 22 percent,
21 percent and 8 percent, respectively. However, in relation to the needs for skilled
manpower, the capacity of the higher education subsector was seriously deficient.



- 2 -
Substantial investments would be required, both to increase enrollments and to improve the
quality of education.
3.   Issues in Higher Education
3.1        Despite the above mentioned achievements in the period prior to project
appraisal, the Higher Education sector was still facing significant constraints. The basic
issues included: (a) staff shortages; (b) poor quality of instruction and research;
(c) inadequate planning and management; and (d) underfinancing of the system.
3.2        University Staff Requirements. The proposed expansion of the university
system was expected to further increase the demand for higher level university teachers.
Reaching the Repelita IV targets was expected to require a massive effort; even if a large
proportion of all new teaching staff had only bachelor's (SI) degrees, the annual number
of S2 and S3 graduates would have to be increased substantially by 1988/89 and a large
proportion of these graduates retained as university faculty.
3.3        Quality of University Instruction and Research. The quality of instruction
and research in higher education was adversely affected by the paucity of inputs. There
was a serious shortage of textbooks and other instructional materials in the Indonesian
language. Library holdings were, in general, extremely few in number and limited in
scope. Students and faculty often had little access to laboratory facilities and limited
opportunity to balance theoretical classroom learning with practical applications. The
amount of graduate-level laboratory equipment was insufficient and much of what was
available was obsolete or in need of repair. Compounding the problem was the low level
of educational attainment and scholarly productivity of university staff. Graduate training
programs were begun in Indonesia in 1975 but by 1982 only about 840 individuals had
received advanced degrees, and the quality and internal efficiency of these programs
remained low. Scholarly productivity was also low with fewer than one-fourth of faculty
actively conducting research, typically feasibility or evaluation studies and not the basic
research required to nurture the development of an active scientific community.
3.4        University Planning and Management. Planning and management capacity
was limited at both the national and university levels. At the national level, the Directorate
General of Higher Education (DGHE) in the MOEC was constrained by the absence of a
permanent cadre of professional staff and underdeveloped management information
systems.   At the university level, management structures suffered from  limited
administrative capacity, lack of a clear scheme of service and continuity among managers,
poor coordination among faculties and departments and the absence of nationwide standards
and performance data.
3.5        Financing University Education.  At the time of appraisal, education
expenditures represented about 9 percent of total central government expenditures,
significantly lower than other regional middle income countries, such as Thailand
(21 percent) and the Philippines (14 percent). The planned expansion of the university
system was expected to require a significant change in the composition of education sector



-3 -
finances, in favor of higher and secondary education and away from primary education.
This was considered adequate because Government's focus on primary education in the
past two decades had led to successful universalization of primary education. In addition,
it was suggested that opportunities for greater cost recovery from those who could shoulder
the burden should be explored along with student loan and scholarship schemes to ensure
equity. A major expansion of investment in higher education was not expected to represent
a major burden on the Government, especially if efforts were made to support the dynamic
private sector. One consequence of inadequate financing for the subsector was that faculty
salaries in the public universities were low in comparison to those obtained by professional
and scientific manpower in the private sector. Most university professors held several jobs
and consultancies, cutting actual teaching and preparation time to only a few hours each
week. Wage increases at that time were expected to help alleviate this problem.
4.   Government Strategy
4.1        The Government's sector strategy was to provide a broad-based education
system, formal and non-formal, which would produce the trained manpower necessary for
increasing national agricultural productivity, expanding industrial capacity and improving
the country's basic infrastructure.  In higher education, the Government planned to
increase the proportion of university teachers holding advanced degrees from 15 percent
to 35 percent by the end of the 1980s, to enhance the quality of public university teaching.
It was suggested that the most effective short-term means of doing this would be through
the mounting of a large overseas training program in conjunction with the expansion and
strengthening of existing domestic graduate programs. In addition, the Government
proposed to expand its in-service faculty upgrading program, to increase the output of local
instructional materials and to enhance scholarly productivity through the development of
a competitive research grant program. The Government planned to establish the Inter-
University Centers (IUCs) as vehicles for implementing these programs.
4.2        Inter-University Centers.  As early as the 1970s, the Government was
discussing the establishment of "centers of excellence" or IUCs. IUCs were intended to
concentrate resources, reduce duplication of facilities, and keep down the recurrent costs
of higher education (also by training faculty at home rather than sending them for
expensive fellowships overseas). An IUC would consist of a complex of equipment,
materials, facilities, and buildings, staffed by academic and technical experts belonging to
related core disciplines, with the main purpose of supporting various programs of study
and research at the graduate level. The IUCs would provide research support, develop
instructional materials, service degree and non-degree training programs for graduate
students and faculty from host universities as well as others, and facilitate scholarly
interaction among faculty and researchers throughout the country.
S.   Project Objectives and Description
5.1        The overall long-term objective of the Project was to develop Indonesia's
capacity to train its own university teachers and researchers. This was to be accomplished
by: (a) development of new graduate-level programs in selected fields of study and



-4 -
research; (b) initiation of five specialized undergraduate fields of study which were
currently not available in Indonesia; and (c) strengthening of overall university planning
and management.
5.2        The development of new graduate-level programs was to be accomplished by
the creation and development of academic infrastructure to strengthen graduate research
and instructional programs at 16 IUCs located at 5 universities. The Project was to
provide the IUCs with fellowships, technical assistance (TA), research funds, facilities and
equipment, and other related inputs required to (a) increase the number of teaching staff
with S2 and S3 degrees; (b) provide non-degree, inservice staff training; (c) develop
graduate and undergraduate instructional materials in the Indonesian language; and
(d) finance and manage research programs. To improve undergraduate education, the
Project was to finance TA and overseas fellowships to train faculty and develop curriculum
and instructional materials to establish five new S 1 programs in computer and information
science and technology, material science and technology, marine science, ocean
engineering, and gas technology. The planning and management of the university system
was to be strengthened through the provision of TA, fellowships, equipment, and related
inputs which would be used to establish and develop a set of related policy and
administrative bodies to be coordinated by the National Graduate Education Council
(NGEC) and the Directorate of Academic Affairs (DAA) of the DGHE.
6. Project Design and Organization
6.1        Throughout the preparation period, the objectives, content, and design of the
proposed project were actively debated and went through several changes. The MOEC
proposed that a high priority be placed on the development of graduate education and
research in eleven priority fields of study through establishing IUCs (para. 4.2). In the
early preparation period, the Bank suggested that the proposed project support pilot-testing
of IUCs through establishing only two, before a large investment was to be made. At
appraisal, the Government proposed to include 19 IUCs, and the Bank agreed on one
condition that significant progress in implementation of the first Project be made before
negotiations. The Government responded quickly through appointments of a new director
and other staff for the first Project, and the Bank agreed to a project with a reduced
number of IUCs. The post-appraisal missions recommended that preliminary designs for
the IUC buildings be a condition of effectiveness (para. 7.1). However, this was later
modified to the appointment of the IUC architects.
7. Project Implementation
7.1        The Project was implemented over a period of about 8-1/2 years from Loan
Agreement signing on June 18, 1985, to the December 31, 1993, closing date. This was
two years longer than expected and followed two one-year extensions of the original
closing date of December 31, 1991 (although the second extension was mainly to allow the
wrapping up of final project details and the procurement of some leftover equipment
items). The Project got off to a very slow start because of severe budgetary cutbacks that
affected all education projects due to the then current sharp fall in oil prices. In addition,



-5 -
there was a two-month delay in loan effectiveness and the first two supervision missions
found that although the implementation organization was in place, very few budgetary
funds had been provided for FY 85/86 and a further cut was planned for FY 86/87. This
meant that the fellows scheduled to depart for overseas during the first year were seriously
delayed and that the domestic non-degree training programs at the IUCs which had begun
operating had to be stopped when what little funds there were ran out.
7.2         During the implementation period, the Project was constrained by regulations
and requirements that were put into effect by the Government. Although most of them
were subsequently modified, they collectively presented significant constraints to timely
implementation. These included:
(a)   unit costs established by BAPPENAS 1/ and the Ministry of Finance for
domestic training, domestic visiting scholars, research grants, and printing
of instructional materials far below prevailing market prices and unit costs
used for estimating project costs;
(b)   assignments for foreign consultants in Indonesia had to be at least one month
or more in length;
(c)   overseas short-term visits for conferences and seminars for Indonesians was
not allowed to be financed by foreign loans;
(d)   a new requirement that construction management firms would have to be
contracted to manage construction at four of the five construction sites, in
addition to the architectural and engineering services already included in the
project costs;
(e)   advance payment for journal subscriptions was not allowed during this
Project;
(f)   foreign manufacturers of equipment were forbidden to establish their own
agencies in Indonesia for direct sales and servicing of their goods, forcing
them to work through local agents, not always a satisfactory situation;
(g)   all bid documents and contracts over a certain size had to be reviewed by the
State Secretariat (SETNEG) which caused serious delays up to nine months
in procurement. The situation did not improve even after the Office of the
Secretariat General in the MOEC, and EKUIN for contracts above certain
thresholds, took over the role of review; and
(h)  the new ruling in 1991 (FY91/92) that contracts couldn't be signed between
the IUCs and the Offices of University Planning and Development (P3T) at
their host universities, as had been the procedure up to that point.
1/ National Development Planning Agency.



- 6 -
7.3        Implementation had deteriorated enough by the end of the first implementation
year. No disbursements had as yet been made, budgets remained seriously inadequate and
the Project was given a '3" rating for the first time. Intensive discussions led to the
revision of Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement to include a 'Project management,
monitoring and supervision" category to make up for some of the budgetary deficiencies.
Amounts in the other categories were reallocated and the disbursement percentages for the
civil works and research awards categories were increased from 45 percent to 75 percent
and 45 percent to 100 percent, respectively (Part III, Table 5B).  In addition, the
Equipment" and the 'Books, journals, consumable and instructional materials" categories
were combined. This reallocation resulted in an increase in the Loan's share of the total
project costs from 60 percent to 63 percent.
7.4        By March 1987, implementation had accelerated: budgets were finally
adequate for FY 1987/88 and a contract had been signed with an international consulting
firm for both the visiting scholar program and management of the overseas fellowship
program. Other project components were also well underway. Shortly after this mission,
the Bank gave its no objection to the funding of furniture for the IUCs from the equipment
category of the Loan. Implementation continued to improve and the deficit caused by the
slow implementation start gradually got smaller. A new Project Director was appointed
in mid-1989 and implementation continued to improve. In late 1990, many of the targets
set out in the SAR were revised by the CPIU, and agreed by the Bank, on the basis of
revised implementation capacity, new priorities, and revised costs and exchange rates. The
targets for overseas Master's degrees, intermships, seminars and workshops and foreign and
domestic visiting scholars were lowered and targets for overseas doctoral degrees, domestic
non-degree training and development and reproduction of instructional materials increased.
7.5        The Loan was again reallocated in May 1991 and January 1993. The most
significant change occurred in the amount of the Project management, monitoring and
supervision category which increased from zero at the beginning of the project to US$5.7
million at the last reallocation. The percentage of Loan financing of the Project increased
during these reallocations from 60 percent in the beginning to 63 percent, 65 percent, and
finally at closing to about 91 percent (Part III, Table SB). The final estimate for the total
project cost shown in Part III, Table 5A, is lower than the actual costs for several reasons:
(a) the CPIU was unable to determine the total cost of maintenance and operations at the
IUCs as these costs were paid by the host universities from their overall budgets except
for a small amount for maintenance paid from the Loan; (b) the exchange rate dropped
over the life of the Project from Rp 1,100 to US$1.00 at appraisal to over Rp 2,000 at
closing, and the Loan amount in US$ remained the same; and (c) allowable staff salaries
at the IUCs have also been significantly lower than estimated at appraisal.
7.6        As might be expected, disbursements lagged throughout the implementation
period (Part III, Table 3), only reaching 46 percent of appraisal estimates at the end of the
second year of implementation. They averaged about 80 percent of appraisal estimates
thereafter until the last two years of implementation.



7.7        The civil works under the Project consisted of the construction of IUC
buildings at the five campuses. At three of the sites, the services provided by architectural
and construction management firms were inadequate. There were many flaws in the
designs of these buildings, especially in the laboratories. Also, the end users were not
themselves experienced enough to come up with specifications to meet their own needs that
led to costly changes. (The consultancy contract financed under this Project got underway
too late to allow the experts provided to assist in this process.) Construction management
was inadequate at the three sites. In addition, two of the contractors suffered from
financial difficulties caused by rapidly escalating prices for materials during the
construction period.  Government funds were in short supply during part of the
construction period.
7.8        Equipment procurement suffered from  the same budgetary delays in
implementation as the other Project components with the added burden of the procedures
for review of the tender documents, specifications and awards in other parts of the
Government and the MOEC [para. 7.2(g)]. Some items were still being delivered to the
IUCs as the Project closed in December 1993. Equipment was procured in four phases
during the life of the Project, mostly by ICB. Response was often poor especially to Phase
1 and 2 tenders, mainly for specialized equipment with limited numbers of suppliers.
7.9         The Centers for Instrumentation and Technical Services (CITS) at three IUCs
and the Central Analytical Laboratory (CAL) in one host university were established as
planned with some delay in equipment procurement, and all are currently active.
Technician training proved to be more difficult than anticipated owing to a wide range of
equipment installed. Only one CAL technician was trained abroad under the Project, and
some IUC staff were sent abroad, using their own funds, for training in instrument
calibration. A seminar was held in FY92/93 on how to develop and utilize these centers.
As the Project closed, the centers were mainly involved in building maintenance rather
than research equipment maintenance.
7.10       Book and Journal procurement was also slow  as several different
procurement methods were employed, none of them entirely satisfactory. BAPPENAS
finally agreed to allow advance payment for journal subscriptions [para. 7.2(e)]. This
ruling unfortunately came too late, and journals purchased under the project were mainly
back issues.
7.11       Instructional materials development and production, like other components
suffered from delayed budgets and allowable unit costs that were too low [para. 7.2(a)].
In FY91/92, BAPPENAS finally agreed to higher unit costs. Late in the project period,
some materials began to be published commercially.
7.12       Technical assistance under the Project was provided through a contract
signed in early 1987 with the international consulting firm which had also been contracted
under the first Project to provide the TA. Under the contract, this firm also handled the
Project's fellowship program. The CPIU had asked four international consulting firms to
provide proposals for the Project's TA/fellowship program without notifying the Bank or



- 8 -
going through the formal procedures required by the Bank for contracts of this size and
type. Following assurances from the Director General of Higher Education that the
selection process used was indeed fair, the Bank in the end gave its no objection to the
contract with the recommended firm on an exceptional basis. The TA/fellowship program
was managed cooperatively by the firm and the CPIU through a Joint Management Office
(JMO) made up of the Project Director, overseas managers and local staff headquartered
in a special office in Indonesia. Two implementation offices were also established by the
firm in its home country to handle education and accounting matters.
7.13       One consulting agency played a very large role in project implementation as
it managed the entire fellowship program, the visiting scholar program, and the short-term
overseas training. Management of the fellowship subcomponent was generally satisfactory.
There was some confusion over fees owed for administration of the contract. The MOEC
has learned, through its experience with the single TA contract under this Project, that
smaller in-country contracts for the managing of fellowships in that country are preferable
to one overall contract covering all countries. One project implementing unit in the DGHE
is already managing the fellowships in the USA themselves. This is, of course, a
complicated process, and consideration should perhaps be given by the Government to
placing persons in the embassies and consulates (as necessary) in such countries, solely to
handle their fellowship programs there. The TA program was also affected by rules and
regulations on foreign experts. For instance, the restriction on the fee ceiling and duration
made it difficult for some visiting scholars to be invited under the program (para. 7.2).
7.14       The overseas fellowship degree program also suffered delays in the first
year of implementation due to the delays in loan effectiveness and in CPIU start-up. Some
early fellows sent under this Project were funded from the first Project and fellows
studying overseas as the Project closed will be funded from the Second Higher Education
Development Project (Loan 3311-IND).
7.15       The overseas non-degree program, particularly for conferences and
seminars, was hampered as mentioned in para. 7.2(c) by the Government ruling which was
not discovered until after the Loan was signed. For instance, training participants had to
present a paper if they are to be financed from foreign loans. A number of seminars were
held in Indonesia with the assistance of foreign experts. In addition, there was apparently
little demand for this type of training, and placement in appropriate and attractive programs
overseas was difficult.
7.16       The domestic non-degree training program had some difficulties, mainly
due to authorized unit costs that were too low in the beginning to cover actual costs [para.
7.2(a)], but there was a large demand for this type of training and the IUCs were anxious
to meet this demand. No real problems were encountered except the usual budgetary ones.
7.17       By the end of the implementation period, the program of research grants had
undergone several changes in its administration. Originally grants were expected to be
given to individual researchers at the IUCs. These were estimated at appraisal to be about
US$10,000 each. However, the Government limit on such grants was only US$1,400



- 9 -
[para. 7.2(a)], too low to allow a researcher to devote his full time to his research.
Apparently no procedures for allocating these grants had been established by late 1986, the
CPIU was proposing that a yearly allocation for research be given to each IUC Director
under which the IUC would structure its own research program. This program was in
effect for several years while the Bank was urging that in order to improve the quality of
the results, a rational method for appraisal of individual proposals be developed. Starting
FY 1990/1991, CPIU with the assistance of PARB implemented a semi-competitive budget
allocation scheme.
7.18       The component to establish the councils and administrative units planned
at appraisal to assist in the strengthening of university planning and management was
implemented somewhat erratically.  The National Graduate Education Council was
established in 1986 by a DGHE decree and included representatives from all major
universities, research and development units of technical ministries, Indonesian Institute
of Sciences (LIPI) and the Agency of Assessment and Application of Technology (BPPT).
7.19       Program Advisory and Review Boards (PARBs) were established in 1988 to
provide technical guidance to the IUCs in their main subject areas. There are nine PARBs
covering social sciences, microelectronics, biotechnology, instructional materials
development, food and nutrition, life sciences, engineering, economics and computer
science. Membership includes representatives from the universities, the private sector and
state-owned enterprises, etc. The PARBs meet on demand and report to the DGHE on
their activities. They span across universities, and members make site visits, discuss IUC
programs and plans, and once a year help to evaluate research proposals.
7.20       The Technical Assistance Management Unit planned at appraisal which had
already been established under the Second Teacher Training Project (Loan 2101-IND) to
manage its TA and fellowships, was expected to expand and assume the same role under
this Project. This function was taken over, however, by the JMO established to allow
cooperative management of these programs by the CPIU and the consulting firm (para.
7.4). The DAA in the DGHE, was provided with the TA from the JMO under the Project
to assist it to strengthen its overall planning and development of the graduate education
system.
7.21       Support for the development of a management information system and a
uniform system of university accounts under the Higher Education Planning Unit within
the Secretariat of the DGHE was not provided as expected under this Project. This
support, however, is being financed under the first and Secund Higher Education
Development Projects (Loans 2944 and 3311-IND).
8. Project Results
8.1        Progress in building the physical and human resources been made toward the
Project's ultimate goal of developing Indonesia's capacity to train its own university
teachers and researchers. However, the full impact of the Project will inevitably require
a longer-term horizon to evaluate.



- 10 -
8.2         At the IUCs, nearly all the planned numbers of host and other university
faculty studied overseas under project-sponsored fellowships for their S2 and S3 degrees
(Part III, Table 6). The number of staff-years for Master's fellowships were lower and
the number of staff-years for Ph.D. fellowships much higher than estimated at appraisal.
This was because some of the fellows placed into Master's programs succeeded to continue
with doctoral programs. There has been almost no out-of-country brain drain among
returning IUC S2/S3 fellows, unlike the situation in many other Asian countries.
Similarly, the domestic non-degree training provided by the IUCs was extensive and very
well received, exceeding by up to one-third both the SAR estimates and the 1990 revised
estimates. In addition, both the number of instructional materials developed and the
number produced exceeded the SAR estimates, although in this case, did not reach the
numbers envisaged during the 1990 revision of targets. In the overseas non-degree training
program, while about three quarters of the numbers expected undertook overseas
internships, only one quarter of the expected attended conferences and seminars mainly
because of Government rules on short-term overseas travel (Part III, Table 6). Instead,
a number of seminars were organized in Indonesia with the assistance of foreign experts.
The IUC visiting scholar program fell about 50 percent short of the planned staff months
(Part III, Table 6), due largely to the late signing of the TA contract under which all the
overseas visiting scholars were provided. The outcome of this program varied from case
to case. In some cases, the program led to productive agreements for long-term research
cooperation with foreign universities, while in others, visiting scholars selected by the
consulting agency were not effective. The domestic visiting scholar program similarly fell
far short of estimates, reaching just over half the staff months expected at appraisal. As
mentioned in para. 7.2, this was largely due to the very low unit rates under the
BAPPENAS requirements. The number of research grants made during the project
implementation period nearly equaled the numbers planned at appraisal (Part III, Table 6).
8.3        In the last several years, outcome/performance indicators were discussed
much more intensively. In 1992, the Government made concerted efforts to review the
IUC experience through requiring self-evaluation to be conducted by all IUCs and
commissioning an external review by PARBs. The level and quality of research and
advanced training activities in the IUCs were found to vary from one center to another.
Some IUCs were found to be active with increasing levels of research and training outputs,
well formed linkages with departments/faculties in host universities, strengthened
collaborative relationships with foreign universities. Laboratories and facilities of other
IUCs were found underutilized with slow/little effective dissemination of research results,
relative to their capacity. Several factors were identified as important determinants of IUC
performance. First, incentives for IUC staff to devote their time for high quality research
and training were insufficient. The level of remuneration was too low to obtain more staff
resources, competitive pressures in research resource allocation was only introduced in the
last years of the Project, and mechanisms to ensure accountability for performance were
weak. Second, various delays in project implementation meant that for many centers the
project time horizon was not long enough to become fully operational. Third, structural
separation of the IUCs from the host universities was not conducive to developing
articulated relationships in research and graduate training.



- 11 -
8.4        To improve the situation, several steps are being taken. The IUCs are
becoming structurally incorporated within host-universities, and the responsibility for staff
resource allocation would become internal to universities. Recognizing that the quality of
research results depends on financial incentives for the researchers and competition for the
funds available to the IUCs, increasing competitive pressures have been applied under the
project, and this is expected to be further strengthened through the newly established
University Research Council, whose activities would be supported under the URGE
Project. Staff and students expecting to undertake research at the IUCs must now compete
with everyone else in the university system for these funds. New competitive research
grant schemes under the URGE project also include additional remuneration for
researchers.
8.5        Extensive efforts were made to collect data from IUCs on several occasions.
However, this experience indicated that even seemingly simple data such as numbers of
research publication can have definition problems. These problems could have been
avoided if a structured monitoring system was established during preparation or the early
stage of project implementation. It was also difficult to use such information, since little
historical data existed for the starting time of the project. A new effort is being made to
compile performance related data as a baseline, as part of preparation of the URGE
project.
8.6        Under the project component to improve undergraduate education, the
number of staff-years for Master's fellowships was slightly lower than the SAR plan, with
the number of staff-years for Ph.D. fellowships significantly exceeding the SAR target
(Part III, Table 6). This is mainly because some Master's level fellows succeeded to
continue with doctoral programs. Assisted by visiting scholars, master plans, including
curricula, the equipment and educational facilities needed and estimated costs, were
prepared for all five new undergraduate programs (ocean engineering, gas technology,
marine sciences, computer science and material science and technology), and all but gas
technology have been approved by BAPPENAS for implementation. The marine science
program has been fully funded under the ADB's Marine Science Education Project.
Classes in the other four have begun in temporary quarters with limited facilities, at
various universities.
8.7        As for the component to strengthen university planning and management,
the NGEC, which met occasionally but undertook little real activity during project
implementation, has been merged with the University Research Council in April 1994.
The PARBs as mentioned, continue to play an active role at the IUCs. The JMO has been
disbanded upon the completion of the Project, but it is hoped that the experience gained
by its members during implementation of this Project will not be lost, and that they will
be called upon to assist with implementation of the proposed University Research for
Graduate Education (URGE) Project recently appraised by the Bank.



- 12 -
9. Project Sustainability
9.1        The DGHE was aware of problems with the IUCs during implementation, and
considers that the Project provided for the institution building or first phase of IUC
development by providing buildings and equipment (hardware) and a critical mass of staff
holding Master's and doctoral degrees (software). It is expected that full functioning can
really therefore only now begin when all inputs are in place.
9.2        The IUCs are currently being integrated into their host universities in order
to ensure their future support. The university Senates will decide whether the IUCs will
fall administratively under a Deputy Rector for Academic Affairs or the Director of
Graduate Programs. Alternatively, they might be subsumed into the relevant faculties.
The DGHE has recently indicated that whatever decision is made, the IUCs must:
(a) maintain their inter-university role; (b) continue to spearhead subject studies; and (c) be
assigned a critical mass of trained academic staff by the relevant faculties, whether at the
host or other universities.
9.3        At the same time, it was recognized that the development of centers of
excellence also required sector-wide competitive mechanisms that rewards high quality
research and training activities.  This consideration, together with the experience of
funding these IUCs, and experience competitive grant schemes both under the Second
Higher Education Development Project (Loan 3311-IND) and outside, led to the
establishment of the University Research Council to administer a range of competitive
grant and fellowship programs under the URGE project. The IUCs will be eligible to
compete for both types of grants and are expected to do so.
9.4        For the undergraduate education component, master plans for the five new
programs are now under various stages of implementation. One of the programs has
received full funding from the ADB for facility upgrading, and classes have begun in
temporary quarters for the remaining four (para 8.5).
9.5        The experience with NGEC was used in establishing the University Research
Council which takes over the NGEC's functions and responsibilities, but will also have
additional responsibilities in administering competitive grant and fellowships for the
DGHE.
10. Bank Performance
10.1       Early in project identification, the Bank could have stood firm  on its
recommendation to pilot a small number of IUCs. However, it is not clear that investing
in a smaller nuamber would have made implementation any easier. Establishing multiple
centers in a given field also had some positive effects on fostering competition. The
transition for preparation to implementation may have been easier had there been greater
continuity of Bank staff. Once the Loan was signed, a reasonable number of supervision



- 13 -
missions with a good spread of disciplines were undertaken by the Bank, especially as most
of the serious problems, such as the lack of funds during the early years of
implementation, were outside the control of the Bank or the project implementing units.
11. Borrower Performance
11.1       The CPIU and the LPIUs performed creditably considering the complicated
nature of the Project and the serious issues they had to overcome during implementation.
Many of these could have been avoided if Bappenas had removed its concern over unit
costs (para. 7.2). However, several senior staff at the CPIU were able to work full-time
five days a week at their jobs, unlike other education project units where senior staff may
have more than one MOEC job plus outside teaching, and this has apparently allowed
faster implementation. It is hoped that most of this experienced staff will be retained to
implement the URGE Project.
12. Project Documentation and Data
12.1       Project documentation was adequate and the Loan Agreement and SAR were
generally satisfactory. Although the SAR contained in the annex, a table titled "Key
Indicators of Project Implementation and Outcomes," how they would be collected and
monitored was not discussed in detail.  This, together with the fact that initial
implementation problems commanded much of Government's and Bank's attention,
insufficient attention was paid to monitoring of these indicators. Another problem was that
no data were compiled at the beginning of the project for items to be monitored, such as
the existing level of post-graduate training of faculty or the output of instructional
materials.
13.  Lessons Learned
13.1 Lessons learned are summarized below:
(a)   Establishing entirely new  institutions is not easy.  It requires careful
planning, continuous adjustments, and commitment to ensure adequate
financial incentives as well as effective structural relationships with other
units. Particular attention should be given to the incentive framework both
at the institutional and individual levels for encouraging desirable outcomes.
The objectives for new institutions also need to be focussed to ensure
effective institutional development.
(b)   Problems with equipment procurement under this and other projects would
seem to indicate that other procurement methods must be found than those
currently in use in Indonesia, that would adhere to the Bank's guidelines, but
allow quicker purchase of relevant items especially for use in research.
Maintenance of equipment is also a continuing problem in spite of the
provision of funds for equipment maintenance in some projects.



- 14 -
(c)   Building designs should be reviewed much more carefully by users as well
as the Bank, especially where laboratories are involved, in order to avoid
costly revisions and modifications. Since these were non-conventional civil
works with laboratory requirements where contractors have little experience,
it may have been appropriate to persevere with the original conditions for
effectiveness.
(d)   Greater attention  needs  to  be  paid  towards ensuring  Govemment
commitments for counterpart budgets during appraisal and thereafter. In the
case of this project, the budget problems were most likely unavoidable since
they arose owing to unforeseen circumstances. However, the fact that both
the Government and the Bank monitored the situation closely and were able
to take action on the loan agreement, was critically important in ensuring the
implementation of the project. This, on the other hand, brought in the
possibility that the project could be implemented with little counterpart
budget. Some improvement in this area has taken place as more detailed
information of the first year budget is requested as part of negotiations
conditions.
(e)   It would be desirable to have Bank staff involved in appraisal to continue for
project supervision for at least some time after loan signing. This would
facilitate many trouble shooting measures that are generally expected in first
years of implementation.
(f)   SARs should always include a specific method of monitoring project
outcomes. Existing hard data on the situation at the beginning of the project
must be also provided so that they can be used for comparative purposes at
the end of the project.
(g)   For the Government, continuity of staff proved to be extremely important for
implementation.  It would also be desirable to retain some of these
experienced staff for implementation of future projects, as is planned for the
URGE project.
(h)   The staff of the project implementing unit must be suitably qualified and
capable, and sufficient incentives must be provided to attract these staff and
allow them to work fulltime at their tasks.
(i)  It may be more appropriate to use multiple consulting agencies/firms for TA
and fellowships, if sources of TA and destinations of fellows are expected to
be spread across different countries. In some cases, it may be plausible to
support directly fellowships and visiting scholars without assistance from
consulting agencies/firms.
(j)   Consultants must be appointed on time to ensure smooth implementation
start-up.



- 15 -
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE2/
1.    Policy
The Inter University Center is a new concept brought into the higher education sector, to
develop research capabilities, particularly at the graduate level. This is a totally different
concept compared with previous other higher education projects, where investment was
usually allocated to develop and strengthen the education process rather than research
capabilities.
Another new development that was adopted in this project is the pooling of resources at
a few new centers rather than distributing it geographically to existing university centers.
The following was defined as the mission of the IUC at the beginning of the project, as
written in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR):3/
IUCs are intended to concentrate resources, reduce duplication offacilities,
and keep down the recurrent cost of higher education. An IUC would consist
of a complex of equipment, materials, facilities, and buildings, staffed by
academic and technical experts belonging to related core disciplines with the
main purpose of supporting programs of study and research at the graduate
level.
Based on the new concept, the following lUCs were established: biotechnology (Gadjah
Mada University, Bandung Institute of Technology, Bogor Agricultural University);
computer science (University of Indonesia), economic studies (Gadjah Mada University,
University of Indonesia); Engineering sciences (Gadjah Mada University, Bandung Institute
of Technology), food and nutrition (Gadjah Mada University, Bogor Agricultural
University), instructional material development (Open University); life sciences (Bandung
Institute of Technology, Bogor Agricultural University), microelectronics (Bandung
Institute of Technology); and social sciences (Gadjah Mada University, University of
Indonesia).
The Project had as its overall long-term objective the qualitative improvement of the
tertiary education system through the qualitative improvement of the domestic graduate
education as a means to develop a national capacity to train its own university teachers and
researchers. During the course of this project, the following missions were meant to be
accomplished by the IUCs:
2/    The Government also submitted a comprehensive Quantitative Evaluation Report in Bahasa
Indonesia in May 1994, which addresses the project's achievements in detail supported by tables, charts
and data, which is available in the project files.
3/   Staff Appraisal Report,lndonesia - Second University Development Project, Document of the World Bank, Report
S354-IND,April 26,1985, p.8, para. 1.22.



- 16 -
Institution building
This included the construction of the IUC buildings, the procurement of needed
equipment, books and journals, the training of IUC staff and the setting up of viable
management system within the IUC substructure.
Support to the graduate program
This included the establishment of new credit earning courses and other activities.
Most important of this is the provision of a research "home" for graduate students,
who would then have access to the equipment, consumables and above all, the
expert supervision at the IUC.
Quality state of the art research
There should be a qualitative as well as quantitative improvement in the conduct of
IUC research, hopefully such that the IUC can spearhead research in its own and
related fields.
Support to other universities
This was meant in order that non-host universities could also benefit from the
existence of the IUCs. For this the IUCs were supposed to organize short courses,
workshops, seminars and internships in the supporting disciplines of the IUCs.
Then the IUCs should also produce prototypes of instructional materials, which
would be useful in teaching-learning process.
It was realized that there were other important disciplines not covered in this scheme.
These disciplines, although important for the national development, would require a
preparation stage before any major investment in laboratory equipments and other physical
facilities, can be made. For these disciplines, new S1 programs were established with a
clearly defined mission: to develop its human resources through the development of new
S-1 programs. These disciplines were Computer Sciences, Material Sciences, Marine
Sciences, Ocean Engineering, and Gas Technology.
In addition to the previously mentioned mission and objectives, the project was also aimed
to improve and strengthen the higher education planning and management. To be able to
achieve that objective, new structural units have been established, namely Program
Advisory and Review Board (PARB), and National Graduate Education Council (NGEC).
2.   Design of the Project
During the design phase of the IUC project, peers in the various branches of science and
technology were gathered to conduct intensive discussions on the choice of "strategic"
disciplines that need to be qualitatively developed to approach state of the art capabilities
in those disciplines and the most suitable venue where these disciplinary quality
developments should take place. The meeting resulted in the choice of eight disciplinary
areas of the IUCs based on a very good consensus among the meeting participants. The
meeting, however, could not agree completely on where the development of those



- 17 -
disciplinary areas should be located. A compromise resulted in the establishment of more
than one IUC in a certain disciplinary area. Looking back at this time, this turned out to
be not a bad compromise at all.
At the end of the project period, not all objectives have been successfully achieved. It
seems that the objectives were determined for the IUCs with some over-expectation of the
centers' capability and potential. The following describes some possible reasons for the
less than satisfactory achievement of the set targets.
Over-ambitious target
The project was designed to carry out more than ten different programs. Programs were
targeted to a wide variety of audience with different kinds of objectives. While the main
objective of the project was to improve research capability to support graduate programs,
many project components were targeted more to improve teachers' quality of S-1
programs. Programs such as instructional material development (IMD), the domestic short
courses and training, are examples of programs that were not aimed to support graduate
level research and have different beneficiary population. The focus of the project was not
sharp enough to enable centers to concentrate its effort on more important objectives.
Overlapping mission
The IUC project was designed to concentrate resources, reduce duplication of facilities,
and share available resources.  The design only fitted disciplines that require major
investment in laboratory equipment since equipment can not be moved around from one
place to another. The sharing of people will be more efficiently done through moving
expertise to the places where it is needed. This concept of sharing people has been carried
out by other university units (faculty or center) even long before the IUCs were
established. The fact that most IUCs' staff are affiliated with the existing respective
faculty, complicated the problem further. The faculty and the IUCs have similar missions
in providing support to the graduate program and other non-IUC universities.
Number and distribution of centers
The number and distribution of IUCs among the five universities were not based on an
objective technical evaluation. Although after the project commenced different mandates
had been assigned to IUCs of similar disciplines, it was evident that significant overlap in
activities were existed. This is clearly in contradiction with the original objective of the
project.
Allocation offunds
Funding was allocated and earmarked for each IUC, and only for the last 3 years a
semi-competitive scheme was introduced. The lack of competition in the funding system
did not encourage the IUCs to perform.



- 18 -
3.   Implementation
3.1   Overall Performance
During the project lifetime, sizeable investments were made in buildings construction,
procurement of equipment, books and journals, sending of fellows to pursue advanced
degrees overseas, provision of opportunities for IUC staff to undergo overseas non-degree
training, and hiring of overseas and domestic visiting scholars to assist in research
programs at the IUCs.  Numerous credit earning activities, short courses, seminars,
workshops, internship programs and instructional material development programs were
carried out.
At the end of the project, buildings constructed and occupied by the IUCs include 13,392
m 2 at ITB, 8,832 m2 at IPB, 16,369 m2 at UGM, 5,755 m2 at UI, and 1,216 m2 at the
Open University, Notwithstanding a few minor deficiencies in its design and construction,
the buildings were functionally well built. The timing of the construction schedule was
also perfect in the sense that the buildings were finished and ready for occupation at around
the same time when the bulk of the procured equipment arrived and was ready for
installation. Some operation and maintenance funds provided by the DGHE had kept the
buildings and equipment in reasonably good condition.
All of the planned equipment had been purchased, installed and maintained. Maintenance
funds for the equipment had been provided by DGHE and with a few exceptional cases,
all equipment are operational.
Considering its limited resources, CITS has performed its technical services function
satisfactorily in particular in the maintenance of IUC buildings, including their utilities.
About 40 percent of the planned books had been purchased.
519 young IUC staff had been sent overseas for graduate studies and about 94 percent had
come back with advanced degrees (262 person-degrees for MS and 222 person-degrees for
PhD), 35 fellows returned without degree, resulting in a very high success rate (93.3%)
of the overseas degree fellowship program. The length of time needed to obtain degrees
varied widely between fellows, the university where the study was conducted, and also
between various supervisors.
The sending of 603 IUC staff (1,407 person-months) overseas for non-degree programs
(seminars, workshops, and conferences 125 person-months, and intemships 1,282
person-months) had resulted in an improvement in the self-development capability of the
IUC staff.
The invitation of 426 overseas (489 person-months) and 833 domestic (3,430 person
-months) visiting scholars had contributed to the development and transfer of skills,
methods and technologies, hitherto unknown at the IUCs. The availability of the visiting



- 19 -
scholars had provided an exposure for the IUC staff to the international scientific
community, influencing the scientific thinking and work ethics of the IUC staff.
Through the New-SI program, 47 university staff had been sent to various overseas
universities and most of them had retumed to their universities with advanced degrees.
They will become the core manpower to develop and start the new program in their
universities. During the project period 32 person-months of overseas visiting scholars had
also been utilized to assist the universities in developing and strengthening their curriculum
in the respective fields.
The IUCs had conducted research, totalling US $ 6.1 millions which had provided the
IUCs with opportunities to develop their capabilities well as to contribute to the scientific
community original research results. During the course of the project's life-time, there
had been an observable improvement in the conduct of IUC research, both quantitatively
as well as qualitatively. The IUCs had felt all along, that the research program is the most
important program. The IUCs had provided opportunities to their staff to present their
research results at national and intemational seminars and many research results had been
presented.
The IUCs carried out service programs benefiting parties outside the IUCs. They provided
a "home" for graduate students both at the master's and at the doctorate's level. The IUCs
had also provided equipment support to graduate students, who did not have their "home"
at the IUC, but needed the use of the equipment for the sake of perfection and quality
improvement of their research programs. The IUCs has organized 7,676 person-months
of credit earning activities (courses accredited to one or more graduate schools).
Short courses (9,720 person-months) in fields related to the IUC field of study were
organized to provide training to university teaching staff in those fields. The IUC could
also accept university teaching staff and other research staff intending to initiate or upgrade
their research capability in an internship program lasting three months to one year. A total
of 10,205 person-months of intemship programs was conducted. The IUCs had also
organized seminars and workshops (3,804 person-months), both national and intemational,
in the various fields related to the IUC, and were participated in by graduate students and
university teaching staff from all over Indonesia. Because interested persons for national
seminars usually exceeded the number of participants that could be funded by the IUC, a
selection of seminar participants was usually carried out. Local seminars were held
routinely to discuss various topics closely related to the IUC field of interest and these
seminars were usually attended by local graduate students, IUC staff and local university
teaching staff.
Finally, 3,309 'prototype' instructional materials had been developed by the IUCs (395
titles of books, 627 titles of laboratory manuals, 1,201 titles of course materials, 634 units
of audio visual aids, and 452 units of model).
3.2 Visiting Scholar Program



- 20 -
The Project called for more than 489 person-months of expertise from overseas visiting
scholars, who served an average of one month each.
Roughly 70 person-months (14.3 percent) had been allocated to the four technology-related
IUCs for computer science, engineering, and microelectronics, 260 person-months (53.2
percent) to the seven biology-related IUCs for life sciences, food and nutrition, and
biotechnology, and 112 person-months (22.9 percent) to the four IUCs for social studies
and economics.
An additional 47 person-months (9.6 percent) had been devoted to developing and
improving instructional activities, and for creating new undergraduate programs in marine
science, ocean engineering, material science, and computer science.
The project had attracted a world class array of specialists from Asia, Australia, USA,
Europe from the various institutions in those countries.
Most visiting scholars were recruited for their expertise as researchers, though the majority
also were asked to teach short-courses in their specialty to graduate students and faculty
of the host university.
At the end of the Project, 489 person-months had been used in assignments of 426 visiting
scholars to 16 IUCs and the several new undergraduate programs. This represents 84
percent of the total revised allocation.
3.3 Overseas Non - Degree Training Programs
Overseas Short-Term Programs
The 2,243 person-months allocated to overseas short-term programs were intended to
encourage IUC staff to participate in overseas conferences, seminars, workshops and
short-courses. While Indonesian government restrictions on short-term travel severely
limited activity during the early stages of the project, these restriction had been lifted, and
603 IUC staff members have participated in the overseas short-term programs. These
programs had varied in both content and location. All programs, however, provided
participants with the opportunity to establish and maintain ties with international scholars
in their field.
To ensure that IUC staff have adequate information on overseas short-term programs, the
project prepared and distributed an "Index to Conference, Seminars and Workshops" to
IUC directors.  This index, in conjunction with changes in government policy on
short-term travel promoted a dramatic increase in activity in this important project area.
Internship Programs
The second kind of overseas non-degree training program, the internship program, allowed
IUC staff to pursue training and/or research for a longer period, usually three to twelve



- 21 -
months. The project allocated 1,745 person-months of support for internship programs. To
date it has sponsored approximately 336 intern-fellows, in total 1,282 person-months.
Because of the diversity of IUC research interest, internships had taken place at a wide
array of universities and research institutions throughout the would. While the US had
been the most frequent site, many interns had also worked in the United Kingdom, Canada,
Germany, and the Netherlands. Additional programs had been in Australia, Japan and the
Philippines. Most internships had been located at nationally or internationally recognized
universities.
Perhaps because of this diversity in background, internship programs have ranged from
intensive tutorial programs to those where participants pursue an independent research
project. The majority of programs fell somewhere in between these two extremes,
combining both training and research.
Internships with a training component have followed an unusual but valuable design.
Instead of placing participants in an existing program, a foreign scholar specializing in the
desired area of training was asked to serve as the participants' host or counterpart. A
training program was then formulated by the host with the specific needs of an intern in
mind. The process of identifying this counterpart may involve the IUC director, IUC staff
members, former visiting scholars, and previous academic advisors of IUC staff.
The linkage between internship programs and other project components was strong. Hosts
or counterparts of project interns had also served as academic advisors for degree students.
Likewise, IUCs were augmenting the visits of foreign visiting scholars with complementary
trips by IUC staff to the visitors' home institutions. Because visiting scholars were already
familiar with research and training programs at an IUC, they were well equipped to
respond to the needs of a visiting IUC staff member. Conversely, project interns were
often responsible for identifying future visiting scholars.
This linkage of project components held great promise to IUCs. Such linkages not only
provided greater opportunity for short-term collaborative research, but also gave an
excellent base for building cooperative, long-term relationships between the IUC and
foreign institutions; relationships which were critical for the continued development of the
IUCs following the end of the project.
3.4 In-Country Non-Degree Training Program
In-country non-degree training program undertaken by the Project included: Credit Earning
Activities (CEA), short-courses, interrnships and seminars with varying lengths of program
periods. A CEA usually was carried out for 6 months, short courses 1-3 months,
internships 3-12 months and seminars 3-7 days. These activities were aimed at developing
the academic capacity of public as well as private universities.



- 22 -
CEA
This activity was very successful considering that the SAR target was exceeded by 200
percent (3,790 person-months versus 7,675 person-months). It can be assumed that this
achievement was attributed to individual or institutional contribution. The number of
topics (360) carried out by 10 IUCs of 4 LPIUs (UI,IPB,ITB,UGM) was also considered
adequate, although most of these CEA had not been accredited by the graduate school of
the respective university. Of the total 1,798 participants, it was noted that the average
participant per CEA was 4-5 persons, and regarding the distribution of its home institution,
the majority of the participants were students from non-host universities amounting to 882
persons (49.05 percent), private universities 262 persons (14.57 percent), other institutions
85 persons (4.73 percent), and the rest were from the host universities. The large number
of non-host university participants demonstrated a significant interest toward the CEA
topics offered; it also provided evidence of the role of IUCs in developing university staff
in the same region.
Short Courses
During the life time of the project 9,719 person-months of short courses were undertaken.
This was 22 percent more than the 7,574 reallocated figure. Short courses carried out
included 414 topics attended by 10,719 persons (an average of 26 participants per topic).
The interest in the offered topics was sufficiently high with 5,335 persons (52.41 percent)
from non-host universities, private universities 1,049 persons (10.3 percent) and other
institutions 993 persons (9.75 percent). The rest were from the host universities (24.83
percent).
Internships
This activity, planned for 8,801 person-months was accomplished with 10,502
person-months and thereby exceeding the target by 16 percent. Internship programs
included 641 topics attended by 3,235 persons (an average of 5 persons per topic). As was
the case for CEA and short courses, internship programs were very much sought after by
staff from non-host universities totaling 1,730 persons (53.43 percent), private universities
70 persons (2.16 percent), only 13 persons (0.4 percent) from other institutions and 1,070
persons (33.08 percent) from the host universities.
Internships also engaged a number of program advisors (1,322 persons). In general these
were staff with the following qualifications, S3 756 persons, (57.19 percent), S2 366
persons (27.63 percent) and SI 200 persons (15.13 percent). Considering that most of the
program advisors were S3 holders, it could be assumed that the product of this activity is
of high quality.



- 23 -
Seminars
This activity was targeted for 2,628 person-months, however, the Project was successful
in implementing 3,803 person-months, exceeding with 33 percent. During the life time
of the project, this activity was attended by 39,718 persons with 623 topics (an average of
63 persons per topic).
This activity differed from the previous one in that the majority of the participants were
from the host universities totaling 14,603 persons (36.8 percent), non-host public
universities 12,116 persons (30.5 percent), private universities 3,710 persons (9.34
percent), and other institutions 7,197 persons (18.12 percent). In addition, 3,651 speakers
(75.43 percent) from the host universities, 742 speakers (15.33 percent) from non-host
universities, and 447 foreign speakers (9.23 percent) were involved. It can be concluded
that for each topic, 7-8 papers were presented.
It should be noted that the approved unit cost was very low, not enough for the IUCs to
support participants from outer islands.
3.5 Overseas Degree Training Program
During the project lifetime, 519 students were studying in 15 countries under direct
MUCIA  management.  Of these, 210 were enrolled in 58 institutions in the US.
Twenty-one students were studying in nine Japanese universities, 14 in four universities
in the Netherlands, and the remainder in Belgium, Canada, Australia, New Zealand,
Thailand, the Philippines and Germany.
Other fellows had been studying at non US universities under the day-to-day management
of the following local management offices in the numbers indicated: Australian
International Development Program (28); British Council (125); French Society for the
Export of Educational Resources (46); Stockholm University's Division of International
Affairs (11); Denmark's International Study Program (8); World University Service of
Canada (38); and German Academic Exchange Program (13).
Under the new SI Program there were also 47 students studying chemical engineering,
metallurgy, ocean engineering, computer science, electrical engineering, and marine
science in order to develop undergraduate instructional programs in these fields in
Indonesia.
484 individuals had completed degrees and returned to Indonesia: 222 in doctoral
programs, and 262 in master's degree programs. A further 35 have retumed without
completing degrees for either academic or health reasons.
While the emphasis is on degree programs, the project also carried out "sandwich
programs" that entail a combination of coursework or research overseas as part of a degree
granted by an indonesian institution.



- 24 -
Two students had completed library research in the Netherlands and retumed to take
doctoral degrees from Gadjah Mada University, while 27 did graduate work in computer
science at the University of Maryland, and finished with S2 degrees from the University
of Indonesia.
3.6   Construction of Buildings
In general the construction of the IUC buildings at the five host universities was
undertaken according to schedule. The following is the actual construction and percentage
against the SAR target: UI 5755 m2 (138 percent), UGM 16,369 M2 (154 percent), ITB
13,392 m2 (120 percent), IPB, 8832 M2 (138 percent) and the Open University 1216 m2
(133 percent).
Even though the construction area exceeded the SAR target, the cost spent almost equal
the loan target of US$10.2 million (102 percent).
The buildings fulfilled the need of the 16 IUCs in the provision of facilities: administration
space 2,234 M2 (4.9 percent of total building space), staff offices 4,598 m2 (10.1 percent),
laboratory space 18,355 m2 (40.3 percent), library 2,263 M2 (5 percent), lecture/seminar
room 5,355 m2 (11.7 percent), storage 797 M2 (1.7 percent), and other facilities 11,986
m2(26.3 percent).
Constraints faced during the construction of these facilities included: lack of experience of
the contractors, insufficient knowledge of the users to design the desired facility, and lack
of conformity in terms of equipment design and the buildings.
3.7 Procurement of Equipment
Equipment was purchased spending US$41.6 million or 136 percent of the SAR target. The
over expenditure was due to necessary adjustments made for some IUCs whose initial
planning were underestimated and therefore needed additional funding to make them
operational. These IUCs included engineering at ITB and UGM, biotechnology at UGM,
and Food and Nutrition st IPB and UGM.
To fullfil the needs, reallocation of funding was undertaken and mostly from those
activities that were projected not to achieve their targets: overseas visiting scholars,
overseas seminars and alsofrom the unallocated component.
With the needed equipment procured for all IUCs, at the end of the Project the
distribution of expenditure and percentage against the total budget for each LPIU is
presented as follows: ITB US$19.3 million (46 percent), IPB US$5.8 million (13.9
percent), UGM US$11.6 million (27.9 percent), UI US$4.4 million (10.6 percent) and
the Open University US$0.5 million (1.2 percent). In order to match available
equipment to storage space (since the construction of buildings was done simultaneously
with the procurement of equipment), the procurement process covered four phases, with



- 25 -
phase one especially for small equipment that can be moved easily, and subsequent
phases for heavier equipment in line with the construction progress.
The Project faced an extended procurement process, for each phase almost two years.
This was attributed to long procedural accounts and the lack of experience of IUCs to
prepare the specifications of requested equipment. Another observation was the under
utilization of the equipment at some IUCs, also the low quality of some equipment which
lead to its early breakdown. Repair and maintenance was provided by the DGHE up to
the end of the Project with support from the OECF and a World Bank loan.
3.8  Procurement of Books and Journals
Accomplishment of procurement of books and journals was only 53 percent of the target
or in money terms US$1,076,390.70. This was attributed to a Government regulation that
specified the purchase of back issues. This obviously hampered the attainment of the
objective of establishing the IUCs, i.e., being the spearhead of science and technology by
appropriately adopting contemporary science.
In 1990, Bappenas revised its regulation, however, the Project then was already in its
fourth year, and thereby could only benefit from this change for one phase.
Expenditure distribution and percentage against total SAR target is ITS US$367,543.22 (18
percent) IPB US$137,425.31 (7 percent), UGM US$280,892.36 (14 percent), Ul
US$266,336.25 (13 percent), and the Open University US$24,193.56 (1 percent).
4.   Impact
In general, the CPIU, the LPIU and the leadership of the IUCs had successfully
implemented the Second University Development Project. The role of the IUC Director
as a scientific as well as an organization manager had been crucial for the success of the
IUC mission. A dynamic person with a vision of the IUC mission within the university,
the research community and the society at large was critical in driving the IUC towards
these designated objectives.
The sending of many young staff overseas to obtain their advanced degrees had a favorable
effect on university graduates and a noticeable increase was discerned in their desire to
pursue advanced studies rather than proceed directly into the job market. Their outlook
had been broadened; they came into contact and learned new methods and new techniques,
and became more enthusiastic in their quest of knowledge. The program had strengthened
their conviction of the 'rightness' of their research program or enabled them to embark on
new directions in their research. Then there was the establishment of durable linkages with
similar foreign institutions, which will benefit future IUC activities. Upon their return,
with expertise in the advanced and state of the art capabilities, there had been a quantitative
and qualitative improvement in the activities, not only at the IUC but also in the various
University departments, to which they also belong. There had been noticeable enrichment
in the IUC methods. More importantly, new work ethics, and new attitudes were



- 26 -
introduced. The increased capability to develop generic techniques, coupled with a more
conducive atmosphere for scientific endeavor, had resulted in better quality programs being
offered by the IUCs. As a result, more people were having increased interest to be
involved in the IUC activities. Within the IUCs themselves, these increased capabilities
had also generated more excitement in the work being done.
During the course of the Project, there had been a quantitative and qualitative improvement
in the conduct of research within the IUCs and the respective university departments.
More scientific papers were presented in international seminars and conferences. Some
original research results had also contributed to the solutions of problems in the society at
large.
The increased capability to carry out state of the art research had also started to trickle
down on the quality of graduate education. The graduate students could now make use of
the IUCs to utilize the modem facilities, to receive better supervision and enhance their
creativity, resulting in better graduates with advanced degrees.  Since these graduate
students were mostly teaching staff from other universities, their advanced capabilities had
a distinctly favorable effect on the tertiary education system as a whole.
The increased scientific capacity of the IUCs had also provided an opportunity for the IUC
to provide services to the community, including industry.   These services might be
educational services, scientific and technology services or research services. Regarding
educational services, short courses, seminars and conferences were held for teaching staff
of other universities, for research staff of research institutes and for staff from industry.
Another aspect of these educational services was the development of prototype instructional
materials. Regarding science and technology services, many IUCs had been able to
provide them to the industrial sector, private companies, state enterprises as well as
government agencies. It had been rather unfortunate that research services were not yet
being sought by industry.  Maybe the recent government policy that encourages state
enterprises to use part of their profits to support research and development activities,
would stimulate the IUCs to be more aggressive in developing research and development
cooperation with the state enterprises.
Realizing the inadequacy of domestic scientific resources in certain fields, some IUCs had
gone out of their way to forge linkages with similar institutions overseas with similar
interests. Some of these linkages had paid off with the establishment of cooperative
research projects with overseas partners.
Lessons Learned
The Government observed some major lessons it learned from the implementation of this
Project:
*    The Project has had multiple and multi-faceted objectives, which made it
difficult for the IUC to achieve all of those objectives simultaneously. This
is even true considering the few budgetary restrictions on unit costs and



- 27 -
personnel remunerations. It would be better if the project would emphasize
on the most salient objectives only.
*    Full time and suitably qualified staff, who are amply compensated, are
needed to successfully run the project and the IUCs.
*    Members of the project supervision team should be more knowledgeable of
the background, objectives and the various programs of the Project, that will
be supervised. Ideally they should also be members of the appraisal team.
This is to prevent superficial questions rather than in-depth questions touching
the core of the problem being asked. In the case of a change in the
composition of the supervising team during the course of the project, care
should be taken to retain part of the old team, so that the new team members
may be briefed substantially about the various aspects of the project.
*    The organizational structure of IUCs should have been established at the
beginning of the project.
*    Base line data regarding graduate education and research should have been
gathered during appraisal or at the beginning of the project, so that at the end
of the project, the performance and the impact of the project could be well
assessed.
*    The self assessment conducted by the IUCs near the end of the project turned
out to be a good start of a viable supervision and evaluation system. Of
course this had to be followed up by expert evaluation by professionals and
peers in the respective fields, utilizing data and information from the self-
assessment reports.
*    At the start of the project, a foreign consulting agency was contracted to
assist in the placement of degree and non-degree fellows, in the recruitment
of suitable overseas visiting scholars and in the quality improvement of the
academic activities carried out at the IUCs. It had been shown that most of
the IUCs had been able to perform these functions well if not admirably.



- 28 -
PART HI. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Loan/Credit                                                        Year of
Title                                 Purpose                      Approval    Status
Teacher Training  To assist formal basic education through a quantitative   1977   C 1 o s e d
Project  (Loan  expansion of the system as well as through improvements      June 1984
1433-IND)       of the skills, competence, and effectiveness of teachers
and educational administrators.
Polytechnic  To assist the Govermnent's plans to increase the supply of   1979   C l o s e d
Development  middle level manpower through the creation, expansion,          June 1985
Project  (Credit  strengthening and diversification of the polytechnic
869-IND)         system.  This project initiated a major program  of
building a polytechnic system through the construction,
furnishing and equipping of six polytechnics, a Technical
Educator Development Center, and four Accountancy
Development Centers.
U n i v e r s i t y  To be the first phase of a long-term program to strengthen   1980   C I o s e d
Development university management and raise the quality and number           September
Project  (Loan  of graduates in engineering, science, agriculture, and       1988
1904-IND)       economics at three key universities. Among other things,
the project included technical assistance or developing
policies and improving management and teaching quality
at these universities.
Second Teacher  [See first Teacher Training Project above]           1982   C I o s e d
Training Project                                                            June 1990
(Loan 2101-IND)
S e c o n d  To increase the number and distribution of polytechnics,   1983   C I o s e d
P o 1 y t e c h n i c  broaden the curricula, and strengthen polytechnic planning  December
Development  and management capacities.                                      1990
Project  (Loan
2290-IND)
Science   and  To strengthen Indonesia's research and development   1985   C I o s e d
T e c h n o 1 o g y  capacity  by  developing  a nucleus of well-trained    June 1993
Training Project  Indonesian scientific and technical manpower; to develop
(Loan 2599-IND)  effective policies and procedures for the implementation
and monmtoring of overseas fellowship programs; to
develop and strengthen collaborative relationships between
Indonesian and foreign universities and research institu-
tions.
Accountancy  To improve accounting practices in the public and private   1988   Ongoing
Development  sectors; to support the Government's program to raise the
Project  (Loan  quality of accounting faculty and teaching staff, and to
2940-IND)        prepare for future expansion of accountancy education and
training.
Higher Education  To improve higher education sectoral planning, to   1988   C I o s e d
Development  improve both sectoral and institutional management in          December
Project  (Loan  higher education, to increase resource mobilization, to     1993
2944-IND)        improve educational quality and efficiency, to strengthen
selected fields of study reflecting manpower needs and to
increase the contribution of universities to regional
development.
Second  Higher  To improve quality and efficiency of higher education, to   1991   Ongoing
E d u c a t i o n  alleviate human resource shortages, to improve planning
Development  and management, to increase mobilization of resources
Project  (Loan  and to strengthen regional development.
331 1-IND)



- 29 -
Table 2: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Date        Date        Date
Item                                  Planned     Revised      Actual
Identification /a                           --          --      4-5/83
Further identification                  8-9/83          --       10/83
Preparation /b                           11/83          --    11-12/83
Preappraisal                              2/84          --        2/84
Appraisal                                 7/84        6/84        6/84
Post-appraisal                              --        9/84    10-11/84
Loan negotiations                         3/85    11-12/84        4/85
Board approval                            5/85        2/85        5/85
Loan signature                              --          --        6/85
Loan effectiveness                        7/85        4/85       11/85
Loan completion                          12/90       12/93       12/93
Loan closing                             12/91       12/93       12/93
La Project brief.
Lb By UNESCO.
Table 3: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY1986 1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
Appraisal
estimate    4.5   18.1   40.7   70.1  106.3  142.5  147.0  147.0  147.0
Actual      0.0    8.3   32.2   54.5   88.5  108.0  126.1  142.0  146.3
Actual as
% of estimate 0     46     79     78     83      76     86     97   99.5
Date of final
disbursement: 05/26/1994
Note: The Loan Account was closed on May 26, 1994 with a cancellation of the
undisbursed balance of US$651,076.26 equivalent.



- 30 -
Table 4: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Completion Date
Implementation Action                           Planned           Actual
Selection of consultant architects                 8/85            10/85
(and construction managers)
Bidding and contract awards                       11/86            1988
Construction                                      9/89             1990
Equipment lists                                   9/85             4/86
Equipment specifications and
bidding documents                                 9/88            10/86
Equipment bidding and contract awards              4/89            11/93
Equipment delivery and installation                1/90            4/94
Books and journals procurement
and delivery                                      6/90            12/93
Fellowships:
Study period                                     12/90            12/93
Visiting scholars:
Services                                         12/90            12/92



- 31 -
Table 5: PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Table 5A: PROJECT COSTS
(US$ million)
Appraisal estimate /a           Actual
Foreign                   Foreign
Local  exchange           Local  exchange
Item                       costs    costs    Total    costs    costs    Total
Civil works                11.4      4.0    15.4    10.5        3.7    14.2
Equipment, books, journals
consumable and            16.2    41.6    57.8    13.2    34.0    47.2
instructional materials
Furniture                   0.9      0.4      1.3       -       -        /b
Fellowships, visiting
scholars and professional    23.2    75.2    98.4    18.6    60.0    78.6
services
Research awards             5.7      4.0      9.7      3.8      2.3     6.1
Ircremental staff salaries,
operation and supervision    52.3   9.6    61.9    12.0        2.2    14.2
and maintenance /c
Total Project Cost        109.7   134.8   244.5    58.0   102.2   160.3
L/ Including contingencies.
Lb Actual furniture costs of about Rp 2.2 billion are included in the equipment category
above.
8 Actual costs include project and IUC management, monitoring and supervision costs, IUC
salaries and a small amount for IUC maintenance. No information was available on
discrete operating costs for the IUCs during the project implementation period.



Table 5B: PRoJEcr FINANCING
Source of Funds                      Planned
(Loan Agreement)     Revised 7/15/86    Revised 5121/91    Revised 1/25/93        FSna
Amount        %    Amount        %    Amount         %    Amount         %    AmountCo                          ts
(US$ '000)         (USS '000)          (US$ '000)          (US$ '000)         (USS '000)
EBRD expenditure categories
(I) Civil works (including related  6,300     45       10,000     75       10,240     75       10,200    75   10,228      75
professional services)
(2) Equipment                      25,300  100/)      35,000    100/      46,180    100/      45,780   100/  45,138   100/  Original categories (2) and (3) were
100/75)             107                 1 s                 100/75          100/75  combined at time of 7/86 revision.
Funding of furniture from this
(3) Books, journals, consumable     8,700 100/40)                                                                              category added in 8/87.
and instructional materials
(4) [3] Fellowships and visiting   89,400    100       90,500    100       75,520    100      78,600    100   78,620    100  Profesional services were added to
scholars [and professional                                                                                                 this category at time of 7/86
services)                                                                                                                  revision.
(5) [4] Research awards             4,000     45        5,300    100       6,980    100        6,800    100   6,041      100
(5)Project management,                -        -        1,200    100       5,470    100        5,700    100   6,321      100  New category added at timne of 7/86
monitoring and supervision]                                                                                                 revision.
(6) Unallocated                     13,300      -       5,000      -       2,160                           -     -        -
Subtotal                        147,000    60      147,000    63       147,000    65       147,000    89  146,348      91
Government:                        97,500     40       88,000     37       80,300     35       18,000     11  13,960       9
Total Project Cost             244,500    100      235 000   100       227 300   100       165.000    100  160,308    100



- 33 -
Table 6: PROJECT RESULTS
Direct Benefits
Overseas Graduate Degree Training
(staff years)
Planned /a            Revised /b             Actual /c
Masters      PhD    Masters        PhD    Masters       PhD
Development of graduate education:
ITB             102         437       63          421       63         430
IPB              93         119       93          222       82         262
UGM             231         322      175          355      156         333
UI              131         162      117          163      164         146
OU               34          35       28           36       25          40
Subtotal       591       1,075      476         1,197      490       1,211
Improvement of undergraduate education:
Ocean engineering 20         12       14           32        15         63
Gas technology   14          14        8           28        10         32
Marine sciences  32          22       15           50        15         56
Computer science 90          74      139           51      125          47
Material science
and technology Ld 45         41       10           39        15         62
Subtotal       201         163      186          200       180        260
Total           2         .2        fi          1                    1.471
La SAR.
I 1990.
Lg Actual at completion.
Ld Including metallurgy, polymers and ceramics and electric and magnetic materials.



DOMESTIC NON-DEGREE TRAINING
(staff months)
Planned /a                         Revised lb                           Actual /c
Intern- Academic Short            Intem-  Academic  Short               Intem- Academic   Short
ships   courses courses Seminars  ships    courses  course's  Seminars   ships   courses   courses Seminars
Development of graduate education:
Curriculum
development         262         -    360       242
Instructional methods 1,282      -    636      308
Research methods and
management          412         -   2,365      516                 [Detailed information not available]
Information
management           63         -       -      185
Planning and
management           163        -    203       289
Professional
disciplinary
development        3,980    3,186   1,765      765
Total            6.162    3,186   5,329    2.305   8.801    3,790    7,574    2,628   10,502    7.675        9,719    3,803
/a SAR.
lb 1990.
/c As of December 1993.



- 35 -
OVERSEAS NON-DEGREE TRAINING
(staff months)
Planned /a                 Actual
Intern-    Conferences/   Intern-    Conferences/
ships       seminars      ships       seminars
Development of graduate education:
ITB                      692          236           321          30
IPB                       180          30           161          12
UGM                      305           72           309          17
UI                       324           86           165          55
OU                        190          50           286           4
Subtotal               1,691         474         1,242          118
Strengthening of university
planning and management:
NGEC                        -          18             -            -
NGEDO                     54            -             -            -
LPIUs                       -           6            19           7
Subtotal                  54           24            19           7
Total                  1.745         498         1.261          125
La SAR.



- 36 -
FOREIGN VISITING SCHOLARS
(staff months)
Planned La    Revised        Actual
(1990)
Development of graduate education:
(Management, Instructional materials,
Training, Research, Instrumentation)    896        582            447
Improvement of undergraduate education:
(Ocean engineering, Gas technology,
Marine sciences, Computer science,
Material science and technology &)    73             38             47
Strengthening of university planning
and management:
(NGEC, NGEDO)                          38
Total                            1.007                          489
La SAR.
lk Includes metallurgy, polymers and ceramics, and electric and magnetic materials.
DoMESTIc VISITING SCHOLARS
(staff months)
Kevisea
Planned La      (1990)       Actual
Development of graduate education:
(Management, Instructional materials,
Training, Research,
Instrumentation)                   6.43I ,79
La SAR.



- 37 -
INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS DEVELOPMENT SCHEDULE La
Planned /b     Revised         Actual at
(1990)         completion
Course materials:
ITB                                    222            301             315
IPB                                    187            226             246
UGM                                    230            287             287
UI                                     357            327             292
OU                                      28             67              61
Subtotal                          1,024           1,208          1,201
Books and monographs:
ITB                                     53             76              81
IPB                                     61             78             107
UGM                                     99            124             102
UI                                      83             85              88
OU                                      10             24              17
Subtotal                            306            387             395
Manuals:
ITB                                    150            291             210
IPB                                    153            194             158
UGM                                    163            216             132
UI                                      85             87              83
OU                                      20             47              44
Subtotal                            571            835             627
Models:
ITB                                    131            184             174
IPB                                    136            165             166
UGM                                     55             70              67
UI                                      19             23              16
OU                                      20             47              29
Subtotal                            361            489             452
Audiovisual:
ITB                                     80            109             114
IPB                                    251            307             212
UGM                                    206            281             196
Ul                                      59             54              38
OU                                      28             66              74
Subtotal                            624            817             634
Total                             2,886          3736            309
La Prototypes developed.
/b SAR.



- 38 -
INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS PRODUCTION SCHEDULE La
Planned /b             Actual
At completion
Course materials:
ITB, IPB, UGM, UI, IOU      107,640                 161,607
Books and monographs:
ITB, IPB, UGM, UI, IOU       73,910                 146,505
Manuals:
ITB, IPB, UGM, UI, IOU       61,670                 114,379
Models:
ITB, IPB, UGM, UI, IOU       11,840                  26,338
Audiovisual:
ITB, IPB, UGM, UI, IOU       15,520                  37,668
Total                    270,580                 486,497
L Units reproduced.
L SAR.



- 39 -
RESEARCH AWARDS
Planned LA        Actual
Development of graduate education:
ITB:
Life sciences                           75               170
Engineering sciences                   156                46
Biotechnology                           97               110
Microelectronics                        70                24
Subtotal                            398               350
IPB:
Life sciences                           53                33
Biotechnology                           44                77
Food and nutrition                      41               131
Subtotal                            138               241
UGM:
Engineering sciences                    63                86
Biotechnology                          130                98
Food and nutrition                      53               101
Social sciences                        100                48
Economic studies                        73                22
Subtotal                            419               355
UI:
Computer science                        30                23
Social studies                          58                33
Economic studies                        20                43
Subtotal                            108                99
OU-Development of instructional materials  16              57
Total                             Lo4 D
La Numbers to be awarded to individual researchers.
/b Numbers awarded under research programs structured by the IUCs.



- 40 -
Table 7: STATUS OF COVENANTS
Loan                                               Deadline
Agreement                                             for
Article      Description of Covenant             compliance    Status
3.01         Carry out project through DGHE in   9/30/86    In compliance
accordance with management structure
and organization satisfactory to Bank
and formally establish and staff all
project institutions by 09/86
3.03         Materials developed under Part A.3       --      In compliance
(Schedule 2) to be produced on a pilot
basis and revised as necessary before
production runs
3.04         Beginning   1/1/86   (and   yearly 1/1 yearly    Self evaluation
thereafter) furnish for each IUC to              of  each  IUC
Bank (a) annual plan and program;               provided   to
(b) annual budget; and (c) annual plan          Bank  07/92;
for monitoring and data collection              monitoring  and
data  collection
still to be set up
under  Loans
2944-IND and
33 11-IND
3.05         Sites of Open University IUC and sites   12/31/85   In compliance
for  extension   of  Institute  of
Technology, Bandung, and University
of Gadjah Mada acquired
4.01         Furnish to the Bank a certified copy of          In  compliance.
the audit report annually not later than        T h e  A u d i t
nine months after the end of each year.         R e p o r t  f o r
FY93/94 due
December 1994.



- 41 -
Table 8: USE OF BANK RESOURCES
Table 8a: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of Project Cycle        Planned             Actual
---------- (staff weeks) -----------
Preappraisal                    NA                 93.6LA
Appraisal                       NA                 58.3
Negotiations                    NA                  4.5
Supervision                     NA                 92.5
Completion                      NA                  3.2
Total                         NA                252.0
NA = not available.
L/ Does not include UNESCO preparation mission.



- 42 -
Table 8B: MISSION DATA
Number  Days                     Performance
Stage of                              of       in     Specialization    rating
Project Cycle         Month/year  persons   field   represented /A   status /b     Types of problems
Through appraisal:
Identification            4-5/83      4       96     EC,ED,A,SC
Identification/preparation  10/83     1        9          ED
Prcparation (UNESCO)   11-1283       3       90      EC,UA,SO
Preappraisal                2/84      5       85    EC,ED,A,R.SD
Appraisal                   6/84      5       65   EC,ED,A,SC,EN
Appraisal through
Board approval          10-11/84      5       70   EC,ED,A,MA,EV
(post-appraisal)
Board approval
through Effectiveness    9-10/85      3       21       EC,ED,A           1    Available funds
(first supervision
mission)
Supervision                1-2/86      2       16        ED,A             1    Available funds
6-7/86      1       18          A             3    Available  funds,  project
management, development
impact
9-10/86      S       54    ED,A,ED,A,OP         3    Available  funds,  project
management, development
impact
3/87      1        9          A              2    Available  funds,  project
management, development
impact
6/87      1       14          A              2    Available   funds,
development impact
5/88      2       16         ED,A            2    Available   funds,
development impact
1-2/89      1      21           A             2    Available funds
10-11/89      1       18          A              1    -
9-10/90      2       18         A,ST           2    Project  development
objectives
2-3/91      2       22        ED,EC           2    Project  development
objectives
6/91      2        8         A,A             2    Project  development
objectives
10-11/91      4       12     A,ED,ST,OO         2    Project  development
objectives, availability of
funds, procurement progrcss
2-3/92      1        4          A             2    Project  development
objectives,   procurement
progrcss
10/92      3       17       A,ED,OO           1    Project  development
objectives,   procurement
progress
11/93 L    1        7          A              -   -
L&  EC =economist, ED -educator, A- architoct, SC - scionceeducator, UA-univeruity administrator, SO =sociologist,
R=research specialist, SD-staff development specialist, EN-engineering scientist, MA=management specialist,
EV =evaluator, OP-operations analyst, ST-science and technology specialist, 00 =operations officer.
t 1 = minor or no problems; 2 - moderate problems; 3 - major problems.
/c  Completion mission.



IBD 18230R
-29k        THAILAND    '5                                '                         "i                          'O                          's                          *                           'i       INDONESIA
B-nd. A..hPIIPIE                                                                                                                                                                                                            SECOND  UNIVERSITY
Band Aceh   C~  9   /   PHILIPWINES  *-                             DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BIATRI  /                                                                                  R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRECTO.ATE GlENER- FOR
13    e                 MALAYSIA                                                            BRUNE   ;/                                                                                                                             .ER EDI.IC-0---A
:,>  \                                 _J   f ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--                                                                                               \    UNIVERsITY OF 1^3Xt EslA-JAKAcTs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UNSERITOPSAIA MO:-SAAKAT
Lumpur                              '                                                                                                                                                          INStITUtE OP SGRICULTUR E- OG
\     '            0:/ '                                                                                                                                              /                                             *   INSTITuTE OF TECSNOLOAS-RSNOIN.
(l 2                             /                                       MALAYSIA                                                                                                                             *    OPEN UNIVERRITT-IAKARTG
Sbolga                                                                                   /         1 7                                     M.I.A do                                                          _+      0:08 
J_   SINGAPORE                                   /  1     .                                                              *                                                                : R         R      I
_n  oinpink II-/>  HALMfAHERA                                                                                                                                                                               I=.. rTO~- 20---ES
\F - / g  9                     PIoSTlAn          <K A  L I    A  N        A  N                                        05,5,410
9                                                                                         S--dr,n.          18/
P.d-9                                                     14                                  1P                                                                                      M.nE1I t
))<  10                                          f                    \       /               P.l../                                  25
I            -                                            1 $.kpRp                                                               SU"AI20  I  0O1
I D K.l JAKARTA                                                       p-d- URA AWES/
JAWA BARAT                                   P.I-ITb-Tg                                                                                                                                               F 20  Su  WEkS
3 JAWA TENGAH                    7   )   8                      T                                                                                                                                       F 1.,  N          N.bItR        IRIAN  JAYA              < u
D I YOGYAK-ATA                                              a CArANG                                   -<  16                          JE21                      \*                                                                                             z
JAWA TIMUR             BRTgkAIA,                                                           KI.ISUtU*   Am Er
LAMPUNG                                                                                                                                                                    BARN
7 dENGKULU                              \|
R SUMATERA SELATAN                        Aea                                                                                                                                                                                                  AQRIR
O RIAU U                                                                                          e a                       ST A                                                                                                              *
1  JAMBI                                 TRIAub.RuIg\                                                                                                                                                                                                             <Z
SUMATERA BARAT                                          JArAiTA                                                                              BRuNU                  553 Ra   0 : -
2 SUMATERA  TARA                                          T..I,Q  JAWA
13 DI CES
J KAIUMANTAN BARAT                                    Bogo r             S    3 tCS
IS KALIMANTAN TENGAH
16 KALIMANTAN SELATAN                                     B.d g       tSi&         g 
17 KALIMANTAN TIMUR
E SULAWESITENGAH                                            2                                             BAU          SUBA WA                                                                                                                         MV-LRESr
20 SULAWESI SALATAN                                                            4
21 SULAWESI TENGGARA                                                                                                                                                    2 7 - 'UOJrmRr.
23j NUS A TENGGARA BARAT                                                                                                     'AIIbS                                     2TAO0                                           20      20       AS      50'S
N2 NUSA TENGGARA TIMLR                                                                                    2ILES
25 MALUKU                                                                                                     eo                                                                       -M 200  5g i00  700   oo
I5 AAN JAYAS                                                                                                                    SUM,Rl  RRS &RRNOM   O   RyOB.MNR.GMBA  24  "                          0   IN    0   00AOSSSO    O    O
27 TIMOP TW                             mm                                rh.           IMNLOMRTIMR  M 0,5 No   noo                           Ihn                                                                       LOMETERS
10C'                         10Io                         i IW'                        1,5                          12 2'                        IRS                          13                            S4
DCUTCE IS,



