Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repor No. P-4047-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$147 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 1, 1985
Thllis docuet os a restrictd dlistribuion ud my be 1e bay reeWiets only In the performne ofI
tber ollie  dtie& llS cnents maoot otnie be dcdosed widod Wodd Bk so lc non



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00       =  Rp 1,100
Rp I million  =  US$909
GOVERNMENt .OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
July 1 - June 30
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
CPIU       -  Central Project Implementation Unit
DGHE       -  Directorate General of Higher Education
GOt        - Government of Indonesia
IOU        -  Indonesian Open University
IPS        -  Institut Pertanian Bogor (Institute of Agriculture,
Bogor)
ITB        -  Institut TeknoLogi Bandung (Institute of TechnoLogy,
Bandung)
IUC        -  Inter-University Center
LPIU       -  Local Project Implementation Unit
MEC        - .Ministry of Education and Culture
NGEC       -  National Graduate Education Council-
REPELITA   -  National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita I, 1969-
74; Repelita II, 1974-79; Repelita III, 1979-84;
Repelita IV, 1984-89)
Si         - Undergraduate degree program
S2         - Master's degree program
S3         -  Doctoral degree program
UCH        -  University of Cadjah Mada      -
Ui         -  University of Indonesia



FOR OFFICIUL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Republic of Indonesia
Amount:         US$147.0 million equivaLent
Terms:          Repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable rate
Project
Description:  The overall long-term objective of the project would be to
develop Indonesia's capacity to train its own university
teachers and researchers. This would be accomplished by:
(a) development of new graduate-level programs in selected
fields of study and research; (b) initiation of five special-
ized undergraduate fields of study which are currently not
available in Indoneska; and (c) strengthening of overall
university planning and management. The project would finance
about 845 graduate fellowships; about 1,000 research grants;
about 3,000 differing prototype instructional materials;
facilities and equipment for 16 inter-university graduate
education centers; and related technical assistance. The main
benefits of the project would be to increase the proportion of
university teachers holding advanced degrees from 15% to 35%;
improve the quality of educational materials, teaching methods
and research; and increase management capacity for administra-
tion and pLanning of higher education. A major risk is the
difficulty in coordinating implementation by the various
participating entities, especially to ensure program quality
and spread of impact throughout the university system. To
reduce this risk the project would strengthen existing
arrangements for managing graduate studies. For example, a
National Graduate Education Council would be established, with
representatiot. from all major universities, key government
policy makers and outstanding authorities in their respective
fields, to facilitate coordination and provide high-level
policy and technical advice. In addition, the project would
include in-depth annual implementation reviews.
This document has a resricted distribution and may be used by recipiets only in the performance  |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs: /a                                 Local    Foreign    Total
…(Us$ million)           -
Development of graduate education
Overseas Graduate Degree Training              1.4      28.5       29.9
In-service Non-degree Training                 9.8      13.2       23.0
Instructional Materials                        6.8       5.0       11.8
Graduate Level Research                        4.1       3.0        7.1
Physical Facilities and Equipment             12.7      29.7       42.4
Visiting Scholars                              5.6       7.1       12.7
Incremental Staff Salaries, Consumable
Materials and Operation and Maintenance  38.7          8.2       46.9
Subtotal                               79.1       94.7      173.8
Improvement of undergraduate education
Overseas Graduate Degree Training              0.3       6.2        6.5
Curriculum Development /b                       -        0.7        0.7
Subtotal                                0.3        6.9        7.2
Strengthening of planning and management /c   0.8          0.7        1.5
Total Baseline Cost                    80.2      102.3      182.5
Physical contingencies                           8.0      10.2       18.2
Price contingencies                             21.5      22.3       43.8
Total Project Costs                   109.7      134.8      244.5
Financing Plan:                                     Local    Foreign    Total
---- (US$ million)    -
IBRD                                            12.2     134.8      147.0
Government                                      97.5        -        97.5
Total                                    109.7      134.8      244.5
/a   Import duties or taxes would be negligible and hence have not been
identified separately in project costs.
/b   Costs for this activity are the visiting scholars who will assist
curriculum and materials development.
/c   Includes US$0.3 million for visiting scholars.



- iii -
Estimated
Disbursements:
Bank FY       1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
------------ --- TUS$ milio- ---  -
Annual                        4.5   13.6   22.6   29.4   36.2   36.2    4.5
Cumulative                    4.5   18.1   40.7   70.1  106.3  142.5  147.0
Rate of Return: Not applicable.
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 5354-IND, dated April 26, 1985.
Map:  IBRD No. 18230- Location of Project Institutions.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC
OF INDONESIA FOR A SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of US$147 million to help
finance a Second University Development Project. The loan would have a term
of 20 years, including five years of grace, at the standard variable interest
rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY V
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social Pro-
gress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979), was
distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979, and a country
economi= memorandum has been prepared in each subsequent year. The latest of
these, entitled "Indonesia: Policies and Prcspects for Economic Growth and
Transformation" (No. 5066-IND dated April 26, 1984), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on May 2, 1984. Annex I gives selected social and econo-
mic indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread across
an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands with a land area of about two mil-
lion sq km. It now has a population of over 155 million, growing at about
2.1Z p.a., and is the world's fifth most populous nation. The country has a
diversified resource base, with plentiful primary energy resources, signifi-
cant mineral deposits, large timber potential and a developed system of agri-
cultural commodity production and export. A high proportion of these primary
resources are located on the sparsely populated islands of Sumatra ana
Kalimantan, while two-thirds of the population live on Java, which has areas
with some of the highest rural population densities in the world. About a
quarter of the population lives in urban areas, and the current rate of urban
population growth is about 4Z p.a.  The 1983 estimate of GNP V r capita is
US$560, which places Indonesia among middle income countries.-
1/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Fourth
Population Project (No. P-4026-IND), circulated under cover of R85-104,
dated April 18, 1985, and submitted to the Executive Directors for
consideration on May 7, 1985.
2/   On the basis of the World Bank's system of country classification and
Atlas methodology for calculation of GNP.



-2-
Macroeconomic Developments and Resource Management
4.        Until 1981, the economy had been growing at almost 8% p.a. for over
a decade. This growth was associated with rapid increases in public expendi-
tures, total investment and savings. The initial impetus for this occurred in
the period of recovery from the turbulence of the mid-1960s. The Government
of Indonesia (GOI) took effective action to restore macroeconomic stability,
liberalize the economy, rehabilitate infrastructure, and provide incentives
for domestic and foreign private investment. Hovever, the dominant externaL
influence over the past decade has been the huge expansion, and significant
variability, in foreign exchange earnings from oil. Net exports from the oil
and gas sector rose from US$0.6 billion in 1973/74 to US$10.6 billion in
1980/81, when the current account enjoyed a surplus of US$2.1 billion. Oil
receipts also provided about 60% of Central Government receipts by 1980/81 and
helped finance a sustained increase in demand. The pattern of expenditures
has also helped foster diversified growth. Of particular note has been the
support for agriculture, through investment in infrastructure, support ser-
vices and effective use of subsidies to maintain producer incentives. This
supported an agricultural growth rate of almost 4% p.a. over the past decade,
and movement towards self-sufficiency in rice. Manufacturing also enjoyed a
high growth rate during the 1970s (of about 14% p.a.), although this was from
a very low base and predominantly oriented toward the protected domestic
market.
5.        During 1982, the Indonesian economy was affected adversely by the
protracted international recession and the accompanying decline in export
earnings, especially from oil. These developments led to a sharp turnaround
in Indonesia's external resource position and a fall in real per capita
incomes. In response, the Government acted promptly to ensure that the
country's balance of payments situation was manageable and to provide a basis
for longer-term structuraL transformation. Particular attention was raid to
reducing Indonesia's dependence on oil for export earnings and public
revenues. Specific measures introduced over the past two years include:
(a)  a 287. devaluation of the rupiah against the US dollar in March 1983,
without any change in the policy of full convertibility;
(b) a major rephasing (postponement/cancellation) of large-scale and
import-intensive public investments, especially in the industrial
sector;
tc) successive price increases for petroleum products, which have
largely eliminated domestic subsidies;
(d)  a far-reach.ng financial reform, including the liberalization of
interest rates and the abandonment of credit ceilings; and
(e) introduction of a comprehensive tax reform program, aimed at
increasing government revenues by broadening the tax base,
simplifying the structure of rates and improving administration.



6.        These measures, aided by more favorable trends in the world economy,
are already having their desired impact. Non-oil GDP rose by an estimated 4Z
during 1983 and the balance of payments situation is improving. In particu-
lar, the current account deficit was reduced from US$7.3 billion (8.4% of GNP)
in 1982/83 to an estmaced US$2.7 billion (3.5% of GNP) in 1984/85. The major
factors responsible for this improvement are import cuts, resulting from the
Government's efforts to curb aggregate demand, and higher export earnings from
non-oil products, due to recovery in the industrial countries and the Govern-
ment's policies to promote non-oiL exports. The Government's restraint is also
evident in the budget, where real expenditures have probably fallen over the
past three years. This fiscal discipline, in turn, helped keep domestic
inflation down to about 12% in 1983 and 9% in 1984, despite the inevitable
pressures associated with the 1983 devaluation and the petroleum price
adjustments.
Policies for Medium-Term Growth and Transformation
7.        Sustained growth of the nonoil economy by at least 5Z p.a. is proba-
bly necessary to have a significant impact on employment creation and poverty
alleviation over the remainder of this decade. To promote such a growth rate,
without generating unmanageable balance of payments pressures, is one of the
major challenges facing the Government. Successful transformation of the
economy will require continued action in three key policy areas: management
of the public investment program (and improvements in the regulatory/policy
environment for private investment), rationalization of the external trade
regime and development of the financial sector.
8.        The projected import constraint imposes serious limitations on the
rate at which Indonesia can undertake new invescments over the next few
years. At the same time, some reallocation of resources towards agriculture
and the social sectors might be justified, in order to reduce the import con-
tent of investment while still meeting the Government's employment objec-
tives. It is therefore important that mechanisms are established to facili-
tate orderly and rational adjustments to the public investment program. Pos-
sible options include preparation of multi-year expenditure plans (at least
for the larger projects), identification of a core program of high priority
projects and strengthening of project appraisal/selection procedures. The
Government is also considering ways to improve project implementation, so that
investment returns can be realized more promptly. Given the budgetary con-
straints, it is expected that the private sector will be called upon to play
an increasingly important role in capital formation. To encourage this pro-
cess, the Government announced in August 1983 that there would be a major
overhaul of the regulatory framework for private investment, with the objec-
tive of simplifying and streamLining the licensing system.
9.        The recent decline in the price of oil has clearly demonstrated the
importance of reducing the economy's heavy dependence on a single source of
foreign exchange and, more generally, the need to rationalize the external
trade regime. The Government has set a target of doubling non-oil exports in
nominal terms over the next five years. This target should be attainable
provided that economic recovery in the industrial economies is sustained,
Indonesia's access to those markets is not constrained by protectionist



- 4 -
measures and, most importantly, Indonesia follows appropriate trade and
exchange rate policies. The Government has already introduced a range of
export promotion measures intended to improve export incentives, ensure ready
access to finance for exporters, raise product quality and enhance marketing
capacity. However, over the longer term, there is no effective substitute for
comprehensive trade reform. On the import side, Indonesia's trade regime has
been characterized by a predilection for high tariffs and quantitative
restrictions. The difficult external payments situation faced by the country
since 1982 has reinforced this tendency. There are strong arguments for
adopting trade and industrial policies which provide more equal incentives for
supplying the domestic and export markets. A comprehensive program of import
policy reforms might incLude a rollback of import bans, gradual reductions in
tariffs, adjustment assistance to industries affected by import liberaLization
and anti-dumping legislation to protect domestic industries from unfair
competition. Such measures would help to improve the efficiency and competi-
tiveness of the economy.
10.       The Government's decision to move towards a more liberal financial
environment raises a number of issues relating to resource mobilization,
financial intermediation and credit aLlocation. Over the longer term, as the
scope for subsidized credit is reduced, the banking system will have to play
an increasingly important role in mobilizing domestic resources. However,
during the transition period, some potential conflicts between the resource
mobilization and credit allocation objectives could arise. For example, the
increase in deposit rates following the recent financial reforms, while
encouraging resource mobilization, has also led to high real lending rates
which have tended to dampen investment and credit demand. This in turn may
restrain economic activity. It is therefore important to find ways to reduce
the high intermediation costs of banks. Consideration should also be given to
other ways of mobilizing financial resources, including development of a
capital market, expansion oE the banking network (especially in rural areas)
and selective relaxation of restrictions on private banks (combined with
increased bank supervision).
Incomes, Employment and Human Development
11.       Indonesia's physical, human and economic resources are very unevenly
distributed between irs main regions. Java, for example, accounts for almost
50% of Indonesia's GDP and 62% of its population, but only 7% of its Land
area. Although all five of the country's main regions experienced rapid per
capita growth in the 1970s, regional differences in output tended to widen.
To a large extent, differences in performance are associated with the impor-
tance of the mineral sector, particularly petroleum. However, there are two
important processes at work in Indonesia which enable the benefits of growth
to be more evenly spread than indicated by output trends. The first of these
is migration. Between 1971 and 1980, 4.3 million people (or 16Z of the natu-
ral increase in population) resettled permanently in provinces outside those
of their birth. Approximately 1.7 million people moved from Java to the Other
Islands, of whom one million were resettled through the official transmigra-
tion program. There has also been substantial rural-urban migration both
between and within provinces. The second process is the redistribution of
income through the government budget. Regional variations in per capita con-



sumption are much less pronounced than differences in per capita output. This
is largely due to the impact of taxation on the oil sector.
12.       An analysis of household expenditures indicates that Indonesia's
rapid economic development has been accompanied by significant progress in
reducing poverty. Between 1970 and 1980, the proportion of the population
living in poverty declined from 57% to 40%; the decline was particularly rapid
in the Other Islands and in urban areas. The core of the poverty problem con-
tinues to be in rural Java, where landless laborers form a large, and possibly
rising, proportion of the population and where, for most of the 1970s, there
is little evidence of any rise in real agricultural wages. The 1979-81 bumper
rice harvests appear to have led to improvements in wages and incomes in Java,
while agricultural incomes in parts of the Other Islands dependent on export
crops declined. This situation may have been reversed following the 1983 de-
valuation, but evidence on this is still inconclusive.
13.       In the future, the availability of productive employment wiLl be a
key determinant of income distribution. As compared to the 1970s, the growth
in the labor force is expected to increase over the next decade (to about 2.7%
p.a.) while economic growth will be lower. The resultant squeeze in the labor
market is not expected to lead to a dramatic increase in unemployment but
there is a serious risk of stagnant or declining labor income in both rural
areas and the urban informal sector. Given the balance of payments constraint
facing the country, Indonesia's empLoyment outlook depends crucially on the
pattern of economic growth. Although over the long term the structural shift
in employment away from agriculture should continue, this sector will. still
account for half or more of total employment and the growth in agricultural
incomes will be an important determinant of job opportunities elsewhere in the
economy. It is therefore important to maintain an appropriate policy on agri-
cultural mechanization (e.g., by ensuring purchases of equipment are at econo-
mic prices), to -?read labor demand on Java throughout the agricultural year
(e.g., by improving water resource management and development) and to encou-
rage agricultural development on the Other Islands. It is also important that
public expenditures are increasingly directed toward sectors, such as social
programs and rural infrastructure, which generate employment or ease the bur-
den of adjustment on the poor. For the private sector, the Covernment needs
to ensure that incentives appropriately reflect the priority for labor-
intensive investments.
14.       There has been substantial progress in extending the provision of
social services throughout the population. Universal enrollment in primary
education has been virtually achieved and the enrollment rate in secondary
schools is now about 35%. However, the weak educational base of the popula-
tion continues to be a major obstacle to rapid economic development and a
substantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education will be
necessary as well as a major effort to raise the quality of the whole
system. In the health sector, there has been a large expansion in facilities,
notably at the sub-district level, but continued investment and an improvement
in quality will be necessary to increase effectiveness. This will have to be
complemented by a major expansion in water supply and sanitation if the
improvement in indices of mortality and morbidity during the 1970s is to be
maintained. By 1981, only 18% of the rural and 40% of the urban population



-6-
had access to safe water, compared with government targets of 60% and 75%,
respectively, for 1990.
External Capital Flows
15.       The recent improvement in Indonesia's balance of payments situation
is evidence of the Government's commitment to manage short-term economic
shocks. The ongoing program of economic reforms should also help to hold the
current account deficit to sustainable levels over the medium term. Even so,
continued resource transfers from abroad will still be essential if the
Covernment's modest growth targets (5X p.a.) for the next five years are to be
achieved. Staff projections indicate that new public medium- and long-term
(MLT) borrowing will have to average about US$5.2 billion p.a. over the next
three years, including about US$2.5 billion p.a. of official development assi-
stance and the balance from import-related credits and untied borrowing.
Indonesia is well placed to arrange the necessary financing on reasonable
terms; the profile of existing debts is good and a comfortable level of exter-
nal reserves has been rebuilt over the past year.
16.       Total public debt outstanding at the end of 1983 was estimated at
US$21.7 billion, with an additional US$13.0 billion of undisbursed commit-
ments. Of the total debt disbursed and outstanding, official assistance (in-
cluding non-concessional multilateral aid) accounts for 50% and obligations at
variable interest rates for only 23%; there is no short-term public debt. The
average maturity of public MLT debt at the end of 1983 is estimated at
15 years. The Government continues to manage its external debt quite prudent-
ly. Until 1982, Indonesia had succeeded in maintaining its public debt service
ratio, based on net exports (i.e., net of oil sector imports), at or below
20%. However, because of the sharp drop in oil export receipts over the past
three years, the ratio rose to 26% in 1984. With the projected levels and
composition of borrowings and export earnings, Indonesia's public debt service
ratio, again based on net exports, would rise to about 30% in 1989 and then
gradually decline in later years. With private MLT debt included, the total
debt service ratio, based on the conventional concept of gross exports, would
rise from 21% in 1984 to around 24% in 1989 and decline back to 21% by 1995.
While debt management will require careful attention in the coming years, the
projected debt service ratios are not excessive by international standards.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA 31
17.       As of March 31, 1985 Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits totalling
US$938.5 million (less cancellations), and 93 Bank loans amounting to
US$7,021.0 million (less cancellations). IFC commitments totalled US$163.2
million. Annex II contains a surmmary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC in-
vestments as of March 31, 1985. The share of the Bank Group in Indonesia's
3/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Fourth
Population Project (No. P-4026-IND), circulated under cover of R85-104,
dated April 18, 1985, and submitted to the Executive Directors for
consideration on May 7, 1985.



total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1983 was 13.1Z, and
the share of debt service, 10.3% compared with 13.3% and 7.92, respectively,
in 1982. From 1968 untiL 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through IDA.
Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commodity and oil
price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's Lending in the remainder
of the 1970s was through IBRD loans, with a modest amount of IDA lending being
justified primarily on poverty grounds, as the per capita GNP was well below
the IDA cutoff level. IDA lending was discontinued in FY80. Given the criti-
cal importance of agricuLture (including transmigraKcon) L£r employment, food
security and exports, ovr- onc-third u: Bank Group-assisted projects have been
in this sector- In addition, loans and credits have been extended to virtual-
Iy all other sectors of the economy, including transportation, education,
urban development, water supply, rural development, industrial development
financing (including small-scale industry), power, telecommunications, popula-
tion and nutrition, and technical assistance.
18.       During Repelitas I (1969-74) and II (1974-79), and in line with the
objectives of these first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group
lending was directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expan-
sion of infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also
given to meeting the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance
needed for preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III (1979-
84), published in early L979, stressed the need for continued high growth and
stability, but departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on
more equitable income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which
was fully in line with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required
greater attention to empLoyment generation (particularly in the industrial
sector) and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was
already consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis has been given to
these priorities. However, the adverse economic developments that occurred in
the latter half of the pLan period and the measures taken to address them, led
to a reshaping of development objectives for Repelita IV (1984-89). These
emphasize restoring growth of incomes and employment while continuing finan-
cial prudence, promoting structural change toward a more diversified economy,
and maintaining efforts to improve income distribution and alleviate pov-
erty. This shift in focus has underscored the need to follow through on
reforms that have already been initiated, seek increased efficiencies in the
economy, mobilize domestic resources to finance needed investments and
recurrent expenditures, and foster a policy environment conducive to the
achievement of required changes.
19.       The Bank has geared its lending and economic work program to address
these needs and to maintain a high level of resource transfer. The approach
is to continue to emphasize the ongoing dialogue on economic policy that has
been a cornerstone of the Bank's relationship with the Government for many
years, and to coordinate discussion of macroeconomic issues with advice on
institutional and policy reform in important sectors and subsectors, coupled
with lending operations and technical assistance that meet priority needs and
support institutional improvements in specific areas. Emphasis in economic
work is being given to trade and industrial issues, development of the
financial system, and public resource management. In the lending program,
agriculture continues to receive the most attention. However, the program is



- 8 -
broadly based, and includes increasing emphasis on education and human
resource development. Continued attention is being given to power and energy,
where the Bank is concentrating on policies to diversify Indonesia's energy
base, rationalize pricing and improve sector planning. In transportation, the
Bank is focussing on efficiency improvements in the maritime sector and on
improving the national network of highways and rural roads. In urban
development and water supply, lending is being directed more and more to
developing innovative low-cost solutions, providing for cost recovery and
strengthening local institutions, in order to minimize demands on the
Government budget and decentralize the responsibility for addressing basic
needs.  In aLl, the Bank's lending program is intended to contribute about 20%
of Indonesia's capital requirements during the next three years and is
expected to be an important catalyst in attracting other funds. Where
possible, we are seeking also to widen the impact of Bank lending through
technical assistance, as well as complementary investments and coordinated
policy dialogue with other donors. This is especially true in our lending
programs for power, urban development, water supply and transportation.
20.       There haz,been a notable improvement in the Last few years in the
disbursement ratio-/ from a low of 132 in FY80 to over 19% in FY84.  The poor
FY80 ratio was in large part merely a result of the rapid increase in
commitments during the FY77-79 period, when total Bank/IDA commitments to
Indonesia increased by 122% compared to a Bank-wide increase of 831. However,
it also reflected implementation difficulties arising out of the Government's
budgetary, procurement and payment procedures, as well as the severe shortage
of managerial and technical manpower in Indonesia. A number of steps have
been taken by the Government and the Bank to address these issues. Several
special Bank missions have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems and make
recommendations for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures. The
Government and the Bank have also instituted formal and regular joint review
procedures to identify general and project-specific problems and work out
corrective measures. Procurement seminars were held in Jakarta in September
1979, November 1981 and May 1984. As a consequence of these joint
initiatives, the Government has taken measures to streamline some of the
complex budgetary and financial procedures affecting project implementation.
In addition, in order to reduce disbursement delays due to initial project
implementation difficulties, many operations are now being presented for Board
consideration at a later stage in the project cycle. The combined effects of
all of these activities are reflected in the increase in disbursements from
US$206 million in FY79 to US$764 million in FY84. It is nevertheless clear
that continued efforts to improve project implementation and the pace of
disbursements are req,.ired, as Indonesia continues to show a disbursement
ratio below the Bank-wide average.  A number of initiatives are underway.  The
Bank is helping the Covernment in a special effort to identify problems in the
construction industry with a view to developing ap2ropriate remedial actions
and policies, as weaknesses in the domestic contracting industry have been
identified as one of the major causes of implementation problems in
4/   The ratio of actual disbursements during the fiscal year to the
cumulative undisbursed amount at the beginning of the fiscal year.



Indonesia. Efforts are also underway to develop standardized tender documents
in order to speed the procurement process, and to improve project monitoring
and land acquisition procedures. It is the Bank's and the Government's
intention to devote continued attention to these and other aspects of project
implementation in the coming year, in order to ensure that maximum benefit is
realized from the Government's investments.
PART III - THE HIGHER EDUCATION SUBSECTOR
Background
21.       The shortage of trained manpower, especially technical, profes-
sional, and managerial, constitutes one of the most pressing constraints to
sustained economic development in Indonesia. If development programs are to
be implemented as planned, human resource development should continue to
receive high priority during the coming decade.
22.       The educational system has made impressive gains during the last ten
years in expanding access to education and improving the skills of the labor
force. At the primary level, enrollments grew from 13.0 million in 1972 to
24.7 million in 1982; universal access to grade one of primary school has
virtually been achieved; and dropout and repetition rates have declined during
the last decade despite rapid enrollment increases. Enrollment at the junior
secondary level tripled from 1.4 million in 1971 to 4.3 million in 1982, and
the enrollment rate has reached 41Z of the age cohort. At the senior
secondary level, enrollment grew from 0.6 million in 1971 to 2.3 million in
19.2, about half of which is in public schools. The resuLting enrollment rate
i 24Z.
23.       ta.a number of university students increased from 10,000 in 1950 to
250,000 in 1975 and 810,000 in 1983, equivalent to an annual growth rate of
about 15% in the last decade. Nonetheless, university enrcllment is still
relatively low, and much of the education has been of inadequate quaLity.
Enrollments were only about 4Z of the total age cohort in 1983, which compares
favorably with enrollment ratios in other countries in the region, except for
Korea, the Philippines, and Singapore which have enrollment ratios of about
22Z, 21X, and 8Z respectively. Ho-wever, in relation to the needs for skilled
manpower, the capacity of the higher education subsector is seriously
deficient.  Substantial investments are required, both to increase enrollments
and to improve the quality of education.
24.       There are about 480 tertiary institutions (universities, academies,
colleges, and institutes) in indcnesia, of which more than 400 are private.
The 30 public universities and 95 private universities had an enrollment in
1983/84 of about 455,000 students and 355,000 students, respectively. The
Government has set an enrollment target of 8.2Z of the university age cohort
for the Fourth Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita IV, 1984-89). Reaching
this goal would require a twofold increase in enrollments to about 1.6 million
students over the life of the Plan. Rapid growth in public tmiversity
enrollment is planned at all levels: undergraduate (S1) students in natural
science, engineering, agriculture, economics, and social science would



- 10 -
increase from about 200,000 in 1983/84 to about 330,000 in 1989/90; master's
tS2) students in these fields from 1,750 to about 4,200; and doctoral (S3)
students from 345 to about 635 during the plan period.
25.       The development of the higher educatien subsector will require an
increase in the proportion of university teachers holding advanced degrees.
At present, only about 15X of academic staff in the natural sciences and about
9% in the social sciences hold advanced degrees (Master's or PhD). About
8,100 additional university teachers will be required during the Plan period,
and 3,200 of these will require advanced degrees.
26.       Investments in higher education in Indonesia have a high social rate
of return. Estimates based on 1978 data for urban males indicate social rates
of return to higher education of 15Z. Another estimate shows a social rate of
return to undergraduate education of 18%, and a rate of return to graduate
education (S2 level) of 21%.
Issues in Higher Education
27.       The basic issues in the higher education subsector incLude:  (a) low
internal efficiency; (b) staff shortages; (c) poor quality of instruction and
research; (d) inadequate planning and management; and (e) underfinancing of
the system.
28.       Low Internal Efficiency.  Owing to the low educational attainment of
the faculty, insufficient time devoted by staff to teaching duties, inadequate
physical facilities, and limited financial aid for students, the ratio of
graduating students to total enrollment is relatively low. The average
faculty-student contact time has been as low as four instructional hours per
week. The average length of time for a student to complete a four-year degree
program is 6-8 years, due to the unavailability of senior professor- for
advice on thesis requirements, the necessity of many students to work to meet
the private costs of attending university, and the inadequacy of appropriate
course offerings. Internal efficiency, however, has been improving since the
late 1970s, especially after the introduction of the credit system (which
provides flexibility in meeting course requirements) and the reduction of
thesis requirements for graduation. Internal efficiency should improve
further with the planned upgrading of teaching staff qualifications.
29.       University Staff Requirements.  The proposed expansion of the
university system further increases the demand for higher level university
teachers. Reaching the Repelita IV targets will require a massive effort:
even if a large proportion of all new teaching staff have only SI degrees, the
annual number of domestic S2 and S3 graduates must be increased substantially
by 1988/89 and a large proportion of graduates retained as university faculty.
30.       Quality of University Instruction and Research.  The quality of
instruction and research in higher education is adversely affected by the
paucity of inputs. There is a serious shortage of textbooks and other
instructional materials in the Indonesian language. Library holdings are, in
general, extremely few in number and limited in scope. Students and faculty
often have little access to Laboratory facilities and limited opportunity to



- 11 -
baLance theoretical cLassroom learning with practical applications. The
amount of graduate-level laboratory equipment is insufficient and much of what
is availabLe is obsolete or in need of repair. Compounding the problem of
inadequate physical inputs is the low level of educational attainment and
scholarly productivity of university staff. A major means of improving the
quality of university instruction would be to increase the number of staff
holding graduate degrees. Graduate training programs were begun in Indonesia
in 1975 in six universities and three teacher training colleges. Between 1976
and 1982, only about 840 individuals received advanced degrees. While the
establishment of graduate programs is a major accomplishment, their current
quaLity and internal efficiency is insufficient given the overall demand for
university level instructors.  In addition, the amount and quality of
scholarly productivity is low. A recent survey showed that less than one-
fourth of faculty are actively conducting research. Such research is
typically feasibility or evaluation studies and not the type of basic research
required to nurture the development of an active scientific community. For
the most part, university research has been uncoordinated and determined
primarily by the requirements of funding sources. It also lacks the means to
establish and maintain priorities and disseminate findings.
31.       Inadequate University Planning and Management.  Planning and manage-
ment capacity is limited at both the national and local Levels. At the
national Level, the Directorate General of Higher Education (DOHE) is con-
strained by the absence of a permanent cadre of professional staff and
underdeveloped planning, monitoring, and management information systems. This
is compounded by weak lines of authority to the local level and inadequate
qualitative and financial control. At the university level, the management
structure suffers from limited administrative capacity, lack of a clear scheme
of service, lack of continuity among managers, poor coordination among
faculties and departments, and the absence of nationwide standards and
performance data. The Government is planning to address some of the more
urgent features of this problem through the establishment of Inter-University
Centers and a National Graduate Education Council (paragraphs 40 and 53-54
beLow). The problem is also being considered under ongoing sector work.
32.       Financing University Education.  In Indonesia, education expen-
ditures represent about 9Z of total central government expenditures, which is
significantly lower than in other middle income countries in the region, such
as Thailand (21%) and the Philippines (142). In 1984/85, the total routine
and development budget of the DGHE was almost US$250 million, about 19% of the
Ministry of Education budget.
33.       The planned expansion of the university system will require a signi-
ficant change in the composition of education sector finances, in favor of
higher and secondary education and away from primary education. In recent
years, 87% of recurrent expenditures in public universities has been provided
by Government. Although all universities charge tuition and entrance fees,
moderate increases in tuition fees at public universities have not kept pace
with inflation. Opportunities for greater cost recovery from those who can
shoulder the burden need to be explored. For those who cannot, student loan
or scholarship schemes should be developed. Such adjustments would increase
the financial feasibility of a rapid expansion of public higher education, and



- 12 -
at the same time, increase educational opportunity. While GOI is reluctant to
increase tuition fees further, mostly on equity grounds, there is a relatively
modest student loan program, which assists cost recovery. If this program
were expanded, tuition fees could be raised, increasing the level of cost
recovery while granting student loans to the poorer students, giving access to
higher education to all groups and reducing subsidy levels. Students,
however, have to pay private boarding costs, as most universitites lack
residential facilities, so there is virtually no subsidization of student
living costs. The overall level of cost recovery in Indonesian higher educa-
tion (public and private) is relatively high, since about half of all Indone-
sian students are enrolled in private universities, where full cost recovery
is the norm.  Financial aspects of higher education in Indonesia are being
reviewed (see paragraph 47 beLow), and this work should result in specific
proposals for further improvements in cost recovery in the public system. A
major expansion of investment in higher education will not represent a major
burden on the Government, if the education budget is reallocated from primary
to higher education, and efforts are made to support the dynamic private
sector, which accounts for about half of total higher education enrollment.
34.       The Government recognizes the need for continued development of the
private system. The Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC) provides
necessary subsidies, guidance, and encouragement through the Directorate of
Private Universities. This includes "seed money" to foster the growth of the
system itself, provision of full-time lecturers, cash grants for buildings and
rehabilitation, and the provision of classroom or laboratory equipment. While
their routine operations are financed almost entirely from student fees,
private universities are severely constrained in development funds. Expansion
and improvements are limited by the unavailability of soft loans. Given
proper incentives and financial availability, the growth of the private
university system could be accelerated, reducing some of the pressure on the
public university system, and thus relieving the Government of a heavy
recurrent budgetary burden. The Government is currently studying possibil-
ities for assisting the private sector further.
35.       One consequence of inadequate financing for the subsector is that
faculty salaries in the public universities are low in comparison to those
obtained by professional and scientific manpower in the private sector. Most
university professors hold several jobs and consultancies, cutting actual
teaching and preparation time to only a few hours each week. Recent wage
increases for university faculty of about 27% should help to alleviate this
problem. However, the Bank and the MEC continue to study the overall
incentive structure for university employees through the sector work program.
Government Strategy
36.       The Government's sector strategy is to provide a broad-based educa-
tional system, formal and non-formal, which will produce the trained manpower
necessary for increasing national agricultural productivity, expanding indus-
trial capacity and improving the country's basic infrastructure. In the near
future, expatriate manpower, short-term training programs, and on-the-job
training will help to bridge some of the gaps between supply and demand for
higher level manpower. In the long term, substantial investment in education



- 13 -
beyond the primary level will be required to increase the output of profes-
sional, technical and managerial manpower.
37.       During Repelita III, the Government began to establish a clear
direction for higher education. The Bank also began to be involved through
financing the first University Development Project (Ln. 1904-IND) which
included agreement on several sub-sector policy targets. Progress in the
achievement of these targets is discussed in paragraphs 44-45 below.
38.       In an effort to alleviate manpower shortages, the Government has set
ambitious targets for the growth of the university system during Repelita IV,
which imply rapid growth in all levels of public university enrollment. For
example, the number of public university SI teachers in natural science,
engineering, agriculture, economics, and social science wouLd nave to increase
from about 12,000 in 1982/83 to over 18,000 in 1988/89.
39.       To enhance the quality of public university teaching, the Government
wishes to increase the proportion of university teachers holding advanced
degrees from 15% to 35% by the end of the decade. The most effective short-
term means of doing this would be through the mounting of a large overseas
training program in conjunction with the expansion and strengthening of
existing domestic graduate programs. In addition, the Government proposes to
expand its in-service faculty upgrading program, to increase the output of
local instructional materials and to enhance scholarly productivity through
the development of a competitive open grants research program. The Government
plans to establish 16 Inter-University Graduate Education Centers (IUCs) as
vehicles for implementing these programs.
40.       Inter-University Centers.  As early as the 1970s, the Government was
discussing the establishment of "centers of excellence." Effectively, the
first IUC (center of excellence) was set up in forestry at Samarinda Univer-
sity. IUCs are intended to concentrate resources, reduce duplication of
facilities, and keep down the recurrent costs of higher education. An IUC
would consist of a complex of equipment, materials, facilities, and buildings,
staffed by academic and technical experts belonging to related core disci-
plines with the main purpose of supporting various programs of study and
research at the graduate level. The IUCs would provide research support,
develop instructional materials, service degree and non-degree training pro-
grams for graduate students and faculty, and facilitate scholarly interaction
among faculty and researchers throughout the country. IUCs would be physically
located in and managed by a lead university. These centers would serve the
needs of several campuses in specialized fields (paras. 53-54).
Bank Group Role
41.       Since 1977, the Bank has financed five higher education projects in
Indonesia, involving total lending of about US$250 millioa. These include two
teacher training projects, two polytechnics projects, and a university devel-
opment project. In December 1983, the Bank joined the Government in launching
a Higher Education Sector Study (para. 47 below). OED Project Performance
Audit Reports (PPARs) have been prepared for two education projects in Indone-
sia and the lessons learned have been incorporated in the design of the pro-



- 14 -
posed project. The PPAR for the Technical Education Project (Cr. 219-IND)
(No. 2998, dated June 2, 1980? SecM80-440) stressed the importance of includ-
ing fellowships for development of teachers and school administrators and
appointing key staff for project implementation in a timely manner. The PPAR
for the first Agricultural Training Project (Cr. 288-IND) (No. 3508, dated
June 30, 1980, SecM80-527) stressed the importance of advanced preparation and
the need for carefully designed technical assistance components.
42.       Teacher Training.  The first and seconc Teacher Training Projects
(Ln. 1433-IND and Ln. 2101-IND) were designed to assist formal basic education
through an expansion of the system as well as the upgrading of teachers and
educational administrators. These projects supported the development and
implementation of new curricula, the expansion and improvement of facilities
for pre-service and in-service training, and the development of new curricula
and policies for special education.
43.       Polytechnics.  The two polytechnics projects (Cr. 869-IND and
Ln. 2290-IND) were designed to assist the Government to increase the supply of
middle-level manpower through the expansion and diversification of the poly-
technic system. The first project initiated the construction, furnishing and
equipping of six polytechnics, a Technician Educator Development Center, and
four Accountancy Development Centers. The polytechnics have been in operation
since September 1982, and their output is expected to increase the supply of
trained technicians by 45Z. The second project was designed to increase the
number and distribution of polytechnics, broaden the curricula, and strengthen
poLytechnic planning and management capacities. The annual output of
polytechnic diploma holders is expected to increase from about 1,500 in 1985
to around 6,000 in 1989.
44.       University Development.  The first University Development Project
(Ln. 1904-IND), in 1980, was designed as the first phase of a long-term
program to strengthen university management and policy and raise the quality
and number of graduates in engineering, science, agriculture, and economics at
the Universities of Indonesia (UI), Gadjah Mada (UGM), and Andalas.
45.       Most of the policy targets are well on the way to being reached.  In
1980, university instructors were teaching an average of four hours per
week. In 1983, DGHE Directive No. 48 stipulated that the teacher workload
should be 12 hours per week. Staff to student ratios have improved from about
i:30 in 1980 to about 1:15 in 1984. The utilization rate for classrooms and
laboratories has increased over the past four years from below 50% to about
70%. Standard student evaluation schemes have been introduced and a semester
credit hour system is replacing the old system which relied exclusively on a
final examination. As a result, internal efficiency is rising. For example,
at Gadjah Mada University, the productivity index, which is the ratio of
graduates to total enrollment in a given year, rose from 7.6% in 1976 to 9.8%
in 1983, and the average length of study for 18 undergraduate programs was
reduced from 8.2 years in 1980 to 6.9 years in 1983. Gzants, scholarships and
the suspension of tuition fees for low-income students have been used to
increase access. University admission policies are undergoing major changes
to take more account of high school performance and to increase geographic
equity in university admissions. Based on a preliminary study financed under



- 15 -
the project, a new admissions policy was introduced in 1984 revising the
multiple entrance examination system into a single standardized system.
Further work on examination reform is being financed under the recently-
approved Secondary Education and Management Training Project (Ln. 2472-IND).
Policies on staff incentives are still under study.
46.       The first University Development Project has nonetheless encountered
implementation problems. There was a two-year delay in the signing of the
technical assistance contract with the Mid-Western University Consortium for
International Assistance (MUCIA) in the United States, which delayed the ap-
pointment of visiting professors. Progress was particularly slow in campus
planning and site development, resulting in slow formulation of building
proposals. Two of the three universities have recently signed contracts for
professional services to finalize detailed campus master plans. The next cri-
tical step is the development of a strategy for the implementation of the cam-
pus plan and the construction of the various building packages. Procurement
of equipment and books has been slow, and subject to prolonged government
scrutiny. Overall project management has been weak, especially in the coor-
dination of activities and progress reporting. Financial management under the
local Project Implementation Units (PIUs) is also weak, as is overall control
of the budget under the Office of University Planning and Development (P3T).
Steps to improve coordination between P3T and PIUs in the proposed Second
University Development Project would also benefit the first project. With the
signing of the technical assistance contract (representing about 38% of
project expenditures), the appointment of a new project manager, and the
recent completion of the University of Indonesia master plan, project
implementation has recently begun to improve.
47.       Higher Education Sector Study.  DGHE, with Bank/UNESCO support, has
organized a program of sector work in higher education, involving alL major
donor agencies. The program will gather basic data on the subsector, and help
in the identification of future investment priorities and the necessary poli-
cies to make the system more efficient and financially sustainable. The pro-
gram consists of eight studies, which will focus on the following topics: the
management, efficiency and ptoductivity of higher education (public and pri-
vate); the internaL efficiency of the university system; occupational outcomes
of university graduates; university research activities; the development of
the humanities and social science education; and mathematics and science edu-
cation at universities and teacher training colleges. While the findings of
these studies are important to future development of the subsector, the needs
for staff development and quality improvement, in general, are so great that
proceeding with project assistance in these areas is already clearly justified.
48.       Research and Technology Development.  In addition to developing
research capacity in the university system, the Bank has recently appraised a
Research and Technology Training Project to strengthen the national research
institutes of the Ministry of State for Research and Technology. Linkages be-
tween the national research institutes and the university research programs
would be reinforced. Many institute researchers are part-time university
staff. The sharing of research facilities and the intellectual exchanges
among research programs is common. Stronger ties between these domestic



- 16 -
research programs and foreign institutions, and the strengthening of
professional standards and associations within the country, should also cata-
lyze domestic research development.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
49.       Higher education is a priority sub-sector for Bank participation,
based on a review of development priorities in Indonesia. The first
University Development Project was designed as the first phase in a longer-
term assistance program to the Indonesian university system, in order to
provide sufficient output and quality of high-leveL technical, scientific, and
managerial manpower needed for national economic arowth. Thc proposed project
would emphasize staff and institutional develo-.uent tor graduate education,
and thus prepare the way for the sustained development of the university
system in Indonesia, resulting in an easing of the skilled manpower shortage
and the more efficient implementation of development projects and programs in
all sectors.
50.       Bank long-term involvement in Indonesia's university system through
a parallel program of project assistance and sector analysis would continue to
be an important means of achieving gradual, but steady, progress in government
policies related to staff development and incentives, student admissions and
examinations, and the efficient organization and management of costly facili-
ties and equipment in the subsector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
51.       Ine proposed project was prepared by the Ministry of Education and
Culture, with the assistance of Bank and UNESCO staff. A Bank mission
appraised it in June 1984 and there was a post-appraisal mission in November
1984. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. on April 15-16, 1985. The
Indonesian delegation was led by Professor Sukadji Ranuwihardjo, Director Gen-
eral of Higher Education in the Ministry of Education and Culture. The Staff
Appraisal Report (No. 5354-IND) is being circulated separately. Supplementary
project data are provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
52.       The long-term objective of the project would be to strengthen
Indonesia's capacity to train its own university teachers and researchers.
This would be accomplished by: (a) the development of new graduate-level
programs in selected fields of study and research; (b) iLitiation of five
specialized undergraduate fields of study which are currently not available in
Indonesia; and (c) the strengthening of overall university planning and
management.
53.       The main thrust of the project would be the establishment of sixteen
inter-university centers (IUCs) and the provision of graduate fellowships to
about 845 university teaching staff. The IUCs would be located at five



- 17 -
universities - four of which are among the oldest and most prestigious
institutions of learning in the country: the University of Indonesia (UI) in
Jakarta, the University of Gadjah Mada (UGM) in Yogyakarta, the rnstitute of
Agriculture (IPB) in Bogor and the Institute of Technology (ITB) in Bandung.
The fifth institution - the Indonesia Open University (IOU) - was established
in September 1984 and would be the site of one IUC: a Center for thie
Improvement and Development of Instructional Activities. Two of these insti-
tutions - UI and UGH - are already receiving Bank assistance for undergraduate
purposes under the First University Development Project (Loan 1904-IND).
These campuses were chosen as the focus of the proposed project as they
already contain a critical mass of teaching staff, research programs and
support facilities to permit the effective development of new graduate
programs and their eventual extension to other universities in the country.
Detailed Features
54.       The project would consist of the following components and sub-
components:
(a) Development of Graduate Education (US$173.8 million excluding
contingencies). The IUCs would be established in the following
fields - life sciences, engineering, biotechnology, electronics,
food and nutrition, computer sciences, economics and social studies,
and instructional materials development - and would be supported in
a number of ways:
-  overseas graduate degree traji   (US$29.9 million):  provision
of about 600 man-years of master s and 1,100 man-years of
doctoral overseas training fellovships;
- in-service non-degree training (US$23.1 million): provision of
about 1,600 man-years of in-service training to IUC staff, mainly
in curriculum development, instructional methods, research
methodology and data processing, planning and management, and
professional subject matter development (mostly within
Indonesia);
- instructional materials (US$11.7 million): support for the
development of about 3,000 differing prototype instructional
materials in the Indonesian language (syllabi and lecture notes,
books and monographs, laboratory manuals and workbooks, computer
modules and audio-visual materials);
-  graduate research (US$7.1 million):  provision of grants, support
facilities and expert guidance to about 800 graduate students
undertaking thesis research in the areas of specialization of the
IUCs, including reproduction and dissemination of the research
results, and provision of research awards to about 270 university
teaching staff;



- 18 -
- physical facilities and equipment (US$42.4 million):
construction and equipping of classrooms, Laboratories, offices,
libraries and storage facilities for the sixteen IUCs;
- visiting scholars (US$12.7 miLlion): provision of about 6,900
man-months of technical assistance to support the implementation
of in-service training, the development of instructional
materials and the research support program; and
-  incremental staff, consumable materials and operation and
maintenance for the IUCs (US$46.9 million).
(b)  rmprovement of Undergraduate Education (US$7.2 million excluding
contingencies). This component would support the establishment of
five new undergraduate programs in computer and information science
and technology, material science and technology, marine sciences,
ocean engineering and gas technology. These programs would be
established at three of the project universities (UI, ITB and IPB)
and receive the following support from the project:
- overseas graduate degree training (US$6.5 million): 360 man-
years of overseas graduate fellowships to teaching staff of the
three universities which should be sufficient to ensure an
eventual output of 2,000 graduates per annum from the five under-
graduate programs; and
- curriculum development (US$0.7 million): provision of about 70
man-months of visiting scholars to support the development of
appropriate curricula and instructional materials for the new
programs.
'c) Strengthening of University Planning and Management (US$1.5 million
excluding contingencies). This component would support the estab-
lishment and strengther.iag of institutions to coordinate the devel-
opment of graduate education in Indonesia - including the setting up
of a National Graduate Education Council (NGEC). The project would
provide about 90 man-months of specialist services to assist DGHE in
enlarging its mandate, as well as to develop an improved management
information system. The component would also finance an expanded
management training program for university administrators, involving
about one-fourth of the existing rectors, deans and other senior
staff at public universities within Indonesia.                                  -
Project Implementation
55.       Academic and physical implementation of the project would be coordi-
nated by a Central Project Implementation Unit (CPIU) situated in the Direc-
torate General of Higher Education (DGHE). It would support a Local Project
Implementation Unit (LPIU) at each of the five project universities. The CPIU
would report to the Director General for Higher Education and submit quarterly
progress reports to the Bank. Each LPIU would be responsible to the CPIU for
the implementation of the project components of IUCs in its field. LPIUs



- 19 -
would have the same general organizational structure as the CPIU and would va-
ry in size depending upon the field project size. The establishment of the
CPIU and LPIUs, as well as the sixteen IUCs, would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section 5.01(a) of the draft Loan
Agreement); all other project institutions would be established and fully
staffed, in accordance with a management structure and organization
satisfactory to the Bank, by September 30, 1986 (Section 3.01(b) of the draft
Loan Agreement). The project would be implemented over a period of about six
years, starting in April 1985 and ending in December 1990. The Loan closing
date would be December 31, 1991.
56.       The Central and Local Project Implementation Units wouLd be assisted
by other bodies in supervising project activities. Staff development
activities, including the organization of fellowships, visiting scholars and
in-service training, would be coordinated by the Technical Assistance
Management Unit (TAMU) in DGHE. The development of prototype instructional
materials would be undertaken through collaborative workshops of staff from
the various graduate academic programs (IUCs) and the pedagogicaL staff of the
Center for the Improvement and Development of Instructional Activities (CIDIA)
established at the Open University, and would be coordinated by CIDIA. Each
IUC would manage its own research program, in consultation with a Planning and
Review Board (PARB) established for each field of study. The eligibility
criteria for all research allocations would be determined by the IUC Director
and Program Secretary in consultation with the appropriate PARB, which would
review all IUC research proposals and recommendations. Research proposals
would be judged on the basis of national development objectives and the IUC's
research priorities, their feasibility, clarity and size of budget, their
prospective contribution to knowledge, the capability and potential of the
researcher, and the contribution to student training. The introduction of
improved physical facilities and equipment at the IUCs would be coordinated
through the establishment or improvement of central analytical laboratories,
whose heads would be appointed by and report to the respective Deans of
Graduate Studies. These arrangements should serve to prevent possible
duplication of equipment and operating personnel on the university campuses.
Centers for Instrumentation and Technical Services would be established and
funded under the project at ITB, UGM and IPB to provide maintenance and repair
services for the IUCs and, eventually, to meet the needs of a wider research
community. The development of the new undergraduate curricula and
instructional materials would be overseen by a Working Group under the DGHE,
which would receive technical support from CIDIA.
57.       To ensure that the pool of possible overseas training candidates
will be as large as possible, the Government has waived its requirement that
civil servants studying abroad should have been employed for at least two
years prior to departure. Candidates would sign a "fellowship contract" which
required them to teach at a university for a period equivalent to twice the
period of time spent abroad plus an additional two years.
58.       In order to ensure smooth implementation and a forum for Bank com-
ment on annual plans, the project would include an annual Bank-DGHE project
review. As preparation for this review, the Government uould furnish for each
IUC to the Bank for review and comment by January 1 of each year, beginning



- 20 -
January 1, 1986: (a) an annual plan and program detailing degree and non-
degree staff training, research, and materials development, production and
distribution programs; (b) an annual budget; and (c) an annual pLan for
monitoring and data collection for project activities (Section 3.04 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
59.       The project would require three new sites:  a completely new site
for the Open University IUC, and sites for the extension of the ITB and UGM
campuses.  The Government gave assurances at negotiations that these sites
would be acquired by December 31, 1985 (Section 3.05 of the draft Loan
Agreement). Appointment of qualified architectural consulting firms for the
design and supervision of construction of the IUC facilities would be a condi-
tion of loan effectiveness (Section 5.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing Plan
60.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$244.5 million equi-
valent, of which US$134.8 million (55%) wouLd be in foreign exchange. Base
costs are expressed in April 1985 prices and include taxes and import duties,
which would be negligible. Construction costs of US$235/square mcter were
based on the costs of recently contracted works. Equipment costs were derived
from master equipment lists which have been reviewed and found appropriate in
scope and cost. Fellowship costs include average tuition fees and subsistence
costs, including housing and travel allowances, as well as administrative
costs and an initial three-month language training period. Overseas degree
fellowships were estimated at about US$18,000 per staff-year, while overseas
non-degree training was estimated ac about US$2,000 per staff-month for
internships (generally 6-12 months) and at about US$6,000 per staff-month for
conferences and seminars (up to one month). Domestic non-degree training was
estimated at an average of US$725 per staff-month for internships (3-12
months), US$820 for short courses (1-3 months), and $2,500 for seminars and
workshops (up to one month). Physical contingencies (US$18.2 million)
represent 10Z of base costs. Price contingencies (US$43.8 million) represent
21.8% of base costs plus physical contingencies, and assume the following
annual price increases: local - 8Z for 1985-90; foreign - 8% for 1985; 9% for
1986-88; 7.51 for 1989; and 6Z for subsequent yea-s.
61.       The proposed Bank loan of US$147 million would cover 601 of project
costs, including 100% of the foreign exchange costs (US$134.8 million) and 15%
of local costs (US$12.2 million).  The Government would finance the remaining
US$97.5 million (40% of total project costs). Annual recurrent expenditures
generated by the project are estimated at about US$15.8 million (at 1984
prices) in 1988/89, the year in which the prGject would be fully opera-
tiDnal. This represents about 5% of the projected DGHE budget (development
and routine) for that year and about 1% of the MEC budget. Considering the
priority given to higher education development, and the relative underfinanc-
ing of higher education until now, this is not an unreasonable addition to the
budget of DGHE. Based on a favorable experience under earlier Bank-assisted
projects, it is hence expected that the Government would allocate sufficient
funds for the maintenance of project facilities.



- 21 -
Procurement
62.       Procurement arrangements for the major expenditure categories is
presented in the table on page 22. Three major contracts for civil works
ranging from about US$3 million to US$6 million would be packaged by each
university to attract foreign bidders, and would be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with Bank
guidelines (about US$13.1 million). The remaining two smaller civiL works
packages wouLd be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB) pro-
cedures acceptable to the Bank (about US$2.3 million). Equipment bid packages
exceeding US$500,000 equivaLent would be awarded on the basis of ICB proce-
dures in accordance with Bank guidelines (about US$24.6 million). LocaL
manufacturers would be given a margin of preference in bid comparison of 15%
of the c.i.f. price of competing imports or the actual customs duty, whichever
is lower. Equipment, instructional materials and consumable materials in
smaller packages, and aggregating to a maximum of US$10.9 million, would be
procured through LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. Off-the-shelf items
of equipment, instructional materials and consumable materials not exceeding
US$50,000 equivalent for each package and aggregating to a maximum of about
US$8.7 million, could be purchased through prudent shopping on the basis of
three competitive price quotations. Books and journals would be purchased
through prudent shopping procedures directly from publishers or local
distributors after negotiations for discounts. Employment of visiting
scholars and placement of fellows would be undertaken in a combination of
institution-to-institution contracts and direct hire of individuals in
accordance with Bank Group guidelines.



- 22 -
PROJECT EXPENDITURES BY PROCUREMENT CATEGORY
(in US$ million)
Not
appli-     Total
Category of expenditure              ICB      LCB    Other    cable        cost
1.  Fellowships                      -         -     80.4        -          80.4
-        -    (80.4)       -         (80.4)
2.  Visiting scholars                -         -      18.0       -          18.0
_        -    (18.0)       -         (18.0)
3.  Graduate level research           -        -        -       9.7          9.7
_        _        -      (4.4)        (4.4)
4.  Physical facilities             13.1      2.3       -        -          15.4
(5.9)    (1.0)      -        -          (6.9)
5.  Equipment                      24.6       5.3      5.3       -          35.2
(20.8)    (3.5)   (3.5)       -         (27.8)
6. Furniture                         -        1.0      0.3       -           1.3
7. Books, journals, consum-
able materials, and            0.5       5.6     3.4      13.1         22.6
instructional materials       (0.3)    (2.3)   (1.4)    (5.5)          (9.5)
8. Incremental staff salaries,
and operations and
maintenance                     -         -       -       61.9         61.9
Total                      38.2      14.2   107.4      84.7       244.5
(27.0)    (6.8) (103.3)    (9.9)       (147.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
63.       Architectural schematic designs, draft bidding documents and master
equipment lists indicating proposed packaging and cost estimates would be re-
viewed by the Bank.  Terms of reference for visiting scholars and plans for
fellowship training would also be reviewed by the Bank. Prior approval of the
Bank would be required for the award of civil works contracts exceeding
US$3.0 million equivalent (covering about 85Z of the value and 60% of the
estimated number of contracts), for the purchase of equipment ezceeding
US$1.5 million equivalent (covering about 75% of the value and 50% of the
estimated number of contracts), and for the purchase of instructional mater-
ials exceeding US$0.7 million equivalent (covering about 85Z of the value and
60% of the estimated number of contracts). Other contracts would be subject
to selective post-award reviews.



- 23 -
Di sbursemen' s
64.       The proposed loan of US$147 million would be disbursed over a period
of about six years. Disbursements are expected to be completed by December
31, 1991 and would be made against the following categories of expenditures:
(a) civil works and reLated professional services - 45% of total expenditures;
(b) equipment: (i) 100% of foreign expenditures; (ii) 100% of local (ex-
factory) expenditures; and (iii) 701 of local expenditures for other items
procured locally; (c) books, journals, and consumable and instructionaL mater-
ials - 100% of foreign expenditures and 40% of local expenditures; (d) fellow-
ships and visiting scholars - 100% of total expenditures; and (e) research
awards - 45% of total expenditures. The disbursement forecast is slightly
accelerated, compared with the profiles for all projects in Indonesia and for
regional education projects, in view of the advar:ed project preparation, par-
ticularly in software aspects, and expected early start of fellowship and vis-
iting scholar programs. Retroactive financing of about US$3 million would be
provided for expenditures incurred after October 31, 1984 for instructional
materials development, fellowships and visiting scholars to ensure a timely
start to project activities.
65.       Documentation of Expenditures.  Withdrawal applications for goods
and services with a contract value of US$50,000 or more would be supported by
full documentation. Other disbursements would be made on the basis of state-
ments of expenditure. To the extent practicable, withdrawal applications
would be aggregated in amounts of US$100,000 or more, prior to submission to
the Bank.
Accounts, Audits and Reports
66.       All project agencies would prepare and maintain separate project
accounts in accordance with sound accounting practices. Accounts and
documentation supporting statements of expenditure would be maintained
separately and would be readily avaiLable centrally for review by visiting
Bank -issions. Accounts, statements of expenditure, and financial statements
for each fiscal year would be prepared and audited by independent auditors
acceptabLe to the Bank. Certified copies of the audited accounts and
financial statements, for each fiscal year, together with the auditor's report
would be furnished to the Bank as soon as available, but not later than nine
months after the end of each fiscal year. Six months after the closing date
the CPIU would submit a project completion report to the Bank. During negoti-
ations, the Government provided assurances that it would comply with these
review and reporting requiremei.ts (Section 4.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
67.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  The project would support information-
gathering activities, which would be managed by the Higher Education Planning
Unit in DQHE. A three-tiered system wouLd be used to monitor the IUC compo-
nent. Data on all major IUC activities (civil works, procurement, technical
assistance, degree and nondegree training, development of instructional
materials, research support), as well as staffing, would be gathered, stored
and analyzed using a common micro-computer program developed for the purpose
by the Computer Center at UI. These data would be used at the LPIU level to
construct indicators of IUC progress for each university. The Planning Unit



- 24 -
would compile information across LPIUs, for reporting to DGHE and the Dank.
Quarterly Reports to the Bank would be prepared by the CPIU. The Government
has prepared a set of monitoring indicators and a plan for appropriate
monitoring and data collection.
Benefits and Risks
68.       The main benefits of the project would be:  (a) further development
of the higher education subsector; (b) improved quality of output;
(c) increased output of high-level graduates to meet development needs; and
(d) increased management capacity for administration and planning of higher
education in general, and graduate education in particular. In addition, the
project would lay the groundwork for further increases in university output by
providing the institutional framework for continuous staff and instructional
materials development and research. The improvements in management capacity
under the project would provide the basis for improvements in the management
of the university system as a whole. The increased output generated by the
proposed project, by 1990, should help meet the university staff requirements
in priority areas. Specifically, the project would produce about 845 persons
with advanced degrees or 35% of the projected stafE deficit of 2,420 by
1989. Ite second major benefit of the proposed project, the improvement in
the quality of output, would be expected by the increase in the scholarly
productivity of graduates from the project universities based on the financing
of over 1,000 research studies. In addition, about 3,000 differing prototype
instructional materials would be derived from the project. The third major
benefit, institution building, should have the short-term effect of helping to
increase the level and quality of output of the university system, and the
longer term effect of improving the overall operation, planning and management
for future development of the higher education system.
69.       A major risk inherent in a university development program of the
scope and complexity proposed is the difficulty in coordinating implementation
of various participating entities and ensuring quaLity and impact across uni-
versities. This difficulty of coordination has resulted in delays in the
implementation of the first university project. To reduce this risk, the
project would formalize the current ad hoc doctoral program management team
into a National Graduate Education Council, with representation from all major
universities, key government policymakers and outstanding authorities in their
respective fields, in order to facilitate coordination and to provide high
level policy and technical advice. In addition, annual in-depth Bank-DGHE
implementation reviews would facilitate appropriate adjustments in project
activities.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Conditions of loan effectiveness would be (a) the establishment
of the Inter-University Centers (IUCs) and project implementation units (para-
graph 55) and (b) the appointment of architectural consulting firms for the
design and supervision of the IUC facilities (paragraph 59). Other speciaL
conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III.



- 25 -
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 1, 1985
Washington, D. C.



-26-                                   ANNEX I
aPage 1 of 5 pages
IHOONESIA              - SOCIAL INDICATORI DATA SISU
IDONESIA                              ErECEZ  GROUPs (WEGWED AVERAgE) a
MOST                     CMOSr SCENT ESTIMATE) l
IkCENT           MiDDLE INCOI*E          MIDDLZ INCEGE
19601i!    19ToL  zESTImATLb        ASIA b tACIFIC          LAT. AMERICA & CAR
ARA (THUUBND SQ.  I)
TOTAL                               1919.3      1919.3   1919.3
ACRICULTIJRAL                        296.3       307.1    317.3
CUP PER CAPITA (CGM)                     90.0       130.0    sa8.0              IW1.2                     2108.6
EmmaT wmumwnu NER CAPITA
(KILORAMS or OIL EqUIVALENT)          68.0        91.0     191.0              567.3                    995.5
POPULATIOW AD  VITAL UPTSUTICS
POPULATIUN.MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    946B0.0   116201.0  152398.0
URbAN  POPULATION (I OF TOTAL)        14.6        17.1      22.3               34.7                     66.3
POPUIATION PROJCTIONS
POPULATlON IN YEAR 2000 (HILL)                           212.0
STArLOllARY POPULATION (HILL)                            370.1
POPULArlaO  WDMENTIm                                       1.9
POPULATIJN DENSITY
PER 5Q. MM.                         49.3        60.5      77.9              261.9                      35.7
PER Sq. K04. AGRI. LAND            319.3       375.4    471.0              1735.1                     92.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (2)
0-14 IRS                           40.7        44.0      39.5               39.0                     39.9
15-64 YRS                           56.2        53.4      57.3               57.6                     36.0
65 AND AOVE                          3.1         2.5       3.1                3.3                      4.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (2)
TOTAL                                2.1         2.0       2.3                2.3                       2.4
URBAN                                3.7         3.6       4.5                4.3                       3.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TIOUS)          44.Z        41.0      33.6               30.1                      31.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)          22.9        17.6      13.0               9.5                       R.I
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                2.7         2.7       2.2                2.0                      2.0
FAMILY PLANOING
ACCEPT0RS. AINUAL (T1OUS)             ..       181.1   3051.0
USERS (Z OF HARRIED  OEN)             ..          ..     53.0 Ic             52.7                     40.3
FOOD A-  MUlMTION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                         93.D       102.0    t17.0              123.0                     114.3
PEU CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (Z OF REQLIIREKENTS)       86.0        96.0    110.0               114.4                     110.6
PROrEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            35.D        44.0      49.0               57.0                     67.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          6.0         6.0       7.0 /4            14.1                     34.1
CRILD (ACES 1-4) 1EATm RATE           22.9        16.9      13.0                7.2                      5.7
NALT8
LIFE EXPECT. Ar BIRTH (YEARS)         41.2        47.0      53.3              60.4                      64.7
INFANT 1ORT. RATE (PER THOIS)        149.9       120.9    102.0               66.3                      60.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                 *-         3.0      23.0               37.0                      65.4
URBAN                                 ..        10.0      41.0               54.8                     78.1
RURAL                                 *-         1.0      18.0               26.4                     46.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 *-        15.0      23.0               41.3                      52.9
URUAN                                 *-        19.0      20.0               47.4                     67.0
RURAL                                           14.0      24.0               33.3                     24.5
POPULATION PER PRYSICIAN           4b780.0    26510.0  11530.0 /e            7749.4                   1917.7
POP. PER NURSING PERSON             4510.0 If   7680.0   2300.0 77           2460.4                    815.8
POP. PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL                             1360.0      1650.0   1720.0 /e           1044.2                     367.2
URBAN                              250.0          . .    70.o 7            651.2                     411.5
RURAL                                                   3160.00 j7         2594.6                   2636.3
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..          ..      22.4 lh            27.0                     27.3
IIDUSIN1C
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                4.4         4.8
URBAN                                4.9         5.3
RURAL                                4.3         4.7
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROUI
TOTAL.                                           I. 1.5     . -
URBN1                                            1.6
RURAL                                            1.5
ACCESS To ELECT. (Z OF DWELLINGS)
TOUAL                                 ..          ..
URIAN                                 ..          ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..



- 27 -                                       ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
INEDNEIIA              - 8ocI. INICATO  DTA BUNT
zmXmUsZA                             RZPIABG GRUPS (URIGHT  AVERAGES) 
MO!                       (NO"T S   N ESIAu E) A
RUSIII           MIDDLt INCO             KIIDDU  INCM
1igGeLb    xm      z7imETIH bTE     A SIAEZA  PACIFIC       LAT. AERIC  A CAR
EDUCATICE
ADIUSTD ENROLIIMT RATIOS
PIMA4Ti  TOTAL                     71.0        77.0    100.0               102.0                     103.4
IALZ                     66.0        63.0     106.0              103.9                     106.3
FEMALE                   38.0        71.0      94.0               96.2                     104.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                     6.0        15.0      30.0               46.0                      43.2
MALE                      10.0       20.0      36.0               45.7                      42.3
FEKALZ                    3.0        10.0      24.0               43.1                      44.5
VOCATIONAL (2 OF SECONDARY)           20.4        22.1      13.4               17.3                      33.6
PUPIL-TEACHE RATIO
PRIMARY                             39.0        29.o      32.0               31.6                      30.1
SECONDARY                           14.0        13.0      16.0               23.5                      16.8
ADULT LITERACY RATE (2)               39.0        36.6      62.0               72.9                      79.3
PASSENGER CAKS/THOUSAND POP            1.1         2.1       4.4               10.1                      46.0
RADIO RECEIVERS/TMOUSAND POP           7.2        21.9      42.4              113.6                     225.6
TV RPCEXVERS/hlOUSAND POP              0.1         0.8       9.6               50.1                     107.2
NEUSPAPRN C *DILY GENEtAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATIOS
PER THOUSANwD POPULlATION           11.0          ..      17.7 /R53-9                                  63.5
CINEIIA ANIAL ATTEMMME/CAPITA          2.61                  0.8 l i            3.4                       2.o
IAMBFORMlR
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)          34791.0    41090.0  54689.0
F33411 (PERCENT)                    27.8        30.9      29.1               33.5                      23.2
AA2ICULTURE (PERCENT)               75.0        66.0      58.0               ,. 2                      31.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   8.0        10.0      12.0               17.9                      23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)                      3
TOTEAL                              36.7        35.4      35.8               38.7                      3.2
MALE                                54.2        49.5      51.1               50.9                      49.3.
PEKALE                              20.0        21.6      20.7               26.6                      15.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.2         1.3       1.2                1.1                       1.4
IN    DI SAIO!O
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HICHEST 52 OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..          ..      23.5               22.2
HIGHR? 2ZO OF HOUSEHOLDS              *-          *-      49.4               48.0
LOEST 20Z OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..          ..       6.6                6.4
iLOEST 401 OF HOUSEHOLDS              *-          *-      14.4 7             15.5
wzm TAGT   -
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERrY INCO1
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URI"N                                 ..       124.0 ji  124.0 /I           188.6                     28.2
RURAL                                 ..       106.0 71  106.0 71           152.0                     184.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..    119.0 /1            177.9                     522.8
RURAL                                 ..          ..      98.0 7-           164.6                     372.4
ESTIMATED POP- BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOI£ LEVEL (Z)
URBAN                                  .        51.0 /I  26.0 /A             23.4
RURAL                                 *         59.0 7    44.0 71            37.7
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
11 0 T t S
/a  The group avrarma for each indicator are population-aLsbtad arltth.tic smn. Coverqn  of countriea e  ong the
endicators depends on ava*labLity of data and lo not uilform.
lb  UnIoas otberwla  noted. 'Dta for 1960' refer to any year between 1959 and 19611 "Data for 1970' between 19e9 and
1971; and data for Not RaceAt eatlmt. betwean 1980 and 1982.
/c  1983; /d 1977; /a 1979; /f 1962; j/  1976;  Ib 1975;  /1 1980 prIces.
JUNE. 1984



ANNEX I
-28-                                                                 Page3'of 5pages
on..  s1unS0  it Id... s- dtW    1    Si. se-a  a-fi            15ud   *t  - ff   =       =tsiS  .5= ills.. 1tas isAi I5.. hi aM   ss"   bm   ,-7             h . ift.eesliIsil
isaismda.t eattIS. laiu   iusm.41-  dol .ti 'S.timis             se I.E    d mi    diffli.,..  ha a.  1-mel ..              W      W   .     .        .l .
1 em.S  4th. )             -      a     b    ra    rPII.1I   WINo               11l  .           ofrw 4c111  1tTh kS,hflWPesi. 15    duties -ifi - tehr.1 esitis
" -la  1`41.4 -       epsanIs.i1se     b .4 r t       plisi hide
B.e    s  9-  ISeapi    ims  .5 .sevsstI  eispMics                                        5   at  sgtl   d  ptiste""eisi  "               gs.i-itssdtsiesi  emdr-
Wst m msls." 4-sd   s.-%  'smidllssW ISi  11104 f ImisI                                 masllgiimain...lsst.                    .     hihe.gsmtsimsciM
at                                                                          "~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a DAim  La. "imidt   eIhsisi5hssm .id heis  amd
mmii  )llsUfts -pt   pu.. - ssts  sgp.ests .-.mSa s..l SW         mnla                             dis oa... m            p ""eal  sialsd h ad  P-iis..lbsad          a.iis
pseyM.m   tesi a;     WL is  piems. So sismst as. s.d  eye..-1. siisi                            .isiai* -  "eessti.   mist.l -sh   Mr.W.1impiiss PasdsSis. I.4l
sa   sientlssuili)i   Isia                   lsistles    . 1gsii = 153.pild  s uislisd Pk"&.'_   Ndissi jiliti.. -M4nW                                             1al   ao
5051. s.d list dsss.                                                   Ahish~~.. Mntba         '.s   "'a silp ak.t.m     sa--s.  is-s.%disa.e
5   - .          -  .4 Salt II 1450  IC-e-. sad,Prodatty am 0seIf    (Ol   hpiss-
M                    IMM~~~~Iii   lb. shi¶eee    s    a1.ss PI.  iSip  gie  s                  .ees
Hais.fimi-Sisi te-i -05551   iha  i  145  nssiilll-Shesilidset...4   s-miS   sdmissi  a   sim  lIlf  q."*i
El .-iiE Isilses  .4 itbmifsmms  . -   si'. a sswiIIly  4  55                          sa   tl    I    ii.4hsdmS   Ss   t   mailh   siidI
-  aeS   stiI5  ee,.lstiia W s. had-i40ti    '-  pSi i"O   -s.cu    IM.4sm    1--   mespsu  mseits
iVpi~filif7iS  a -s  a.e,esutislim  ai  isi, tp                 dsillie5  atgesiei.  hitit RMeltS esMONeemms SC sissmsw.d
meiss  ineJ.mis. pmlSts is  isisltl   mai  ..s.mi..i. ..ss.mmMp.,dte.,
M.tSdel ..I I-N il.  sm -mmd... irs ein   maS ai isi   mit
pisaSil pmimmsasm.  55* einsein i  timem..I WSd  -  .i iks. .iit.             -ha
its.-    - I -         Its . ste   4    I   mmstiSmistmilsv.i4l                                                 i   adiem-hSii4    l   dmet.
mae. bes  itms.  saf  5  msg  .mld. sitesas-pelem  iinullim.eillmm   4   Id .sI-I 6timplsmipld s    lsSssS   sgel
aid. .4is. isi  .4  mUs .e i lms' -.cb. sinms   cm-.em   Isel,=rb                                     dj .df     1H.r           -O.   St ss.eST MelI-  tsssisit
aimeitekts  -i  i   see    isgplZcsed        sct                                                   piMi-e  a... isl. ssma S.1. me gmshm  lislstid.0 i            "gWel.e
hem    s   ts-haemlmseism    eilseh.ht js1            1        .lstmed   Il- i                    pslm   salmsiIWIMI1n.                   ses  .msm -ds            mm.-ss ae
ta. ~e  ims  is.semmspsdsstseesi  be  satd -,Iv  -i-                               lsSaesttm  SsmlsitdsM-R
eei   m     ppisli  sis   ceCI  .ssnd  .s ss.I  is.                                    iesllsi a.isl             -1-1m.ie    at"sv     ieiss  ls I-ii
si.t. i  sisisM S    ese.isii- e  io. msssIsuts.  is i.Sem.   lies                              Isi-Mdi  -ahsMai.lds ialmeimemmm   sinSpes
i_s             Pp.ssiieiti fslii   isele-,  - imm     IImes    le t. em    ii±idssdsl                               dsI-lsi  s             slml  - smltltsS         a
aidM  il: ti-W                 R.   i-RIIafl-.M.    s, _                                                m1  I ntIs - .lsm,               r ass dsn-Tsi missa ISaeltdI
-sesimmis    . .Sii                                                                               mimi   4  asstisi   iiddb                     s    sint mssbt  is I .
Pine em  kt- 5ld~fmsi gsesismiat mem .sdem  51 esisi ii.. bess:ms) .`Rs`MssqMMess imels.
ssivl 15515.  Cml -  letR dais.ff...... W.t t j.
Nsimis Iq       in         eMn-t  -! Ott di         - i 9-imset           lad..s  .aslal - ,M                                                        I.s.eI. tIl -as5s  ssitW
HsLcs.latiA. is  siu-5. -     ccce1    l 1I--Js5,iabsleis-.                                                         i.sas   m.sialssi     S=t  -tm.  54isuim.is 
Pssimam  Gism   maeF.,     S     sb  -4 Sma   iskmmc.ishlissss   sims  ralti IsvII- -hes.  Ul ,scllst.c ~-cISc r
me   attislie.i,5          e3as.42IIII                                               T a.tiis  siiha   Ilms.sl.ta.                   T    t.   .b.&
Ns,site                                         - Cis  d   15  dta                                 ataiesIl  em  kea                M.ssiic   e-es-d. ssis    V  smae
issSmI-ss~       tmti.155   ihsail-sssieii.   mamms5h    ss                                                        fI        si M ..41 M  lasidl  iNIM  mes. Z      f 
meaim.      -ti-hed. said dmiss It..mssi                                                                                          -  -mia 1i adss.Ae pm due-is gmi.- a
immly Cassc -  a-i cemsss  .4 mi-i .m ,e -.4tes. a  at eeiistF e                                    WS as ..                     -d       .WW.            --   -
sad  05 54-iatltv qe .4~P, imaint etej -  sIls  tehasd- sS
ifait imIss dmy is's ml sssim.eSiia--is s5 I muted  ate.-m1SI        t.
chld-)n5155as  ce  jam`il      s  es  ti--S.sihap I-         -I-                         Wuiitisetnams La                      --i.sds  ii  mit    pvssi  ise,di  seed
timlls  eseameis It - Is    N.ae-i Is    mia.sss                                           smtsdsspsm    e    mids  laees   idms    s.   sms
-1 Ir-t   I., .... C-.44=     1- P't-111sstsis.si st sa-.  Ifielise  s ces.e   simi. me
gum  sa Ise-elmlbs.                      R..        =                                           sssih.sten  ibIs s.d  ci    dams                                             -
csd - atlse   amm      iidli(W                                                                                                  lit-  t 5W     eec-i-I..s.  is.-.dli- isa
tint.                                                                                    isimista.ams1=isei)P-isii. c-.                         Ifmi  -1 fimigsepias at
AIem ta     tbil.ii  sin' iseis    Ae-mies   psslfets)-. ts"IMd  ire                               IVeA.i  m. -ai jmsmen-    s-  WaSi. mh-" ad  imeb. is   1Win  e
asm  qIfl.m  e  -sfdstei.  mtacSih -is imemm   ge  Lpi.  p.IeeaoWI                                            nt.  M l.   If Csel  mei-m. WS 1 m it-s  -a.mile
dsp.asstahc semim  e    IS.deetmssi..savsit                                                  i     f.ad iia . as          t.hias   -  hsamd  W-fs gIiitais    isi
M   essI.-Is.  ay  S.e isS0 e  ih.sAMiemiei   s    ate.tsmsmdse1Is-mmsm    ssai.sdmi  s   tsdami
F-   sa - I,. diilslm Wssc.a -miimistft                      -10 gadsRIM i.e 5.t5b
at -tmamlaRl Semi: SIh-It. SrS r155  dai.                                                   i IsIbafesstli
atciL..ss     457h    t  5m  sei  ti (MIMI    is- daIs. simm.m-*ms1isss   te-e..mies  mgee-                                                           pert 50ge-I.  md                                               a
mis  eeei. .  slimt S  I-    shsl .-  s-id i imslmte   SiNa                          1Pepsd? ifl SIGN1-
litiedasid   hsd blv:  bte~.  ie- md  -5srdais                                  fahi..Sad DImis-  insts  lse         Emat                I-i     s.t   - sits  sed teil
At5    e  M. e.a -   eisms i  sissa gem. dams. J  hiM  -   4-Ii.d IC1_iteit  dismds r                                      iss bs.mt_s Ns.-4Iss        ssiset  is .
dais.                                                                    aiimidmhls~~~~~~~L 1    .%   j;.   a--tf  9Mt   0
=ii(sII-lw      it  si   c   isrse.asa  dsm                   t   hee   i                       slmm  elte  mem    Im-ld   fsam    ets  -ms.  4ine-
as VswiAem.mi  nldiss f"Is  0  dee- ; Incetdmsi5i                                              I ie amsmi                  siI.         iid.4 smOg               igi
mimts  ai   ie-e   matlt.iaim   c .tiS  4    is   ai.                                   .esslles.siit                 ei   Smshim  5  ddtd    ssti  c-
-ssissnts 4-Ice-h (tnns  -Lma  sN    isemslfteese                                             4r i - fevas. .4pse-lsimIIIib.    -    A.st  al e-j.akht
sin esi   -4 "Ii   Wci  a  leSs dais.                    qW S-         I.;
tyi5A St  fas   sIR miste   eat Llis.; 155,   CR.  ltdas
Sim   5   al    c   (MIsm-es  Sest                   -intl  sets.  aid ceWa - L
..sta. sia.acn    utimmel  is    lIsw.te   mgi   45t   mas
seeIR- seu P.".s N        sat   is    t.s  .seadb                                                                                     mesi   eyt   4is,mis   sat
acmE  Is  lmmai  a        hm                    ag im  isieeilw."I  maII.
tiM - dsti  fiti      t  itl3       smmteS



ANNEX I
Population    1  155.8 million (mid-1983)                   - 29 -                                                Pa.e 4 of 5 Pages
CNP per Capitst  US$560 (1983 estimata)
INDONESIA - ECON0KIC INDICATORS
Amount
(mlilion USS at                              Annual growth rate (2) /b
current prices)                  Actual                                   Projected
Indieator                            1982           iS8U 0M  n 19V YiL   1953 1-jaa MM    Iv.)  19B6   1981  Lo5   IVYH    1YYU
NATtONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domeEtic product /c           78,344         9.9    7.9   -0.2    4.7    5.5    2.6    5.0    5.1    4.7    4.1    4.3
Agciculture                      20,651         5.2    4.9    2.1    4.8    5.0    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7
Industry                         29,896        12.5    8.5   -6.4    5.0    7.3    0.2    5.4    5.6    4.5    3.0    3.5
Services                         27,797        11.8    9.8    5.5    4.3    4.0    4.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5
Consumption                        62,731         12.4   15.8    3.0    2.0    5.6    1.3    3.4    4.3    4.3    4.3    4.1
Cros.  investment /d                18,908       18.9   11.1    8.5   -5.0   -2.0    5.1    5.1    5.3    5.5    5.7    5.5
a        Exports of CNFS                     19,S08        -5.6   -2.4  -12.6   14.8    1.5    2.9    6.3    5.2    3.9    1.4    3.2
Imports of GNFS                    22,803        15.1   Z7.1    3.2   -8.1   -5.0    0.5    1.3    2.5    2.6    3.0    3.4
Cross national savings              12,273       33.2  -20.0  -15.9   22.2   16.7   -1.6   12.2    8.2    7.1    5.4    5.5
PRICES
-DlTFdeflator (1981 - 100)                          91    100    113    131    142    154    166    179    194    209    226
Exchange rate (Rp per US$)                        627    632    661    909  1,026
Share of GDP at market prices (Z)
(at current prices)                           Average annual increase (Z) /b
____   1970   19iz   1 190   l5O      1990       1960-70   V1-'-)u 197 I-8          B lY8V-85   i9UT--
Gross domestic product           100    100    100    100    100    100            3.9        8.4        7.4        4.1        4.6
Agriculture                     54      47     32      25     26      25         2.7        4.1        3.3       4.1        3.7
Industry                        14      18     34      43     38      37         5.2       12.0        9.8       2.8        4.4
Services                        32      35     35      32      36     35         4.8        9.7        9.5       5.6        5.5
Consumption                     91      89     79      71     76      74         4.1        8.4        9.2       5.6        4.0
Gross investment Id              8      14     20      21      20     22         4.8       18.3       12.2       4.5        5.4
Exports of GNFS                 13      13     23      31     Z5      25         3.6        9.2        2.9      -1.2        4.0
Imports of GNFS                -13    -16    -22    -22    -22    -20            3.2       22.1       14.0       2.6        2.6
Gross natLonal savings           8       9     17      26     20      22         6.1       23.1       14.2       0.5        7.7
As 2 of CDP
1960               1970                19/5               19S0                1984
PUBLIC FINANCE le
current revenue                                11.7                10.1               17.4                22.5               20.1
Current expenditure.                           14.0                 8.4                9.9                12.8                11.8
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                     -2.3                +1.6               +7.5                +9.7               +8.3
Capital expenditure                             n.a.                5.0               11.3                13.0                 7.4
Foreign financing                               0.2                 3.5                3.7                 3.3               -0.9
1960-70          1970-75          1975-80           1980-85          1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP groath rate (Z)                             4.5              7.6               7.1             3.8              4.8
Annual GSP per capita growth rate (Z)                  2.4              5.1               4.7             1.7              2.8
Annual energy consumption grcuth rate (1)              2.2             11.2              11.0             1.3              4.7
ICOR                                                   2.2              2.2              3.3              5.2              4.4
Marginal savings rate                                  0.30             0.48              0.28            0.03             0.35
Import elasticity                                      1.2              2.8              0.84             0.63             0.57
/a  Estimates.
7W At constant 1973 prices for 1980-81. and 1981 prices for 1982-90.
7F  At market prices.
7Tf Fixed investment; stock chinges are included in consumption.
7e  Central Government only, on an April-to-March fiscal year basis.                                 East Asia ond PAcific Region
March 29, 1985



Population    :  155.8 mulLion (mid-1983)                     - 30                                            ANNEX I
GNP per Capitai US$560 (1983  estimate)                                                                       Page -  of 5 paes.
INDONESIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DIET
(Ill.lonS US5 at current priced)
Actual                                 Pro ected
lYoU     19dl     19SZ      ISS3     Iva    7W           M i"a IY5 19D  IDU19
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS/b
1.  EIxorto                                     22,885   22,994   19,672   19.816   19,993  21,115   23,043   26,331   36,460
(a     l and LNG (groom)                    17,297   18,824   14,744   14.449   14,082  14,481   15,483   17,784   23.801
(b)  NonoLl                                  5,589    4.170    3,929    5,367    5,901   6,634    7,560    8,547   12.659
2.  Imports (including net NFS)                -17,589  -22,570  -22,339  -19,583  -1B,181 -19.070  -20.752  -23,015  -31.705
(a)  Oil sector                             -4,050   -5,407   -4.802   -3,939   -3,552  -3,823   -4,216   -4,776   -6.893
(b)  Nonoil imports                       -11,837  -14,561  -15.824  -14,174  -13,225 -13,807  -14,990  -16,535  -22.499
(c)  NYS (net)                             -1,702   -2,602   -1.713   -1,570   -1,441  -1,440   -1,546   -1,704   -2.313
1.  Resource balance                             5,296      424   -3,667       233   -1,795   2,045    2,291    3,316    4,755         *
4.  Factor services                             -3,165   -3,210   -3,573   -4,669   -4,620  -5,003   -5,395   -6,049   -7,487
(a)  Interest public debt                     -823     -994   -1,145   -1,256   -1,499  -1,734   -1,958   -2,211   -2,747
(b)  Other (net)                            -2,342   -2,216   -2,428   -3,413   -3,121  -3,269   -3,437   -3,839   -4,740
5.  Capital grants                                  76       67       105       95       100     110       120       125      150
6.  Balance on current account                   2,207   -2,719   -7,135   -4,341   -2.725  -2,848   -2,984   -2,608   -2,582
7.  Direct foreign investment                      140       142      311       193      250     250       275       300      375
8.  Public N & LT loans
(a)  Disbursement                            2,551    2,673    4,192    4,965    4,189   5,238    5,521    5,649    7,001
(b)  Amortization                             -936   -1,053   -1,102   -1,295   -2,036  -2,461   -2,534   -3,176   -5,050
(c)  Net disbursements                       1,615    1,620    3,090    3,670    2,153   2,777    2,987    2,473    1,951
9.  Other capital (net)                         -1.488      -31       455    2,547       611     -29       175        56      502
10.  Change in reserves (- increase)             -2,736      988    3,279   -2,069       -289    -150      -453     -221      -246
11.  Net official reserves                       -7,342    6,354    3,074    5,144    5,433   5,583    6,036    6,257    6,902
Reserves in months of nonoil imports
+ NFS                                        6.5      4.4       2.1      3.9       4.5     4.4       4.4      4.1       3.3
Memorandum Item
Net toreign assets of the banking
Byst.e/c                                     10,787   10,622    6,392    8.916    9.205   9,355    9.809   10,029   10.674
Total reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                                   9.6      7.4       4.4      6.8       7.5     7.4       7.1      6.6       5.2
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT/d
Gross Disbursements                             2 551    2 673    4 192    4 965
concessional Loaans aT51    -7J3                                    '9W       ED
Bilateral                                    7RnT      7m         yT      Z
IDA                                            42       69        78       60
Otler
Nonconcessional Loans                           1892    1890    3503    4357
Silaterai                                    -:l*        7U         T       I
IBRD                                            331      314       505      489
Other multilateral                               52       85       126      160
Private-source                                1,421    1.310    2,356    3.219
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed /e            14 971   15 870   18 515   21 686
Official-source                                     iK5 lW3    Tff
Private-source                              5,465    5,912    7,403    9,649
Undisbursed debt                              9,481   11,387   12,870   12,975
Debt Service
Total service payments                        1,759    2,047    2,247    2,551
Interest                                      823      994    1,145    1,256
Payments as 2 of exports/f                      7.7      9.9      12.0     12.9
Avera!e Interest Rate on New Loans (2)            8.1      8.7       9.2      8.8
tcl a-source                                    5.4      7.8       8.8      8.7
Private-source                                 12.4      9.4       9.5      8.8                                                    -
Average _aturity of New Loans (Years)            18.8     15.5      15.2      15.1
Ott clal-source                                24.4     20.5      20.6     22.3
Private-source                                  9.8     11.1      11.1     10.3
As 2 of debt outstanding at end of 1983
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due vithin 5 years                                                                              40
Maturities due within ID years                                                                             70
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                            7.0
/a  Estimates.
7I  On an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
Tc  Includes foreign assets of deposit money banks in addition to official reserves.
7r  Excludes private nonguaranteed loans.
7e  At end of period.                                                                            East Asia and Pacific Region
71r Oil exports treated on gross basis.                                                                 March 29, 1985



ANNEX II
- 31 -                       Page 1 of 4 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1985) /a
Loan/                                                           Amount (US$ nmillion)
Credit  FiscaL                                                  (less cancelLations)
*      number   vear   Purpose                                       Bank      rDA    Undisbursed
Thirty-five Loans and forty-one Credits fuLly
disbursed                                                 1,584.59   642.71          -
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                              140.00      -         68.02
1604    1978   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II             65.00      -         29.75
869    1979   Polytechnic                                      -      49.00       11.29
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                             77.00      -         23.47
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                        54.00       -         11.26
1692    1979   Second Agricultural Training                   42.00      -          8.29
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                                 123.20      -         19.59
919    1979   Transmigration II                                -      67.00        0.0
1707    1979   Transmigration II                              90.00      -         86.27
1708    1979   Eighth Power                                  175.00      -         41.64
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                            35.50      -          9.85
946    1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                     -      12.00        7.40
1751    1980   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders III            99.00      -         34.79
984    1980   Smallholder Rubber Development                   -      45.00       27.57
995    1980   Fifteenth Irrigation                             -      37.6        15.72
996    1980   National Agriculture Extension II                -      42.00       24.95
1811    1980   Fourteer.th Irrigation                        116.00      -         53.39
1835    1980   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders IV             42.00      -         29.72
1840    1980   National Agricultural Research                 35.00      -         35.00
1014    1980   National Agricultural Research                   -      30.00        5.94
1872    1980   Ninth Power                                   253.00      -         86.71
1898    1981   Smallholder Coconut Development                46.00      -         33.06
1904    1981   University Development                         45.00      -         37.30
1950    1981   Tenth Power                                   250.00      -         21.68
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation                              22.00      -         13.45
1972    1981   Fourth Urban Development                       43.00      -         24.13
4
/a The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 32 -                       ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4 pages
Loan/                                                           Amount (US$ milLion)
Credit  Fiscal                                                  (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                      Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders V            161.00       -        114.44
2011    1981   Second Small Enterprise Development          106.00       -          8.95
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway                      85.00       -         75.70
2056    1982   Eleventh Power                               170.00       -         84.11
2066    1982   Second Seeds                                   L5.00      -         10.80
2079    1982   Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and
Transport                                  185.00      -         85.87
2083    1982   Rural Roads Development                       85.00       -         63.11
2101    1982   Second Teacher Training                       80.00       -         76.26
2102    1982   Second Textbon'c                               25.00      -         24.89
2118    1982   Sixteenth Irrigation                           37.00      -         21.24
2119    1982   Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java              70.00      -         48.11
Province)
2120    1982   National Fertilizer Discribution              66.00       -         41.71
2126    L982   Nucleus Estate and SmaLLholders VI            68.10       -         59.49
2153    L982   Coal Exploration Engineering                  25.00       -         19.69
2199    L982   Central Java Pulp and Paper Engineering        5.50       -          4.21
22L4    1983   Twelfth Power                                300.00       -        256.20
2232    1983   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VII          154.60       -        152.32
2235    1983   Provincial Health                             27.00       -         25.97
2236    1983   Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation               22.40       -         21.38
2248    1983   Transmigration III                           101.00       -         66.00
2258    1983   Public Works Manpower Development             30.00       -         28.72
2275    1983   East Java Water Supply                        30.60       -         27.49
2277    1983   Fifth BAPINDO                                208.90       -        158.71
2288    1983   Transmigration IV                             63.50       -         61.75
2290    1983   Second Polytechnic                           107.40       -        107.13
2300    1983   Thirteenth Power                             279.00       -        241.15
2341    1984   Third Agricultural Training                   63.30       -         62.84
2344    1984   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder Sugar          79.20       -         53.91
2355    1984   Second Non-Formal Education                   43.00       -         41.38
2375    1984   Second Provincial Irrigation Dev.             89.00       -         85.34
2404    1984   Highway Betterment                           240.00       -        235.37
2408    1984   Fifth Urban Development                       39.65       -         39.15
2430    1984   Third Small Enterprise Development           204.70       -        204.14
2431    1984   Second Swamp Reclamation                      65.00       -         64.84
2443    1984   Fourteenth Power                             210.00       -        209.48
1950-1  1985   Supplemental Loan for Tenth Power
(1950-IND) /a                              50.00       -         50.00
2472    1985   Secondary Education and Management
Training                                    78.00      -         77.81
/a Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4 pages
Loan/                                                         Amount (US$ million)
Credit  FiscaL                                                 (less cancellations)
number   year   Purpose                                     Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
*    2474    1985   Upland Agriculture and Conservation /a        11.30       -        11.30
2494    1985   Smallholder Rubber Development II /a        131.00       -        131.00
TotaL Bank loans and IDA credits          7,020.93   938.48
Of which has been repaid                   -395.81   -17.69
Total now outstanding                     6,625.12   920.79
Amount sold to third party        28.24
Amount repaid by third party    -28.24         -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b         6,625.12   920.79
Total undisbursed                         3,693.82    98.65   3,792.47
/a   Not yet effective.
/b   Prior to exchange adjustnent.



ANNEX II
- 34                          Page 4 of 4 pages
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1985)
Fiscal                                Type of             Loan    Equity    Total
year          Obligor                business                 (US$ million)   --
1971    P.T. Semen Cibinong            Cement              10.6       2.5       13.1
1971    P.T. Unitex                    Textiles             2.5       0.8        3.3
1971    P.T. Primacexco Indonesia   Textiles                2.0       0.5        2.5
1971    P.T. Kabel Indonesia           Cable                2.8       0.4        3.2
L972    P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles             4.5       1.5        6.0
L973    P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel        Tourism              9.8       1.6       11.4
l973    P.T. Semen Cibinong            Cement               5.4       0.7        6.1
1974    P.T. Primatexco Indonesia   Textiles                2.0       0.3        2.3
1974    P.T. Monsanto Pan              Electronics          0.9        -         0.9
1974    P.T. PDFCI                     Devel. Fin. Co.       -        0.5        0.5
1974    P.T. Kamaltex                  Textiles             2.4       0.6        3.0
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong            Cement               5.0       1.5        6.5
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong            Cement                -        1.1        1.1
1977    P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.          Textiles             0.4        -         0.4
1977    P.T. Kamaltex                  Textiles             1.3       0.2        1.5
1979    P.T. Daralon                   Textiles             0.9        -         0.9
1980    P.T. Papan Sejahtera           Capital Market       4.0       1.2        5.2
1980    P.T. Indo American
Industries            Glass Dinnerware  11.1         0.9       12.0
1980    P.T. Semen Andalas             Cement and
Indonesia                Construction
MateriaL         48.0       5.0       53.0
1982/5  P.T. Saseka Gelora Leasing Capital Harket           5.0       0.3        5.3
1984    P.T. Semen Cibinong            Cement             25.0         -        25.0
Total gross commitments                          143.6      19.6      163.2
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled              107.6       7.4      115.0
Total held by IFC                                 36.0      12.2       48.2
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)  9.5                      9.5



-35 -                             ANNEX III
INDONESIA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
lb      Section I:  Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:             12 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:             Ministry of Education and
Culture
(c)  First presentation to Bank:                November 1983
(d)  First mission to consider project:         February 1984
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:            June 1984
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:                April 1985
(g)  Planned date of Effectiveness:             September 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
The Covernment would:
(a) formally establish and fully staff all project institutions by
September 30, 1986 (paragraph 55); and
(b) ensure that by January 1 of each year each IUC would furnish to the
Bank for review and comment (a) an annual plan and program detailing
degree and nondegree staff training, research, and materials
development, production and distribution programs; (b) an annual
budget; and (c) an annual plan for monitoring and data collection
*                 (paragraph 58).



-'A      THAILAND                                                                                                                                Sie rI 'iV  ,ir  IV        n u Ur
flanO AmA                                                                                FIUFPINES                                            S SECOND UNIVERSiTY            r
) *                                                          o-PHLIFPINESPMELOPMENT POJECT
3 t                 MALAYSIA                                        *RUNEI                                                                                            ='==/   =
5;4    !    >              ~       ~~/       )         .                                                                 /                  ,s *    _ow-   -   *
. hN  t12   }   ¢               .                          .  MALAYSIA  /        17 7*                                                                                 -    '-    .
b-~~~~~~~ MA  -Hn
C            -r        -I    iw w.k.h -                                                              t        --.  7i -s .tMO ''-     -  -
9    ;                 * -  Pag k *   KALI    AN   tA N                        _   ,                           -
, i LSwUtNQR XSt + -    n n V          l                                 ;                        '14  tC'-_ ''--       Cr
10                               r                      C-                                4    a '
§ nlAu  Tabl; 1 41i ' Sea u^.. z -_ r i > _                                                                =A
0I .U. JAIATA                                      %N4-                                              OA.31
10 JAWA? 1I5                                       LAN 7                                                                                                                           Ar
4 DJ.OOAKARTA                                                         .I."                                     A-mieJA
I JAWA TIMUR       mon 'b&
e LAMPLUM                                                                                                                             U   J-
7 IOJaUL                                ao                                      .,                    1¼"   ,         ,       ,, n !
I IUMATERASILArAN                                                                             A/5
II RIAU                                                                                    .om
IC1 JAMNE                      Mbew                                      e                 b.,M
I2 SuMATIAAU~ARA?                           BDA?                   ~~                                                         anda  Sea
It*IMAURUTARA                            AK   JAWA
14KLMANTA lA AISw
14 KAL61AI'ANT8AANTIGA
Ii KALF.AANTANSE'l_ATAN                                                          -.-
I? KALIMANITAN TIMIJ                                                                                                                 .-
IS ULAWCI*TINEUAH
0IU ULWIB UTANA                                     TenaI
IIJLAWII SALATAN                                        4      rr
21EULAWRII TINCOANIA                                                                                            w M ka                                                      -    as-
22                                                                               40 2,~e                                                              0  on  in -                                 -   W
ii MAL.JC                                                                                                 24  0Kam-uS no                                                     in no
20 IRIAN JAVA                                                                                      - 
27 Ti1MaRTIMUR          b      ~        n       .                                                    
C                                                        110                   or                   12                    I                     Ifl I  1or
MAY IM






