Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5354-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 26, 1985
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00       =  Rp 1,100
Rp 1.00       =  US$O.001
Rp 1,000      =  US$0.909
Rp I million  =  US$909
Rp 1 billion  =  US$909,091
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
July 1 - June 30
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BAPPENAS   -  National Development Planning Agency
CAL        -  Central AnaLytical Laboratory
CIDIA      -  Center fer the Improvement and Development of
Instructional Activities
CITS       -  Center for Instrumentation and Technical Services
CPIU       -  Central Project Implementation Unit
DAA        -  Directorate of Academic Affairs, DGHE
DGHE       -  Directorate General of Higher Education
HEPU       -  Higher Education Planning Unit, Secretariat, DCHE
IOU        -  Indonesian Open University
IPB        -  Institute of Agriculture, Bogor
ITB        -  Institute of Technology, Bandung
IUC        -  Inter-University Center
LPIU       -  Local Project Implementation Unit
MEC        -  Ministry of Education and Culture
NCEC       -  National Graduate Education Council
PARB       -  Program Advisory and Review Board
P3T        -  Office of University Planning and Development
SCD        -  Sub-Directorate for Curriculum Development, DAA, DCHE
Si         -  Undergraduate degree program
S2         -  Master's degree program
S3         -  Doctoral degree program
SMA        -  Senior general secondary education
TAMU       -  Technical Assistance Management Unit, DAA, DGHE
TMPD       -  Doctoral Program Management Team
UGM        -  University of Gadjah Mada
UI         -  University of Indonesia



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA   ........ ..........       ........... .... .................    iv
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .       .. ..................    v
r .    THE HIGHER EDUCATION SUBSECTOR ........................ ......            1
Background                                                             1
Issues in Higher Edu                c     a    t    i     on......................... ... O....  2
Government Strategyr.........                                          6
Bank Role ........ o............... ... ............... o.......    8
Other Donor Assistance ........................     ...... ........   11
Rationale for Bank Involvement .................... ..........   11
_I.    THE                                  POET................................. 12
Project Objectives .. ......... ............ .....                    12
Project Components .............       .. .......o ....o ..... oo ...   13
Development of Graduate Education ........... ..... o.......   13
Improvement of Undergraduate Education ..........*.......    17
Strengthening of University Planning and Management ......   18
Project Implementation ..............   21
Status of Project Preparation.. ..................... ........   22
Costs ..................... ...... ...            .. ................   23
Financing ............................. ..... ........ -.06........... 25
Procurement.... ............................   26
Disbursements-..o.......-............. ..... .......... .-..   28
Accounts, Audits and Reports  ............................ .........   28
Monitoring and Evaluation  ........ .......... o....... .........   28
Benefits and Risks ......... ..       ............  ................  29
III.  AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION....................   30
This report is based on the findings of a preappraisal mission to Indonesia in
February 1984. Mission members included N. Colletta (senior general educator,
mission leader), C. Valdivieso (economist), W. Rooskandar (architect),
G. Theisen (research specialist, consultant), F. O'Neill (higher education
specialist, consultant). This mission was followed by an appraisal mission in
June 1984 consisting of Messrs. N. Colletta, W. Rooskandar, Ms. C. Valdivieso,
and Messrs. T. Chapman (bio-engineering sciences, consultant), and R. Marleau
(engineering sciences, consultant). A final postappraisal mission occurred in
November 1984 and included Messrs. N. Colletta, V. Demetriou (architect) and
J. Willet (management specialist, consultant) and Ms. C. Valdivieso and Ms. B.
Searle (evaluation specialist, EDT).
Thi document ha a restriced ditbtion and nay be used by recipients ouly in the performnce of
thei oficil dutes Its cntewts moy not otherwie be dbclosd without World Dank authoriztion.



TABLES IN TEXT                                                     Page No.
1. Sumnary of Costs by Project Component ............................   24
2. Project Financing Plan ...........................................   25
3. Procurement Arrangements .........................................   27
ANNSEES
1. Comparative Education Indicators.32
2. Projected Requirements and Supply of Higher Level
Kanpoaer (1989).34
3. University Faculty Requirements
Table 1:  Projection of S1 Enrollments and
Annual Output by Field of Study (1984-2000).35
Table 2:  Projection of S2 Enrollments and Annual Output by
Field of Study (1984-2000).36
Table 3:  Projection of S3 Enrollments and Annual Output by
Field of Study (1984-2000).37
Table 4:  Requirements for New University Teachers
(1984-1989) ..........................................   38
4. Staff Development Program
Table 1: Overseas Graduate Degree Training Program
(1985-90) ............................................   39
Table 2:  Domestic Nondegree Training Program
(1985-90) ............................................   40
Table 3: Overseas Nondegree Training Program
(1985-90) ............................................   41
5. Visiting Scholars
Table 1: Visiting Scholars (Foreign and Domestic)
Required (1985-90) ...................................   42
6. Instructional Materials Development Program
Table 1: Instructional Materials Development Schedule
(1985-90) ............................................   43
Table 2: Instructional Materials Production Schedule
(1985-90) ............................................   44
7. Research Development Program
Table 1: Research Schedule by Number and Type of Award
(1985-90) ............................................   45
8. New Undergraduate Programs
Table 1:  Enrollment Projections and Faculty
Requirements (1985-90) ...............................   46
Table 2:  Man-years of Overseas Fellowships by Year and Program
(1985-90) ............................................   47
Table 3:  Man-years of Foreign Visiting Scholars
by Year and Program (1985-90) ........................   48



-iii -
Page No.
9.  Planning and management ...................                           49
Table 1: Foreign Experts and Overseas Training Program
for University Planning and Management (1985-1990) ...........    59
10. Project Costs and Implementation
Table  1: Project Cost Summary ............   60
Table  2: Project Component by Year (Base costs, Rp billion) ...   61
Table  3: Project Component by Year (Totals incl. conting.) ....   62
Table  4: Summary Accounts Cost Summary ........................   63
Table  5: Summary Accounts by Project Component ....     ...........   64
Table  6: Summary Accounts by Year (Base costs, Rp billion) ....   65
Table  7: Summary Accounts by Year (Totals incl. conting.) .....   66
Table  8: Breakdown of Summary Accounts (Rp billion) ...........   67
Table  9: Breakdown of Summary Accounts (US$ million) ..........    68
Table 10: Disbursement Forecast ................................   69
Table 11: Key Indicators of Project Implementation .............   70
11. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File ........    71
CHARTS
Chart 1:  Directorate General of Higher Education ..............      73
Chart 2:  Management Structure of Graduate
Education Development ..............................   74
Chart 3:  Organization of Graduate Education Development at
National Level .....................................   75
Chart 4:  Organization of Graduate Education Development at
University Level                 ..                     76
Chart 5:  Technical Assistance Management Unit (TAMU) ..........     77
Chart 6:  Organization of Inter-University Center (IUC) ........   78
Chart 7: Organization of Project Implementation Units .........    79
Chart 8:  Implementation Schedule ..............................   80
MAP
IBRD 18231 - Location of Project Institutions



- iv -
INDONESIA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Basic Data /a
General
Population (millions) (1982)                            152.6
Annual growth (Z)                                       2.2
Labor force (millions)                                   54.3
Participation rate (Z)                                 52.6
Employment by Sector
Agriculture (Z)                                           55
Industry (Z)                                              13
Services (Z)                                              32
GNP per capita (US$)(1983)                               560
Educational
Labor force by education
level (1980)                Primary & below         Secondary     Higher
Number (millions)                      45.9                 5.7         0.4
Distribution (Z)                       88.3                10.9         0.8
Secondary
Number of institutions (1982)    Primary        Junior       Senior       Higher
Public                          109,574        4,327        1,666           44
Private                           10,588       8,412        4,307          438
Total                      120,162       12,739        5,973          482
Enrollment (million) (1982)
Public                           22.5          2.4          1.1            0.24
Private                            2.2         1.9          1.2            0.27
Total                          24.7          4.3          2.3            0.51 /b
As Z of age group                  100          41           24              4
Graduates (1983)                   3.1         1.2          0.66           0.06
Public Education Budget (1982/83)
As percentage of GDP                                                        2.4
As percentage of total budget for public expeaditures                       7.2
Higher Education (1982/83)
Expenditure as percentage of public education expenditure                  14.0
Average recurrent costs per student                                      US$277
/a   Sources:  DGHE, Ministry of Education and Culture.  Data are for 1982 or
the 1982/83 school year unless otherwise stated.
/b   Includes universities only.



-v-
INDONESIA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Republic of Indonesia
Amount:         US$147 million equivalent
Terms:          Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable rate
Project
Description: The overall long-term objective of the project would be to
develop Indonesia's capacity to train its own universicy
teachers and researchers. This would be accomplished by:
(a) development of new graduate-level programs in selected
fields of study and research; (b) initiation of five special-
ized undergraduate fields of study which are currently not
available in Indonesia; and (c) strengthening of overall
university planning and management. The project would include
financing for about 845 graduate felLowships, about 1,000
research grants, about 3,000 differing prototype instructional
materials and facilities and equipment for 16 inter-university
graduate education centers and related technical assistance.
The main benefits of the project would be to increase the pro-
portion of university teachers holding advanced degrees from
15% to 35Z; improve the quality of educational materials,
teaching methods and research; and increase management
capacity for administration and planning of higher educa-
tion. A major risk is the difficulty in coordinating imple-
mentation of the various participating entities, especially to
ensure program quality and spread of impact throughout the
university system. To reduce this risk the project would
strengthen existing arrangements for managing graduate
studies. For example, a National Graduate Education Council
would be established, with representation from all major
universities, key government policy makers and outstanding
authorities in their respective fields, to facilicate
coordination and provide high level policy and technical
advice. In addition, the project would include in-depth
annual implementation reviews.



-vi -
Estimated Costs: /a                                Local    Foreign    Total
--- -    US$ million
Development of graduate education
Overseas Graduate Degree Training             1.4      28.5       29.9
Inservice Nondegree Training                  9.8      13.2       23.0
Instructional Haterials                       6.8       5.0       11.8
Graduate Research                             4.1       3.0        7.1
Physical Facilities and Equipment            12.7      29.7       42.4
Visiting Scholars                             5.6        7.1      12.7
Incremental Staff, Consumable Materials
and Operation and Maintenance              38.7       8.2       46.9
Subtotal                               79.1      94.7      173.8
Improvement of undergraduate education
Overseas Graduate Degree Training           0.3       6.2        6.5
Curriculum Development /b                    -        0.7        0.7
Subtotal                              0.3       6.9        7.2
Strengthening of planning and management /c   0.8         0.7        1.5
Total Baseline Cost                    80.2     102.3      182.5
Physical contingencies                          8.0      10.2       18.2
Price contingencies                            21.5      22.3       43.8
Total Project Costs                   109.7     134.8      244.5
Financing Plan:                                    Local    Foreign    Total
aSs million     -
IBRD                                           12.2     134.8      147.0
Government                                     97.5         -       97.5
Total                                    109.7     134.8      244.5
Estimated
Disbursements:
Bank FY     86     87      88     89      90     91     92
~~         ~------  US$ million ------
Annual                        4.5   13.6   22.6   29.4   36.2   36.2    4.5
Cumulative                    4.5   18.1   40.7   70.1  106.3  142.5  147.0
Rate of Return: Not applicable.
/a Import duties or taxes would be negligible and hence have not been
identified separately in project costs.
/b Costs for this activity are the visiting scholars who will assist
curriculum and materials development.
Ic Includes .3 million doLlars for visiting scholars. See Table 1 page 24
for breakdown.



INDONESIA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. THE HIGHER EDUCATION SUBSECTOR
Background
1.01      While external factors, such as the fall in oil prices and the
international recession, have caused a slowdown in Indonesia's economic
growth, the shortage of trained manpower, especially technical, professional,
and managerial, constitutes one of the most pressing constraints to sustained
economic development. If development programs are to be implemented as
planned, human resource development should continue to receive high priority
during the coming decade.
1.02      The educational system has made impressive gains during the last ten
years in expanding access to education and improving the skills of the labor
force. At the primary level, enrollments grew from 13.0 million in 1972 to
24.7 million in 1982; universal access to grade one of primary school has
virtually been achieved; and dropout and repetition rates have declined during
the last decade despite rapid enrollment increases. Enrollment at the junior
secondary level tripled from 1.4 million in 1971 to 4.3 million in 1982, and
the enrollment rate has reached 41Z of the age cohort. At the senior
secondary level, enrollment grew from 0.6 million in 1971 to 2.3 million in
1982, about half of which is in public schools. The resulting enrollment rate
is 24%.
1.03      The number of university students increased from 10,000 in 1950 to
250,000 in 1975, and 810,000 in 1983, equivalent to an annual growth rate of
about 152 in the last decade. Despite this rapid growth, university enroll-
ment is still relatively low, and much of the education has been of inadequate
quality. Enrollments in higher education were only about 4% of the total age
cohort in 1983. This ratio compares favorably with enrollment ratios in other
countries in the region, with the exception of Korea, the Philippines, and
Singapore which hIve higher education enrollment ratios of about 22%, 21%, and
8% respectively.1   However, in relation to the needs for skilled manpower
(Annex 2), the capacity of the higher education subsector is seriously
deficient. Substantial investments are required, both to increase enrollments
and to improve the quality of education.
1.04      There are about 480 tertiary institutions (universities, academies,
colleges, and institutes) in Indonesia, of which more than 400 are private.
The 30 public universities and 95 private universities had an enrollment of
about 810,000 students in 1983/84, with some 455,000 students in public uni-
versities and 355,000 students in private universities. The Government has
1/   Annex 1, Comparative Education Indicators, February 1985.



set an enrollment target of 8.2% of the university ai7 cohort for the Fourth
Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita IV, 1984-1989)._   Reaching this goal
would require a twofold increase in enroLlments from 810,000 to about 1.6 mil-
lion students over the life of the Plan. Average annual output in scientific
and technical fields will not be enough to cover annual additional needs by
1989 (Annex 2), since at present it represents less than one-third of current
demand. Rapid growth in public university enrollment is planned at all
levels: undergraduate (Si) students in natural science, engineering, agricul-
ture, economics, and social science in public universities would increase from
about 200,000 in 1983/84 to about 330,000 in 1989/90; master's (S2) students
in these fields from 1,750 to about 4,200; and doctoral (S3) students from 345
to about 635 during the plan period (Annex 3).
1.05      The development of the higher education subsector (both qualita-
tively and quantitatively) will require an increase in the proportion and
number of university teachers holding advanced degrees. At present, only
about 15% of academic staff in the natural sciences and about 9% of academic
staff in the social sciences hold advanced degrees (master's or PbD). The
proposed growth of the university system under Repelita IV and beyond and the
necessary upgrading of university teachers' qualifications, will require some
8,100 additionaL university teachers during the plan period (including
replacements) (Annex 3, Table 4). Of these, 3,200 will require advanced
degrees.
1.06      Investments in higher education in Indonesia have a high social rate
of return. Estimates based on 1978 d*t a for urban males indicate social rates
of return to higher education of 15%._   Another estimate shows a rate of
return to undergraduate education of 18%, and a rate of return to graduate
education (S2 level) of 21Z.4'
Issues in Higher Education
1.07      The basic issues in the higher education subsector include:  (a) low
internal efficiency; (b) inadequacy of output, especially in 57cientific/tech-
nical fields in reLation to demand generated by the economy;, (c) need to
staff an expanding higher education system; (d) poor quality of instruction
2/ Repelita IV, Chapter on Education and the Younger Generation,
(1984/85-1988/89).
3/   Psacharopoulos, George. "Indonesia-Manpower Considerations in the Energy
Sector." May 1982, World Bank, mimeo, p. 36.
4/   P.J. Simanjuntak.  "The Market for Educated Labor in Indonesia:  Some
Policy Approaches." PhD Dissertation, Boston University, 1981.
5/   World Bank, "Indonesia:  First Phase of a University Development Program"
Report No. 3000a-IND (August 4, 1980), pp. 9-18; and "Indonesia:
Technical and Professional Manpower in Agriculture", Report No. 3249-IND
(August 20, 1981), pp. 16-32.



-3-
and research; (e) inadequate subsector planning, management and development;
(f) the skewed geographic distribution of educational access; and (g) under-
financing (capital and recurrent) of the system.
1.08      Low Internal Efticiency.  The relatively low internal efficiency of
the university system is attributable to various factors, including the low
level of educational attainment of the faculty, insufficient time devoted by
staff to teaching duties, inadequate physical facilities, and the inadequacy
of financial aid to help students and their families meet the significant
private costs of higher education, especially in private institutions. Even
considering the recent rapid growth in enrollments, the ratio of graduating
students to total enrollment is g7latively low at pubLic and private universi-
ties, institutes, and academies.-   The average faculty-student contact time
is reported to be as low as four instructional hours per week. The average
length of time for a student to complete a four-year degree program is between
6-8 years, due to the unavailability of major professors for advice on thesis
requirements, the necessity of many students to work to meet the private costs
of attending university, and the inadequacy of appropriate course offerings.
Internal efficiency, however, has been improving 'once the late 70s, espe-
cially after the introduction of the credit system (which provides flexibility
in meeting course requirements), and the reduction of thesis requirements for
graduation (para. 1.29). Internal efficiency should improve further with the
planned upgrading of teaching staff qualifications.
1.09      Size and University Output in Relation to Demand.  The number of
graduates from public universities grew at an annual rate of 17X, from about
10,700 in 1979/80 to about 17,200 in 1982/83, while output from private uni-
versities grew at a rate of 16% p.a. The demand for higher education is
increasing parallel to growing manpower requirements. The number of graduates
from senior secondary school (SMA) is expected to rise from 450,000 in 1983/84
to 730,000 by the end of Repelita IV in 1988189, and the private demand for
entrance to all forms of higher education is expected to rise proportionately.
1.10      University Staff Requirements.  The Government's proposed expansion
of the university system in itself further increases the demand for higher
level university manpower (university faculty). Reaching the Repelita IV
targets will require a massive effort: even if a large proportion of all new
teaching staff recruited by public universities during the period have only Si
degrees, the annual number of domestic S2 and S3 graduates must be increased
substantially by 1988/89 and a large proportion of graduates retained as
university faculty (Annex 3, Table 4). The private university sector will
also require a substantial increase in staff over the next decade.
1.11      Quality of University Instruction and Research.  The quality of
instruction and research in higher education is adversely affected by the
paucity of inputs. There is, for example, a serious shortage of textbooks and
other instructional materials in Bahasa Indonesia. Library hoLdings are, in
6/   See, D. Clark, "Efficiency in Indonesian Higher Education" (draft, 1983),
p. 8.



-4-
general, extremely few in number and limited in scope. Students and faculty
alike often have Little access to laboratory facilities and limited oppor-
tunity to balance theoretical classroom learning with practical applica-
tions. The amount of graduate-level laboratory equipment is insufficient and
much of what is available is obsolete or in need of repair. Compounding the
problem of inadequacy of physical inputs is the low level of educational
att&inment and scholarly productivity of the staff of public and private
universities.  A major means of improving the quality of university instruc-
tion would be to increase the number of staff holding graduate degrees.
Craduate traikhing programs were begun in Indonesia in 1975 in six universities
and three teacher training colleges (IKIPs).  Between 1976 and 1982 a total of
2,200 students were enrolled in master's and doctoral programs, of which 68Z
were at the master's degree level. During the same period, about 840
individuals received advanced degrees, of which 580 were at the master's
level, and 260 at the doctoral level. While the establishment of graduate
programs is a major accomplishment, their current quality and internal effici-
ency is insufficient, given the overall demand for university level instruc-
tors. In addition, the amount and quality of scholarly productivity is low.
A recent survey showed that less than one fourth of faculty are actively con-
ducting research. Such research is typically contract feasibility and/or
evaluation studies and not the type of basic research required to nurture the
development of an active scientific community. For the most part, university
research has been uncoordinated and determined primarily in response to
requirements of funding sources. It also lacks the means to establish and
maintain priorities and mechanisms for disseminating findings.
1.12      Inadequate University Planning and Development.  Planning and
management capacity is limited at both the national and local levels. At the
national level, the Directorate General of Higher Education (DGHE) (Chart 1)
is constrained by the aosence of a permanent cadre of professional staff and
underdeveloped planning, monitoring, and management information systems. The
underdeveloped management capacity at the center is compounded by weak lines
of authority to the local level and inadequate qualitative and financial
control. At the university level, the management structure suffers from
limited administrative capacity, lack of a clear scheme of service, lack of
continuity among managers, poor coordination among faculties and departments,
and the absence of university-wide standards and performance data. The
Government is planning to address some of the more urgent features of this
problem through the establishment of Inter-University Centers and the
strengthening of the Directorate of Academic Affairs (DAA) and the Higher
Education Planning Unit (HEPU) (paras. 2.21-2.30).  The problem is also being
studied under ongoing sector work.
1.13      Geographic and Socio-economic inequity.  Nine of the ten most
prestigious public universities in Indonesia are located on Java.  Until 1983,
the university entrance examinations tended to favor applicants on Java, but
as a result of new policies and procedures, initiated in 1984, the entrance
examinations and other admissions criteria gill open access to the best



-5-
universities more or less equally to students from all provinces.71 At
present, children from the wealthiest 30% of households in urban areas account
for about 71% of all univeggity students, while representing only about 14X of
the university age cohort.- The scholarship program is now being expanded
and targetted to address this inequity.
1.14      Financing University Education.  In Indonesia, education expen-
ditures represent about 9% of total central government expenditures, which is
significantly lower than in other middle income countries in the region, such
as Thailand (21%), and the Philippines (14%) (Annex 1). In 1984/85, the total
routine and development budget of the DGHE was almost US$250 million, about
19% of the MEC budget. By the end of Repelita IV, routine and development
expenditures of the DCHE are expected to represent about 20% of the total MEC
budget, while its development budget will represent about 25Z of MEC's devel-
opment expenditures. In 1984 prices, DGHE's routine and development budgets
are expected to increase to about US$320 million in 1988/89. DGHE expendi-
tures are expected to grow at an annual rate of 6.4%, while total MEC expendi-
tures are projected to grow at an average rate of 4.6% during Repelita IV.
1.15      The planned expansion of the university system will require a
significant change in the composition of education sector finances, in favor
of higher and secondary education and away from primary education.  She level
of cost recovery in public higher education is relatively low. In ecent
years, 87% of recurrent expenditures in public universities has been provided
by Government. Although all universities charge tuition and entrance fees,
moderate increases in tuition fees have not kept pace with inflation. Oppor-
tunities for greater cost recovery from those who can shoulder the burden need
to be explored. For those who cannot, student loan or scholarship schemes
should be developed. Such adjustments would increase the financial feasibil-
ity of a more rapid expansion of public higher education, and at the same
time, increase educational opportunity. While GOI is reluctant to increase
tuition fees further, mostly on equity grounds, there is a relatively modest
student loan program, which assists cost recovery. If this program were to be
expanded, tuition fees could be raised, increasing the level of cost recovery
while granting student loans to the poorer students, giving access co higher
education to all groups and reducing subsidy leveLs. Room and board subsidiz-
ation is virtually nonexistent, since most universities lack boarding
facilities. However, the overall level of cost recovery in Indonesian higher
education (public and private) is relatively high, since about half of
Indonesian students are enrolled in private universities, where full cost
7/   World Bank, "General Secondary Education in Indonesia:  Issues and
Programs for Action," Report No. 4954-IND, July 26, 1984, paras. 3.34,
3.39, 5.03(c), H.C.A. Somerset "Patterns of University Recruitment.
Regional Variations in the Flow of Secondary School Leavers to the PPI
Universities" (1983, photocopy), and CEM, May 12, 1983, Annex II, Table
1.
8/  Oey Astra Meesook, Financing and Equity in the Social Sectors in
Indonesia, World Bank CPD Discussion Paper No. 1983-5, May 1983.



-6-
recovery is the norm. One of the main objectives of the higher education
sector work program (para. 1.31) is to review the financial aspects of higher
education in Indonesia, which should result in a better understanding of the
levels of cost recovery and policy proposals for improving it. A major
expansion of investment in higher education would not represent a major burden
on the Government, if the education budget is reallocated from primary to
higher education, and if the private sector continues its dynamic growth.
Thus growth will help control the required increases in -he Government'-
development and routine budgets for higher education. CurreiLtlv Lnere are
about eight times as many private as public higher education institutions and
private enrollments account for about haLf of total higher educ:,tion enroll-
ment.-9 These institutions are in urgent need of capital investments to both
improve and enlarge their facilities and to upgrade their academic and
administrative staff. In addition, some of their students, who pay full-cost
fees, require financial aid schemes, particularly loans, to help them complete
their courses and thereby raise the internal efficiency of the overall system.
1.16      Faculty wages in the public universities are low in comparison to
salaries obtained by professional and scientific manpower in the private
sector, leading to the common phenomenon of "multijobbing".  Most university
professors, even if full-time at a university, hold several jobs and/or con-
sultancies, cutting actual teaching and preparation time to only ' few hours
each week. Recent civil service wage increases for university faculty of
about 27Z should help to alleviate this problem. While the Bank and DCHE
continue to study the overall incentive structure for university employees
through the sector work program (para. 1.31), it must be noted that the wage
problem is generic to civil service reform and difficult to address in the
context of a single project intervention in one ministry or directorate only.
Government Strategy
1.17      The Government's education sector strategy is to provide a broad-
based educational system, formal and nonformal, which will produce the trained
manpower necessary to promote a development strategy focused on increasing
agricultural productivity, expanding industrial capacity and improving the
country's basic infrastructure. In the short- and medium-term, expatriate
manpower, short-term training programs, and on-the-job training will help to
bridge some of the gaps between supply and demand for higher level manpower.
In the long-term, substantial investment in education beyond the primary level
will be required, in particular to increase the output of professional, tech--
nical and managerial manpower.
91   Based on data from the Directorates for Public and Private Universi-
ties. See K. Hanovice, "'The Private Higher Education Sector in
Indonesia: Description and Loan Feasibility Analysis," September 1984.
Given that public universities cannot accommodate total demand for higher
education, nor supply the numbers of higher level manpower the economy
will require, loan and grant support for upgrading of staff and
facilities in private universities may have to be expanded.



-7-
1.18      During Repelita III, the Government began to establish a clear
direction for higher education. The Bank also began to be involved through
financing the first University Development Project (Ln. 1904-IND) which
included agreement on several subsector policy targets. Progress in the
achievement of these policies is discussed in paras. 1.28-1.30 below.
1.19      The Government recognizes the need for continued development of the
private higher education system. The private higher education subsector is
dynamic, and both the number and size of institutions and the number of
students have grown substantially. The MEC provides several types of
subsidies, guidance, and encouragement through the Directorate of Private
Universities to the private university system. These are intended to be "seed
money", to foster the growth of the system itself, and include provision of
full-time lecturers, cash grants for buildings and rehabilitation, and the
provision of classroom or laboratory equipment. In general, however, the
private universities operate on a full cost-recovery basis, deriving virtually
all of their funds from student fees. In most cases, the private universities
are financially sound in their routine operations but severely constrained in
development funds. Expansion and improvements are limited by the unavaiL-
ability of soft loans. There is a need for a student loan program, given the
high fees charged by private institutions of higher education. At present,
such aid is limited. Given proper incentives and financial availability, the
growth of the private university system could be accelerated, reducing some of
the pressure on the public university system, and thus relieving the Govern-
ment of a heavy recurrent budgetary burden. The Government is currently
studying possibilities for further assisting the private sector (para. 1.31).
1.20      In an effort to alleviate manpower shortages, the Government has set
ambitious targets for the growth of the university system during Repelita IV,
which imply rapid growth in all levels of public university enrollment. Given
these targets, the number of public university SI teachers in natural science,
engineering, agriculture, economics, and social science would have to increase
from about 12,000 in 1982/83 to over 18,000 in 1988/89, or a total increase of
about 8,000 Si teachers over the period, including replacements. The total
projected output of S2 and S3 graduates in these fields is only about 5,000
over the five years, of which about 4,000 could be expected to become univer-
sity teachers. About half of the newly recruited SI teachers would hold only
S1 degrees (Annex 3, Table 4).
1.21      To enhance the quality of public university teaching, the Government
wishes to increase the proportion of university teachers holding advanced
degrees from 15% to 40% by the end of the decade. The most effective short-
term means of increasing the educational level of the labor force and univer-
sity staff would be the mounting of a large overseas training program in con-
junction with the expansion and strengthening of existing domestic graduate
programs. In addition, the Government proposes to expand its inservice
faculty upgrading program, increase the output of local instructional mate-
rials and enhance scholarly productivity through the development of a
competitive open grants research program. The Government plans to establish
several Inter-University Graduate Education Centers (IUCs) as a vehicle for
efficiently and effectively implementing these programs.



-8-
1.22      Inter-University Centers (IUCs) Concept.  In 1983 the Government
conceived of Inter-University Centers (IUCs) as a means of coordinating the
use of scarce and specialized physical and human resources supporting the
expansion and qualitative improvement of graduate education. As early as the
1970s, the Government was discussing the establishment of "centers of excel-
lence." Effectively the first IUC (center of excellence) was set up in
Samarinda University in Forestry. The IUCs will be established to concentrate
resources, reduce dupLication of facilities, and keep down the recurrent costs
of higher education. An IUC consists of a complex of equipment, materials,
facilities, and buildings, staffed by academic and technical experts belonging
to related core disciplines with the main purpose of supporting various pro-
grams of study and research at the graduate level. The IUCs will provide
research support, develop instructional materials, service degree and
nondegree training programs through the offering of courses, seminars and
internships for graduate students and faculty, facilitate scholarly
interaction among faculty and researchers from universities and research
institutes throughout the country, and provide public service. IUCs will be
physically located in and managed by a lead university. These centers will
serve the needs of several campuses in specialized fields (see annex 9 paras
13-29 for further description).
Bank Role
1.23      The primary focus of the Bank's assistance to higher education has
been to help the Government in meeting critical manpower requirements,
improving quality, and strengthening the management of the subsector, without
adding an unsustainable financial burden on the government budget. Since
1977, the Bank has financed five higher education projects in Indonesia, with
a combined total of about US$250 million in higher education related compo-
nents. These include two teacher training projects, two polytechnics proj-
ects, and a university development project. In December 1983, the Bank joined
the Government in launching a Higher Education Sector Study (para. 1.31
below). OED Project Performance Audit Reports (PPARs) have been prepared for
two education projects in Indonesia and the lessons learned have been incor-
porated in the design of the proposed project. The PPAR for the Technical
Education Project (Credit 219-IND) (No. 2998, dated June 2, 1980, Sec M80-440)
stressed the importance of including fellowships for development of teachers
and school administrators and appointing key staff for project implementation
in a timely manner. The PPAR for the first Agricultural Training Project
(Credit 288-IND) (No. 3508, dated June 30, 1980, Sec M80-527) stressed the
importance of advanced preparation and the need for carefully designed and
suitable technical assistance components.
1.24      The Bank anticipates giving high priority to the expansion of higher
education and the improvement of its quality and efficiency. The proposed
project will concentrate on long-term university teaching, research, and
administrative staff development, emphasizing key public universities at the
graduate level. Other crucial aspects will be considered under the DCHE/Bank
Higher Education Sector Study and under a separate study of the library
sector. These studies will identify further key investments and related
policies for raising university productivity (para. 1.31).



- 9 -
1.25      Teacher Training.  The first and second Teacher Training Projects
(Ln. 1433-IND and Ln. 2101-IND) were designed to assist formal basic education
through a quantitative expansion of the system as well as through improvements
of the skills, competence, and effectiveness of teachers and educational
administrators. These projects supported the development and implementation
of new curricula, the expansion and improvement of facilities for preservice
and inservice teacher and administrative training, and the development of new
curricula and policies for special education.
1.26      Polytechnics.  The two polytechnics projects (Credit 869-IND and
Ln. 2290-IND) were designed to assist the Government's plans to increase the
supply of middle-level manpower through the creation, expansion, strengthening
and diversification of the polytechnic system. The first Polytechnic Project
initiated a major program of building a polytechnic system through the con-
struction, furnishing and equipping of six polytechnics, a Technician Educator
Development Center, and four Accountancy Development Centers. The polytech-
nics have been in operation since September 1982, and their output is expected
to increase the supply of trained technicians by 45%.
1.27      Shortages of middle-level manpower are a major constraint to the
country's plans for expanded industrial growth. In consequence, the second
Polytechnic Project was designed to increase the number and distribution of
polytechnics, broaden the curricula, and strengthen polytechnic planning and
management capacities. The annual output of polytechnic diploma holders is
expected to increase from about 1,500 in 1985 (under Polytechnics I) to around
6,000 in 1989.
1.28      University Development.  The first University Development Project
(Ln. 1904-IND) signed in 1980 was designed as the first phase of a long-term
program to strengthen university management and raise the quality and number
of graduates in engineering, science, agriculture, and economics at three key
universities (the Universities of Indonesia (UI), Gadjah Mada (UGM), and
Andalas). The project includes technical assistance for developing policies
and improving management and teaching quality at these universities. Academic
and master plans for the University of Indonesia have recently been finalized,
and for Andalas and Gadjah Mada would be completed by May/June of 1985. About
951 (or 990 staff-years) of the staff development fellowships have been com-
mitted and about 68Z (41 man-years) of foreign technical assistance is
committed.
1.29      Most of the policy targets are well on the way to being reached.  At
the time of appraisal of the first project (1980) university instructors were
teaching on average four hours per week. In 1983 DGHE Directive No. 48, sti-
pulated that the teacher workload should be 12 credit hours (faculty teaching
equivalents) per week. Staff to student ratios have improved from the norm of
about 1:10 in 1980 to about 1:15 in 1984. The utilization rate for classrooms
and laboratories has increased over the past four years from below 50X to
about 70%. Standard student evaluation schemes have been introduced and a
semester credit hour system is replacing the old system which relied exclu-
sively on a final examination. As a result internal efficiency is rising.
For example, at major institutions such as Gadjah Mada University, the produc-
tivity index, which is the ratio of graduates to total enrolment in a given



- 10 -
year, rose from 7.6% in 1976 to 9.8Z in 1983, and the average length of study
for 18 undergraduate programs was reduced from 8.2 years in 1980 to 6.9 years
in 1983. Grants, scholarships and the suspension of tuition fees for low
income students have been used to increase access. University admission poli-
cies are undergoing major changes to take more account of high school perfor-
mance and to increase geographic equity in university admissions. Based on a
preliminary study financed under the project, a new admissions policy was
introduced in 1984 revising the multiple entrance examination system into a
single standardized system. Further work on examination reform is being
financed under the new Secondary Education and Manzgment Training Project
(Loan 2472-IND). Policies on staff incentives and granting overseas
fellowships are still under study.
1.30      The first University Development Project has also encountered
several implementation problems. There was a two-year deLay in the signing of
the technical assistance contract with the Mid-Western University Consortium
for International Assistance (MUCIA) in the United States, which delayed the
appointment of visiting professors. Progress was particularly slow in campus
planning and site development, resulting in slow impLementation and progress
in formulating building proposals. Two of the three universities have signed
contracts for professional services (joint ventures of local and foreign
consultants) to finalize detailed campus masterplans. The University of
Indonesia has just completed its masterplan and has made substantial progress
over the last six months. Design work fir 7 faculties has been finalized and
work on construction documents is underway. The Administrative Office build-
ing (Rectorate) was contracted in February 1985 and is scheduled for comple-
tion by January 1986. The FY85/86 program includes contracting of major
building components amounting to about US$18 million, and site development
works of about US$8 million. Procurement of equipment and books has been
slow, and subject to prolonged government scrutiny. Overall project manage-
ment has been weak, especially in the coordination of activities and progress
reporting for the three universities. However new management (new Rector for
UI, and new Project Director in the Central PIU) is beginning to make an
impact on project performance. Financial management under the local PIUs
continues to be weak, as is overall control of the budget under the Office of
University Planning and Development (P3T) Units. Steps to improve
coordination between the P3T and PIUs in the proposed second University
Development Project, would also benefit the first project. These factors
resulted in a generally slow implementation of activities linked with
expenditures, as reflected in the lagging disbursement performance. However,
with the signing of the technical assistance contract, representing about 38%
of project expenditures; the appointment of a new project manager; and the
recent completion of the UI master plan, project implementation has recently
begun to improve.
1.31      Higher Education Sector Study.  The DCHE, with Bank/UNESCO support,
has organized a program of sector work in higher education during the next
year, involving all major donor agencies. The program will gather basic data
on the subsector, and help in the identification of future investment priori-
ties and the necessary policies to make the system more efficient and finan-
cially sustainable. The program consists of eight studies, which will focus
on the following topics: the management, efficiency and productivity of



- 11 -
higher education (public and private); the internal efficiency of the
university system; occupational outcomes of university graduates; university
research activities; the development of the humanities and social science
education; and mathematics and science education at universities and teacher
training colleges (para. 1.24). While the findings of these studies are
important to future development of the subsector, the needs for staff
development and quality improvement, in general, are so great that proceeding
with project assistance in these areas is justified.
1.32      Research and Technology Development.  In addition to developing
research capacity in the university system, the Bank has recently appraised a
Research and Technology Training Project to strengthen the national research
institutes of the Ministry of State for Research and Technology. Linkages
between the national research institutes of the Ministry of State for Research
and Technology and the national research programs would be developed. Many
institute researchers are part-time university staff. The sharing of research
facilities and the intellectual cross-fertilization among research programs is
common. Other ties between these domestic research programs and foreign
institutions, and the strengthening of professional standards and associations
within the country should also catalyze domestic research development.
Other Donor Assistance
1.33      Indonesia's higher education system has received assistance from
bilateral and multilateral sources.  The United States (USAID) has provided
technical assistance and training to the Institute of Technology, Bandung
(ITB), the Universities of Airlangga, Indonesia, Andalas, and Padjajaran, the
Agricultural Institute, Bogor (IPB), and the Eastern Universities Consor-
tium. Tne main focus of this assistance has been in the area of agriculture.
The Dutch, Australian, French and German and the UNDP/UNWESCO aid programs have
provided a range of assistance from university press development to the
provision of fellowships and technical experts. The Asian Develooment Bank
(ADB) has provided assistance to the Institute of Technology in F.rabaya, the
University of Hasanuddin in South Sulawesi, the University of North Sumatera
and the University of Sriwijaya in South Sumatera. The Rockefeller and Ford
Foundations have also provided assistance to higher education, primarily
through the support of overseas training and the provision of technical experts
and research grants. Almost all of the above agencies, as well as the British
Government, are now actively involved in the Higher Education Sector Study.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.34      Higher education is a priority subsector for Bank participation,
based on a review of development priorities in Indonesia and of the Bank's
comparative advantage and resources. The first University Development Project
(FY81) was designed as the first phase in a longer-term assistance program to
the Indonesian university system, in order to provide sufficient output and
quality of high-level technical, scientific, and managerial manpower needed
for national economic growth. The proposed project would emphasize staff and
institutional development of graduate education, and thus pave the way for the
sustained development of the university system in Indonesia, resulting in an
easing of the skilled manpower shortage and the more efficient implementation
of development projects and programs in all sectors.



- 12 -
1.35      Bank long-term involvement in Indonesia's university system through
a parallel program of project assistance and sector analysis would continue to
be an important means of achieving gradual, but steady, progress in government
policies related to staff development and incentives, student admissions and
examinations, and the efficient organization and management of costly facili-
ties and equipment in the subsector.
II. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives
2.01      The overall long-term objective of the project will be to develop
Indonesia's capacity to train its own university teachers and researchers.
This will be accomplished by: (a) development of new graduate-level programs
in selected fields of study and research; (b) initiation of five specialized
undergraduate fields of study which are currently not available in Indonesia;
and (c) strengthening of overall university planning and managem_nt.
2.02      The development of new graduate-level programs will be accomplished
by the creation and development of academic infrastructure to strengthen
graduate research and instructional programs at 16 Inter-University Centers
(IUCs) (see para. 1.22 for IUC description) located at five universities.
Each IUC will have a Program Advisory and Review Board (PARB) of academic
specialists to provide technical guidance and oversight. IUCs for the life
sciences, engineering science, biotechnology and electronics will be located
at ITB; food and nutrition, life science and biotechnology centers at IPB;
engineering, biotechnology, food and nutrition, economics, and social studies
at UGM; computer science, social studies, and economics at UI; and the Center
for the Improvement and Development of Instructional A ivities (CIDIA) will
be attached to the Open University of Indonesia (IOU)- .  Since the nature of
social research and policy formation necessitates intensive contact with
diverse social groups and problems spread throughout the Indonesian archi-
pelago, the social studies center at UI will have a field presence off Java
with sub-centers at Cenderwasih, Hassanudin and Andalas Universities. These
universities were selected to house IUCs because they are the most established
institutions offering graduate studies in these critical disciplines. The
main criteria for selecting the lead institutions for establishing IUCs are:
availability of teaching staff; established research programs; existing
supporting facilities and administrative structures. These elements comprise
the critical mass required to build leading graduate programs that could in
10/ The IOU opened in September 1984. It aims at providing tertiary level
education to students who are unable to gain regular university places,
others in the 18-24 age group desiring higher education, and teachers who
wish to upgrade their skills. Courses are offered in business and admin-
istration, developmenc studies, economics and applied statistics. The
66,000 students enroLled comprise degree and nondegree candidates and
teachers. There are plans to expand the curriculum and increase the
number of students to 150,000 over the next five years.



- 13 -
turn service related undergraduate and graduate program development in other
universities throughout the system.
2.03      The project will provide the IUCs fellowships, technical assistance,
research funds, facilities and equipment, and other related inputs required
to: (a) increase the number of teaching staff with master's (S2) and doctoral
(S3) degrees; (b) -rovide nondegree, inservice staff training; (c) develop
graduate and undergraduate instructional materials in Bahasa Indonesia; and
(d) finance and manage reseaech programs. To improve undergraduate education,
the project will finance technical assistance and fellowships to train faculty
and develop curriculum and instructional materials to establish five new
undergraduate (SI) programs, and increase the output of domestic graduate (S2
and S3) faculties to improve teacher qualifications for undergraduate instruc-
tion. The planning and management of the university system will be streng-
thened through the provision of technical assistance, fellowships, equipment,
and related inputs which will be used to establish and develop a set of
related policy and administrative bodies to be coordinated by a National
Graduate Council Education (NGEC) and the Directorate of Academic Affairs
(DAA), Directorate General Higher Education (DCHE).
Project Components
Development of Graduate Education (US$173.8 million excluding
contingencies)
2.04      Overseas Graduate Degree Training (US$29.9 million excluding contin-
gencies). Despite the increased graduate output as a result of support under
this project, there will still be a considerable shortfall, given the
Government's target for advanced degree holders by 1990. On the assumption
that domestic graduate training programs operating at full capacity would
still be insufficient to meet the target, any reduction in this shortfall can
only be met by expanded overseas training. To upgrade the educational and
professional qualifications of university staff, the project wiLl provide for
about 600 man-years of master's and about 1,100 man-years of doctoral overseas
graduate training fellowships for about 700 persons who would return to train
the next generation of university teachers and researchers in Indonesia itself
(para. 1.05) (Annex 4, Table 1). The Government has prepared a detailed plan
for degree staff training for the first year of the project for each IUC, with
a list of prospective overseas fellows. This plan was agreed at negotiations
and will be reviewed by the Bank on an annual basis (para. 2.34).
2.05      In-Service Nondegree Training for Academic and Technical Staff
(US$23.1 million excluding contingencies). In order to improve and strengthen
researcL and teaching capacities, the IUCs will provide nondegree in-service
training by means of internships, short courses, seminars/workshops, and
academic courses in five main areas - curriculum development, instructional
methods, research methodology and data processing, planning and management,
and professional subject matter development. Senior laboratory staff members
will be sent abroad to instrumentation industry schools for operation, routine
maintenance, and repair courses for the instrumentation systems with which
they are not completely familiar. This training will take place before eouip-
ment delivery so that staff would be able to coordinate installation and
testing of the equipment.



- 14 -
2.06      The project will provide about 6,200 man-months of domestic intern-
ship type training, about 3,200 man-months of academic courses, about 5,300
man-months of training through short courses, and about 2,300 man-months par-
ticipation in seminars and workshops, (Annex 4, Table 2). It will also pro-
vide about 1,700 man-months of overseas internship-type training, including
postdoctoral work and about 475 man-months attendance at international confer-
ences (Annex 4, Table 3). To support the development of nondegree training
programs, the project will provide about 30 man-months of domestic and about
60 man-months of overseas visiting scholars (Annex 5, Table 1). The
Government has prepared a detailed plan for nondegree staff training for the
first year of the project for each IUC. This plan was agreed at negotiations
and will be reviewed by the Bank on an annual basis (para. 2.34).
2.07      Instructional Materials Development and Production (US$11.7 million
excluding contingencies). To improve the quality of undergraduate and gradu-
ate instruction and to provide students with better access to educational
materials in the Indonesian language, the project will support the development
and limited production of prototype instructional materials. Such materials
will be of the following types: syllabi and lecture notes, books and mono-
graphs, laboratory manuals and workbooks, computer modules, and audiovisual
materials. The development of prototype instructional materials would be
undertaken through collaborative workshops of staff from the various graduate
academic programs (IUCs) and the pedagogical staff of the Center for the
Improvement and Development of Instructional Activities (CIDIA) at the
Indonesian Open University (IOU). This process will be coordinated by the
CIDIA. The production and dissemination of instructional materials will be
the responsibility of individual IUCs, handled in conjunction with nondegree
staff training in the pedagogic use of such materials. The Government gave
assurances at negotiations that all materials developed under the project will
be pretested and revised before replication and dissemination (para. 3.02(a)).
2.08      During the life of the project almost 3,000 different prototype
instructional materials, ranging from syllabi and lecture notes to textbooks
and laboratory manuals, will be developed (Annex 6, Table 1). The project
will finance limited production ru.s of each prototype as indicated in
Annex 6, Table 2. To assist in the development of these instructional mate-
rials, the project will provide about 540 man-months of domestic and about 100
man-months of overseas visiting scholars (Annex 5, Table 1). A detailed plan
for materials development, production, and distribution for the first year of
the project for each IUC has been prepared. This plan was agreed at negotia--
tions and will be reviewed by the Bank on an annual basis (para. 2.34).
2.09      Graduate-level Research (US$7.1 million excluding contingencies).
The project will assist each of the 16 IUCs in the development of graduate-
level research by providing research facilities, expenses, and expert guidance
for graduate students doing S2 and S3 thesis research. These programs will be
open to graduate students from all universities in the areas of specialization
of the IUCs. A common application procedure will be established for students
seeking to use IUC facilities and to receive financial support. Each program
will also receive technical support for research design, data analysis, and
write up from domestic and foreign research staff who will be attached to the
IUC where the program is housed. Logistical and financial support for the



- 15 -
reproduction and dissemination of research products will be an additional
responsibility of the research component of each IUC financed under the proj-
ect. Within each IUC, the management of research will rest with the IUC pro-
gram secretary and head of the research and publication unit, and the fiscal
management with the IUC administrative secretary. During the period of the
loan, about 590 awards will be given by the IUCs for the support of S2 thesis
research, and about 220 awards for S3 dissertations (Annex 7, Table 1).
2.10      In addition to S2 and S3 research support, the project will further
promote the development of the research establishment by providing funds for
faculty research projects open to all university staff in the supported fields
through a program of open competitive grants. About 270 research grants will
be awarded via an open, competitive selection process (Annex 7, Table 1).
Such open grants are viewed as an incentive to stimulate basic research and
expand the frontiers of knowledge in a given discipline, and address national
problems. The eligibility and screening criteria for all research project
allocations will be determined by the IUC Director and-Program secretary in
consultation with PARB in each field of study.
2.11      All research proposals and IUC recommendations therefrom will be
reviewed by a PARB. The PARB will ensure that the selection criteria for
awards are respected, that research priorities are taken into consideration,
that proposals are reviewed, and that funded research projects are properly
designed, monitored, evaluated and disseminated through seminars and publi-
cations. Criteria for the acceptance of proposals for research projects and
specialized equipment will take into consideration such things as the
relevance of the project to the national development objectives, feasibility
of the research, degree of proposal clarity and size of budget, contribution
to knowledge in the field, capability and potential of the researcher, con-
gruence with IUC research priorities, potential for sustaining the line of
research, contribution to student training, and the responsibility of the IUC
to foster development throughout the Indonesian University system. A detailed
plan and schedule for year one of the project research program for each IUC
inclusive of draft requests for proposals (RFPs) has been prepared. This plan
was agreed at negotiations and will be reviewed by the Bank on an annual basis
(para. 2.34).
2.12      To assist IUC staff in enhancing both the quality and quantity of
graduate-level research, the project will provide about 4,830 man-months of
domestic and about 560 man-months of foreign visiting scholars (Annex 5,
Table 1). The scholars will provide assistance in all facets of the research
process from research conceptualization and design to proposal writing and
publications. For master's and doctoral research, the scholars will assist in
the design, data gathering and analysis aspects of the research process. For
open grants, the research experts will participate in only the review and
monitoring activities.
2.13      Instructional and Research Support Facilities and Equipment (US$42.4
million excluding contingencies). To support the above programs, a coordi-
nated effort will be extended to establish or enhance existing central analy-
tical laboratories (CALs) providing a broad range of analytical services to
all IUCs on each campus. The heads of CALs will be appointed by and report to



- 16 -
the respective Deans of Graduate Studies. In this manner, duplication of
equipment and operating personnel will be minimized. The resulting smaller
group of operating personnel could then be more fully trained and should
provide higher quality service to the users. Manufacturers' training will
faciLitate primary service by the laboratory staff and will allow them to
judge better the need for factory field service. It is expected that with
such training, and with a carefully selected inventory of spare parts, equip-
ment can be kept functional, thereby eliminating the need to purchase
duplicate instruments as insurance against breakage. Each of the IUCs should
be able to deal directly with the centralized facilities rather than go to
upper management when requiring routine measurements and observations. The
project will finance classrooms, offices, library and storage space as well as
laboratories.
2.14      Technical services constitute a necessary and critically important
component of the infrastructure required for the dev;ylpment of graduate
education and the IUCs. Centers for Instrumentation"! and Technical Services
(CITS), providing maintenance and repair laboratories and headed by a director
reporting to the graduate dean, will be established at ITB, UGM and IPB and
will include the following functions: (a) standards and calibration; (b)
instrumentation information and documentation library (reference materials,
maintenance and repair handbooks, instrument manufacturers' cataLogs, instru-
ment inventory and service records, etc.); (c) spare parts and supplies;
(d) shared instrument pool; and (e) a well qualified and trained staff. The
development of such centers will be supported in the project by: (i) funding
for equipment; (ii) training of staff with internships both overseas and
locally; and (iii) assistance from overseas specialists. After the mainte-
nance and repair operations are well established, the staff and facility
resources will be developed to engineer, design, develop, and fabricate spe-
cial instruments and instrumentation systems to meet the needs of the regional
research community for advanced research apparatus.
2.15      To support graduate research activities, the project will provide
funds to equip the new IUC laboratories with the basic facilities and
apparatus needed to conduct research in the relevant areas. According to
faculcy interests and capabilities, certain specialized equipment will also be
needed to support specific research programs. To provide special instruments
and apparatus, the project will provide additional equipment funds. Such
special equipment funds will be awarded on the basis of competitive proposals
from the IUCs, reviewed, and evaluated by the Program Advisory and Review
Boards (PARBs). Proposals for specific items will indicate the intended use
and benefits, the number of users affected, procurement specifications, provi-
sions for supervision, operation and maintenance, and recurrent costs. The
project will provide about 600 man-months of domestic and about 160 man-months
11/ Instrumentation refers to hardware used to observe and measure physical
and chemical properties. The term connotes the use of electronic devices
for transmitting, processing, and recording signals from sensors such as
electrodes, thermocouples, photocells, etc.



- 17 -
of foreign visiting scholars to IUCs, for the development of laboratories and
equipment procurement and maintenance.
2.16      Visiting Scholars (US$12.7 million excluding contingencies).  As
described in the above components, the project will provide 900 man-months of
foreign visiting scholars and 6,000 man-months of domestic visiting scholars
to support the implementation of the in-service training, instructional
materials development, research and support programs. They are also expected
to take up some of the teaching assignments of instructors who are studying
overseas.
2.17      Incremental Staff, Consumable Materials and Operation and
Maintenance (US$46.9 million excluding contingencies). Tne project will
provide for incremental staff for each of the 16 IUCs and for the CAL and CITS
at UGM, IPB and ITB. Consumable materials will be provided for all IUCs, as
well as operation and maintenance of buildings and equipment.
Improvement of Undergraduate Education (US$7.2 million excluding
contingencies)
2.18      This component will support the establishment of five new under-
graduate programs in areas where there are acute shortages of trained man-
power: computer and information science and technology, material science and
technology, marine science, ocean engineering, and gas technology. These
programs will be developed at the University of Indonesia, Institute of
Technology, Bandung, and the Agricultural Institute, Bogor, which already
possess the requisite expertise and basic laboratory facilities to provide
guidance in curriculum and staff development for establishing the five new
undergraduate programs. The project will finance only staff, curriculum, and
instructional materials development for these new undergraduate programs. The
preparation of qualified staff and software could be followed by subsequent
investments in classrooms, laboratories and equipment.
2.19      Overseas Graduate Degree Training (US$6.5 million excluding
contingencies). To upgrade the professional and educational qualifications of
sufficient additional staff to ensure an eventual output of about 2,200
graduates per annum from these 5 new undergraduate programs (see Annex 8,
Table 1), the project will provide for about 200 man-years of master's and
about 160 man-years of doctoral overseas graduate training fellowships
(Annex 8, Table 2).
2.20      Curriculum and Instructional Materials Development (US$0.7 million
excluding contingencies). Curriculum and instructional materials for the new
programs will be prepared while staff are being trained. The Directorate
General of Higher Education will establish a Working Group and appoint a
chairman for each of the five new undergraduate programs. This group will
receive technical support from the CIDIA of the Open University (para. 2.07)
in the design of curriculum and instructional materials development. The
Working Group will consist of professional peers in the relevant field of
study and would: (a) prepare a national educational master plan in the new
field of study; (b) supervise and coordinate the implementation of the master
plan; (c) develop curriculum and syLlabus; (d) develop instructional materials
to support the curriculum; (e) prepare guidelines and conditions for opening
and implementing a program of study in a university; (f) prepare a list of



- 18 -
minimum equipment and other educational facilities to implement such a pro-
gram; and (g) initiate, conduct, and stimulate professional development acti-
vities such as professional and scientific meetings, seminars, and confer-
ences.  To assist the Working Group in performing their tasks, the project
will provide about 70 man-months of foreign visiting scholars (Annex 8,
Table 3).
Strengthening of University Planning and Management (US$1.5 million
excluding contingencies)
2.21      Overall Graduate Education Organization and Management.  In order to
foster the development of graduate education in Indonesia, and build on the
policy changes instituted under the first University Development Project, a
considerable amount of further institutional development will be required
through this project. Senior policy advisory and evaluative functions will be
provided through the formal establishment of the National Graduate Education
Council. Technical guidance will be provided, especially at the university
level, by Program Advisory and Review Boards (PARBs), comprising specialists
in the core and affiliated disciplines and reporting to the DGHE. The overaLl
operational management of the graduate education system will be the responsi-
bility of the Directorate for Academic Affairs (DAA). The DAA will assume
management responsibility for the Technical Assistance Management Unit (TAMU)
and the Central Project Implementation Unit (CPIU). The program implementa-
tion bodies at the university level will be the respective Local Project
Implementation Units (LPIUs) and IUCs, which are the frontline education,
staff development, and research units. A CPIU will be formed in the DAA.
LPIUs will also to be established at all project universities. The IUCs will
have to be formally established at each project university. The management
and organizational relationship of these entities is depicted in Charts 2, 3
and 4. A detailed description of the role and function of each body is
delineated below (and further information is provided in Annex 9). The
Government gave assurances at negotiations that all project institutions now
operating on an ad hoc basis will be formally integrated into the DGHE and
fitlly staffed by September 30, 1986. A schedule for appointing key staff to
all project entities was provided at negotiations (para. 3.02(b)). Establish-
ment of the IUCs, CPIU and LPIUs is a condition of loan effectiveness
(para. 3.03(a). An elaboration of the above institutional framework follows.
2.22      National Graduate Education Council (NGEC).  At the national level,
graduate education in indonesia has been guided on an ad hoc basis. To ensure
graduate educational development, the Government is -roposing to establish a
National Graduate Education Council (NGEC). NGEC will provide guidance to the
DGHE on the policy and technical planning and development of graduate educa-
tion. This advice will cover such topics as policy formulation, coordination,
planning, monitoring and evaluation, curriculum development, and the setting
of research priorities. The membership will consist of representatives from
all major universities, key government policymakers and outstanding authori-
ties in their respective fields. The project will provide about eight man-
months of foreign expert services to assist in the establishment of the NCEC.



- 19 -
2.23      Directorate of Academic Affairs (DAA).  The DAA will liaise with
universities, relevant units of the MEC and other offices of the Government on
matters related to policy decisions, scope and content of programs, monitor-
ing, review, and evaluation of project activities. DAA will assume management
responsibility for the TAMU and the CPIU. The current task force for develop-
ing graduate education (TMPD) will be incorporated into the Sub-Directorate
for Curriculum Development (SCD) of the Directorate of Academic Affairs (DAA),
DGHE. To strengthen the overall planning and development of the graduate edu-
cation system, the project will provide about six man-months of foreign ex-
perts and 18 man-months of overseas nondegree management training, as well as
funding for additional equipment for project implementation to SCD, TAMU, and
the CPIU in addition to the provisions for GESDU set out in para. 2.24.
2.24      Technical Assistance Management Unit (TAMU).  TAMU will incorporate
the National Fellowship Office created under the first University Development
Project (Loan 1904-IND) and the existing TAMU, which was set up under the
Second Teacher Training Project (Loan 2101-IND). This unit will include the
management of visiting scholars and other academic assistants as well as fel-
lowship recruitment, selection and placement for all higher education projects
(Chart 5). The Government plans to centralize all overseas degree and non-
degree training, at least for the public service, in a National Steering Com-
mittee for Overseas Training and the National Overseas Training Implementation
Unit. It is important that DGHE and its operating bodies, in pa:ticular, the
expanded TAMU, have a high degree of autonomy in order to facilitate speedy
recruitment and placement of fellows, etc. The project will provide about 24
man-months of foreign specialist services, about 36 man-months of foreign non-
degree training, and supporting equipment and operational costs to the TAMU.
2.25      Higher Education Planning Unit (HEPU).  The primary functions of the
HEPU will be the generation of system-wide information, collected on a common
basis and organized into manageably useful forms. The HEPU will provide ser-
vice to management, faculty, and coordinating evaluative and advisory agen-
cies. Simple new managerial recording systems are being introduced in the
first university project as the first steps to improve the internal efficien-
cy, quality and management of university education. A computerized management
information system has been initiated and fully implemented for student and
staff data at the University of Indonesia and the DGHE Office, while at the
University of Andalas and Gadjah Mada implementation is near completion
(paras. 2.52-2.53).  The HEPU will incorporate these efforts.
2.26      The HEPU is established within the Secretariat of the DGHE. It will
be responsible for the development, operation, and maintenance of a management
information system to support strategic planning and operational decision
making, and institutional research. The HEPU will provide continuous up-to-
date data on students, staff, costs, equipment and facilities, instructional
materials, resources utilization, the outcomes of educational processes, re-
search, and public services. In particular, it will: (i) provide information
bases for the management of the higher education sector; (ii) provide analyti-
cal bases for the study of teaching concepts and practices, curriculum objec-
tives and indicate needed actions concerning instruction and curricu-lum
building; (iii) monitor admissions practices, examinations, grading practices,
and workloads; (iv) delineate the ways in which curricula decisions can affect



- 20 -
university space utilization and other routine operations; (v) identify and
analyze factors that influence costs or efficiency of operation; and (vi)
provide a rational basis for examining the mission, goals, achievements, and
management of the institution. The evaluation and monitoring of special
project activities is the designated responsibility of the operational
agencies - IUC, LPIU, DAA, and the respective advisory and review organs
(PARBs).
2.27      The project will provide 12 man-months of foreign experts at the
DCHE office. The project will include 21 man-years each of local and foreign
specialist services to establish the management information system. In
addition, three man-years of local specialist services will be supported to
develop a uniform system of university accounts so that proper comparisons may
be made on income and expenditures between faculties within the same institu-
tions and among universities.
2.28      Inter-University Centers (IUCs).  The IUCs will be responsible for
the implementation of the academic and research programs, staff and institu-
tional development, and will report through the LPIU to DAA during the project
implementation stage (para. 2.31). The LPIU will be responsible for ensuring
that the IUC directors implement DAA guidelines and procedures at their
respective IUC, and that they fully consider advice from DAA and PARBs. The
IUCs will have a Director and two Secretaries, one for general and financial
administration and one for academic programs and staff development (Chart 6).
In addition to the secretaries, an IUC will have a PARB to advise the Director
on the selection of research proposals and evaluation of research products
(para 2.11). The IUC will have access to laboratories, instrument and testing
facilities established under the project, which would also be managed by LPIU.
2.29      The project will fund equipment and operational costs for improving
university-level graduate education management at the five project-assisted
university graduate studies offices and the 16 project-assisted IUCs. The
staff of these bodies will receive about 12 man-months of nondegree overseas
management training. In addition, the project will provide 15 man-months of
foreign management consultancy services and about 40 man-months of domestic
management consultancy services during the planning, development and initial
operation of the IUCs to assist in the development, implementation and moni-
toring of guidelines and procedures for the key programs of staff development
(degree and nondegree training), research and instructional materials develop-
ment (Annex 5, Table 1). The management and organizational relationship of
the IUCs with the LPIU, DAA and the main advisory organs, NCEC and PARB, is
depicted in Chart 4.
2.30      University Management Training Program.  To support the above
institutional development the project wi'' help develop a cadre of trained
personnel in university management by financi2g a management training program.
The program will develop support systems and training for senior university
managers, university administrators within each Office of Graduate Studies,
IUC and LPIU and key staff at DGHE. To develop and administer the program,
DGHE has established a management training unit in Jakarta comprising a direc-
tor, two administrator's assistants and 16 trainers under the first project.
The 16 trainers, who were drawn from universities and the DGHE, have received



- 21 -
x man-months of overseas training in che skills and procedures of administra-
tive and academic management. The expanded management training program wiLl
include courses in management skills and procedures for the entire public
university system, newly prepared organization and procedures manuals, and
seminars on higher education policy and practice. Each training course wiLl
be short, lasting two to three weeks, and altogether about four courses will
be conducted annually. This training will supplement the management training
program financed under Loan 1904-IND. It will differ in that its primary
focus will be on the DCHE and university level staff and it will be carried
out predominantly in-country. During implementation of the project about one-
fourth (approximately 750 staff) of the existing rectors, deans and other
senior university staff, and key DCHE staff not trained under the first
University Development Project will be trained. The Government has prepared a
detailed plan and schedule for university management training for the first
year of the project. This plan was agreed at negotiation id each year there-
after the Government will submit a revised plan for Bank re. ew and comment
(para. 2.34).
Project Implementation
2.31      The CPIU will be part of DAA in2d will coordinate the academic and
physical implementation of the project .-   It will support a Local Project
Implementation Unit (LPIU) at each of the five project universities. The DAA
will report to the Director General for Higher Education and submit quarterly
progress reports to the Bank. Each LPIU will be responsible to the CPIU for
the implementation of the project components of IUCs in its field. The CPIU
will consist of one secretariat and four sections which will have the follow-
ing functions: (a) academic development; (b) civil works; (c) procurement;
and (d) finance and accounting (Chart 7). LPIUs will have the same general
organizational structure as the CPIU and will vary in size depending upon the
field project size. The LPIU will be responsible for coordination of physical
development for all IUCs in its host university.
2.32      The project will be implemented over a period of about five years,
starting in April 1985 and ending in December 1990. Loan effectiveness is
estimated around September/October 1985. A detailed project implementation
schedule is shown in Chart 8. This implementation schedule and the expendi-
ture schedules for the vari3us project components (Annex 10, Table 1) will
serve as a basis for projecc implementation planning and will be updated annu-
ally by PIU staff. To allow time for processing withdrawal applications and
settling project accounts, the loan closing date will be December 31, 1991.
12/ The Project Implementation Unit at the DGHE level is hereinafter called
the Central Project Implementation Unit (CPIU). The Project Implementa-
tion Units at the University level are hereinafter called the Local
Project Implementation Units (LPIU).



- 22 -
2.33      To ensure that the pool of possible overseas training candidates
will be as large as possible, the Government is currently reviewing its
requirement that civil servants studying abroad should have been employed for
at least two years prior to departure. The Covernment is preparing a revised
policy modifying the civil service employment requirement. Government gave
assurance at negotiations that all fellowship participants, including those
with less than fuLl civil service status, will be eligible for overseas study
under the project (para. 3.01(a).
2.34      In order to ensure smooth implementation and a forum for Bank com-
ment on annual plans, the project will include an annual Bank-DGHE project
review. As preparation for this review, the Government gave assurances at
negotiations that it would submit to the Bank fcr its review by January 1 of
each year: (a) an annuaL proposed plan and program detailing degree and non-
degree staff and management training, research, and materials development,
production and distribution programs for each IUC; and (b) a proposed annual
budget by IUC; and that it will thereafter implement such programs (para.
3.02(c)).
Status of Project Preparation
2.35      The project is in an advanced stage, and poised for implementation.
Software and physicaL requirements have been defined in great detail by each
institution. With the appointment of architectural consultants, which is
expected prior to effectiveness, development plans and schematic designs
should be prepared by December 31, 1985. Other key implementation activities,
such as the preparation of workshops for instructional materials development
and the placement of some overseas fellows, will also be able to start before
effectiveness. Budgetary prov.sions for FY85/86 will be made before the
budget is approved in early 1985. The project will require three new sites:
a completely new site for the Open University 1UC, and sites for the extension
of the ITB and UGM campuses. During appraisal, sites were identified.
Government gave assurances at negotiations that evidence of the acquisition of
these sites will be provided by not later than December 31, 1985 (para.
3.02(d)). Architectural consulting firms acceptable to the Bank will be
selected for the design and supervision of the IUC facilities. Government
brought to negotiations a short list of architectural consulting firms.
Appointment of these firms will be a condition of loan effectiveness
(para. 3.03(b)). The list will include international consultants, whose
expertise will be particularly relevant, as many of the facilities include the
design of special environments such as "clean rooms," sterile rooms, electro-
magnetically isolated rooms, etc., which should be designed and constructed to
modern scientific standards. Master lists of required equipment have been
drawn up and were reviewed by the Bank. Furniture lists are under prepar-
ation. Standard bidding documents for civil works and equipment were
submitted to the Bank for review at negotiations 'para. 3.01(c)). Preliminary
designs, including architectural briefs, accommodation schedules, construction
methods and estimates, will be sent to the Bank for approval. Construction
drawings and bid documents will be scheduled for completion in December 1985,
and bidding activities are expected to start during early 1986.



- 23 -
2.36      Criteria and procedures for awarding overseas fellowships, selecting
nondegree training participants, and awarding research grants have been pre-
pared and reviewed by Bank staff. During the first project year (April 85-
March 86) about 130 fellows will be placed in various overseas institutions.
Draft detailed plans for degree staff training inclusive of lists of fellows
for the first year of the project, and first year plans for in-service staff
development, materials development and research programs for each IUC were
reviewed by the Bank. Terms of reference for all new project institutions,
i.e., NGEC, IUC(s), and PARB(s) have also been reviewed (see Annex 9).
Costs
2.37      Summary of Costs.  The total cost of the project is estimated at
approximately US;2'4.5 million equivalent. The estimated costs by project
component are summarized below in Table 1. Other cost tables are presented in
Annex 10.
2.38      Base Cost Estimates.  Base costs are expressed in April 1985
prices.12/  Construction costs of USS235/square meter were based on the costs
of recently contracted works. Professional fees for architectural services
including supervision were estimated to be lZ of construction costs. Equip-
ment costs were derived from master equipment lists which have been reviewed
and found appropriate in scope and cost. Furniture costs were estimated as
10% of construction costs. Costs of the development and reproduction of
learning materials were based on current costs prevailing in Indonesian uni-
versities. Equipment and materials imported under the project will be exempt
from duties and taxes. Import duties or taxes on building materials have not
been identified separately in project costs as such taxes are negligible.
Research awards were established at a level deemed sufficient to stimulate the
production of theses, dissertations, and basic independent research. Fellow-
ship costs include average tuition fees and subsistence costs, including
housing and travel allowances, as well as administrative costs and an initial
three-month language training period. Overseas degree fellowships were esti-
mated at about US$18,000 per staff-year, while overseas nondegree training was
estimated at about US$2,000 per staff-month for internships (generally 6-12
months) and at about US$6,000 per staff-month for conferences and seminars (up
to one month). Domestic nondegree training was estimated at an average of
Rp 0.8 million per staff-month for internships (3-12 months), Rp 0.9 million
for short courses (1-3 months), and Rp 2.8 million for seminars and workshops
(up to one month). Recurrent costs, such as staff salaries, were based on
current levels for full-time staff.
2.39      Contingency Allowances.  Physical contingencies (US$18.2 million)
represent 10% of base costs. Price contingencies (US$43.8 million), 21.8% of
base costs plus physical contingencies, were estimated on the basis of the
implementation schedule and the following expected annual price increases:
local - 8% for 1985-90; foreign - 8% for 1985; 9% for 1986-88; 7.5% for 1989;
and 6% for subsequent years.
2.40      Foreign Exchange Component.  Based on detailed analysis of expendi-
tures of similar projects in Indonesia, the (physical facilities) foreign
13/ Using an estimated exchange rate as of April 1985 of Rp. 1,100 per US$-



- 24 -
Table 1: SUIlMAX  OF COSTS BY PROJECT COMPONENT
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total    S Foreign   2 Total
CRp billion) -       -     (US$ million) -       exchanRe   base costs
Development of Craduate Education
Overseas graduate degree training            1.5      31.3     32.8      1.4      28.5     29.9        95            16
In-service nondegree training               10.8      14.5     25.3      9.8      13.2     23.1        57            13
Instructional materials developaent
and production                             7.5       5.5     13.0      6.R       5.n     11.7        42             6
Craduate level research                      4.5       3.3      7.8      4.1       3.0      7.1        42             4
Instructional and research support
facilities and equipment                  14.0      32.7     46.7     12.7      29.7     42.4        70            23
Visiting scholars                            6.1       7.8     13.9      5.6       7.1     12.7        56             7
Incremental staff, consumable materials,
and operation and maintenance             42.5       9.1     51.6     3A.7       8.2     46.q         17           26
Subtotal                                86.9    104.2    iq1.1      79.1      94.7    171.R        54            95
Improvement of Undertraduate Education
Overseas graduate degree training            0.4       6.8      7.2      0.3       6.2      6.S        95             4
Curriculum and instructional
materials development /a                   0.0       0.7      0.7      0.0       0.7      0.7        95             0
Subtotal                                 0.4      7.5       7.9      0.3       6.9      7.2        95             4
Strengthening of Planning and Hanagement
Management traiaing                          O.n       0.2      0.2      0.0       0.2      0.2        95             0
Instructional and research support
facilities and equipment                   0.1      0.1       0.2      0.1      0.1       0.2        70             n
Specialist services lb                       0.0      0.3       0.3      0.0       0.3      0.3        95             0
Incremental staff, consumable materials,
and operation and maintenance              0.8       0.1      0.9      0.7       0.1      n.R         11            1
Subtotal                                 0.9      0.7       1.6      0.8      0.7       1.5        45             1
Total Baseline Costs                    R8.2    112.4    200.6      80.2    102.3    182.5         56           100
Physical contingencies                         A.8    11.3       20.1      8.0      10.2     18.2        56            10
Price contlngencles                           23.7      24.6     48.3     21.5      22.1     43.8        51            24
Total Project Costs                    120.7    148.3    269.0    1n9.7    134.8    244.5          55           134
/a  Financing Is primarily for visiting scholars to assist in desiRn and development of curriculum and learning
materials.
/b Referred to as visiting scholars in summary cost tables, Annex 10.



- 25 -
exchange component has been estimated as follows: (a) civil works 26%;
(b) equipment 88%; (c) furniture 301; (d) in-country training, instructional
materials, and research costs 42Z; (e) foreign experts and overseas fellow-
ships 95X; (f) local experts IllZ; (g) staff salaries 11Z; (h) consumable
materials 42X; and (i) operation and maintenance 25X.
Financing
2.41      The total project costs of about US$244.5 million equivalent will be
financed by a proposed loan of US$147 million, covering 60% of total project
costs. The Government will finance from its annual budget the remaining costs
of US$97.5 million (40% of total project costs).
2.42      The financing plan and loan alloca:ions by category of expenditure
are presented in Table 2.
Table 2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
Government  World  Total    Estimated
Bank    /a       Average
Bank Financing
-----US$ million-   -- X
1.  Fellowships                              -       73.1     73.1         100
2.  Visiting Scholars                        -       16.3     16.3         100
3.  Graduate Level Research                 4.9       4.0      8.9          45
4.  Physical Facilities                     7.7       6.3     14.0          45
5.  Equipment                               6.7      25.3     32.0          79
6.  Furniture                               1.2        -       1.2           0
7.  Books, Journals, Consumable
Materials, and Instructional
Materials                            11.9      8.7      20.6         42
8. Incremental Staff Salaries, and
Operation and Maintenance            56.2       -       56.2           0
Unallocated                                 8.9      13.3     22.2          60
Total Project Cost                     97.5    147.0    244.5           60
/a   Totals represent total estimated costs per category including price
contingencies.
lb   Unallocated funds represent about 10% of project base costs plus price
contingencies on base costs.



- 26 -
2.43      Recurrent Costs.  Annual recurrent expenditures generated by the
project (incremental staff, consumable materials, and operation and mainte-
nance of buildings and equipment), are estimated at about US$15.8 million (at
1985 prices) in 1989/90, the year in which the project will be fully opera-
tional. This represents about 5% of the projected DCHE budget (development
and routine) for that year and about 1% of the MEC budget. Considering the
priority given to higher education development, and the relative underfinanc-
ing of higher education heretofore, this is not an unreasonable addition to
the budget of DGHE.
2.44      Maintenance arrangements for physical facilities constructed under
earlier Bank-financed projects have proven to be satisfactory. It is expected
that the Government will allocate sufficient funds for the maintenance of the
proposed project facilities.
2.45      Budget Allocations.  Budget allocations will be made available to
the project on an annual basis. In addition, related funds required for
expenditures not financed under the loan, such as land acquisition, and
salaries, will also be provided by the Government in the DGHE budget. The
project will be reviewed annually by the Bank and DGHE and the financial
allocations for the project will be adjusted as necessary by DGHE to ensure
that project implementation is not delayed, and operations do not suffer due
to lack of funds.
Procurement
2.46      The procurement method of the major expenditure categories is
presented in Table 3.
2.47      Three major contracts for civil works ranging from about US$3 mil-
lion to US$6 million will be packaged by each university to attract foreign
bidders, and will be awarded on the basis of ICB, in accordance with Bank
guidelines (about US$13_1 million). The remaining two smaller civil works
packages will be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures
acceptable to the Bank (about US$2.3 million). Equipment bid packages
exceeding US$500.000 equivalent will be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines (about US$24.6 mil-
lion). Local manufacturers will be given a margin of preference in bid
comparison of 15% of the c.i.f. price of competing imports or the actual
customs duty, whichever is lower. Equipment, instructional materials, and
consumable materials in smaller packages, and aggregating to a maximum of
about US$10.9 million, will be procured through LCB under Government procure-
ment procedures acceptable to the Bank. Off-the-shelf items of equipment,
instructional materials and consumable materials not exceeding US$50,000
equivalent for each package and aggregating to a maximum of about US$8.7
million, could be purchased through prudent shopping on the basis of three
competitive price quotations. Books and journals will be purchased through
prudent shopping procedures directly from publishers or local distrit -irs
after negotiations for discounts. Employment of visiting scholars and
placement of fellows will be procured by the TAMU in a combination of broker-
institution contracts and direct hire of individuals in accordance with Bank
Group guidelines.



- 27 -
Table 3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(in US$ miLlion)
Total cost
Procurement method          incl. con-
Category of Expenditure             ICB      LCB    Other   N.A.    tingencies
1.  Fellowships                      -        -     80.4       -          80.4
(80.4)     -          (80.4)
2.  Visiting Scholars                -        -     18.0       -          18.0
-       -    (18.0)      -         (18.0)
3.  Graduate Level Research          -        -       -       9.7          9.7
_       _ -   (4.4)         (4.4)
4.  Physical Facilities             13.1     2.3      -        -          15.4
(5.9)   (1.0)     -        -          (6.9)
5.  Equipment                      24.6      5.3     5.3       -          35.2
(20.8)   (3.5)   (3.5)      -         (27.8)
6.  Furniture                        -       1.0     0.3       -           1.3
7. Books, Journals, Con-
sumable Materials, and        0.5     5.6      3.4    13.1          22.6
Instructional Materials      (0.3)   (2.3)   (1.4)   (5.5)          (9.5)
8.  Incremental Staff Salaries,
and Operations and
Maintenance                    -       -        -     61.9          61.9
Total                         38.2    14.2   107.4    84.7          244.5
(27.0)   (6.8) (T13.3)   (9.9)       (147.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
2.48      Architectural schematic designs, draft bidding documents and master
equipment lists indicating proposed packaging and cost estimates will be
reviewed by the Bank. Terms of reference for visiting scholars and plans for
fellowship programs will also be reviewed by the Bank. Prior approval of the
Bank will be required for the award of civil works contracts exceeding US$3.0
million equivalent (covering about 85% of the value and 60X of the estimated
number of contracts), for the purchase of equipment exceeding US$1.5 million
equivalent (covering about 75% of the value and 50% of the estimated number of
contracts), and for the purchase of instructional materials exceeding US$0.7
million equivalent (covering about 85% of the value and 60% of the estimated
number of contracts). Other contracts will be subject to selective post-award
reviews.



- 28 -
Disbursements
2.49      The proposed loan of US$147 million will be disbursed over a period
of about six years (Annex 10, Table 10). Disbursements are expected to be
completed by June 30, 1991 and will be made against the following categories
of expenditures: (a) Civil works and related professional services - 45% of
total expenditures; (b) Consumable materials, books, journals, and instruc-
tional materials - 100% of foreign expenditures and 40% of local expenditures;
(c) Equipment - ti) directly imported, 100% of foreign expenditures; (ii)
locally manufactured - 1002 of local (ex-factory) expenditures; (iii) locally
procured - 70% of local expenditures; (d) Fellowships and visiting scholars -
100% of total expenditures; and (e) Research awards, - 45% of total
expenditures. The disbursement forecast is slightly accelerated from the
Indonesia All Projects and the Regional Education Projects profiles, in view
of the advanced project preparation, particuLarly in software aspects, and
expected early start of fellowship and visiting scholar programs. Retroactive
financing may be necessary for the above activities, and reimbursements of
about US$3 million (starting from November 1, 1984) for instructional
materials development, fellowships and visiting scholars will be eligible when
the Loan becomes effective around September 1985.
2.50      Documentation of Expenditures.  Withdrawal applications for goods
and services with a contract value of US$50,000 or more will be supported by
full documentation. Other disbursements wilL be made on the basis of
Statements of Expenditure. To the extent practicable, withdrawal applications
will be aggregated in amounts of US$100,000 or more, prior to submission to
the Bank.
Accounts, Audits and Reports
2.51      All agencies involved in project implementation will prepare and
maintain separate project accounts in accordance with sound accounting prac-
tices. Accounts and documentation supporting statements of expenditure will
be maintained separately and will be readily available centrally for review by
visiting Bank missions. Accounts, statements of expenditure, and financial
statements for each fiscal year will be prepared and audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. Certified copies of the audited accounts and
financial statements, for each fiscal year, together with the auditor's report
will be furnished to the Bank as soon as available, but not later than nine
months after the end of each fiscal year. Six months after the closing date,
the CPIU will submit a project completion report to the Bank. During negotia-
tions the Government provided assurances that it will comply with these review
and reporting requirements (para. 3.02(e)).
Monitoring and Evaluation
2.52      Under the first project, the DGHE has begun to:  (a) institute indi-
cators of internal efficiency, quality and management; (b) set the annual tar-
gets of achievement; (c) establish methods for monitoring and evaluation;
(d) collect and analyze data to assess various developmental strategies and
measures; and (e) advise the Director General of Higher Education on the
introduction of new policy measures. Under the proposed second project, the



- 29 -
monitoring and evaluation system will be extended and modified to include
institutional research. The project will support information gathering
activities, which will be managed by the Higher Education Planning Unit (HEPU)
of the Secretariat, DGHE (paras. 2.25-2.29). The HEPU will be responsible for
compiling and analyzing data for the entire higher education subsector, as
well as for policy analysis and other types of institutional research (para.
2.25).
2.53      A three-tiered system will be used to monitor the IUC component.
Data on all major IUC activities (civil works, procurement, technical assist-
ance, degree and nondegree training, development of instructional materials,
research support), as well as staffing, will be gathered, stored and analyzed
using a common microcomputer program developed for the purpose by the Computer
Center at UI. These data will be used at the LPIU level to construct indi-
cators of IUC progress for each university. The Planning Unit will compile
information across LPIUs, for reporting to the DGHE and the Bank. Quarterly
Reports to the Bank will be prepared by the CPIU with input from the HEPU.
The Government has prepared a set of monitoring indicators (Annex 10, Table
11) and a plan for appropriate monitoring and data collection. This plan was
agreed at negotiations and assurances given by the Government that it will be
revised and submitted for Bank review on an annual basis (para. 3.02(f)).
Benefits and Risks
2.54      The main benefits of the project will be:  (a) development of the
higher education subsector through an increase in the proportion of university
teachers holding advanced degrees; (b) improved quality of output, through
staff development, provision of educational materials and better teaching
methods and research; (c) increased output of high-level graduates to meet
development needs, through the expansion of critical graduate programs, and
the launching of new undergraduate programs; and (d) increased management
capacity for administration and planning of higher education in general, and
graduate education in particular, through rationalization of organization and
staffing, staff training, policy development and management support. In addi-
tion, the project will lay the groundwork for further increases in university
output by providing the institutional framework for continuous staff and
instructional materials development and research. The improvements in manage-
ment capacity under the project will also provide the basis for improvements
in the management of the university system as a whole (see paras. 1.12, 1.22
and 2.21).
2.55      The increased output generated by the proposed project, by 1990,
should help meet the university staff requirements in priority areas. Specif-
ically, the project will result in about 2,000 man-years of graduate degree
training. Assuming that on average 40% of university staff should have
advanced degrees, the project will produce about 845 persons with advanced
degrees or 35% of the projected staff deficit of 2,420 by 1989. By major
academic field, the project will produce 732, 35X and 23X of the staff defi-
cits in the natural sciences, engineering and the social studies, respec-
tively. The second major benefit of the proposed project, the improvement in
the quality of output, will be expected by the increase in the scholarly
productivity of graduates from the project universities based on the financing



- 30 -
of over 1,000 research studies. In addition, about 3,000 differing prototype
instructional materials will be derived from the project. The third major
benefit, institution building, should have the short-term effect of helping to
increase the level and quality of output of the university system, and the
longer term effect of improving the overall operation, planning and management
for future development of the higher education system.
2.56      Although there is no legal discrimination against women in access to
education or employment in Indonesia, relatively few women occupy higher level
positions in government or the private sector. This situation is expected to
change as the number of highly educated women increases. At present women
constitute about 48% of primary school students, 42% of junior secondary stu-
dents, 40% of senior secondary students, and 33% of higher education (S1) stu-
dents. From 1977 to 1983 women represented about 17% of the total number of
S2 graduates and about llZ of the total number of S3 graduates of Indonesian
Universities. The project is expected to improve the status of women by pro-
viding better Si education, better opportunities for attending S2 and S3 pro-
grams, and more opportunities for teaching, research, and production of books
and instructional materials to female university graduates and staff members.
2.57      A major risk inherent in a university development program of the
scope and complexity proposed is the difficulty in managing implementation of
various participating entities and insuring quality and impact across univer-
sities. Indonesian universities are highly autonomous and decentralized.
University development entails decisions by many authorities, especially in a
project involving more than one university and several faculties across and
within universities. This difficulty of coordination has resulted in delays
in the implementation of the first university project. To reduce this major
risk, the project will form a National Graduate Education Council, with repre-
sentation from all major universities, key government policymakers, and
outstanding authorities in their respective fields, in order to facilitate
coordination and to play a high level policy and technical advisory role. The
Directorate of Academic Affairs will also be strengthened as the prime manAge-
ment, coordination and administrative organ. In addition, in-depth annual
Bank-DGHE implementation reviews will facilitate appropriate adjustments in
project activities.
III. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
3.01      At negotiations the Government submitted:
(a) confirmation that all fellowship participants, including those with
less than full civil service status, will be eligible for overseas
study under the project (para. 2.33);
(b) a short list of architectural consulting firms (para. 2.35); and
(c) standard bidding documents for civil works and equipment
(para. 2.35).



- 31 -
3.02      At negotiations the Bank obtained assurances from the Government
that:
(a) materials developed under the project will be pretested and revised
before replication and dissemination (para. 2.07);
(b) all project institutions now operating on an ad hoc basis will be
formally integrated into the DGHE and fully staffed by September 30,
1986. A schedule for appointing staff to project entities was
provided at negotiations (para. 2.21);
(c) in the context of the proposed joint Bank-DGHE Annual Review, by
January 1 of each year each IUC will: ti) draw up an annual plan
and program detailing: degree and nondegree staff and management
training, research, and materials development, production and dis-
tribution programs satisfactory to the Bank and thereafter implement
such programs; and (ii) draw up an annual Budget (para. 2.34).
(d) evidence of the acquisition of sites wiLl be provided by not later
than December 31, 1985 (para. 2.35);
Ce) accounts, statements of expenditure, and financial statements for
each fiscal year will be prepared and audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank and certified copies of the audited
accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year, together
with the auditor's report will be furnished to the Bank as soon as
available but not later than nine months after the end of each
fiscal year; and a project completion report will be submitted to
the Bank within twelve months of the closing date (para. 2.51); and
Cf) a plan for monitoring and data collection will be revised and
submitted for Bank review on an annual basis (para. 2.53).
3.03      There will be two conditions of loan effectiveness:  (a) establish-
ment of the IUCs and new CPIU and LPIUs (para. 2.21); and (b) appointment of
architectural firms (para. 2.34).
3.04      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project will consti-
tute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$147 million equivalent to the
Government of Indonesia, for a term of 20 years, including a grace period of
five years.



'kti   1      NOtiC                                 i,         -       UOt          CIt              -        qVuNI        &III    0a%Vr   e-'         ad          mf.-an
"OVLI   -       uuiw          -             -        iii         -       m ulCt       ge   -    -     -          *V's          VtZ    0eV;   8Vt         etUs
-             it~~~~~9      v         Wrar         at         mu       he         UA    at   tut            hu &rt       ur         OIclI   III.            W        aw
~t    a         SC          am          u's         ut         i         c.         am    et   cc   Cs          riml         u-Ic    wout   ,-Ii    U1
OV    E        ii           it          .t          It         El       to         vi    or   St   it          rim         .. am     OvVti   Wt       us           LvDsmU
isOrICt    -at       Limt          -tu          Vt        List        -       Si`46       ona    Ct  ott  oit        ..dr:       AmE'u        90 qOIY   *I    S.               sa
e    qtat     aqi?         -              -        ust         it      miii        405    -         - -         -t I      au- ( c    "Ot      r: 8.         e ~    10f
aot        itr        i      v    6           CRv         u%         11         g         0 t  CO v  it It    E    i *il           C'      flu'  il  VI P U                 01vw
Aira        it         m    sRu               c-i         Cu         vs    -141           as    0?I  oCt  .10       SnV          GIC    a(C:    ri           mlatmo
'tar        SI       't          ur          'vI:       auti        't    u,qu            az   cut           o .5. vie  ,,rt               Octt El   YI      De              tIaM
'tart        -       "8            -                      - 'cc       -      .qau&         -                          qv(t 1        rat       Ott     r'u     .5             VMVAi-
'WI,       aw6l    Su4s :          ut            -       tic         -      sis96         -      -    -    -          WE          NOT       c.irm   Irv       at         rwanva
va-s        ii e      It9         it1          it         it       -          goti       It    I  IIt  9ii           CIi        1:4-.      ..,'i  w-,       at             loomsC
11ati       Ci        taL         io          rt          si.       It        URt        H      it   It   si         Vita         bi       Ual I   C'm      asr  '-An  m      umo
'uEC%t2       ci    aqj5t           as           -        Mint         as    LuaUt          So   -     -     -          nti         c-a               ri       at               urn0
a-tiV       a         my          4           C'sc-i      cC         IL       Cu         05     I 0         9 L L   nl            u-a    ,our    *r:        at         willu Yaa
asia-a        ax        LS         -            re          xc         It        bit       iii    a     at  Sti        a-f      l    c -c      t' ugaC  Wi    05            vIIsNW2
A4OVIt    LSE       Aat;g                 -               suit        -      A.Sii1       -      -    -     -         40ri;       ArC        flit3   VIA   iS                  Xliii
ix,-::1    "VI      'vi:          .1i          "..        CZ         -       A"u           et    ii  -      1         I
-    Sit    -~              ~~~~~ -    02                    Ui   LI *-:    t!: A.I
Al   i          -S          -w      it -            iuv       AO          6    I    l Sm*           - t    t    a.-       oat'j   r         e             afv
'tart  at  imuxc         a-ut      Sun          at        is        am   wit 'mx~~~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~ I cc  at    atoc        ct     u-       u 
tori         it        a:          C             -      LiE          -i    ai1            am   aot   iuit C            a-u         ri.    0ati       C-li     i             i
era,        iii      iqz           tat        'Wut        'Ii%       'v         i  it gtaot C   '0i                   SC,$?t                 a"-     le -     ML               mis
.era.        it      vK            VW          r:c         ii     it                     us:qg   -    -t   -c          ntv         c-      ut    ,ii          L is       iiWlvazIS
_          ug S  t                a        ,,-.rv                   us i      EC        41          ,v: (v     cc    -,9          %Iti    glt       ic                      vai-M
Iuti                         St it         -         goL        -v    .act          -      -         it         c-t .It     Qi        as.    4tm        to              wI'm
'mitt        DIqZ5       1 -       -                     sui          -E       -.         -L    - - -  it                        'is-c V    atzi    ro        u.            YMaIJ
021o-u      ault        I          sol       -vlu        acts                    C          e     'v   v -  -       *'' dt 5 5              dut       %It     he
'tae   t    AIt            -             -          a                   Lt          ci41.    - -   -          uRnS       'mi-i       0:       cii    iStow
LIta            -V1          Of         -&1       sut          -m       -on        ol V -   - -        9        Rs's       S,rc       Oz.,    cIr       us             -i-i-i
Oi'l0       It        itaI                    1tMI                   DO        55z     1fl      -t  it   - St                               t 1-iVii  fti                    GM
sOloi         i        a           Cu          fit        wfiC        it        i -I -             -                   ni ,9G    Arl       ftam    't-S       ii               3
SW I        It       lo          ea           -ri        A"         Kg        'i          i       m9ac 4      - vtwV CC W         At        DuW      zlvt    It              tuasW
EIra       ,a         c           9 I         gt          LS         Iu      urn ee     t            Cltg M    Co    &,i           Vt      D0iV     c-t      Le          tixmtiW
AwlUt                  I IS       55           W-tI       Mg         01        IV       ii       it 9(11              i- cc     quvC    mi    OWE            Ci          UfiUmS
era         CZ        I II                                n          c         it Itt           It   ti   itVi-t III                      lacE      l I      in             uviuw
01'?        It       tI           It          is          we         Ii9      viii       IN     itz  it i            ut            c- 111  OK                asE           maV=I'
oom   At    *1           i~     ~    ~~~     ~~~t rot  c sI   ci     ma         it      a     I ti           ta.t          re-    Oft      ri'      to             tasum
-.0        a9        -K          QQA         WEI         CZ         uL        Csm     quo       it Slist             r-           -       quiSl  4a-i       toxal
'na-it      AuC         VI          OC          irs        mat        oCt       4tu      quo      ci   sr   cc         i-ut         a-s       writ    cIu    us               'mcmio
KaIT         it        Is          9           I.t,iti                IV oat    at       iv      st   Ic scI          itt         aI'      qsDtv         1i   at        aIrtimSb
ant        or        it          St          c'ct        Kt         cs       i[       s,it ie-         lto *         uiV          ci1     "osi  Cti9    to            UVhUti
Iora        -9       ut          'at          -la         -o        PcOm       ZIP       LS     -r  -    -S           LIVE         ".i      meri   tti8   sI           Wd sIM
'aWCt        Ut       or          Ut        5inLS 5t                 IV i      IV oi       f    ... sn I v  EA suoc al-a          '-      eOns      a-        a               amim
Mg,-t       Kt      bii           55          ali         ir        cam      ,i         -        - - -           -1 1'    V itC  -  ,c-    Uses-v,ru         castlu
Ott      d      OSU      INtli133  mit                ad       Nzi    i           132 2toflo  itu          mmvmItrn  at ston           casc     T     Elmr t
timauma  swmi   -n w   on.atti    CiLtNi,SZlNCUi  oans  utaus   aawt'tat   uwatwmini--micaiimo zSCd   ileD        alt
"or K  Anal   U"           iii1W       Volit   Bitioti                 Z"WJf  Attit    0tltl    Di I Wc    MaCCd it                 Cd i    's        6               4
*oft, CZ  91    Zs        SSflout     JiW  JimaDen zEta                            Ct      eta  I    ItMvifa   mcutlaa  ac     j     q"9   tg          I         Arl        a
oil ti  91  to    66          rst         St         Coaui    MGtIVlLtOloCVo imaiianlu
IRS  owt               wool      O"                                                    W       earlti   zlit asumais
NWti et   116           00       Aw i           i           0         o       6      otAI   N              Ce _ _ _      _                                 _       _IGu t i
06, ot  cl  CL  66                     It        001      S~~~~LUSt '1  iaa'C'tmjW                                                 vl    an""a
tti)    (1)  Ctf  (I 1)     (el)        ()         (v)    Ist   (uaDm   aazaccuvau
r    2o      mm m         4)         ()       16,12d          am         1          2    411             s           mzvd            u mtc t   "
Tn*mvd calkv4mo RM   W                                      u        IA  -IV   (Z]  Ina-aAaom    Lum    ia   nmm



- 33 -
-                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANNEX 1
o of 2
m               1awAPE                       mmnMRur CarM asr r
cw  mm             As   rC         uMns           gRAC  r           Ia   P           Rn          TS    S        D    S R         g
M rl0. C MIPI       E :im? CU1  C W  A1t ALLOCL   M0M               alluim- SCOWL               ilCfn  Pm         is T eU   .   S5M=  oultL.
(on) * (385    .00020 20  COW T           31    c  Cm    (    RATIO   CCICK      rot      AS FcoWl siegwmur   Ion1    PU            SIlO
c1g19) (1979)    ochUm   d      rmist        CZ)       (1976)   CZ)       (       TUCKER CUC(Z)                      CZ)   trAin      t(i
_n aI aT iW rot                                              (63      CT)      (a) (r)             (30)        (13)       (12)     (C13)    (a)
- 1a02. ZWb 3. r1 # Z                                                   22      7k      n        a        2i        a.o         .s         is        7       A.J1
i1mI             an   IiSO      320     2.1    *     J    / 0   26 6    3i             90       et        37       330          74         27       26       3.#0 
UMA              a      " no   1Gb    7.710        20.3       34  24  33    96          99      38         3       19.0         91         2         r      is
64   132   18z 26                2.7        29. A4" 3l        09      9w       972w2.                          o         n              
76U . Oi3   3it    am                   2.'        19.0       40  17  22    -           40       ie       i*       33.3        3I          12=    2         17017
rilushPn          "79    48k    6Gb   2i           140        64   3   -       75      8        65         1        17          Et         is       26      21300
1511110 R        8a     2.6  6.62*      2.7         67         6  A*0  1    i3        92       82         1                    g. so       5 i2             uA
iOOO   SL.   63     0.2k    640     sawp       ,19       A   3   20,s              79      son       ii       z0           40         20       is       Zia
U;VAM    a.   47        ll hZ31    .4      20.5      35   t s   13     a        96                17        9.3        S3          29       22       4.0o
Samo ASIA
n79   92.nk    go    L.d         10.17      331  17  20    22b        62y      _          3       5.6                    l a4     23       1.42
_528             s0     3-'    0n             3     1 II.0    -    -    -      t0       12                -        -
ni               n   55*.   210   NY                9*.9    -  -  -   26   79w   -                        a              -                 2tw   -           liO
mPaL             az  kS 0         I   1z.          - -        -        -    Is    70    -                 3 2      -            -          21       U        3.
M                 s*2   27   Ib 2.:            7.0       23  20   6       2        50       41       30        3.9         36         21       is       i.e.
om.t ateta rai  a   alCrm
sEthnhZflff       77   13.3     -       I 7         3.7       47  19  is    IZ          it'      9         17b     -            62          a       2247     1.0o0
7I J 79   18  .770    3.1        120        36. 26. Z1. n3           Sr       43*   1 7          7.t?       5i         29w      26       3.70.
man              3z   62.2      65    4.w           7.9       23. J.-  9                73.     a"        is        s.e.   h a             43.      3go     17300
-X11=        76    9*    44140      2.6        1030       27  26  21      -        97       -         2k        6.2         -          794      2747    i7JAOb
tAP          7         3 26.9   -       5, 7f7     14.3 1       -   -          o       11031    I -       U.       -            -e,   24                     4.y
560              79    12'   2.710      4.28    a    .9.      -   -        -       -   300      -         2        -            -          4i       29.      9.
*1     3.4   G.&"0    6*3         II-Bar         -   -                93       94        29                   is         at       34    i3.0"
ion"             El    2.2  13.42b   4.w           10.2      t1          s 8    7ob    s0o      as        32        7'          93         9?M      25    - IsA
120w             79  203  -    -                   147'               -             - -e    -                                   -          San   -    2i- 0Je
uSSC                  910.    740 e      .3        17.2       36  LA  20    2i          Sro     23       32         19.7        40         Zs      231      4J0
a2    e. 9b33          2.S-       32.7.     -   - -           0br    71w       63        23       -            36        11       1-
86310263.         9      .8b  2.060     3.6        s22        30  :19  3t    7*        97        0        19       12.8         pas        43.      17.      3
mOaiA            7     22.1  2ztoo      i7          4a. v   -   -   -          ld      10l      -         23       -            go         BMW    22k    30.6047
SAS              7n  37.0 * 9    2.147    16.    -  -  -   -                            gobw    -          g    -               -          67b7  -    2440Wy
2131             72    I.* S 170        4.0        10.2       29  23 n26    58   a 7ky          so        2e       -            61         414      i 2iL   12.5
uitih            79    6.4  1 10       7.0p       19.0       42  29  I3      6        30e       0         9        Z3 12.8    a 0          0                GAG
II    '.7  a1.n0       2.1       26.2       -    -   -       7kb    lift       9m        23        7.9        53         38       20       6J0
Mm  &-R.         3o    6.o    420       3.ie.      12.0       94    7    r    Zl       37      12.       3U7      67.0         as          3       20       i40
TOM isa.         Am    Z2b    420b   7.             9.7       630  I1o   8a   53       ox       is        21       22.0         46         17       20      20
2u353? MR ffflflCpCwftlfl
flr at camen..                       54             92      70  69  67    a1         92       60 8:              43           73         O3       an     Ii
USe?                                 (I.4-         (25' (39'  C7  (-    (13-        (12-    (12-         ?-     (1.4-        (3s-       (3-      (-    (com-
10.0)        543)  ")  46) i)    9)           119)    99),        77)      67.0)        to00      34)      483    Z2.o)
querfiuflsonr                         3.a          23.7     5 2 6  22    at           go      so        43       20           37         47       26      11.0
_td s                      4.0          16J      43  ZS 19        52       63       6s       2        3i           6s         26       Z2       3.7
LOMM                       3.0          11.0      N  lt  13    as          40       33       23        9           G          14       19       1.0
-ua. DweSldw3                         13           5s.    60.  75 40   23.o    19.0    22.3             7.5      S.         :2.5       16.5      2.5 3      .0
Ib,                                   4.A          17.3    '421 *b           33       75       59       le       3b           631        is        3       6.9
ScAt ewdOl_es                         5.9           S.7 J    i   10 1  2:            27       23        13       Di           25         2D        7       7.
=  _laws                              *6J .        n        3.z  * s   It   n        u3      6*1        iS       Ii          65         26       22       3.7
-    AIM uuAVAnAuz                                         A -  narm   balf- le am   TSAA                   S - HOJ ST! OF Qu41A3O  (MR) 0
tCl...e onL apt ex=jC:Q                               a - DAYU Pa  22Cwr mesas Tti                     T - PM AN3 qra    eitUST Onf
042C  00n51204h43                                     It - CURRET   CZ rur                                 PUBLIC cWSUIUi 'luLl
e    CL=93 rART-TDIg S'C=z p -                                                                             to I - INCL03  0035-C 131e3301
T -    mw x-ourns
-z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
caIne 3 _i 2: SoiS Rook '1.or iSX osolo.
Cotonw  3 co la. KEND  C. .  C e            nesoro. mo4rn D_eo  St.tbstia-l teorbeok.
Caapw.tew. Ehactle D.C at of.met. La  * Cowbce of -.fl... daad tored." n     aid snalras. of vol.11w  stew   of odortlealem  d-woeuleot beIes,  itafA
amefa..  a-Snr. oW. Cthe he1. of the Prwesec dam.. cre.rw-tlomi cin.rlow  abaold be eorochd with snot carlo. bota vmane   to* thu aksw. Cobe hwe
bee cS1ee,.d lazy7 be Book Saolae froo gonr.w.oz arm.: lb. reolod.r trt                          or dat. ft. iee.. rNtroe hw. ree  edo to .tdndlfl.
dediotti... .A. _dbS. lisle.  to chck th. acc.ocrr- Se cb. data. 1i-othe1e. 0.h dot. am OCt11 -meow.et 1. do-wenl we-uotf  ad Cth  lod le 1-rkla tce
nr._ Cr_ Prranlw.nwr So -        acch otee Seo  Ito ourcLo.l work. 1w tbe oft Sch, dee.. Oi  tollag e.olltSIcelm  she"ld be beerC 1t  itds
(1) '_id_=fl*' a deftuod La cftab  10. ..   elS . ods octd_ awd cruinieS* both frmi ei wm.f.r__.1
(2) 'Fitmr odocaCloe CoIrs tC.oed.ae -C Cth? ftint lee  aid                   edocasteo nlwrs test! *dacatlaw at tie aSe djry ]ewo1 noerclem Se Cy"
t-s.. goo.rel, torluc_al. mrnlcturol).
t2) 'Urcercy Ctc-C   (Co1l * I or  fte  obealoo  two ca_ ntr cose..e may conterie tkr en. -Ly  epoaeltew   ad It L. dm41231  hewe myr miLters
dIftil       of 'Liuence- ho boo tolSeed cmwIac.stly.
(4) I bllC SfEwdlcur. 1. ed-ttee- (cola. 4 .5 5) refine to.11 caStoR a           rrut ososodItom dobctd to  dcalrdeS by SeIC ad qi&de--okhlte
t5)  iurslJ_se rweo  (cel.. 7. 12 _d 14) rofer to ....: wer r en  or tch  soreueag. of *eigibk, chiLIree ewllad fn ll-tl-t  L. the aeprorilAc  ec_osl.
pobUie an wflwete   1.-S  Tb- tto elcon m4le  t .d.1  airXIe qf  Crr ln che dowolsiaw cowftlros oe_o  to wattot.o tu  e*cmrec  St * *r
dots (I.... ao'eetl  popwloteo ad ewrSflmocel. Enrollat fiar. fnorrot7l or  tiger tcm  the ember at *etwd.a@  Scre&lly 10 ecei. O*er-lod
*ctdoots whwee laCleole 1. IndiCtSd by f0etCco  aI-   * lutstA. Ch. roae.



-34-                             ANNEX 2
1   3
INDONESIA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPM    PROJECT
Projected Requirements and Supply of Higher-Level Manpower(1989) /a
1989
1980        Total       Annual addi-   Average annual out-
Stock    requirements  tional needs   put of universities
Engineers           15,000      105,000         13,500              5,300
Scientists           5,000       12,000          2,100             2,000
Agriculturalists lb  5,500       16,000          2,800              6,800
Accountants          1,500       20,000          2,300              n.a.
Economists,
administrators,
and managers      90,000      425,000         60,000              n.a.
Total         117,000     578,000          80,700              n.a.
/a Excludes faculty requirements for universities.
/b Includes agricultural engineers. This would reduce the surplus of agri-
culturalists, as well as the deficit of engineers. This project would
improve the quality of SI education, without increasing output.
Source: Bank and UNESCO staff estimates based on the 1980 census and
Repelita IV projections, November 1984.



INDONESIA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Prolection of 81 Enrollments and Annual Output by Field of Study /a
Enrollments (000s)                                         Output (0008)
Natural   Engi-    Agri-    Econo-  Social               Natural   Engi-    Agri-   Econo-  Sociai
science  neering  culture    mics   science   Total   science  neering  culture   mice   science   Total
1983/84     15.0      33.5       35.0     37.0      90.2    2WM.7      0.9       2.6      2.7       1.6     4.1       11.9
1984/85     15.3      34.2       38.0     39.9      86.8    214.2      1.1       2.A      3.3       2,2     4.5       13.9
1985/86     15.7      35.n       41.0     42.9      93.6    228.2      1.3       3.1      4.n       2.6     5.1       16.1
1986/87     16,3      36,3       44.5     46,3    101,4    244,8       1.5       3.7      4.8       3l.    5.8        18.8
1987/88     17.1      38.2       48.8     50.6    111,2    265.9       1.8       4.6      5.8       3.7     6.5       22.3
1988/89     18.3      40.8       54.1     55.9    123.0    292.1       2.0       5.3      6.8       4.3     7.4       25.9
1989/90     23.6      47.1       60.4     63.2    133.3    327.6       2.7       6.2      7.7       5.0     R.3       29.9
1990/91     25.3      48.1       64.6     66.4    136.5    340.9       2.9       6.4      8.3       5.3     8.9       31,7
1991/92     27.1      49.0       69.1     69.7    139.8    354.7       3.1       6,5      8.9       5,7     9.4       33,6
1992/93     29.0      50.0       74.0     73.2    143.1    369,3       3,3       6.8      9.7       6.2     9,9       35,9
1993/94     31.0      51.0       79.1     76.9    146.5    3R4.5       37        7.0     10.5       6.6    10.4       38.2
1994/95     32.3      53.0      82.4      RhO0    149,8   398.5        3.9       7.4     11.1       7.2    11.1       40.6
1995/96     36,5      57,7      90.7      87.8    158.8    431.5       4.6       8.1     12.2       8.0    12,1       45.0
1996/97     41,2      62.9      99.7      95.3    16R.3    467.4       5.3       9.0     13,6       9.1    13.3       50.2
1997/98     46.6      68.6      109.7    103.4    178.4    506.7       6.1       9.8     15.1      in0o    14.3       55.4
1998/99     52.6      74.7      120.7    112.2    180.1    540,3       7.0      10.8     16.8       l.n    15.3       6n.9
1999/2000   60.3      81.7      130.6    120.3    200.2    593.1       8.1      11.9     18.3      12.0    17.0       67.3
/a Except health and education.
Source:  Based on projections of enrollment and output provided by DGHR and Rank staff, November 1984.
I-Jw



INDONESIA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projection of 82 Enrollments and Annual Output by Field of Study /a
S2 enrollments                                          __ S2 output
Natural   Engi-    Agri-   Econo-  Social                Natural   Engi-    Agri-   Econo-  Social
science  neering  culture   mics   science   Total  science  neering  culture   mics   science   Total
1983/84          120        140    1,070      110       310    1,750       15        30        210      30         9n       350
1984/85          200       240    1,180       140       390    2,150       25        40        250      45        11n       455
1985/86          240       290    1,400       170       460    2,560       45        55        330      60        150       625
1986/87          290       350    1,700       200       560    3,100       55        65        380      75        170       73n
1987/88          350       410    2,030       240       67n    3,700       7n        R5        490      95         20       94n
1988/89          400       470    2,300       280       750    4,2no       85       10n        5q0    11n         26n    1,130
19Rs/90          440       530    2,600       310       850    4,730    1on         120        710    130         320    1,36n
1990/91          500       630    2,70n       380       910    5,120    120         160        91n    160         390    1,71n
1991/92          570       750    2,800       460       990    5,570    16n         21n      1,160    190         490    2,180
1992/93          640       890    3,000       560    1,070    6,160    210          280      1,490    230         620    2,790
1993/94          720    1n,60    3,130        690    1,150    6,75n    260          37n      1,900    280         7R0    3,540
1994/95          820    1,260    3,290        840    1,240    7,450    340          490      2,440    330         970    4,52n
1995/96          920    1,500    3,450   1,020    1,340    8,230    440             540      3,10n    400       1,21n    5,620
1996/97        1,040    1,800    3,620   1,250    1,450    9,160    560             650      4,000    480       1,420    7,030
1997/98        1,IR0    2,100    3,R10   1,520    1,570    lIMARO    620            720      5,120    580       1,600    8,54n
1998/99        1,300    2,500    4,000   1,850    1,690   11,340    730             RR8      6,550    690       1,900   10,640
1999/2000      1,500    3,000    4,200   2,260    1,830   12,790    850             960      7,390    830       2,200   12,090
/a Except health and education.
Source: Based on projections of enrollment and output provided by DGHE and Bank staff, November 1984.
I.1



INDONESIA
SECOND IINIVERSITY DERVLOPMENT PROJECT
Projection of S3 Enrollments and Annual Output by Field of Study /a
S3 enrollments                                                 Sloutput
Natural   Engi-    Agri-   Econo-  Social                  Natural   Hngi-    Agri-   Econo-  Social
science  neering  culture   mics   science  Total          science  neering  culture   mica   science  Total
1983/84          50         in       200       35        50       345         6        3          30        6       1n        55
1984/85           55        15       220       45        60       395        15         6         55       10       1S       101
19R5/86          65         15       250       50        70       450        15        A          45       15       20       103
1986/87           75        25       290       55        An       525        20        10         55       20       30       135
1987/88          80         30       320       65        90       585        20       15          60       20       30       145
1988/89          85         35       350       70        95       635        25        15         65       25       35       165
1989/90          90         40       3R0       75       10n       685        35        15         75       25       35       1A5
1990/91          1on        45       420       80       110       755        40       20          RO       30       4n       210
1991/92          11n        55       460       s0       120       835        45        25         R5       35       45       235
1992/93          130        65       510      in0       130       935        55        30         90       40       50       265
1993/94          150        75       560      110       140    1,035         65        35         95       45       6n       300
1994/95          170        90       61n      120       160    1,15n         75       40         110       45       65       335
1995/96          190       110       670      130       170    1,270         An       45         12n       50       70       365
1996/97         220        130       740      140       190    1,420        In0        50        130       60       8n       420
1997/98         250       1.5n       820      150       21n    1,580        120       55         14n      65        85       465
1998/99         290        180       900      160       230    1,760        140       60         150       70       90       510
1999/2000       330        210       990      180       250    1,960        16n       70         160       75        0n      555
/a Except health and education.
Source:  Based on projections of enrollment and output provided by DOHF. and Bank staff, November 1984.
wI 



ANNEX 3
Table 4
INDONESIA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Requirements for New University Teachers (1984-89)
Natural                                           Social
science   Engineering  Agriculture  Economics  science    Total
Undergraduate Student Enrollment /a
Actual (1982-83)                       13,600       31,600       32,500       33,300    78,000   189,000
Projected (1988-89)                    18,300      40,800        54,100       55,900   123,000   292,100
Projected student/staff ratios
(1989) /b                                   8           10            12          19         26      n.a.
Total teacher requirements (1989)         2,300        4,100        4,500        2,900      4,700    18,500
Existing staff (1982-83) /a               1,460        2,020        2,880        1,810      4,020    12,200
Additional Staff Required (1983-89)
Incremental                               840        2.080        1,620        1,090        680     6,310
Replacement                               220          300          430          270        600     1,820
Total                                 1,060        2,380        2,050        1,360      1,280     8.130
Required staff with S2 and S3
degrees /c                                920        1,640        1,800        1,160      1,880     7.400
Total projected S2 and S3 graduates
(1983-89) /a                              430         450         2,730          510      1,160     5,280
Projected new staff with S2 and S3
degrees /d                                340          360        1,130          410        930     3,170
Existing staff with S2 and                  250          270           670         210        360     1,760
S3 degrees /a
Deficit of teaching staff with
S2 and S3 degrees                         330        1,010            -          540        590     2,420
Total projected S1 graduates /a           9,400       24,400       29,800       19,000    37,400   120,000
Projected new staff with S1 degrees /e    280            730          920          570        350     2,850
Total projected new staff                   620        1,090        2,050          980      1,280     6,020
Total teaching staff deficit                440        1,290            -          380          -     2,110
/a Based on estimates provided by DGHE.
/b Repelita IV targets.
7/  Assuming 40Z of total teaching staff hold advanced degrees.
7d Assuming 802 of S2 and S3 graduates over the period become university teachers, except in agricul-
ture (40Z).
/e Assuming 3Z of SI graduates become university teachers.
Source:  DGH! and Bank staff, November 1984.



INDONESIA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Overseas Graduate Degree Training Program, 1985-90
(Staff-years)
Master                                      Ph, D                                        Total
1985/ 1986/ 1987/ 1988/ 1989/               1985/ 1986/ 1987/ 1988/ 1989/                1985/ 1986/ 1987/ 1988/ 1989/
86    87    88       89     90   Total      86     87    88      89    90   Total        86    87    88       89    90   Total
ITB                            12    18    26       31      15     102      26     58   102   126   125    437           38    76   128   157   140    539
Life sciences                 0                  n               0     T7  i    20    26    -30   -W      T10       10    TOT   2-6   'r        24    110
Engineering sclences          5      8     11     13      5      42       10    28    54    69        80     241      15    36    65    82    85         283
Biotechnology                 4      4      4      0      0       12       5      8    14      19     14      60       9     12    18    19       14      72
MLcroelectronics               3     6     11      18    10       48       1      2      A      8      7      26        4      8     19    26      17      74
IPB                             16    26      20     19    12       93       6     19    28      35    31      119       22    45    48    54    43    212
tife sciences                Tiw   U               T   T    Tr    T  1l7  TY  1T  Tr   WIff U                                              TF 1T   T   _E
Biotechnology                 5     10     10     10      5      40        2      5      8     11      9      35       7    15      IR    21      14      75
Food and nutrition            I      A      4       3      1      12       1      4      8     12     11      36        2      7    12      15    12       48         1
UGH                            22    51      62      67     29     231      24    56    87    68        68     322       46   107   149   154    97    553
Engineering sciences          5    10    1        TY       5      W       T7    -7      10    10    TO    14T         TY    17    20    25    TI           89
Biotechnology                 3      6      9     12      6       36       7     14     16     18    11       66      10    20    25       30    17      102
Food and nutritton            2      5      7      4      0       18       2      6    20      18    14       60       4    11    27    22    14           78
Social studies                6     18    24      24     12      84        6     18    24      24     18      90      12    36    48       48    30      174
Economic studies              6     12     12     12      6      48        2     11     17     17    15       62       8    23    29    29    21          110
UI                              8      16    30      42     35     131      11    27    40    45        39     162       19    43    70    87    74    293
Computer acience              2      2    10    T         2      28        7    T1    1W       18     T 1    7-2      T9    20    28              TY 1   100
Social studies                5     10    15    20    25         75        3      6     11     16    18       54       8     16    26      36    43      129
Economic studies              1      4      5    10       8      28        1      3    11    11    10         36       2      7     16    21      18       64
IOU                              3      5    11      12      3      34       2      5    10      10      8      35        5    10    21       22     11      69
Dev. of inst. rateriRt        T  T        5T                  T T                      T T *   10      8 Wr5 T               1W     'l      i TY   T 1     T 77
Total                      61   116   149    171       94     591      69   165   267   303   271  1,075           130   281   416   47e    365  1,666
gr  D
Source:   WOHE and 9ank staff, November 1984.                                                                                      



- 40 -
ANNEX 4
Table 2
INDONESIA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Domestic Nondegree Training Program (1985-90)
(Staff-months)
Yearly average 1985-90                            Totals for period
Intern-  Academic   Short                       Intern-  Academic   Short
ships   courses   courses  Seminars  Total   ships   courses   courses  Seminars  Total
Curricu_um Development           52       -          72      48        173      262        -        360      242       864
ITB                           20        -          15      T2I       437 U02                      75        60       237
[PB                            -        -           3       5          8       -         -         15       25        40
UGM                            -        -          28      20         48       -         -        140      102       242
Ul                             32       -           6       1         39      160        -         30        5       195
IOU                            -        -          20      10         30       -         -        100       50       150
Instructional Methods           256       -         127      62        445   1,282                  636      308    2,226
ITB                           20        -          15      17         52     102         -         75       85       262
IPB                            -        -          20       2         22       -         -        100       10       110
UCM                             -       -          29      21         50       -         -        145      103       248
Ur                             32       -          43       12        87      160        -        216       60       436
IOW                          204        -          20      10        234   1,020         -        1o0       50    1,170
Research Method and
Management                       82       -         473     103        659      412        -      2.165      516    3.293
ITB                           20        -          70      18       TOR      102         -        350       88       540
IPB                            -        -          45       9         54       -         -        225       45       270
UCK                            18       -         322      63        403      90         -      1,610      313    2.013
Ut                            44        -          36      14         94     220         -        180       70       470
IOU-                                    - -             -        -         -        -         -              -         -
Information Management           13       -           -      37         50      63         -          _      185       248
ITS                            5        -          -        4          q      27         -          -       20        47
IPB                            -        -          -        4          4       -         -         -        20        20
YCM                            -        -           -       8          8       -                            40        40
UI                              7       -           -      21         28      36         -          -      105       141
TOU-1                          -                            -          - _                                   -         -
Plarnnng and Management          33       -          41      58        131     163         _        203      289       655
ITB                            5        -          -        9         14      27         -         -        45        72
IPE                            -        -           -       I          I       -         -         -         5         5
UGM                            -        -          20       5         25       -         -        100       25       125
Ul                            27        -           1      33         61     136         -          3      164       303
IOU                            -        -          20      10         30       -         -        100       50       150
Prbfessional Disciplinary
Development                    796      637         353     153      1,939   3,980    3.186       1,765      765    9,696
ITB                          300      400          70      64        834   1,500    2,000         350      320    4,170
IPB                          114      130         60       it        315     570       650        300       55    1,575
UGM                          287        -         222      26        535   1,435         -     1,100       130    2,675
UI                            95      107           1      52        255     475       536          5      260    1,276
IOU                            -        -          -        -          -       -         -         -         -         -
Total                   1.232      637       1,066     461      3,396   6,162    3.186      5,329    2.305   16.982
Source: DGHE and Bank staff, November 1984.



ANNEX 4
-41 -                                Table 3
INDONESIA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Overseas Nondegree Faculty Training Program (1985-90)
(Staff-months)
Yearly average 1985/90       Totals for period
Intern-  Confer./          Intern-  Confer./
ships   seminars  Total   ships   seminars  Total
ITB                             138       47       186      692      236       928
Life sciences                 50        20        70      250      100       350
Engineering sciences          41         5       46       204      25        229
Biotechnology                 35        20       55       175     100        275
Microelectronics               13        2        15       63       11        74
IPB                             36         6       42       180       30       210
Life sciences                 12         2        14       60       10        70
Biotechnology                 12         2       14        60      10         70
Food and nutrition            12         2        14       60       10        70
UGM                              61       14        75      305       72       377
Engineering sciences          30         4        34      150      22        172
Biotechnology                 15         2       17        75      10         85
Fooi and nutrition            10         2       12        50      10         60
Social studies                 -         4        4         0      20         20
Economic studies               6         2         8       30       10        40
UI                              65        17        82      324       86       410
Computer science              17         5       22        84      26        110
Social studies                 8         2       10        40      10         50
Economic studies              40        10       50       200       50       250
IOU                             38        10       48       190      50        240
Dev. of inst. material        38        10       48       190       50       240
Total                      338        95      433    1,691      474      2,165
Source: DGHR and Rank stiff, November 1984.



- 42 -
42 -                                   ~~~~~~~~~~ANNME 5
Table 1
INDONESIA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DKVePLOPKEN  PROJECT
Visitlg Scholars (Foreign and Domestic) Required
Foreign (staff-months)                                 Domestic (staff-months)
1985186  1986187  1957/88  1988/89  1939/90  Total  1985/86  1966/87  1987/88  1988189  1898/90  Total
Managemnent            10         -         5         -         -       15      18         12         9         -         -       39
IZTB                  3        -         T                   -        4        _          _         _         _        -_ 
IPB                  -         -         -         -         -        -        9          -         6         -        -       15
UQG                   4         -        4         -         -        a        3          -         3         -         -        6
UI                    3         -        -         -         -        3        6         12         -         -         -       18
IOU                   -        -         -         -         -        -        -          -         -         -        -        0
Instructional
Materials              30        17        25        17        16     105      117        111       113        98        99      537
ITB                  4         4         5 3                        20        5          5         8        8         8
IPB                   -        -         -         -         -        -        a          -         3         -        -       11
Ut:N                  6         -        6         -         -       12       14         12         6         6         6       U
UI                    8         1        2         1         1       13       70         74        76        64       64      348
IOU                  12       12        12        12        12       60       20         20        20       20        20      100
Trainin                18         9        17         7         7      58       16          -         9         3         3       31
IT3                            - 3                                   7 T  T                                            5 7  -
I P8                           -         -         -                  -        4          -         -         -         -       4
UCK                   3         3        6         _         _       12        6          - f i                        _        6
UT                    6        -         3         -         -        9        6          -         6         -        -       12
LOU                  6         6         6         6         6       30        -         -         -         -         -        -
Research              104       124       157       97        73      555      728        920       992    1 062    1 130   4 832
ITB                 13        28   34 r                     19 ff    22      3l 2               5       '         *~i 1. "r750
LPB                 17        22        33        22        27      121      108        168      168       180       180      804
UGK                 48        48        54        27        12      189      176        248       254       278      302   1,258
UI                  20        26        30        20        15      111       84         96       120       144      168      612
IOU                  6         -         6         -         -       12       48         72       96        96        96      408
Instrumentation        15       49        50        32        17      163       92        132       136       130       114     60"
ITB                 -5        -9       1T -        1        -8       44                T 103      103       0-3      102      795
IPB                  -        18        18        12         3       51        -         21        21        15        6       63
UQG                  9        21        21         9         6       66        6          6        12        12        6       42
UI                    1         1        -         -         -        2        2          2         -        -         -        4
IOU                  -         -         -         -         -        -        -          -         -        -         -        -
Total         177       199       254       153       113     896      971      1,t75    1.259    1_293    1.345   6.043
Source:  DGHE and Bank staff, November 1984.



43 -                               ANNEX 6
Table I
INDONESIA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
/a
Instructional Materials Development Schedule, 1985-90
1985/86   1986/87   1987/88   1988/89   1989/90   Total
Course Materials           172        192       222        225        213      1,024
ITB                       38         38        46         50         50        222
IPB                       37        41         45         36         28        187
UGM                       36         44         52        49         49        230
UI                        53         65         75        82         82        357
IOU                        8          4         4          8          4         28
Books and Monographs        37         52         60        79         78        306
ITB                        5          8          9        15         16         53
IPB                        7         13         15        15         11         61
UGH                       12         15         19        26         27         99
UI                        11         14         15        21         22         83
IOU                        2          2         2          2          2         10
Manuals                     91        110        126        121       123        571
ITB                       20         28        32         35         35        150
IPB                       27         37        35         27         27        153
UGM                       26         26         37        37         37        113
uI                        14         15         18       1i          20         85
IOU                        4          4         4          4          4         20
Models                      55         67         75        82         82        361
IT_                       15         23        27         33         33        131
IPB                       23         27        29         29         2R        136
UGM                       11         11        11         11         11         55
UI                         2          2          4         5          6         19
IOU                        4          4         4          4          4         20
Audiovisual                 89        122        137       140        136        624
ITB                       15         13        16         1R         18         80
IPB                       25        54         62         55         55        251
UGM                       32         42        42         45         45        206
UI                         9          9         13        14         14         59
IOU                        8          4         4          8          4         28
/a Prototypes to be developed.
Source: DGRE and Bank staff, November 1984.



-44-                               ANEX 6
Table 2
INDONESIA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
/a
Instructional Materials Production Schedule, 1985-90
1985/86  1986/87  1987/R8  1988j89  1989/90   Total
Course Materials           17,130   19,510   22,030   21,525   27,445   107,640
ITB                       3,850    4,000    4,750    5,050   12,850    30,500
IPB                       4,910    5,630    6,350    5,005    3,565    25,460
UGH                       3,350    3,900    4,450    4,150    4,150    20,000
UI                        4,100    5,500    6,000    6,400    6,400    28,400
IOU                         920      480      480       920      480     3,280
Books and Monographs        9,050   12,070   13,370   19,770   19,650    73,910
ITB                         500    1,300    1,500    3,200    3,400      9,900
IPB                       1,320    2,440    2,840    2,84n    2,120    11,560
UGM                       3,700    4,300    4,800    6,900    7,100    26,800
UI                        3,300    3,800    4,000    6,600    6,800    24,500
IOU                         230      230      230       230      230      1,150
Hanuals                    10,070   12,710   13,690   12,550   12,650    61,670
ITB                       2,250    3,000    3,300    3,600    3,600    15,750
IPB                       3,760    5,600    5,280    3,840    3,840    22,320
UGM                       2,350    2,350    3,050    3,050    3,050    13,850
UI                        1,250    1,300    1,600    1,600    1,700       7,450
IOU                         460      460      460       460      460     2,300
Models                      1,690    2,240    2,480    2,710    2,720    11,840
ITB                         190      580      640       820      820     3,050
IPB                         470      630      710       710      670     3,190
UGM                         470      470      470       470      470      2,350
UI                          100      100      200       250      300        Q50
IOU                        460       460      460       460      460     2,300
Audiovisual                 2,525    2,855    3,300    3,640    3,2n0    15,520
ITB                         175      295      350       380      380     1,580
IPB                         550    1,100    i,420    1,120    1,120      5,310
UGM                         720      820      820       970      970     4,300
UI                          160      160      230       250      250     1,050
IOU                         920      480      480       920      480     3,280
/a Units to be reproduced.
Source: DGHE and Bank staff, November 1984.



INDIIIIE9IA
FFCn?M IlrI1'R6t11v DIPWMAPITNr P90jF.cT
Research Schedule hy  uI%her and Type of AwarA
S2 themev                                           SI Aiusertattons                                           MOn ernte
1185/16   1916/R7   1997/sa   19M169   19t90   ot    19R5s/6   2l6Rf/7  11R7/6RP  19PR/9  IM6/10   rotal  19R5/46   19f /7  1967/66  196R/m9  1989/9n  Total
ITI                              25         32         45         59        fin      221        0        13         13         20        21         77       is        In         21        21         23        ion
Life seeenceu                   6         7                      1        TN '9  i      T              -T          ! 2                            1T                -           T          T 5                 1!n
FnsineerilR sciences            6        12          la         24         24       84        6         6          A         12        12         42       6          A 6                  6 h6                30
Rloteehnoloty                   A         A           9         11         it       47        2         1          1          1         4         IS       2          I          a        1o         10        15
microelectronlce                           5         in         Is         IS       5n        -         2          2          1         3         In       2          2          2         2          2         in
IPm                               7         In          It        13         14        S5       4         4          5          7          7        27        9        II   11               12       1I          56
Life sctences                   ?                     TT         -T       T         TF       T          T          T         T          T          ri      T         F         -T           STs
sloteehnaln5v                   2         1           4          I          6       2n        I         1          2          1         1         I;n      2          1          3         1          3        14
YoM  and nstu1iton              3    1          1                4                  17        1         1          1          2         2          7       2          1          3         A          5        17
Ut12                             31         39          65        66         66      267       14         IS        17         1a         19        63       11       I         1i          I5        is         69
Tnsin..rtn, neiencee                                 TT         T         IT        W       -1         -          T          -                     6       -          -          2,                   2 -2
Stotechnolo,                   1if      1I          2n         20         2n       Ai       4          4                     A 1       4         2n(      5                     S                    5        25
Food and nutrition              4         5           5          6          6       26       2          2          3          1         1         13       2          1          3         1          1        14
Soeial studios                 10        In          I5         IS         II       65        5         5          I          5         5         25       2          2          2         2          2        in
!conoqic .tudles                4         6          in         IA         if       1         2         3          4          I         5         19       2          1          1         3          1         14
Ut                                3          S          In        11         14        46       5          f         7          A          9        15        2         1          6          7         6         27
rosputer scienee                -         2           5         T7         T         Tff                                           -        - '  -                   T          7          T          T    T
%oClal studies                  1         4           5          6          A        4        .1        G          5         6          6         24       1          1          2         1          3        10
!eonomlc stulles                -               -                                    -        2         2          2          2         1         11       I          1          2         2          1         9
IOU                               -                                                                                  -          -         -     -             2         2          A          A.        4         1A      *46
flav.,f tnsu   Material         -                                                             -                                         -                                                             T    2 T 4
Totsl                      66         Al         III       151        154       ss9      31         3R         2         53         5h       222       19        47         57         61        h4        256R
Sorce.:    O(HP2 and 6anlc staff, November 1914.



INDONESIA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
New Undergraduate Programs: Enrollment Projections and Faculty Requirements
Total
Existing   required
Projected enrollments                  staff      staff
1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/9o  (1984/85)  (1988/89)
Materials Development
Metallurgy                           50       100       160       220      300         15          30
Polymers and ceramics                40        80       130       180      230         15          20               0
Electric and magnetic materials    15          30        45       60        75          5           7
Marine sciences                        100      150       200       350      450          5          40
Ocean engineering                        -       40        90       150      220         16          20
Gas technology /a                     n.a.     n.a.      n.a.      n.a.     n.a.          6          10
Computer science                       150      250       440       650      850          7          85
/a Average expected enrollments would be about 100 by 1994/95.
Source: DGHE and Bank staff, November 1984.
pi*1



ANNEX 8
-47 -                                       Table 2
INDONESIA
SECOND UNIVERSIT! DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
New UndeErraduate Prorams
Man-Years of Overseas Fellowships, by Year and Program
1985/86    1986/87    1987/88    1988/89    1989/90         Total
Has-       Has-        Mas-        Mas-        Mas-        Mas-
ter   PhD  ter   PhD  ter   PhD  ter   PhD  ter   PhD  ter   PhD
Ocean engineering             3    0      6    0     5    2      4    4      2    6    20    12
Gas technology                2    0      5    0     5    2      2    5      n    7    14    14
Marine sciences               4    2      8    4     8    6      8    6      4    4    32    22
Computer science             10    4    23   11    27   21    20   21    10   17    90    74
Metallurgy /a                 2    0      4    0     4    2      4    8      4   12    18    22
Polymers and
ceramics /a                2    0      4    0      4    2      4    4      4    R    18    14
Electric and magne-
tic materials /a            1    0     2    0      2    1      2    2      2    2     9      5
Total                  24    6    52   15    55   36    44   50    26   56   201   163
/a  These three fields comprise the Material Science and Technology program.
Source: DGRE and Bank staff, November 1984.



ANNEX 8
-48-                                Table 3
INDONESIA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
New Undergraduate Programs
Man-Mbnths of Foreign Visiting Scholars, by Year and Program
L985/86   1986/87   1987/88   1988/89   1989/90   Total
Ocean engineering        12         12         0         0          0       24
Gas technology            6          6         0         0          0       12
Marine sciences            1         1         0         1          0        3
Computer science          5          4         3         2         2        16
Metallurgy /a              3         3         0         0          0        6
Pblymers and
ceramics /a             3          3         0         0          0        6
Electric and magne-
tic materials /a        0          3         3         0         0         6
Total               30        32          6         3         2        73
/a  These three fields comprise the Material Science and Technology program.
Source: DGHE and Bank staff, November 1984.



ANNEX 9
49 -                               Page 1
INDONESIA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMEN PROJECT
PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
Management Structure and Functions
Introduction
1.        Responsibility for the development of graduate education and the
research capacities of the universities of Indonesia is vested in the Direccor
General of Higher Education (DGHE). The second University Development Project
is to make a substantive contribution toward meeting naEional development
goals in graduate education and research and it will also contribute to other
activities that fall within the responsibilities of DGHE.
The National Graduate Education Council
2.        To assist in the formulation and accomplishment of plans for the
development of graduate education and research, the DGHE will request the
Minister for Education and Culture to establish a National. Graduate Education
Council (NCEC).
3.        NGEC will be constituted so as represent, at a senior level, the
community of scholars and the national interest with respect to graduate
education and research. Much of the activity supported by the second Univer-
sity Development Project will fall within the sphere of interest of NGEC.
4.        The NGEC will consist of not more than 20 members appointed by the
Minister for Education and Culture, after receiving advice from DGHE. Members
will be appointed for a term of five years, once renewable, but in the first
instance, one half of the members will be appointed for a term of three years
only. The Minister will make appointments to fill casunl vacancies for the
term of the vacated appointment. The DGHE and the Director of Academic Affairs
of DGHE's office may attend mcetings of NGEC with rights of audience and
debate but will not be voting members.
5.        The prime functions of NGEC will be:
(a) To advise DGHE, from time to time, but at least once annually, on
developments in graduate education in Indonesia and on the develop-
ment of the research capacity and performance of the universities.
(b) Annually, to determine priorities for allocation of funds for
research grants.
(c) To advise DCHE on the development of Inter-university Centers
(IUCs), the progress of existing IUCs and the potential for further
developments.



ANNEX 9
-50-                            Page 2
(d)  To respond to requests made by DGCE for advice on particular topics.
(e)  To ad,:se DGHE on strategies for monitoring and evaluation and,
where appropriate, participate in evaluation studies.
6.        To fulfill its obligations NGEC will receive regular quarterly
reports from DGHE on activities and plans in its areas of interest, incLuding
reports on the work of each Faculty of Graduate Studies and each IUC. NGEC
may invite persons concerned with or knowledgeable about aspects of graduate
studies and research to participate in the discussion of specific issues.
7.        NGEC will appoint its own Chairman and two Vice Chairmen for terms
of two years; it will meet four times a year in regular session and may meet
in additional special session at the request of the Chairman or by other
agreed means. NGEC may establish such subcommittees as it deems appropriate,
though it should seek approval by DCHE for the terms of reference of any stan-
ding subcommittee. Subcommittees may include members who are not members of
tGEC.
8.        At the request of DGHE, NCEC will nominate persons to be members of
IUC Program Advisory and Review 3oards (PARBs).
9.        The DGHE will provide officials to serve as a Secretariat for NGEC.
Higher Education Planning Unit
10.       Each of the organizational entities concerned with the implementa-
tion of the proposed project - DAA, TAKU, CPIU, LPIUs and IUCs - have
responsibilities for monitoring and evaluating their own activities. DGHE
will strengthen Higher Education Planning Unit (HEPU) as an aid to system
management and with a capacity to monitor and evaluate progress and
performance on a system-wide basis.  The HEPU will report to DGHE through the
secretary to DGHE. The first tasks of HEPU will be:
(a)  To standardize data element dictionaries so that data on higher edu-
cation activities can be collected on a uniform basis across all
institutions.
(b)  To develop on the basis of data element dictionaries management-
oriented information flows including:
(i)    reports of student load by university, faculty and department;
(ii)    student costs by university, faculty and department;
(iii)   -student progress;
(iv)    staff by age, salary, rank, sex, qualifications, by university,
faculty and department;
(v)    staff by conditions and term of appointment;



-51-                            ANNEX 9
Page 3
(vi)    space inventory;
(vii)    space allocations to activities;
(vi)    library hoLdings.
(c) To develop budget planning, control and reporting syscems.
Cd) To carry ouc such syssem-wide or speciric evaLuations as DGHE may
request.
Directorate of Academic Affairs
11.       The DCHE will strengthen the Directorate oi Academic Affairs
(DAA). DAA will have management responsibility for:
(a) Technical Assistance Management Unit (TAMU). This unit will be
responsible for:
(i)    Establishing liaison with the national steering committee for
overseas training and the national overseas training
implementation unit to ensure that the policies and practice of
elements accountable to DAA conform to national policies and
practices, while at the same time rmaining speedy and
efficient.
(ii)    Developing policies and practices for the implementation of all
internal and external training programs that directly affect
graduate education development.
Ciii)    Developing policies and practices for the recruitment,
selection and effective utilization of visiting scholars and
other academic assistants by elemencs concerned with graduace
education development.
(iv)    Implementing all external training.
(v)    Implementing programs for visiting scholars and other academic
assistants.
In carrying out its functions (iv) and (v), the unit will ensure that prefer-
ence is given to focussed and reciprocal arrangements with specific, relevant
overseas institutions, so that standing relationships will be formed.
(b)  The Central Project Implementation Unit (CPIU) will oversee the
implementation of the second University Development Project and ful-
fill reporting requirements of the World Bank.  The main tasks of
this unit will be to:
(i)    Advise DGHE, through the Director for Academic Affairs, on
policy development and the most effective ways to manage the
project.



-52-                              ANNEX 9
Page 4
(ii)    Develop a coordinated operational plan for the implementation
of the scheduled activities of the project, based on plans
developed by LPIUs.
(iii)    Oversee and cordinate the relations between the discipline-
based IUCs and the IUC for Improving and Developing Instruc-
tional Activities established in the Open University.
(iv)    Supervise and coordinate:
a.   Inter-university interactions.
b.   Priorities in activities that affect more than one field
of study.
c.   Relationships of IUCs and other elements with the graduate
education staff development unit.
d.   Research granting activities.
e.   The balance between educational, staff development and
research activities.
f.   Project management effectiveness.
g.   Development of physical facilities.
h.   Procurement and effective utilization of equipment and
library materials.
(v)    Monitor activities, development and managerial efficiency in
LPIUs and IUCs.
(vi)    With respect to civil works, finance, and procurement, CPIU
will ensure consistency and uniformity in capital and recurrent
budgeting practices and in budget controls. It will develop
and enforce adequate audit procedures and practices. CPIU will
assist LPIUs with respect to the selection of land for new
civil works, the briefs to architects and other consultants,
building standards and costs, procurement and civil works
tenders and contracts.
(vii)    Establish liaison, through DCHE, with the appropriate offices
of the customs service of the Republic of Indonesia to ensure
minimal delays in the acquisition and effective use of book and
equipment.
(viii)    Give advice and assistance to LPIUs in establishing efficient
working arrangements with university P3T units and university
planning boards.



-53 -                             ANNEX 9
Page 5
Local Project Implementation Unit
12.       DGHE wilL establish a Local Project Implementation Unit (LPIU) under
the Dean of Graduate Studies in each of the participant universities. Each
LPIU will be responsible for the activities of all IUCs established in ics
university. The prime tasks of an LPIU will be:
(a) To ensure that each IUC within its ambit develops and maintains a
realistic plan for its activities on a rolling Ehree-year basis.
LPIU will report such plans, and its comments thereon, to CPIU.
(b) To establish and maintain a realiscic timetable-chrough which it can
coordinate all aspects of the local IUC or IUCs.
(c) To establish effective and efficient working relationship with P3T
and between P3T and the local IUC to ensure the speedy flow of funds
and the observance of correct procedures.
Cd) To establish good working relationships with CPIU and to ensure that
CPIU guidelines are followed by local IUCs.
Ce) To establisL, through the Dean of Graduate Studies, satisfactory
information flows to the Deputy Rectors I and II, so that activities
can progress in proper course.
(f) To establish, in conjunction with the local IUC, systems for effec-
tive staffing of the IUC, including the establishment of job
descriptions and conditions, the selection, engagement, briefing and
supervision of national staff and the preparation of terms of refer-
ence for visiting scholars. Such systems must meet the needs of the
project, the guidelines drawn up by the graduate education staff
development unit, and local university requirements.
(g) To nominate, in conjunction with the local IUC, candidates for
fellowship programs administered by the TAMU. LPIU will ensure chat
appropriate selection criteria are adhered to.
(h) To establish, in conjunction with the local IUC, appropriate systems
for selecting and monitoring S2/S3 research awards and.open research
awards, according to criteria proposed by IUCs and agreed to by the
PARBS.
(i) To establish, in conjunction with the local ItIC, appropriate systems
for publicizing non-degree training activities planned by the IUC
and for the admission of candidates to such activities, according to
criteria proposed by IUCs and agreed to by the PARBs.
(j) To establish, in conjunction with the local IUC, and in the light of
CPIU guidelines, proper liaison between the IUC and architects and
other consultants, to ensure that they are properly briefed and that
they perform well, meeting professional and timetable requirements.



_ 54 _ANNEX 9
Page 6
(k)  To establish, in coniunction with the local IuC and in the light of
CPIU guidelines, appropriate systems for the procurement of books,
equipment and other necessary supplies and for the efficient and
speedy utilization of such material.
(1) To establish access to local language training facilities for IUC
fellows, staff and other persons travelling overseas on the affairs
of the IUC.
(m)  To ensure, through the Dean of Graduace Studies, that the common
analytical laboratories and centers for instrumentation and
technical services function effectively and, where necessary,
determine priorities in access to services and facilities.
(n) To act as the secretariat for the PARBs as designated by DGHE. (See
Section 30).
Inter-university Centers
13.       Inter-university Centers (IUCs) are established in specific fields
and specific universities, with four main purposes:
(a) To improve the quality of graduate study programs in their specific
fields and to increase the output of these programs.
(b) To increase the numbers of adequately qualified and trained staff
and to improve the formal qualifications and practical capacity of
staff in all Indonesian universities in their academic fields.
(c) To stimulate research and development activities in their specific
fields so as to strengthen the academic community and to meet the
national interests.
(d) To disseminate information on new concepts, methodologies and
applications arising from research in Indonesia or elsewhere.
14.       DGHE will appoint a person to be Director of an IUC, the Director
will be the executive officer of the Center. He will be responsible to the
Dean of Graduate Studies of the host university, through the Local Project
Implementation Unit, for the formulation and accomplishment of the aims of the
Center.



_55                              ANNEX 9
Page 7
15.       The Director will be supported by two Secretaries.  The first will
be responsible for the planning of the academic affairs of the Center, inclu-
ding the development of instructional materials, research, training and infor-
mation dissemination. The second will be responsible for administration.
16.       DGHE will appoint persons to be the head of academic divisions with-
in an IUC. The Director, after consultation with the Dean of Graduate
Studies, will appoint persons to be heads of laboratories or other units with-
in an IUC.
17.       The director and his supporting officers will establish close work-
ing relationships with the local PIU, with the Iocal P3T office and with
appropriate S1, S2 and S3 programs in its field of study in order to facili-
tate the accomplishment of its aims.
18.       Where there is more than one IUC in a field, the Directors will
establish close liaison with one another and foster good working relationships
between their divisional and laboratory heads.
19.       The role of an IUC extends into all faculties in the same field
throughout Indonesia and the Director has to become familiar with the capaci-
ties and needs of the faculties ior staff development, improved educational
concepts and material and for research assistance and encouragement, so that
the rUC may fulfill its nation-wide responsibilties.
20.       To assist the IUC in the fulfilment of its obligations a PARB will
be established. Details of the role, functions and membership of the PARB are
set out in Section 30 et seq. below.
21.       The Director will generate, in consultation with his senior
officers, schedules for the implementation of the aims of the IUC in the areas
of:
(a)  Educational developments, including new concepts, methodologies and
material.
(b) The award of overseas fellowships, S2, S3 thesis research
scholarships and open research awards open to all qualified staff in
the appropriate field in Indonesia.
(c) Laboratory and library establishment and development.
(d) Research programs conducted by IUC staff and attached visitors.
(e) The recruitment and utilization of visiting scholars.
(f) Staff training.
(g) Publication and dissemination, including newsletters and travelling
teams on research, important new books and periodical articles, new
ideas and materials for education in the field.



-56 -                            ANNEX 9
Page 8
22.       The Director will generate in consultation with his senior officers,
annual and triennial capital and recurrent budget plans.
23.       The plans and schedules described in para. 21 above and the budgets
for the Center (para. 22) will be laid before the Center's PARB for comment
and advice before being presented to the local PIU for approval.
24.       From time to time bit at least once in each year, the Director will
evaluate progress in the -ladns for the Center and the Level of expenditure
against budget. He will present this evaluation to the PARB with, if appro-
priate, revisions to che plans and budget, for discussion and advice before
submission to the LPIU for approval.
25.       The Director will seek the advice of the PARB on research priori-
ties, education development priorities, crit'ria for the award of overseas and
internal fellowships, thesis awards, open '--wards and other training and deve-
lopment opportunities. The PARB, or a subcommittee thereof, will assist the
Director and the staff of the Center in the selection of candidates for
training and of research proposals.
26.       An important aspect of the work of an IUC lies the devetlopment of
new educational materials. To facilitate the attainment of goaLs in this area
an IUC for Improving and Developing Instructional Activities (CIDIA) has been
established in the Open University of Indonesia. The Director of an IUC will,
within guidelines laid down by CPIU (see 12 (c) above) establish liaison with
the Director CIDIA to facilitate interaction towards these goals.
27.       The social sciences, especially anthropology and socioLogy, need
access to field situations for research and staff development. There are also
strong national needs for well developed research information as a basis for
administrative policies. This interest also suggests a widely distributed
research and staff development effort.
28.       To meet this need, the Social Studies IUCs will establish sub-
centers in universities not located in Java; subcenters will be distributed so
that there is a maximam of four, to be placed in not more than four universi-
ties. Each subcenter may cover not more than two social science disciplines.
29.       The subcenters will be administered by the parent IUC and will be
financed as part of the budget for the parent IUC. The Deputy Rector I, or
his representative, of the universities which will host a subcenter will be a
member of the appropriate PARB.
The Program Advisory and Review Board
30.       DGHE will establish PARBs in each field of study in which an IUC is
established. The tasks of the Board are:
(a) To consider and comment on activity plans and schedules presented by
the IUC Director(s).



_ 57 -                         ANNEX 9
Page 9
(b) To consider and comment on capital and recurrent budgets, and
revisions thereto, presented by the IUC Director(s).
(c) To advise the Director(s) on research priorities, priorities in
education developments and the criteria for the award of overseas
and internal fellowships, thesis awards, open awards and other
training and development activities, having special regard to the
nationwide responsibilities of the IUC.
(d) To consider and comment on the Director(s) evaluation of the
progress and performance of the center(s).
(e)  To participate, either in whole or by way of a subcommittee, in the
processes of the selection of candidates for training programs and
-d                 in the selection of research proposals.  Criteria for the selection
of research proposals will include established research priorities,
the feasibility of the project given existing staff, material, space
and financial resources, the capacities of the researcher or
research team, the clarity of purpose in student development,
together with factors of distribution between universities.
31.       The membership and secretariat for the Board will vary depending on
whether there is a single IUC or more then one in the field of study.
(a) Where there are multiple IUCs the Board will consist of:
(i)    Three persons nominated by each of the IUC Directors,
appointed by DGHE.
(ii)    Three persons nominated by NGEC and appointed by DGHE (at
least one of whom should be a member of NGEC).
(iii)    The Deans of Graduate Study in the host universities or
their representatives.
(iv)    In the special case of social science IUCs that have sub-
centers, the Deputy Rector .. of the universities hosting
subcenters. The IUC Directors will have rights of
audience and debate but will not have voting rights.
(b) Where there is a single IUC in a field of study, the Boards will
consist of:
(i)    Five persons nominated by the IUC Director, appointed by DGHE.
(ii)    Three persons nominated by NGEC, appointed bv DGHE, (at least
one of whom should be a member of NGEC).
(iii)    The Dean of Graduate Studies or his representative.  The IUC
Director will have rights of audience and debate but will not
have voting rights.



ANNEX 9
- 58 -                           Page 10
32.       In the special case of the IUC in the Open University, the members
of the Board will be:
(a) The Directors of aLl other IUCs.
(b) Three persons nominated by DAA, at least one of whom shouLd be a
member of NCEC, appointed by DGHE.
(c) The Rector of the Open University or his representative.
(d) The person in charge of education development units in the
participating universities.
33.       Boards will appoint their Chairman and Vice Chairman for terms of
two years. They will determine their own working procedures. Review boards
may invite persons who can contribute to their discussions, both from within
and without che IUC(s), to join them for part or all of one or more meetings,
without voting rights.
34.       Where there are multiple IUCs in a field of study, the LPIU of one
of the participating universities will be designated by DGHE to be the
secretariat for the Board. Where there is a single IUC, that university's
LPIU will be the secretariat.



ANNEX 9
- 59                 ~                Table 1
INDONESIA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
/a
Foreign Experts and Overseas Training Program
for University Planning and Management - 1985-90
(man-months)
1985/86   1986/87   1987/88   1988/89   1989/90
National Graduate Education
Council (NGEC)
Experts                             4          4
Training                           18
National Graduate Education
Development Office (NGEDO)
Experts                            12         12         6
Training                                      36        18
Local Project Implementation
Units (LPIU)
Training                            6          6
la Also referred to as visiting scholars.
Source: DGHE and Bank staff, November 1984.



-G(JO -                                          huunK 10
Table 1
DnM
SEMl LUN171 YONISI IEPROM
PR"ECT CosT SuAR
iFs. Bili)-          (USW Hillisn)              2 Total
-- -- 7.-  Feriifn em
Local Foulsn  Tal  Local Faiegn Totl  Exchae   Costs
3333  ES .. 33333, 333... 3833 333   33mu  833
A.        I  OF IRF DUOTE EDUCATION IIUMS)
I. * INTITUT TEKILDLBI MII1 (ITO)
UFE SCENCE (lT3IIH)                             6.30   7.35 13.64   5.72   6.68  12.40         54       7
ENBINIERINI SCIECE  (171)12)                    7.9   11.39  19.37   7.26  10.35 17.61         59       10
8I1SECINILKT (111)(3)                           7.22   9.37  16.59   6.56   S.52 15.09         56       3
HIREI.ECTMRIIIIICS (IT)44)                     7.37   7.73  15.10   6.70   7.03 13.73         51       e
CITU/CL (ITI)5)                                 2.15   1.51  3.96   1.95   1.64  3.60          46       2
Sub-Total INSTITIIT TENIDLD6I 131M   (ITI)        31.02  37.64 68.66  2.20  34.22 62.42           55      34
2. INSTITUT PE1T31M MM33 lIPS)
LIFE SCIEDNE 1P3)W                              5.07   5.66 10.73   4.61   5.15  9.76          53       5
DIOTEINILMP 4I1P)(7)                            4.34   4.94  9.29   3.95   4.49  9.44          53       5
FO) AND NUTRITION ESEARN tIPI)(9)               4.92   5.55 10.47   4.47   5.04  9.52          53       5
CIT51UL (IPD)19)                                0.95   0.63  1.59   0.89   0.57  1.43           0       1
Sub-Totl INSTITUT PERTANIAN P0    (IfS)           15.28  16.73  32.07  13.f  15.26 29.15          52      16
3. UNIIERSITAS Gll4 INA3 IUI;I)
ElINEIUNS SCIENCES (WOM10)                      4.75   6.40  11.16   4.32   5.32 10.14         57       6
IOTEDOIILOST IUG1HI1)                           5.22   5.94  11.16   4.75   5.40  10.15        53       6
FOOD AND NUITION RESEARCH (1U)16(12)            4.39   4.69  9.0B   3.99   4.27  9.26          52       5
SIMIL STUDIES (UGII)(13)                        4.06   5.30  9.36   3.6    4.92  8.51          57       5
ECONOIIC STUDIES (H11(14)                       3.11   3.43  6.54   2.83   3.12  5.95          52       3
CUTSIUCL (U65)(15)                              2.15    1.81  3.96   1.95   1.4   3.60         46       2
Sub-Total UIII TAS BALM NWA (UGH)                 23.6   27.56  51.26  21.54  25.06 46.60         54      26
4. tNIRSITAS INONESIA WUI)
CWITEI SCIEllE (IllD(16                         6.56   9.06 15.62   5.96   8.24 14.20          58       3
SOCIAL STUDIES tUI)17)                          2.46   4.01  6.47   2.23   3.65  5.U           62       3
ECKIIIIC STUIIES 1U11)41)                       4.06   4.2B  9.34   3.69   3.89  7.59          51       4
Sub-Total UINERSITAS INDOESIA (l)                 13.07   17.35 30.43  11.9  15.73 27.66          57      15
5- OEN tMIERSITY
3IVELIIPIENT OF INSTIUCTIONAL HATERIAL 119)     3.99   4.e3  8.73   3.54   4.39  7.r.          55       4
Sib-Totl OPEN UNIVERSITY                           3.69   4.e3  8.73   3.54   4.39  7.9           55       4
Sib-ToUl NEVELOPIENT OF W*11117E EOCTIOON (IUCS)     96.97 104.17 191.14  79.06  94.70 173.77        55      95
3. IUOIET  OF LUIERWRIIATE EDJrATION
1. SATERIALS UEUELIT (ITB)
VETALLUEiY (20)                                 0.04   O.K0  0.84   0.03   0.73  0.76          95       0
POLYICRI AMN CEROICS (21)                       0.03   0.65  0.68   0.03   0.59  0.62          95       0
ELECTRIC AD   IETIC MTERIALS (22)               0.01   0.31  0.33   0.01   0.29  0.30          95       0
Sub-Total NTERIALS DEUELOPV1IT IITI)               0.06   1.77  1.95   0.3    1.61  1.63          95       1
2. NWIE SCIENCES (1PI).23)                         0.05   1.04  1.09   0.05   0.95  0.99          95       ;
3. OEAN EN6I31NEkl6 (1132(24)                      0.04   O.K   0.94   0.03   0.73  0.76         9f        0
4. 6AS TE1OOLOST I11TO25)                         0.03   0.73  0.76   0.03   0.6   0.69          95       0
5. WClTER SCIECE (i1l)426)                         0.15   3.22  3.37   0.14   2.93  3.07          95
SuIb-Total WIBIEDENT OF IERWA TE EDUCTION             0.36   7.56  7.92   0.33   6.87  7.20          95       4
C. STENITNIN  OF PLANINIIII MU  M MET (6K1) (27)    0.Bf   0.72  1.61   0.91   O.6   1.46            45       1
Total AELIA E CSTS                                     99.22  112.45 200.6   80.20 102.23 192.43      56      100
Physical Cootiruncin                                 8.92   11.25 20.07   3.02   10.22 19.24        56      10
Priic  CrUtIWiUs                                    23.68  24.57 48.25  21.52  22.34 43.36          51      24
Total PRUJCT COSTS                                    120.72  143.27 268.9  109.74 134.79 244.53      55      134
bil 2 1955 15:35



-61-                                              ARM 10
Table 2
sum winem mA
Projut Cuiwmnits bit YTr
Taotls InluSirs Continssies      TOtals htludiss Coatiswnres
(RI. Billien)                    1US$ 51111.0
M5M6 86U187188 III9 BJ890 Tol   V36 B6/B7 B7/38 389 39/O Ttal
_ __ =    = == = ==G==
A. KEl.OPIEN  I WANUE EUCTON (IUCS)
1. DETITIIT    nEI BAl (Il)
LIrE SCIEICE (T(1)                           1.97 3.37 5.49 3.38 3.56 18.18  1.70 3.52 4.99 3.08 3.24 16.53
EslEIIEER IIEC IES ()2)                      2.12 4.56 7.07 5.82 6.67 2625  1.93 4.15 6.42 5.30 6.07 23.36
MIOEO1NLY (IT)3)                             1.64 5.07 7.34 3.67 3.B4 22.0   1.4? 4.61 7.12 3.34 3.49 20.05
NIO.ECTUNRICS (11B)(4)                       1.10 4.16 6.93 3.98  4.24 20.35  1.00 3.78 6.34 3.53 3.85 19.50
CITS/CIL (1133(5)                            0.34 1.23 2.00 0.73 0.85  5.26  0.31 1.17 1.92 0.71 0.77  4.78
SbTotal INsTITuT TBOULG _S16 (lE               7.07 18.94 29.33 17.55 19.15 92.09  6.43 17.22 26.71 15.95 17.41 83.72
2. I1NSrTUT PEIrANWl B33 (1DR)
LIFE SCIECE (IF91)                           1.2  3.17 4.36 2.6t 2.37 14.33  1.20 2.8  3.96 2.37 2.61 13.03
DIOCOLOGT (IPS1I7)                           0.79 2.62 4.03 2.39 2.66 12.49  0.72 2.38 3.66 2.17 2.42 11.6
FOB  M SN TRMOION RESBOIMO 1 B3))            0.0  3.16 4.83 2.53 2.60 14.00  0.90  2.37 4.? 2.30 2.37 12.73
CITS/m   (VD) (9)                            0.17 0.49 0.74 0.34 0.36  2.10  0.16 0.45 0.67 0.31 0.33  1.91
Sub-Total BSITIrI PERTTANIAW DM  (IP)          3.16 9.44 13.96 7.96 8.51 42.93  2.37 8.58 12.69 7.15 7.7  39.l02
3. IUIUESITAS 6ADJEI INM (UGH)
8MER I SCMIUES (UM(IO)                       0.97 3.01 5.19 2.90 2.90 14.9  0.88 2.74 4.72 2.64 2.63 13.0
IOIECNHIL    (USK)(U1)                       1.75 3.03 4.01 3.05 3.05 14.39  1.59 2.75 3.65 2.73 2.77 13.54
FE  SB IIITRMffMI FESEMH (UG61)U12)          1.29 2.42 3.80 2.30 2.3D 12.11  1.17 2.20 3.45 2.09 2.10 11.01
SOIML STUIES (11933(13)                      1.39 2.42 3.09 2.9  2.66 12.S5  1.26 2.20 2.81 2.71 2.42 11.41
ECWIaC STIIDTES (11610)(14)                  0.89 1.73 2.22 1.98 1.97  3.7   0.31 1.57 2.02 1.80 1.79  7.99
CITE/CAL (;11)115)                           0.34 1.3  2.00 0.73 0.35  5.26  0.31 1.17 1.92 0.71 0.77  4.78
Sb-TotaL UNl ESaTA 663I HAM (OUN)              6.62 13.90 20.32 14.00 13.72 63.56  6.02 12.63 18.47 12.73 12.48 62.33
4. UINESITAS DIESIA CtW)
C--iFUTER SCIENE (1(16)                      1.13 4.59 7.53 3.56 4.06 20.91  1.02 4.18 6.83  3.23 3.69 19.01
SOCIAL ST1ES l(U1f)(17)                      0.87 1.25 1.3B 2.19 2.65  8.83  0.79 1.13 1.71 1.99 2.41  8.03
ECOM SS111  WUl)HIM                          1.32 1.86 2.50 2.64 2.96 11.29  1.2D 1.69 2.28 2.40 2.69 10.26
kTotal UNaIERSITAS INIUIESIA (UI)              3.32 7.70 11.96 3.38 P.67 41.03  3.02 7.00 10.97 7.42  .79 37.30
S. WEN EKIIWST
EYELWIiT O INSI1RU     NALB HTERIAL (19)     1.18 2.05 3.23 2.69 2.60 11.75  1.07 1.86 2.93 2.45 2.36 10.6B
SubTotal MEEIIVERSITY                           1.18 2.05 3.23 2.69 2.60 11.75  1.07 1.86 2.93 2.45 2.36 10.68
Sub-Total DJEOFIT OF MTE EDUATION CIUS)          21.36 52.02 73.84 50.49 53.65 256.36 19.42 47.30 71.67 45.90 48.77 233.05
3. IRSREIM OF UNDERGAIJATE EDUCATION
1. HATERILS 0EYELUINT CIE)
METMLLRYT (20)                               0.07 0.13 0.15 0.33 0.48  1.17  0.07 0.12 0.14 0.30 0.44  1.06
PtlI   NDi CERWhICS (21)                     0.07 0.13 0.15 0.22 0.36  O.94  0.07 0.12 0.14 0.20 0.33  0.85
ELECTRIC AM HAGETIC rITERIALS (22)           0.02 0.06 0.11 0.11 0.12  OM   0.02 0.07 0.10 0.10 0.11  0.40
St-Total HAERIALS IELFINT (I1)                 0.17 0.33 0.42 0.67 0.96  2.55  0.16 0.30 0.38 O.U6  O.B7  2.32
2. 1AI11E SCIENCES I1P9)(23)                   0.14 0.30 0.36 0.40 0.24  1.44  0.13 0.27 0.33 0.36 0.22  1.31
3. OCEAN EN611EERIN (ITB1(24)                  0.19 O.  0.18 022 0.24  1.10  0.17 0.25 0.16 0.20 0.22  1.00
4. 6S9 TECNtS  (171)125)                       0.16 0.25 0.1B 0.19 0.21  1.00  0.15 0.22 0.14 0.18 0.19  O.9
5. COPUPER SCIENCE (11D326)                    0.36 0.85 1.27 1.16 0.34  4.49  0.33 0.78 1.15 1.06 0.76  4.08
Sub-Total IIIMJfIT OF Ul_WlE EDCATIN              1.03 2.00 2.41 2.65 2.49 10.5B  0.94 1.82 2.19 2.41 2.26  9.62
C. S5_16TIN OF PLWING AND IWIAGENT (IIIE)127)   0.66 0.55 0.26 0.23  0.30  2.05  0.60 0.50 0.24 0.26 0.28  1.86
Total FROECT COSTS                                 23.04 54.53 81.51 53.42 56.44 268.99 20.95 49.61 74.10 48.57 51.31 244.53
__ =  ==2 ==  _=  _=  ,=                          _  ==
Mrii 2.1995 15:31



h      10
Tabll 3
EM UIERTT JE11iT PROJECT
Proj t             lCiwvis bir
TOWl
l      a          W Ia9um)
95611   7938 ow wno  b.  Nh1lw
A. DETINIT WF IMTE EUIDI CtU)
1. DoT=IT 1EOSU Iml  (11
LIFE SCMCEX (ITS(1)                          -1.63 3.17 4.6 2.37 2.31  13.4   12.40
E911E15 SCIIB (1M1W                           * :.  3.73 5.36 4.09 4.34  19.37   17.61
3I01IIII (3m3                                 1.44 4.15 5.95 257 2.4B  16.59   15.
IURECAICS (1334)                              O.96 3.40  ..2. 2.71 2.74  15.10   13.73
CITS1/fCL W)N5W                               0.30 1.05  t.S2 0.4 054   3.96    3.60
Sub-Ta D1     K IlUEIMIII  AMB C11)             6.19 15.50 22.29 12.29 12.41  68.66   62.42
2. DSTIWT PERIMM  MiM  (IPS)
LIFE SIEIIE )M                                1.15 2.59 3.30 1.   1.6  !0Q3    9.76
KMDIILBR  (IPMI                               0.70 2.14  (.(G 1.67 1.72   9.29    3.4
FOR  AND OerM    NMAREC (In) B()              0.77 2.59   66 1.77 1.    1.47    9.52
CITSLC. (19)(9)                               0.15  .40 0.56  .23 0.23   1.5    1.43
Sub-TdWt 1111191 PSNIM  MM  (PRI)               2.77 7.72 10.9 5.50 5.5s   32.0W   29.15
3. liI  GEM SA (Nio)
BEEa3IU !IBz (0(10)                           0.95 2.46 3.94 2.03 1.,  11.16   10.14
KOEgIUJ   ((1)(11)                            1.53 2.47 3.04 2.14 1.99  11.16   10.15
FDM Ol UITIIIIESEARCN (LUUI(12)               1.13 1.99 2.93 1.61   4    9.0e    B.26
SE lM ST31 (UNIM3)                            1.22 1.98 2.34 2.10 1.72   9.36    1.51
inlC 91U31  (U31)143                          0.78 1.4  1.69 1.39 1.2    6.54    5.15
WT L (Mm=                                     0.30 1.05 1.52 0.54 0.54   3.96    3.6
Su*-otal I 51    sLoI am  (to)                  5.8 O11.36 15*40 9.82 989  51.2   46.0
4. IIII S     IIE B    II)
aMT1  SCMEIIE (Iff(16)                        0.99 3.77 5.76 2.49 2.62  15.2   14.20
S     rCIEL T35 e oD(17)                      0.76 1.02 1.42 1.54 1.73   6.47-   5.9
eFAeI ST3R5 (1)1(18                         - 1.16 1.51 1.9 1.95 1.92   8.:-.   7.S5
Si-TtIjl 311tVE'TAS DWiL (QD)                   2.91 6.30 9.07 5.88 6.27  30.43   27.6
S. in wuesn
IEIIELWEI6 (ff IIISIUTINIM. 1  1 (19)         1.04 1.67 2.45 1.89 1.68   9.73    7.93
SuTb-Ital UOM IIIYEBTY                          1.04 167 2.45 1.9 1.8   9.73    7.93
Sb-Totl ElRlBW T  F EAIUIE  E11ATI  (IUCS)        13.70 42.55 59.78 35.37 34.75 191.14  173.77
3. I1VENI OF UIEERIME TUCTI
1. * UIEIms EBNgsiUIt (_i3)
ITLIUB  (20)                                 0.07 0.11 0.1Z 0.24 0.32   0.94    0.76
PLII   AND cERANICS (21                       0.0  0.11 0.12 0.16 0.24   0.63    0.62
ELECTRCAND IEATI 1TERI1LS (221               0.02 0.0; 0.09 0.06 0.0    0.33    0.10
Su*-Totl ATKERIAS, UELDFIfJ (1no)               0.15 0.21 0.32 0.47 0.63   1.5    1.60
2. NMIE SCM   CIB(1)23)                         0.13 0.25 0.2  0.2a  0.16   1.09    0."
3.  EA BOIDUO         (IT(24)                   0.16 0.22 0.14 0.16 0.16   0.94    0.76
4. LE 1EOUKUST (rM(25)                          0.14 0.20 0.14 0:14 0.14   0.76    0.0
S. *1   CM   (111)212)                          0.   0.71 0.97 0.93 0.       3.37    3.07
Ieb-Tot  II   IIT  OF UEMEMAE FWUTI                0.91 1.65 1.95 1.8  1.63   7.92    7.20
C. STI  UNGFPLWFLAMEUAIIBNIEENffCNlEI(27)   0.51  0.45 0.19 0.19 0.19   1.61    1.46
Toal 1L11E cSoS                                     20.11 44.65 61.82 31.44 36.58 200.67  1243
ftmiica CmutrlUtits                               2.02 4.47 6.13 3.74 3.6  20 .7   1L24
PQil Cit1i ffiil                                  C.84 54 13.51 12.24 16.29  48.25   43.
TOa FUECT CST                                       Z3.0 54.5831.51 53.4256.44 268."  244.53
F2rvim Ezdmiu                                    11.73 32.54 45.77 2.11 27.12 148.27  134.79
bril 2. 1995 1S:30



-63-                                             AUES 10
S.  3l1103IT KEWESET I1IECT
lb. DilUuu)         055 Nuis)                   7 TOt
-~  ~    ~ -s                       lhl         S
lad FTtltii l ZFF r S xm
1. Inu     COSs
1. INSA SLOANTE E         TRAI
A3513R                                               0.71  14.90 1S.61   U.5  13.54 14.19          95       B
pI I                                                 1.11  23.29 24.40   1.0   21.17 22.18          9f      12
St-Total gfhMas BOWIE am  THINIMI                       1.S3  391.  44.01 1.66  34.71  .37             95      3
2. II - SERVICE DJESnTC KM1- E nE NIRD
DNTONER                                              2.96   2.17  5.13   2.9   len7  4.66           42       3
ODIT EWIIDE ACIIITIES                                1.53   1.12  245   1.39   1.02  2.41           42       L
-sT CURSES                                           2.9ff   2.17  5.13   2.9   1.97  4.66          42       3
S-mW                                                 3.26   2.3   5.65   2.1    2.17  5.13          42       3
Sub-Total IN - SERJICE   OIC  101- EWE TRMNINM         10.70   7.85 18.55   9.73   7.14 16.87           2       9
3. IN- SERICE  WR  NEON - PEEU TRLA
DIERWS10S                                            0.17   3.65  3.2   0.16   3.32  3.47           95       2
S WNT viSITS                                           04.5   3.07  3.24   o.i:   2.79  2.92         95       2
St-Total IN - sEIPICE  ESE    1 mN - EEE T111lll13      0.32   6.72  7.04   0.29   6.10  6.40          95       4
St-Total FaLLUSIPS                                        12.85  52.75 65.60  11.68  47.95 59.64         N       33
3. 91s5m   SOULS-
1. FRIUlE                                               0.43   9.52  8.93   0.37   7.74  3.11          95       4
2. DIESTIC                                              5.44   0.6   6.10   4.9    040  5.55           11       3
StTotal VISITING SillI                                     5.95   9.13 15.03    J31   0.35 1346          61       7
C. hMfE LEWD. 11EDR                                        4.51   3.31  7.81   4.10   3.00  7.10         42       4
P. MMSICAL FACILITIES                                      9.74   3.44 13.19   9.96   3.13 11.99         26       7
E. E1T                                                     3.65  26.97 30.52   3.32  24.43 2734          U        1$
F. FUNKUS                                                  0.77   0.33  1.11   0.70   0.30  1.01         30       1
S. MMIS All AIDES                                          0.09   1.94 -2.03   0.09   1.76  1.95         95       1
:1. INSTRUCTIO.L IERIALS
1. DElEIIFBlT
S1LARL,LECM.IIE5,EVAL.FRMS                           1.23   0.91  2.14   1.12   0.82  1.95          42       1
BOaS                                                 1.84   1.35  3.13   1.67   1.22  2.D9          42       2
ISTORY 013.5                                         2.06   1.51  3.56   1.37   1.37  3.24          42       2
LA5pUE  AN SIIUUATIDI Nun15                          0.5   0.43  1.13   0.51   0.43  1.02           42       1
SlIB VSIL                                          = 0.75   0.5   1.30   0.69   0.5   1.19          42       1
Sub-TotI SELEIOT                                        6.53   4.71 11.31   5.93   4.35  1.29         42        6
2. PUUCTIIN
SYLLARI,LECTV.IESvEVM.FORMS                          0.12   0.09  0.2    0.11   0.3   0.19          42       0
8DM5                                                 0.53   0.39  0.92   0.49   0.35  0.94         42       0
LEEATUT IAWJS                                        0.15   0.11  0.26   0.13   0.10  0.23          42       0
LW,OIPJIR M4D SIl.ATZ ON11S                          0.06   0.04  0.10   0.95   0.04  0.09          42       0
0310 V5L                                             0.07   0.05  0.13   0.07   0.05  0.12          42       0
Set-Totl PRI01U3l                                       0.93   0.68  1.61   0.85   0.62  1.47         42        1
hbTTal IIUTUCTIWW  93TE10.                                 7.46   5.47 12.92   6.7B   4.97 11.75         42       6
TOl INIESIII1T COSTS                                         44.92 103.29 149.21  40.94  93.10 134.74       70      74
II. R-EC    WSTS
A. IN09. STAFF S015                                      23.69   3.50 32.19  26.07   3.19 29.26         11      16
i. COIDAILE MTERIS                                        1.97   1.44  3.41   1.79   1.3   3.10         42       2
C. PERATIPN AlIM INAINIIINCE                            12.65   4.22 16.37  11.50   3.83  15.33        3        a
ToW talReT  015                                              43.30   9.17 52.46  39.36   0.33 47.69         17      26
Total MSELIE COSTS                                            B.?22 112.45 200.67  80.29 102.23 1B2.43       5      100
Pbial CS%IMUI                                               9.92  11.25 20.07   3.02  10.22  10.24        56      10
Prs Cetriutcis                                             23.9  24.57 49.25  21.52  22.34  43.B6         51      24
Total INDIT  MSTS                                            120.72 148.27 268.99 109.74  34.79 244.53       55     134
Aprr _lm 198  1: 3=_
Bril 2. 1995 15:36



1111  Pt6  wb1  tee             ml    all        WI        Ws      all       all  pvi                    u's W  W6   W.II   all    WI    a'          1 L in's          all      a    l        El  i      t'ins-   1111    CIIIt     Eli1       Eli      III
-    -    -  -   -        -        -         -       -       -         -         -      -     -        -      -       -      -         -         -       -      -        -        -       -        -                     -       -~~a -1;-   ;a- ;;   ;;   r -  t -1 alt- W-1- ;1     ;11    a0- ;-1     1
VIt I'd      w      W             I'111    I     lilt        Wi      we      A  WI    1     Itll         lit   ti'S  ule    U4         w ",I    I     III      ll        Wet      e'I   wa    "en          wel   1      ol aette'                  e       ic                                         1   211
WI  Ii   U'S    WI  Mi    ill       tIC~      ~~~~~       ~ It'*  me  gm  we    sIt           I     eti    i1    lie    gill   16s    ue's  In I            e'a     we    cc I     m U         ':0    I'   aLll          US         W     
31         =      I          AMW                                W:ion-Ws-  -  -     -All 1111W1 ti't                                      cis i                                                                                    U. cl W  g  t  i'  i W  I (c WI13  an   91
WI  l'A' Eli                              *       we           We   ic',   Iii    we    we    Lee    me    we                 eli      me    WI    me           we    It'.   act           cii        III       ei'i ~~~~~~~~~"If    ;   111"    11:1  UN    UN   IN:!,M.:I  AWUsin*IIua'3PPS
Wt     ee  eI'    w             *       *  Wu                                       *       WI.          E'I   11',S   Wi     alI   gill   ic'  S  W    le'                      i       '       c                  I 33                         tel      alit                               ltn  tt  
bit  wee  E~~~I  etc  tel    ete  eel  WI  Me    we    we        Me          cci    WI    Wel   141    tel    Lit    we    st's             w'e isle wewWee nUL "welilL               letaulell  e1l' I               II  e,
- - -    -   -  -   -   -   -  -  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r -                                                    --- - -  7- ;-  ;-    -I -  w--     1ii-- ;-                                                                                                      13,1 muWhd 11141
Ws M 11119                                                                                            fro . .we w  We    We        Wu             WI    IVA          W#              ice    we         tee                  We                U%       all'.  we
Ile   ni i et                                                                                 e          *      We e#                  we  W          WI    lro                  *      We    We          lcell          "Ie          eec        1ee      Ise                     IEII931 onUIju'31
WI  eit umc                             **                                                   e             e    we es fA              ire0   tee    u'e   tie           we4      *             all        see            We           Wi         we       le
Ire   eel  me4                                             *tee                                          wei   we4   We               leel   lee's    c  l eel til      WI              Ire    e          Wu              l             e        te       tej'1I1WMIWl
Ul    41    el*te                                                                                         ue t'          1     -      Cse      ci      u'                een            0       tli llI   alI    *         e           ec          ,       ie$111
Voe  ai WI                                                                       *        IN          ccc     Ieter           e      I            Me    a,            c               t      e         m                Ile                   ac       m
ice ci  ic                 *'* Ie                                                                  we'   O'    weO              W ie    -        114    alc       "Ice     *      cc      lie6      cie     *      Ele'                    c'        l'                                  lW   i
Si   Cit  Cl'S                         *                        ccc          we    etc   tic~~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ U4w  le el   41e    gile  ice  Ulfi    Me   ~      I     .      eI           ec          e        i
we   c l ci                *      **                                                   c           a-c  tee    Ul'    *           e      tc    ire0   lie1        Ulf       *     ill    fie         ci-.          a'es                      c        l                              3'l1'v
umvxc'
Ise   wee  WtI                  -                -4                                  *      seI          w      teeo'    ci'          see    me    wc-    Wl#           we01143u
WI  wt   tIll 0,1               *                .         .                                             W#                   * VA    1 14  *-        W      0-          *1     cilc   61e                 U4.            all         ftl'       ti-       WI'                                  1WU   311*
WI  eel  n-il   Ws,             till    all      Ule       WI      we1       We    we       tel          gei   Ircen          *       *'I   tel    Pe    m              W'S             froe      e        fie           M,ecel                   l        ctc0                             5311W lai       1119I9
en    "cI  ee1                                                     ."lc                                  etc    0e    WO              11i    tee    weo    fill        Isle             we6    14          W             tee          "ie        ts-e     te'                                         hhiul 
"Ic  eei  et    we                                                                            is          Ue,i weI                             1 tee    le  ,    me      II       .1ecW,' ete                             i'           ci         e         '           litNow   m  mol mwg imm, t Ei511J4
m'e  wei  wi    etc  .  -  .   .                        *       tie          a.,   see   see    .         see    etc    sea    see          cr1       *     ge's    we         see    *       tee         we         crc .$-   we                                      lu We  its
le  e'm  ini t::r                               .                 -                        b                                                 it'se ee    e-    Irei    lie  we          e  t i e          ale            etc          m wwe                m'ciulteo
11 in  a                                                                                                                                                                 114        U.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tee       euUta-4'
WI  rot Wu                                                                                  alle         eci   WIe    weI    *         ee     n.     "Ie    we          tee       *      tie    we1         me14e    l                 ee 91      :.e      eecUKI                         a X3DM-9
We    sc    i                                              .       .         .m                           e   e        eec            ii      m'e   telleale Wee Ulfe    ci'                               we             tic          eli'      tie         l                                        man
114 Vo eci -i                                                                                            111.  *   .     I.             11    W       111 see   ge.                      Wu  tille         We        e    Ulfefi              e    e       lee                           Ullui   lt  111
Icr we  leec                    El        e      l-c1              m         le     it       ti          ei   1it   w U1              fill   Lt-      cc      el        ;Isi             lee    m-         tilel          eel          lee        K.s      61                    liculttU cie
ice   eel  wit  it  mc  etc  Ice     ee'e      we    we       tee          a'c   cci   mc  *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'  itee    ee'e    WI   we.   eec        *      et     ml         IPI            lee          WI'       te1       filmi-mum                                 A      ".
11 WI,  U.,   a I                                                                                                                          111          It",   114~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11*1 1U
51351W      3  ulhi ~~~~ml-n&      U14I =1fulii-m  IN US    hU           I S        A  il gsnwU    -1t31M   113  tiJhto)       null  11   guillc                 iUUN       lu         flilulm        111 miimlP    utiui         MLD       iltetipi 1am11
opmon"  mom"  BMW               M      1W  llm          satvAm&                                  o       1      Uf          g           1'   DL U    ll maui.mu              miualJltuilo
etelile fil
lieu=
Vcc



- 65- -l  10
Tabla 6
SEENS IMuSnYs IBSI  PRL2
Sme  Accts h. Y1r
'kwco Cat                Foretig
lRp. billion)            Eadirw
B5/91 USd37 37/3B a3m  "9no Ttawl   :     t
1. DMESTff COSTS
A. FELLIHIPS
1. DESEAS IRMTE IIE 3I1ININ
B                                                   1.6B 3.31 4.02 4.24 2.37 15.1 95.4  14.90
PH 3                          *                     1-4B 3.55 5.97 6.96 6.45 24.40  95.4 23.29
Sub-Ttal 5 6tRSEASGAUATE NEE1 TARININ                  3.15 6.A6 M .9 11.2 B. 1  40.01 95.4 39.16
2. 1D - SERVICE  TIt -  - KOE   INN
IND IS                                              0.M  0.9f 1.OB 1.14 1.16  5.13 42.3  2.17
a      EMECT SflT5                                  0.44 0.46 0.52 0.5  0.64  2.65 Y.3  1.12
SNET COMM                                           1.00 1.42 1.04 1.03 1.03  5.13 42.3  2.1'
SEIIWItS                                            1.12 1.03 1.09  1.13 1.29  5.65 42.1  2.39
Sub-Total IN - SEIrE fIETIC NO1 - MUE  TR3*INS        3.35 3.45 3.73 3.90 4.13 13.55 42.3  7.05
3. 11 - SEiPncE WB5 E1 - hIEE T13INIs1
INTERPS                                            a.66 0.74 0.75 0.31 O.3   3.S2 95.4  3.'5
If vSITS                                            0.64 0.65 0.63  0.45 e.s  321  95.4  3. 7
Sub-Toal IN - SERVICE OERFAS MN - DEREE TRAININ         1.29 1.39  .3B  1.46 1.52  7.04 95.4  o.72
rTotal FELNSHIPS                                         7.79 11.70 15.10 16.55 14.46 65.60  0.4 =-.75
S. 315311516 SOINJS
*. FffS                                               2.01 2.23 2.29  1.3  1.02  3.93 95.4  3.52
2. UESTC                                              0.98 1.19 1.27 1.31 1.36  6.10 10.9  O.a6
Sub-TOta VISITI SONURS                                   2.9  3.41 356  2.69 2.31 15.03  1.1  9.1B
C. WIUTE LEVEL RESEllH                                   1.04 1.268 3.15 1.9 1.96  7.81 42.3  3.31
P.  CMX FCLITIB                                          0.52 5.20 7.39 0.61    - 13.19 26.1  3.44
E. EDUIIENT                                              0.0! 12.11 18.26    -    - 30.52 e6.0 26.3
F. FAIliE                                                0.06    - 0.94  0.10    -  1.11  30.1  0.33
6. 0OKS AMs ENLS                                         0.49 0.41 0.3  0.33  0.33  2.03  95.4  1.;!
R. LOT DOL NAT135S
1.   rNf
STI3 LECT.NUIEEI-.FORIS                             0.36 0.41 0.46 0.47 0.44  2.14 42.3  0.91
115                                                0.33 0.54 0.62 0.02 0.31  3.18 42.3  1.35
IPUSTT MA5                                         0.57 0.69 0.79 0.76 0.77  3.56 42.3  1.51
LACUNIR MM SInITII NMOLS                            0.17 0.21  .23 0.   0.26  1.13 42.3  0.46
AM13  v                                             0.19 0.25 O.D2  0.29 0.23  1.30  42.3  0.55
Sub-Total lEUT                                         1.67 2.10 2.34 2.59  2.56 11.31 4:.3  4.79
2. PRIUTION
STLLWIvLECT.JlTES*EOL.FIS                           0.04 0.04 0.05 0.04 0.04   .m  42.3  0.0'
NM                                                  0.11 0.35 0.17 0.25 0.25  0.92 42.3  5.39
LWMTI IUdS                                          0.04 0.05 0.06 0.05 0.05  0.26 42.3  0.11
LI.CORUTR  3 SINLTION iS                            0.01 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02  0.10 42.3  0.04
AUKO V'11                                           0.02 0.02 0.03 0.03 0.03  0.13 42.3  0.05
Sub-Toal PIIDUIE                                       0.23 0.29 0.32 0.4  0.39  1.61 42.3  0.63
S,b-ToW  IlClTIIL 9A1E134lS                              1.89 2.39 2.71 2.n9  2.95 12.92  42.3  5.47
Toal IJESIIENT CSTS                                        14.90 36.55 40.97 24.68 22.13 146.21 C9.7 10329
11. -CUFAEII COSTS
A. I1 . STAFF SA1B                                     4.84 5.72 6.50 7.29 7.3  32.18 10.9  3.0
1. COISILE H1ER3IS                                      0.46 0.56 0.69  .111 0.9   3.41 42.3  1.44
C. PEUTRiN An HADIBWh                                         1.83 4.66  4.  5.72 16.07 25.0  4.22
TotEl IEOINT COSTS                                          5.30 a.10 11.34 12.77 14.44 52.46 17.5  9.1'
Total  rsD CSTS                                             20.13 44.65 61.52 37.44 36.53 200.67 56.0 112.45
physical cantici2                                         2.02 4.47 6.18 3.74 3.66 20.07 56.0 11.2?
Price Cmtiuu its                                          0.84 5.46 13.51 12.24 16.20 43.5 50.9 24.7
Tol MDECT CAOTS                                            23.04 54.58 81.51 53.42 56.44 26.99  55.1 143.27
Fareign Ezcbvj                                           11.73 32.54 49.77 23.11 27.12 143.27  0.0  0.00
bril 29 195 15 26



-66 -                                           ANUI   10
rnmimn mans u
Suaman Aecouts ba Tar
Totals IIeludi  CmtAinmi.s       Toas Ineludin Cantinmimss
(Rp. lllin)                      (LES fllis)
r5A  NU17 37/UlB N119 B9n0 Total  E5/6 W/7 8U 3 WINE9 Y9/90 Total
I. IINESTINT CIISTS
A. FaELUSIIIPS
1. ISM SUITE IIEE TRAINING
-m                                                  1.90 4.C1 5.25 5.97 340 20.74  1.73 3.64 4.77 S.4  3.27 13.5
pH                                                  1.08 4.30 7.90 9.31  9.91 33.39  1.53 3.91 7.09 8.92  .92 30.36
Sub-Total OVERSEAS WATE MEEE TRAIDID                  3.53 3.31 13.0515.7 13.42 54.13  3.25 7.55 11.3 14.35 12.20 49.21
2. IN - SERVICE  NESTIC NMN - KiEE TRAININ6
IlIEDuISPS                                          0.90  1.17 1.4  1.63 1.33  6.94  0.2 1.06 1.30 1.4B 1.64. 6.30
CIT E? 1   ACTITES                                  0.50 0.56 0.69 0.B5 O.9   3.59  0.45 0.51 O.U  0.77 0.90  3.27
SIORT C =RSES                                       1.14 1.25 1.3B 1.48 1.6a  6.5  1.04 1.13 1.26 1.34 1.45  6.23
SERUIWS                                             1.3  1.26 1.43 1.62 1.9   7.5B  1.16 1.14 1.30 1.47 1.91  6.l'
Sb-TOtal DI - SERVICE  OESnIC 11- ME TRAINING         3.33 4.24 4.94 5.53 6.3  24.96  3.48 3.95 4.49 5.07 5.30 22.70
3. IN - SICE OIERSE16AS M4  - IE6REE TRAININ6
INIERISNFS                                         0.75 0.39 0.97 1.14 1.33  5.6B  0.60  0.s1 0.   1.03 1.21  4.2
gmUTVISITS                                          0.72 0.73 0.32 0.92 0.99  4.24  0.66 0.71 0.75 0.53 0.90  3.85
Sub-Total IN - SEICE OVRES  NON - KNEE TRAINING       1.47 1.60  1.30 2.05 2.32  9.32  1.33 1.53 1.63 1.37 2.11  9.47
Sub-Total FELLOUIIS                                      3.7 14.22 19.79 23.41 22.12 33.41  3.07 12.93 17.99 21.29 20.11 30.37
3. VMsTIN  SDMARS
1. FOEt6                                              2.23  2.69 2.90 1.95 3.56 11.47  2.07 2.45 2.7  1.77 1.42 10.43
2. DISTIC                                             1.13 1.47 1.70 1.19 2.12  6.30  1.02 1.34 1.55 1.71 1.93  '.54
Sub-Total VISITIN SOLES                                  3.40  4.16 4.60  3.B4 3.60  19.77  3.? 3.79 4.26 3.4? 3.34 17.97
C. GRAITE LE1EL IEfEl                                    1.19 1.57 2.13 2.70 3.03 10.67  I.O  1.43 I.90 2.46 2.76  9.70
D. PHtSICAL FCILITIES                                    0.6  6.42 9.34 0.11    - 16.96  0.54 5.3 3.94 0.10    - 15.42
E. EBPIIIT                                               0.19 14.77 23.33    -    - 3s.75  0.10 13.42 21.71    -    - 35.23
F. FUIROIUE                                              0.07    - 1.25 0.15    -  1.47  0.06    - 1.14 0.14    -  1.34
S. DM51 Me *O9Ls                                         0.56 0.49 0.49 0.54 0.57  2.65  0.51 0.45 0.45 0.49 0.52  2.41
N. ITRiCIIAL NIATERIILS
1. KIIE NELIPI
STLLA3IPLEcTJNTESEWVAL.FUS                         0.41 0.50 0.61 0.67 0.60  2.33  0.37 0.46 0.56 o.1 0.62  2.62
mm                                                 0.44  0.66 0.33 1.13 1.25  4.36  0.60.60 0.75 1.07 1.14  3.96
LADUEATRTY N44LS                                   0.65 0.14  1.04 1.OS 1.19  4.30  0.59 0.77 0.95 o.9  1.6   4.36
LA.CUPJTCR AND SDUUTIDI rUELS                       0.20  0.26 0.   0.37 0.40  1.52  0.13 0.23 0.28 0.33 0.36  1.39
31D1 eiJSJI                                         0.21 0.31 0.3  0.42 0.44  3.75  0.19 0.2  0.34 0.3  0.40  1.60
Sb-TotLal IEEIPIT                                     1.91 2.53 3.17 3.71 3.9  15.32  1.73 2.34 2.33 3.37 3.60 13.93
2. PRORJCTIMN
SILULADILECT.NUITESPEVAL.FURNS                      0.04 0.05 0.06 0.06 0.06   .3B  0.04 0.05 0.06 0.06 0.06  0.25
DM                                                  0.13 0.19 0.22 0.35 03    I.2   0.12  0.17 0.20 0.32 0.34  1.15
LADIPATTRY NANUALS                                  0.05 0.06 0.06 0.07 O.01  0.34  0.04 0.06 0.07 0.07 0.07  0.31
WLCICUNITERt AN SINlATIOEN ROELS                    0.02 0.02 0.03 0.03 0.03  0.13  0.01 0.02 0.02 0.03 0.03  0.12
4011 VISUAL                                         0.02 0.03 0.04 0.04 0.04  0.17  0.02 0.03 0.03 0.04 0.04  0.16
Sub-Total PRIUCTIDN                                   0.26 0.35 0.42 0.57 0.60  2.20  0.23 0.32 0.3B 0.52 0.55  2.00
Sub-Total ISIRIJCTIAL IITERIALS                          2.16 2.93 3.59 4.23  4.56 17.52  1.97 2.66 3.2  3.19  4.14 15.93
Total INESTIN T CASTS                                      36.96 44.56 65.71 35.03 33.96 196.20 15.42 40.50 59.73 31.34 30.87 179.37
II. REDSENT COSTS
A. INCREK. STAFF SARIBES                                5.56 7.09 3.69 10.52 12.21 44.07  5.05 6.44 7.90 9.56 11.10 40.06
B. CSlIUUE MTERIALS                                     0.53 0.68 0.91 3.16 1.39  4.67  0.48 0.62 0.3  1.05 1.26  4.24
C. OPERATION Am MINTEICE                                   - 2.25 6.20 6.71 B9.3  24.05      - 2.05 5.64 6.10 9.07 21.86
Total ECUIMENT COSTS                                       6.09 10.02 15.30 13.40 2.43 72.73  5.53 9.11 14.37 16.72 20.43 64.17
Total PLECT COSTS                                          23.04 54.58 B1.51 53.42 56.44 263.99 20.95 49.61 74.10 43.57 51.31 244.53
Aril 2 195  15:27



-67-                                                               60ANN  10
It.. KIl.S
tIS                        Lea                       LId                             eal                  Price eCtI.   t tIct
(Su. Oin S I         far. (M1il          I      F1. (Atw. Mime IEOil. hibs  I                             - Pkut caul t. on
Fw. Ean. raud  TMU TUIa  Eah. Tame) Tom   Tatl Each. Tas) Teas  lT) Fe. tuc. las) Taut   Tat.!                          tt       as Cats
_i_            n     -       .a _     _.             .            _*                    _        _ _ ._. __a.   _...n         _a.
1. DWESf  COSTS
16 FEUNl S
1.           n _       sIE KOM TMll
NMIlE                                                   14.99  0.71       - 25.61  14t  0.07          - 1.56  3.31  0.9         - 3.56       19.77   .97       - 2.74          I.9       13.93
RpD                                                     23.29  1.1        - 244   2.33  0.11          - 2.44  6.22  0.24        - 6.35      31413  1.56        - 33.3          3.04     3lol3
Su-TOt h       S _ RANIA  ISW  131MM                       3L.   1i.         - 4041  3.12  0.13         - 4.0   9.35  0.53         - 16.12      31.t  2.54        - 54.13        4.12       49.21
2. IN - 131C   NEM1 11 Il - KO    SINa
lliuim_                                                  2.0   2.9t       -  5.11  0.22  9.3D        - 0.51  0i.   0.79         - l.a         2.89  4.04       -  6.94        0.63        1.34
onff 151 CM011                                           t.U   1i33       -  2.15  0.tI  0.15        - 0L2?  0.26  0.41         -  .63        i1    2.10       -  3.Y          0.33       3:7
SImT CR0                                                 2.17  2.9        -  5.13  0.22  t.30        - LSt  0.47  0.74          - 1.21        2.04   4.9       -  6.5         0.42        S.I
SEiU S                                                   L.3t  3.26       -  545   .24  *.33          - 0.56  03  0.4           -  1.37       Ul16  4.42       -  7.1          0.64       6."
sur-Tat  IN - SIts iom S  - 910 1           6s1             7.05  10.79      - 2355  9.7   1. 7         - I.4   1.7   2.79         - 4.56       10.41 145         - 24.6         :.27       r.i
3. IN - son tam ms - Kum thu
iNl_Si                                                   J 5   0.17       -  3J   0.14  0.0          - 0.3   0.5  0O5           - DM          4.4  0.24        -   .E         0.46        4.b:
SmmT V1sl                                                3.07  0.35       -  3.21  9.31  9.02        - 0.32  D."   O.4          - 0.70        4.04  0.2e       -  444         0.39        3a5
SubTow  IN - sf       mom    No -  _    T111t               6.72  0.32       -  7.04  9.0   6.03        - 0.7   1.4   0            - 1.51       3.111  .44        -  92          0.15       9.47
iS-aTdw FtUBInP                                              52.75 1245         - 6540  5.2   1.           -6.56 12 U      33        -1605        79.N  17.5         -N .41 3.e4              80.37
N. 0151T1165023
1. fOUM                                                     1.32  0.41          L33  9.0  0.04             0nM   1.S  9.09           145       19.93  0.54         21.4?7       2.44       10.41
2.  uit                                                     46M  5.44        -  6.10   .07  0.54        - 0.    04.5  1.41         - 1.59        D     72         -  9.30        9.75        .54
as-law   IC visits a                                         9.13  5.5        - 15.0       2 n  .3        - 1.20  1.n   1.2         - 3.2        111  t7.n         -    n7        'T         os;
C. flE  Lia SF501                                             3.31  4.51           7A   9.2   9.45            0.713  0     1.27      - 2.4         4.4!  1.23       - 20.07         9.97       970
L PNF9A4   FOLlIEI                                            3.44  9.74       -  3.9  0.4  9.7            - 1.12  0.3   1.W0           2.4        O.34 1242        -26.1           1.34      15.42
E.fi  fIbT                                                   26.07  345         - 30.52  2.9  L3              L.5   45  0.73         - 5.1        34.00  4.75       - 31.5          3.52      3.23
F. PISUE                                                      0.33  0.77        -  1.11  0.03  0.09        - 0.32   9.7  9.19        -  .25        0.44  1204       -  1.47         9.3        1.34
6L 311  m   SAg                                                2.964  O.99      -  2.43  9.19  04e1        - 0       .    0.92       - 0.42        2.52   312       -  2.15         92         2.41
N. MORMON. 5ltTS
SnL    IECT.IWESL.ftNS                                   0.9   1.23       -  2.14  4.09  0.12         - 02   0x   0.32          - 0.2         1.20  1..        -  2.5         o          2.6
3                                                        1.35  1.34       -  3.13  0.21  0.19        - 0.32  0.34  0.52         - 0.5         1.92  2.54       -  4.36          .4       3.96
U STTlEliR S                                             1.51  2.0            35   4.15  0.21           9.36  0.54  054         - 0.5         2.0   2.3        -  4.3         0.44       4.36
U Bm         S SSATS NW                                  0.43  045        -     J 1.13  0.5   0a6     -  .12   9.11  0.17       - 0.29        4.64  4.9        -  1.52        0.14        1.39
3029 VIEe .5   0.n3                                                          . 13   4.a5  0.07        -   13  0.13  0.2         - 0.3          .73  1.02       -  1.75        0.          2.
Sb-Tae    EUiFN!                                           4.79  6.3            11.2   4.49  95           -    1 2.12  1.76          2.111      6.3   3"4         -  s2          2.J9       3.n
,,. ENSu
-tlMIdECLWIUAVT.fE5                                    0.99  0.12           0.2t  0.01  9.02        - 0.42    a2  043         - 0.5         0.12  4.16       -  0.3         9.03       0.25
525                                                   0.39  0.5            0.92  0.04  0.         - 0.09  0.1   0.e3         - 0s5        9.53  0.74        -   .2.2                  1.15
LhTf TMUIS                                               0.11  0.15           o.a 6.01  9.01         - 043  0A2  0.4            - 0.96        0.14  o.         -   .4         .03        0.31
isowuIBaSIiesSun3N9a9s                                    4.9   0.06      -  0.2   4.9  0.01         -  .02  0.02   o2 -0  .03               4.0   4.5         -0.13          0.03       0.12
AND99B1                                                  0.   0.0         -  0.11  4.0   0.01         - 6       A 02I  042      - 0.03        .07  0.10        -   .17        0.02        .16
iTowal PI ,                                                 0.6  0.93        -  1      9.47  0.09       - 0.10   0.6  04 - 0.2                  4.92  1.23           2 .20       0.20       2.00
s-rXOaw  5631W U        E8135                                 s.47  7.46          12.92  0.5   0.73        - 1.29  1.29  2M          - 3.ja        7.31  10.n       - 22              9       23.9.
tml IllbT 021l                                                 IO.2  44.92       -14.  10.33  4.             -14.12  22.   11.04       - 3L.17     135.75  0.45       - 196.20       17.34     17 .37
tI6StNM . STAFSIC                                            3.e a.5           - 32.19  0.3s  2.7         - 3.22  0.01  7.03        - 9.17        4.69 39.J           4447         441       aJ.
3.       L5 SREIUS                                           1.44  1.97        -  3.4   4.14  9.2"           0.34  9.36  0.s6       - 0.9         1.1  2.72        -  47           0.42       4.24
C. 9P110  iM ISCSUE                                          4.22 12.5           16.07  4.42  2.7         - 1.69  1.25  4.22        - 5.4         5."  10.16       - 24.05         2.19      22.46
Tat 1 T CUM                                                      1.17 4.3         - 52.    0.92  4.n3        - 5.23  2.44  2244         -            u13  12.52 69.26  - 72.713       6.2       6417
Tat                                                             212.4  113         - 209.67 11.25  M*          -3.1  24.57 23.M3T        - 430       149.2712.72        - 2.99         24.4      20453S
bid 2. IM 15 a.



-00-                                                                          4331
m             mie nw ea
Lail                   r     m                         Lus FIr.                                             Film  ML    4 Pim
MM0 m. l&          Pf    id. m m. a           Fm. ad. BMW a                         iwi. Maum A           m ftimim      CoL. im
FM. 1l^. TOW  1 _    Ted   3. TOW   11a                W- Tl  T_h Tam   TOM    I"   Fm. 1mi T_W     Tins  Tdal            MI.       3M  C_ .
1.   uam  11
I.__E_- 
OEM                                                         .0    S         -  14.9  1J  0.0            - 3*   L.e   9.17          - 3.24       17.97  0.3         - n1.           1.71       D.14
H I                                                       11I7  11          - 2.4    2.22  0.10         - 2 .n S.                  - 541        23.4   .M          - 2.3     S    2.7         2.0
li.TiaI  _D   mmIIIII 3117                        _          3T   1.          - 3.        4   0.17        -30    .7 -1 40            -  .2        44.31              - 4123 4X                  44.74
2. IN - 2IV1CE m     C      -  m     TRINI
_11111                                                    1.97 2149 11  A L -  40  0J    02             - 04  2.44  0.2Z           - 141         243  3.           -  4.3         9.           5.73
MIT  11i1 33333                                           1.0   1.3         -  2.4    .D   014          - 024  9.2   OM            - 9.A2        1.3  1.10         -  3x           LID        I.t
u =                                                       I.9t 2zap         -  4.56  921  02            -#A0   9.41  0             - 1.10        2.40   .          -  4.23   7      2          5.a 6
2.U  2.90        -  S.13  044   0.e          - OM   *.@   0.7           - 1i4          2X    4.0        -   .           0.a        64.
li4ild u - 313         IIC   1 - 11         2 ,o             744  9.n          - 1m   071  0.7             - 3.81  1.42   25          - 4.14        1.40 13.24        - 27.7t         20         2.4
3.  3                               RAINI- 1111G23
UmiES                                                     3.31  0.11aZ2 -  34   GM   04                 - 04X    70   M04          - Le.4        4*   0.3          -  4a          9.02         4.2
gm 02311                                                  2.7   0.2         -  2.92  0.2                - 0*   L.    0.01          - 9.4         3.*   L.A         -  1.01        0.4          3.2
I-Tidal Di -    2il      O       - 111 1 3T     3            A2   0*           -    .4*   02  GAB             LA044   1. 36           - 1.41               96         -  3.47         07         7.7
hnb-lsiI mim      ,                                            47    11.40        - 344   4.3   1.17          -  .    1.49  30           -14.7          4   15."4       -    t          7.31       7347
1. 7WI                                                             9.7  -L   3.L   a."7  04                - 40    1.4                - 15          9.94  0.0        -  10.43        0.5         9
2.    1f 00   4.94                                                                L      SA0S              - 0.3G   4.14  J1J         - 1.44        0M    .74            7.1         L.          Ls
.:-Iuli          113113,mE                                      La       2        - 13.41  .3 a     .3        - D    l. J I 15   1.-       2.94      2J.74 7.23         -   .t7 ua                 1.
c. mmi L            f  l                                        3.    4.-1       -  7.10  0.30e1              - e 31   I.74  1.1           1.          4.04  5          -  9.70         0A          r.Q
36 mIm. 13111                                                    3.3   .0         -         O. X 9  0eJ       -   .   91  1.71          - 2I.5  11.47                   - 15.4          i.e        14
L. m111ET                                                      244   3.2         - 2.74  2.4.0.               - 2n?  4.    9.7          -  .7         391   4.2         - I.sm          3.20       3.
F. r3313                                                        9     0.70       -  1.01  Gm   c6             -  .10  .       .17       -              0     0.94     -     1.34        02          344
L.               i                                              1     0 0  AWAL  11A1   01   0.0                LIS .2       0.e        - eJ           21   LU          -  2.41         024         2.19
U. 30Ul2 1113231U
SiUA       TEWJIUh JO                                     041   1.1         -  1.95  OM4  0.U           - 0       .10  9.2         - 0*          1*   1.5          -  2.42    b     24        2.
mn                                                        144   1.47        -  2*   012  017            - 0*0.31   OA              -070          1     2.31        -  3.91.   *.n             1
_OIUT    .1.    AX                                                          -   .24   64  0.n9          -     4.21  9.49           - 0o          1.3   2.3         -  440                      .97
-o_m    I  13       AIIU 338                              0.    0.3         -         am   0.01         - 0.1   LB   0.14          -             a0    0.3            AX 19                    1.3
23115131.1041614                                                            -  1.1   9OS041             - 0.22  0.-2  6.15         - 03          019.73            -  1.          0.          1.0
l Ti  d 33113                                                4.    5.91        - 1.2       44  0.3         - 31    1.91  1.           - 2.42        5.3   .12        - 13.9          1A         12.
2.    1
3lW SId T.0ituIFs                                         041   9.13        -L01    041  041            - 0       .91  G.3           a0          0.21   0135       -  04e                     L0.3
INDI.As9.40                                                                 -  0.0   0.04   41s         - 0.    0.og 0.14          - 0     .D 0.    0.0            -  1.25        0.L         141
I_T _J                             0t                            9l13       -  0.23  L01  O41          -  4A   0.1  0a            - 04          0.13  0.3            03          04          044
u%11    M  1        21110.E11811                          0_ 04  04S        -  0W  #40  0.01            - 0.02  9.01   .01         -L04          0E   0.07            4.22        902         L.21
mao  2                                                    041   0*          -  0.32  0.4    .01         -. .0       1  642         - 9.03        07   0.09         -    U         9.          9.14
W111,81 m9.42  041                                                             - I A A.S 1      0,         - 0.25  0L.     02         - 0.          041   1.17       -  2J O   0. 1              142
lT-MAt  mo a    m ilES                                          4.97  473           11.75  0.     00    . S  1.e7  1.17  l.IA           - la             4  9.29        -        U.n    1A         144
Tl 1         T    i                                              9L9   414          - U4.74   9.1   41 -   41  2.L2  1.4                   - 3hl       1.   14.10            -  .         3U         1.1
a.      . gm   n.m1                                             .29t 2.0             .3   042  2.a          - 2.93  0.7    .12         - 74          4.3  3.10         - 40.01         Lat        d1.
S.        23 11                                                1.3   1.79       -  3.10L   0.23  0.10          I'3   0IZ  0.1          - 0M1         1.77  2.40            4.*4    *    .          l01
C. miw_E       _11115                                          341  24          - 25.3   0.3J la    S       -1. ID  1.132.             - 4.9         S.   251U            2141         1.         19*x
told NE          23                                                                 - 47U0           3.094      - 4.77  2.21 11.49         -137 II      11.30  4.            4.2          42         40.
lid1.                                                                      . Ma191A   24   311                   - It.24 32.34 21am         - 431       147 109.74          - 244.         ZI        2630,
AMU 21  11M     2



- 69 -
INDONESIA                                 ANNEX 10
Table 10
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVOLOPhENT PROJECT
Disbursement Forecast a/
IndDnesia       Regional
IBRD/IDA Fiscal Year          Disbursements                All         Education
and Semester            --------------------------- Projects b/   Projects c/
Cumul-             Disbursement  Disbursement  Semes-
Semester   ative        X      Profile X       Profile 2      ters
1986
lst.lJul.85-Dec.85)          0.4       0.4         OX             OX              12       1
2nd.(Jan.86-Jun.86)          4.2       4.5         3%              2Z             3X       2
1987
lst.IJul.86-Dec.86)          4.5       9.0        6b              4%              62      3
2nd.(Jan.87-Jun.87)          9.0      18.1        12%             8X             10%      4
1988
Ist.(Jul.87-Dec.87)          9.0      27.1        18X            12%             16X      5
2nd.(Jan.88-Jun.88)         13.6      40.7        28%            19%             23%      6
199
Ist.(Jul.88-Des.88)         13.6      54.3        37X            24?            31X       7
2nd.(Jan.89-Jun.89)         15.8      70.1        489            31%             40X      8
1990
1st.(Jul.89-Dec.89)         18.1      88.2        60%            39X            49%       9
2nd.(Jan.90-Jun.90)         18.1    106.3         72%            47%             57X     10
1991
lst.(Jul.90-Dec.90)         19.1    124.4         85X            55X            66%      11
2nd.(Jan.91-Jun.91)         18.1    142.5         97X            632            73X      12
1992
Ist.(Jul.91-Dec.91) cf       4.5    147.0        100%            70?            79X      13
77?            95X      14
83%            89%      15
a/ Estimated profile is slightly accelerated compared to the All Education and
Regional profiles. This project is expected to be more fully prepared before lend
than the average education project.
bJ The regional profile is based on historical data for 43 education projects.
c/ The Loan is expected to close in Deceeber 31, 1991.



- 70 -
AMU 10
T bl 11
INDONESIA
SECOND UITvRsTf DEvWLOPIHcit PROlC
ley Tndiertors of Pro_leer Implementatten and Outcones
Expected outcme                           aeans                                   Indteators of ialeaentation              Indicators of outecme
Incresed breadth of offrring. in         -Design and prepare five new under-   - New  eouree s designed. as percent-    - Number of untierstties offering
specialized fields at underpraduate        graduaet protram arte of target, for each progras                                  nw Program.
level.                                                                              and overall.                           - Parollment trends In nw  preotram.
Improved qualtty of specialized un-    - Train prepective faculty.                - Fellowships awarded, complete.1 as    - Feer assessmnt of ntality of pro-
dmrgraduate education.                   -U e consultant assistance in pro-         percentage of target,                     grams.
gri preparation.                       - Han-mnths of consulting  usd an        - Exinratiton results, In cnnoprtson
percentage of tergetr                    with pmst.
Expanded opportunities for special-    -Establish TiCs.                           - Level of funetioning of 1ites. In      - Ratio Of applicants to places for
tied graduate education.                 - Design, prepare and implement new        relation to target.                      IUC program.
gradusta coursee.                      - New courses destgned. as percent-    - Percentapeage tacrease tin  2, Cl
- Provid2 f1inacial support for the-       age of target.                           degrees granted by fteld. ovwer
sic and dissertation work.             - Financial awrds (gtrants) mde as         tins.
percentage of taret.                   - Proportion of themss. disaerts-
tionm cowplete,d under grant pro-
gram.
Improved quality of specialized          - Upgrade faculty throulgh overseas,    - Fellowsbipm  granted, completed as      - Change in average level of Post-
graduate educateton.                       domestic trainting                       percentage of target,                    graduate training of facultvy  over
- Develop and produce prototype tn-    - Dmestic training courses held, an          time.
structtonal materials,                   pereentage of target.                  -  mher of universities. prograas
-_Use consultant assistance In pro-    - Staff membrs tratned, as porcent-          adopting new stertals.
gram, mterials preparation,              age of target.                         - Peer assesment of mutltty of pro-
grars.
Strengthened local capacity to cup-    -Establisb centrol analytical labo-   - New naterials produced, field               - Proportion of facultv umin  CAL
port scienttfic laboratory work.           ratories (CAL).                          tested, hy cateory, as percentage        (trends over rise).
- Establisb Instrumwnt mintenance          of target.                             - Proportien of tlie key CITS In-
factlitties (CtTE),                    - x"ey instrmentation *arilahie, as        strumentation In use.
compared with plans.                   - Proportlen of repair, mintenance
- Proportion of key tnstruwnt  theat       problema succeesfully handlsd by
can he installed, serviced by CMTT       ClTS steff (trends1.
staff.                                 - Mean tim  out of service for hev
instrumentation (trends).
Increased sharing of instructtonal       - Establish Procedures to cake TilC      - FExstence of written procedures        - Proportton of applicant pool ffor
and research resources sng univer-         proRram. facilitites avalahle to         tar sharingp facilittes. proarams.       each acttvlty) from other univer-
atties                                     other universitet.                     - Evidence of publication, dissent-        ctitese 'rends).
nation of procedures.                  - wroportion of participants (for
each acttvtty) rrom other univer-
itles (trends).
Expanded and improved sctentific         -Provide reserch grants.                 - Research grants aarded, as per-        -  umber of completed research stud-
research output.                         - Install peer review procedures.          centage of target.                       ine (trends).
- Provide expert advice to research-   - Evidence ot use of peer review           -  ul ity of research nutput an
era.                                     process.                                  %dged he peer review.
- Ron-months of consuletnp used, as
mercentaRe of target.
Improwd capacity to develop in-          -rovidr expert asisetnce to Cue-    - Nan-months Of consulttng used, as    -  hangtes In lewl of output of in-
structional mterials.                      tar for the Improvement snd Devel-       percentmne  of target.                   strnetianl mterial wtth time.
opment of Tnstructional !Eaterials                                              -  ualitty of mterials as judgd hy
at Open University.                                                               peer revtew.
Improved capacity at central and         - Etablish National reduate Educa-   - Evidence of e*tablishment, func-          - Contrtiuetin of Il.C to poltcy
local university levela to manage          tion Council (GICE) as pol -c-           tioenng of YMRCEC,EDO CFSiiiln nTI.      foruliatlon, - ascessad by in-
higher educatton,                          making body.                           - niimher of stAff-weeks of training       forrmd opioion.
- Establish Nattonal  raduste wduca-       provided, as percentaee of t-reet.   - Success of SEN  In remnaing pro F.
tton Developaent Office (NED) ton                                                 ect es assessed by informed opin-
mnage project,                                                                    ton.
- letablish Craduste  ducation Staff                                              - Record of CPSPIi with regsrd to (i)
lIevelopmeet Unle (CESNlI) to monste                                              sverager tim  to place fellows:
experts and fellowships.                                                          (ti) average timw to recruit ex-
- Establish Offiee of Inatitutional                                                 perts; and flit) record of con-
Research (aIR) to conduct policy                                                  tract fulfillmeot bY experts.
studies, collect and anl yze sub-                                               - Number of policy stedies conducted
sector data.                                                                      by VIR.
- lun traintng proRrsa for Aenegers.                                              - Tmroved  performance of managers,
as asessed he informed opinion.
Source:  OICME snd tbnk staff, Noveber 1S914



- 71 -                            Page 1.
INDONESIA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Subsector
A.1  The Fourth Five Year Plan - Education and the Younger Generation.
Draft Ministry of Education and Culture. February 1984.
A.2 Clark, David, "Efficiency in Indonesian Higher Education", draft,
Sepcember 1983, :BRD.
A.3  DeveLopment of University Education in Indonesia - Perspectives and
Obstacles, UNESCO, 1984.
A.4 Tisna Amidjaja, D.A., "Higher Education Developmenc in Indonesia",
DCHE, December 1983.
A.5  Palmer, Leslie "Occupations of Indonesian Graduates."  Journal of
Higher Education 11 (1982) 685-712.
A.6  Evaluation Report on the Formulation of DeveLopment -laster Plans ror
the Period 1981-90 by State Universities and Institutes. Draft,
DGHE, 1983.
A.7  University Management Education in Indonesia - draft, IBRD, 198'.
A.8 N.E. Huston, "DeveLopment of a Xanagement System for Instrumentation
and Research Equipment," MUCIA/Indonesia Project Report, December 16,
1983.
B. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
3.1 Indonesia staff Appraisal Report (No. 3000a-IND). First phase of a
University Development Program, August 4, 1980.
B.2 ?roposed Staff Development Program for Graduate Education, UNESCO
prepara- on mission Report, December 1983.
B.3 Second University Project - UNESCO preparation mission report, July
1983.
B.4 WorLd Bank Assisted Project for the Development of Higher Education -
A proposaL. Directorate General of Higher Education, November 1983
(main volume and Annexes I-III).
B.5 Revised World Bank assisted project for the Development of Higher
Education - A proposal and project cost summary. January 1984.



-72- ~~~~~~ANE~ I I
- 72 -                          Page 2
C. Working Papers
C.1 Unit cost assumptions for basis all project calculations.
C.2  Educational working papers.
C.3 Architectural vorking papers.
C.4 Project costs.
C.5 Key indicators of project education outcomes.



INDONESIA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Directorate Genral of 4igher Educatlon
(Decree No. 79/11975)
SocietoriW          ~~~socfortaio   Ew           ssc,taiot                  W--k
-E l           Dltmn                                 E i
WcMi Bar*k-26117
| . E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I!



CHART 2
- 74 -
INDONESIA
SECOND UNIlERSIY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Management of Graduate Educafton Deveopment
DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF            TECHNICALE INE               G E wucAnON
HIGHER EDCATIONI 
I ADMINSIRATIVE LNE
RECTOR
V|E                 VICE                VICE
RECTORI      ~RECTOR N             RECTOR 11
RETO I    AD'SRTO
ACADEMICAFFAIRS      AD& TA O             REWFAR
UNDERGRADL)AT             GRWADAE                       RESEARCH                RBLl SERVICES   h
|  FACULTIES    $              ACU Lb                      1ll  INSMUE             INSTU           |
L      L.EE I _                                                BOARDS
Nole: Durhg the projet Implererwation phase (the ht ffive ers)
the project will be moarxgd dkectty by DGHE
Wral Bonk-26156



INDONESIA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization of Graduate Education
Development at National Level
I     MINIStER FOR  1
EDUCATlON & CULME 
H TGE EDUCATION          -
E                                    _                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ACADEMr- AFFAQrS
CPIU        SCD        TAMU
Key
NGEC    - National Geoduote Educatiorn Council
NGEDO   - Noltonol Gioducte Education Developnent Office
HEPJ    - Highe Educotion Planning Unit
TAWU    - lechnical Auislance Monogement Unit
CPU     - Centrol Project Implemenlotion Unit
SCD     - Suirectaole (ao Curriculum De,Fopment                                                                               World aonk-26679
_  __.-  -Unosof dAce



INDONESIA
SECOND UNrVERSI1Y DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Orgonizatlon of Graduate Educatlon
Development at Uniersity Level
TO CPK)
RECTOR                           TFRO  CPU
DEFUIY RECTORS
D E                     iAN
50      S1               ~~~~~~GRADLIAl
... . . . ~~~~~~SlLIDIES
S2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RGA  AD LF1M  U &                                                              OTHEfl
I_ *# _  _ _ 6    RE\lEW BOARD         _4'_
I  CIIS  l   l  CAL    r   DQEt;loR   |              |   DIRECTOR   ||  OTHER ICr   OTHER
A_YSI                              IIJC RD                                                  SAME RELD                     SAE FL
Key                                                                               SECRETARY  |ERTR
NGEC    - National Groduote Eduction Ccuncil                                    | FOAM                        AD4N       |
CPfU     - Centrol Project lmpwtentiokn Unit
LFtU     - Local Progect Inplernentltion Unit
CITS     - Center fa Instrumentation & Technical Sevkes                                       LASS & DMS   |
CAL      - Common Anolcol Labotatories
IJC      - Inter-Unlyeihty Centers
50-53   - Diplom  ta Doctorol Degree                                                                                                                   WoBadnk-2688
P31      - Ofce of Unrversity Planning & Developmnent 



CHART 5
- 77 -
INDONESIA
SECOND UNIVERSITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance Management Unit (TAMU)
OSECrOR_J
ASISTN  I:O  I               AStTN DfCf  I                           AS1  1 m ,CTO 10
lECFNK:AL ASSIS5NC                  AcAEC                                     uWELSRE
APPUCATON     SERVKE      APPT1ON       FR0oQM       ACADUAC       RNaAI         MRAVEL &    IANGWUA TRAMNP
& SELECTION   IASON &      PROGRESS     A$SSANCE       VsS         & OREAIMN
RACENANT      RECORDS                      /
.0, ~    - 
i     }      ~I  \                          -.o
=NU        OVERSEAS   I,                           ,
I4     I             
S!EWT       ATIACHED0O              E
IAFFJRS    EMWASSY OR
I  I       BUR1AU     RETAMER CONTAT
I                     IlUlH LNIERSIMY/NVITl.E
U     N     I    V      E     R    S      I    T    I    E    S
Vrd Banl-26158



CHART 6
- 78 -
INDONESIA
SECOND UNIVERSIIY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organzation of Inter-Unhlersiy Center (IUC)
DIRECTOR
SECREEARY                                           SECrErARY
ADMNSRATION                                           PROGRAM
S[JPPORT CR3            H &1  [X1
SECRETARIAT       RNAN'CE         S8BUJCES                           MATERIALS      rn-egre. 
Wobrld Bordc-26119
ETC
LABORAIORIES



INDONESIA
SECOND UNiVERSIlY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization of Project Implementation Unit(s)
Civil Works Oficm
DGHE                  Procurement Officef
CPIU                 Acodemc officeS
Finance & Accounting Offlicers
Secrtoriat
LPIU           LPIU            LPL U                                                LPIU                                                     LPI U 
Darec Jr       Directxo        aDrector DDrictor                                                                                             Dibctar
ITE1          UGM              Ul                                                  IP                                                   Open-Unverty
CML1                ACADEMIC             PROCUREMENT        ~     oN~&
| WORKS               OFFICER                OFFICER
Key:
CPiU - Central Project Implementation Unit
LPIU - Local Project Implemrenatioa  Unit                                                                                 Wod Bonk-26i20



t   e    -      .   -.         ----     -          ,    M
.        ;     X        |    F~~~~~~~; 
* .  !                         i    4                   -  u"_    
,__   ,  .,            ___     ___   p;Iz               .__  ._Tg    a
I _____________ ' 
*                                    I
*te                                                      _ hL_ _ 9
*            ---               u^                   K, -.3.  *   '
t                          _                       E___ __________E__ [



4.K.    THAILAND lOs liPd;  ;wIetf-                                                    *i i ONESIA                                                                 lip W
<    Q   > \0P_g                             ,r                 >   PHIUWINES  ( <                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SECOND UNIVERSITY  9-
\.  13  \,     ; ~MALAYSIA        Souih  Ci;SC3i                  BRUNEI,                 0g                                                                         o^0 ,
. R s *~~~ y-oJ\X0@^-Ms--w 1 1 wvw.anat~Z                                                                                                                       o
~~~   t   r  "4 "-re-
%  t\  8  '"    '' .   . '  //   \/   ,,   ''  t   \                            ,       /    ,               '            @   t b tlf.~
9;   0   ;4.  '618"PO"E  M^L^Y81^ /     17   2                              P         t<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0PUMVWVMAAl
X 0ALIUANTAN T NaAh ' " t' , - ;_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ NLMAER
q Llit^Nf NlELAT^^         }:                _       ^               -               _,,                         5             X A  A N
OJoI JAKRT                                     1lw                                                   au1                                               .1     
JAW' OA 'AY1T
JAWA INA                                                                                                                  IRIAN JArA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1






