Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. P-3906-CH
rEO AND nMOMNArIO
OF THE
PRESIDENrT OF 7=
IT     O    L BANK FOR RE  NSTRUCTION AN  DEVE IN
TO TOE
EXECUIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVAIENT TO US$11.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
FOR A
PUBLIC SECTOR KANiT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECr
-4-                                       February 15, 1985
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonmance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(Currency Unit: Chilean Peso (Ch$))
Calendar 1983
Currency Unit           Average           Dec. 31, 1984
US$1                Ch$78.788             Ch$128.5
Ch$i                US$ 0.013             US$  0.008
Ch$1,000            US$12.692             US$  7.782
FISCAL ME
January 1 to December 31
AUBREVIATIONS
CEPAL       -  Comision Economica para America Latina
(Economic Comission for Latin America)
CODELCO     -  Corporacion del Cobre
(The Chilean State Copper Company)
CORFO       -  Corporacion de Fomento
(The official Development Company)
IDB         -  Inter-American Development Bank
IVF         -  International Monetary Fund
ODEPLAN     -  Oficina de Planificacion Nacional
(National Planning Office)
OPE         -  Office of Project Execution of UNDP
PROCHILE    -  The State Export Promotion Agency
UNDP        -  United .Yations Development Programme



- ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     -i
'         F                   FOR OF AL USE ONLY
igou  ot w     U
?R= SC = NAXAmT TDEMICL ASSISTANCE imncr
LOIN AMD nIcr S1AU
Rsrzmr:             The Republic of Chle
:                    05 USS11.O million equivalent
Tes:                Repayzat In 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the
standard variable Interest rate.
Pzcdect ObictiLves: Ci) To improve information, criteria, analyse., organiza-
tional arrangemnts. and control relationships for deci-
sion-making within the public sector to help orient and
strengthen the mmangement of the economy; and (ii) to
support the Government's technical assistance program to
small- and medium-sized exporters.
The proposed proj6ct would comprise technical assistan:e
for: (i) improving the decision-making process in the
public sector regarding economic policies, especially
publ'_ ;ector investment; (ii) improving the potential
medium-to-longer-term performance of the public enter-
pritses In terms of efficiency and their contribution to
otbe- economic objectives; (iii) improving the quality of
economic information and statistics supporting public
sector Jecision-making; (iv) developing a program of as-
sistCece to be administered by the Governeut's export
promotion tgency, PROCKILE, to the country's small- and
medium-sized exporters in the areas of commercial in-
tormation systems, international marketing and an ex-
ternal network of export-related services; and (v) under-
taking special studies. selective training and other
technical assistance consistent with project objectives.
Benefits and Risks: The proposed project would improve the Goverment's abil-
ity to guide the economy l'y improving economic policy ex-
ecution and by harnessing better the considerable pro-
ductive potential of the public enterprise and export
sectors. Moreover, it would afford Government with suf-
ficient resources for studies or other forma of technical
assistance to respond flexibly in tackling pr.ority is-
sues as they arise.
The proposed project's main risk would be a possible de-
ferral of studies or implementation of their conclusions
because of changing Government priorities or because of
political pressures. This would be mitigated by having a
full-time Project Coordinator with easy access to key
economic decision-makers and by a formalized and struc-
tured review process.
This document has a estrictd disibution and may be used by reipents only in the performansc
of their offca dutiesIs contents may not otherwis be disclosed without World Bank authodzaion.



- iii -
Estinated Costs: (excluding tames)
Foreign   Loe}    TotalL
(USS Millions Equivalent)
A. Project Hanageent                                       .80      .80
B. Public Sector Investment Planning
and Review                                 .86      1.10     1.96
C. Public Enterprise Management                 4.10      3.00     7.10
D.  Economic Statistics                          .50       .25      .75
E.  Export Promotion                            1.40       .66     2.06
F.  Future Studies and Other Technical
Assistance                                2.00     2.00      4.00
Base Cost                                 8.86     7.81    16.67
Price Contingencies                       2.14     1.89      4.03
Total Project Costs                      11.00     9.70    20.70
:  Bank                                          11.00         -    11.00
Government                        _        9.70     9.70
Total                       11.00     9.70    20.70
Estimated
Disbuorsements:       Bank FY:                   1985    1986    ±987    1988
-C     (US$ Millions)
Annual                      0.5     4.0     4.0     2.5
Cumulative                 0.5      4.5     8.5    11.0
Rate of Retur:      n.a.



9E1M  AND                 OF 7B   SZ         r OT   lED
TO mmE ED TICS DIRECTORS 0(  A PROPOSED LOA  To
mHEWZU5IC OF c         o FOR
A ULC SEC05~50f=W               1C&L  aS A     noncr
1.        I submit the following report and recomndation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Chile for the equivalent of US$11.0 million to help fi-
nance a Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Project. The proposed
loan would have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, it the stand-
ard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECXONKY
2.        An economic memorandum on Chile (Report No. 5099-CR) was circulated
to the Board on September 24, 1984. The following paragraphs are based on
the conclusions contained in that memorandum and on information gathered by
subsequent missions that visited Chile in November 1984 and January 1985.
Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Evoltrion of the Economy to the end of 1983
3.        In the four decades following the Great Depression, successive
Governments sought to reduce Chile's vulnerability to world market fluctua-
tions, accelerate economic development and achieve a more equitable distribu-
tion of income. With the aim of reducing the country's dependence on im-
ports, these Governments intervened in the determination of prices, erected
high protective barriers against foreign competition, offered special tax and
other incentives to investment and entered directly into production and dis-
tribution activities while controlling the allocation of credit and foreign
exchange. During 1971-73, the Government, intervening heavily in the econo-
my, undertook a major agrarian reform, expropriated a large part of the pri-
vate industrial and mining sectors, and followed highly expansionary fiscal,
monetary, and wage policies. By 1973, the public sector deficit exceeded
one-fifth of GDP.  Stagnation, rapid inflation and balance of payments prob-
lems became acute. In 1973, for example, inflation exceeded 500 percent and
net international reserves were negative by more than US$300 million.
4.        After 1973 the structure of the Chilean economy underwent pro-
nounced change. The new Government, which came to power in late-1973,
promoted private initiative and reduced the role of the State to one of mini-
mal involvement in the economic sphere.  The public sector deficit was elimi-
nated. All prices, including interest rates, were progressively freed and
most distortions to relative prices were removed. Foreign investment was en-
couraged and trade barriers were virtually eliminated. Major reforms were
introduced in the tax structure, in the budgetary process and in banking
legislation. Finally, most of the enterprises taken over by the previous
Government were returned to the private sector. To reduce the hyperinflation
and respond to a major drop in copper prices, the Government initially under-
took a severe austerity program; strong fiscal revenue and expenditure ac-
tions were implemented, the currency was massively devalued and, after 1975,



-2-
a crawling peg regime was adopted which stimulated export-led growth. A de-
pression, which developed in 1975, bottomed out during the first quarter of
1976 and, with its first current account surplus in twenty years, Chile was
able to service its debt and increase substantially its net official re-
serves.
5.        The economy responded well to the reforms and between 1976-1980
real economic growth averaged 8.5 percent per year. By 1977, real GDP had
returned to the levels of 1971-1972 and by 1980 annual inflation was reduced
to 30 percent. The balance of payments position improved markedly; the value
of agricultural and manufactured exports grew more than sevenfold between
1973 and 1978. Copper revenues - traditionally over 80 percent of export
receipts - had been reduced to half of total export earnings. Net foreign
reserves during the 1973-78 period averaged over US$1.5 billion. By 1978,
real wages and salartes had recovered to their 1970 levels and rose further
as worker productivity increased. The efficiency and finances of the Govern-
ment and most of the remaiuning State enterprises improved dramatically.
However, these positive developments have been accompanied by significant im-
provements in efficiency of labor use; thus the unemployment rate fell only
slowly despite a major emergency employment program.
6.        While the Government was eage. to reduce the economic role of the
State, it was equally determined to improve the quality of, and access to,
social services to the poor. Previous income distribution policies and pro-
grams - such as price controls, public housing, cheap credit, factor sub-
sidies, tax exemptions and broadly-based social expenditure programs - not
only had had perverse growth effects, but often had been of equal or, in some
cases, greater benefit to the urban middle class than to the poor. From the
aid-seventies on, although the Government spent less on the social sectors
than predecessor governments (public social outlays only reached 1972 levels
in real per capita terms in 1980), it carefully targeted its spending on the
extreme poor through a series of health and education reforms that lowered
substantially Chile's infant mortality and child malnutrition rates.
7.        After 1980, economic conditions changed with a major shift in
macroeconomic policy and the later world recession. On July 1, 1979 the
Government ended its pre-announced crawling peg policy and fixed the Chilean
Peso at Ch$39:US$1. This, combined with greatly lessened restrictions on ex-
ternal capital flows and public sector surpluses, was expected to adjust
domestic inflation quickly to international levels. Unfortunately, the time
lag in the adjustment of domestic inflation rates, combined with the subse-
quent appreciation of the U.S. dollar and 1981-83 world recession, produced
an unsustainable boom financed by massive inflows of foreign borrowings. Be-
tween end-1979 and end-1981, Chile's private external debt tripled.
8.        The appreciation of the peso -  combined with the growing world re-
cession - finally had an overwhelming effect as Chile's export earnings and
inflows of foreign savings both dropped. By the end of 1981, Chile's economy
entered a recession. The lag in adjusting Chile's foreign exchange policy
led the economy from recession into depression. In 1982 GDP fell 14 per-
cent. Real value-added in construction, which had boomed in 1980/81, dropped
almost 22 percent; real value-added in commerce and transport decreased by 15
percent and 10 percent, respectively. Manufacturing value-added declined by
22 percent. Real fixed investment fell almost 37 percent, a drop which was
all the more discouraging because the country had only begun to improve its
infrastructure, which had deteriorated greatly during the 1970s.



-3-
9.        As the economy entered the depression, the financial situation of
many firms and banks deteriorated. As early as November 1981, the Government
assumed responsibility for day-to-day management of a few insolvent banks,
but the situation worsened considerably in 1982, with a series of bankrupt-
cies. The crisis finally forced the Government to devalue in June 1982. In
early August, as the situation worsened, the peso was floated, then devalued
farther. Following this devaluation, the Central Bank applied restrictions
on foreign exchange transactions in conjunction with a crawling peg policy to
stimulate exports.
.
10.       The IMF agreed in early January 1983 to an SDR 795 million Stand-by
cum Compensatory Financing Facility in support of the Government's stabiliza-
tion efforts. One week later a financial crisis was tr_ggered by massive
banking insolvencies and a huge capital outflow. Consequently, the Govern-
ment had to take over some banks and provide them and others with immediate
liquidity to avoid collapse of the financial system. A 'shadow program' -
by which the original targets conxld be met by September - was then drawn up
in March with the IMF. By end-July, agreement was reached with foreign
banks, providing Chile with: Ci) rescheduling of US$2.1 billion medium-term
principle payments due in 1963 anti 1984; (ii) rescheduling of US$1.3 billion
short-term debt; and (iii) US$1.3 billion in new medium-term credits.
1I.       By following severe deflationary policies, Chile complied with its
original September 1983 IMF targets; a feat that reflects favorably on the
country"s determination to meet its external obligations. A reduction in the
rate of inflation to 23 percent and a current account deficit of only US$1.5
billion were achieved. External balance, however, was achieved at the cost
of a decline in domestic expenditure for a second year. As 1983 concluded,
real GDP was down an additional one percent and real private consumption was
down seven percent. The unemployment rate had dropped to 16 percent, but
only because the emergency employment programs were employing ten percent of
the work force.
Recent Economic Developments
12.       The depression bottomed out in late 1983.  A growing public invest-
ment program and Central Bank financing of domestic debt reschedulings sup-
ported a strong increase in demand and production in the first semester of
*~       1984.  Furthermore, a March agreement with its international creditors pro-
vided Chile with $780 million in fresh medium-term capital and a major in-
crease in short-term debt followed. As a result, GDP grew 5.9 percent during
1984.  Industrial output wss up 8.4 percent compared to 1983.  Agricultural
output was up 6.7 percent, fishing 12.5 percent, and construction 5 percent.
Employment increased sharply; 250,000 jobs were created - a 9.2 percent in-
crease - allowing the Government to reduce by 137,000 jobs its emergency-
work programs whilc unemployment dropped to a 13.3 percent rate - its lowest
since 1981.
13.       Balance of payments problems occurred by the second half of the
year, slowing economic growth. Despite an almost ten percent volume increase
in non-copper exports, Chile's total export earnings dropped five percent
during 1984. Copper prices dropped 12 percent to the lowest real level since
the 1930s. As a consequence, although Chile exported the same record copper
volume as in 1983, its value decreased. Non-copper exports also suffered
price drops - 4.5 percent - reducing the earnings from the volume expansion
of agricultural and industrial export products which increased by 31 and 7.7



-4-
percent, respectively. After two years of heavy import compression, the 1984
recovery led to substantial import increases. Total imports reached $3.3
billion, an 18 percent increase over 1983. Capital imports grew fastest -
44 percent. To cope with the growing foreign trade imbalance and to help
offset the reduction in copper tax revenues, the Government increased import
tariffs from 20 percent to a 35 percent uniform rate while undertaking a 23
percent maxi-devaluation in September 1984. These actions increased prices
in October and monetary expansion was sharply curtailed in the last two
months to regain control of inflation. Between December 1983 and December
1984, consumer prices increased only 23 percent.
14.       A new program with the IMF has recently been negotiated.  To sus-
tain the recovery, a three-year public investment program places emphasis on
export promotion and job generation. The preliminary conclusions of a Bank
public investment review mission, which visited the country in November/
December 1984, are that the program's goals are in general effectively sup-
ported by the projects included in the program. Corporate and individual
taxes are now being reformed to stimulate investment and savings and a gener-
al financial program was designed by the Superintendency of Banks and the
Central Bank to capitalize banks under Government management. Major reforms
in the structure of large business groups continue, and ownership conflicts
- which have caused investment delays - are being resolved so that current-
ly-restricted export-oriented firms may increase production.
Prospects
15.       In spite of these actions, the Chilean recovery remains precar-
ious. Chile's growth is severely constrained by foreign exchange limits-
tions. Increased export earnings depend, in part, on a rapid expansion of
non-copper exports.  The Government, recognizing this, has established an at-
tractive exchange rate policy and will be undertaking a major reduction of
anti-export biases, including tariff reduction. Even with strong gains in
export volumes, however, Chile's prospects are linked to its terms of trade
and - given its high debt burden - world interest rates. Current Bank com-
modity price projections indicate a five percent improvement in Chile's terms
of trade for 1985; Chile's near-term debt service payments will likely be de-
cided during meetings with its creditors in March-April 1985.
16.       Chile's medium- and long-term debt was nearly 85 percent of its
1984 CDP; interest payments on it were over 40 percent of its exports. In
order to continue a moderate 2.5 to 3 percent rate of GDP growth over the
medium term, Chile would not only need to increase domestic savings and ac-
celerate exports; it will also need fu:ther substantial inflows of capital.
So far, Chile has made determined efforts to comply with its IMF program tar-
gets and its foreign obligations.  Its realistic exchange rate policy should
lead to a strong volume expansion of non-copper exports, and many of these
exports have better market prospects than copper. Its public investment pro-
gram is now designed to support more strongly a productive recovery. Private
incentives are also oriented to export expansion or efficient import-substi-
tution and to employment and savings generation. Despite these efforts,
Chile's continuing recovery and creditworthiness will depend on its external
debt burden and the return of real international interest rates to their his-
torical levels. Because the country, meanwhile, is addressing its medium-
term constraints with sound policies which strengthen prospects for obtaining
the necessary external financing, Chile is considered creditworthy for this
technical assistance loan. However, we hope that early agreement with the
IMF, which is now evaluating a three-year EFF, and Chile's -reditors will
make it creditworthy for the larger program discussed in Part II.



PART II- BANK GROUP OPIRIONS IN CKIIZ
17.       Chile became the Bank's first borrower among developing countries
in 1948 when the Bank made its first loan to the country. To date, the Bank
has made 31 loans to Chile, amounting to US$700.6 million (net of cancells-
tions) of which six are not yet fully disbursed.   IDA had also extended a
US$22.9 million credit to the country for a road project. IFC gross commit-
ments in Chile stand at US$56.4 million. Annex II has further details on
IBRD and IFC operations as at September 30, 1984.
18.       Of total Bank and IDA lending to Chile, 27 percent has been for
roads, 23 percent for power, 22 percent for agriculture (including irriga-
tion), 11 percent for housing, 7 percent for mining, 5 percent for water sup-
ply, and the balance (5 percent) for industry, education and technical as-
sistance.
19.       Historically, the volume of Bank lending to Chile has fluctuated
substantially in accordance, inter alia, with the country's economic perform-
ance and the availability of suitable projects. Between 1971 and 1973, the
Bank did not lend to Chile because of the severe deterioration in economic
and financial management. On the basis of negotiations substantially com-
pleted with the Allende Government, the Bank cautiously resumed lending in
1974. In the FY75-77 period, the Bank made four loans totalling US$107.8
million to help finance projects in the agriculture, copper mining and power
sectors. The Bank did not lend to Chile in FY78-79, but in FY80 it approved
a US$38 million loan for a water supply project and, in FY81, two loans in
the amounts of US$36 million and US$42 million for a se.ond agricultural
credit project and a highway reconstruction project, respectively. During
FY82-84, only one Bank loan, a US$128 million FY83 second highway reconstruc-
tion loan, was made to the country. In FY85, two loans have thus far been
approved -- a US$56 million loan for agricultural services and credit and a
US$80 million loan for public sector housing.
20.       Execution of Bank-financed projects in Chile has usually been sat-
isfactory. Disbursement of Bank loans to Chile reached US$32.6 million in
FY82. Then in FY83, with Chile's depression at its worst, disbursements de-
clined to US$22.3 million. This was in large measure because of the two-year
lending hiatus as well as the fact that farmers' debt burden and investment
uncertainty in the agricultural sector created disbursement problems for the
FY81 agricultural credit project. Recent modifications to this project are
expected to overcome these problems. Disbursements on Bank loans ia FY84
reached their highest historical level of US$34.5 million.
21.       The Bank's present lending strategy is to support the Government's
medium-term economic adjustment program by focussing on improvements in:
(i) external trade policies that would accelerate export growth and efficient
import-substitution and further diversify production and exports; (ii) public
sector management and fiscal policies to reactivate the economy and strength-
en public savings in a timely way with emphasis on making better use of ex-
isting infrastructure and productive capacity; (iii) financial policies to
stimulate domestic savings and to allocate credit more efficiently; and (iv)
policy incentives to expand productive employment. The short-term lending
program will include, in addition to this proposed public sector management



-6-
loan, a development policy loan to support the Government's medium-';erm
economic adjustment program, and an industrial finance rehabilitation loan.
These operations would be complementary in contributing to improved effi-
ciency and enhanced savings as well as stimulating much-needed employment and
output in the private producing sectors. They are designed to contribute to
improving the country's net foreign exchange pos;ition.
22.       Building on the economic adjustment efforts of these operations,
the medium- term lending program would include operations for transportation,
small industry credit, water and sewerage facilities in urban centers and to
develop the country's energy potential and other natural resources (e.g.
agriculture and forestry). In transportation, one operation for road main-
tenance would promote more efficient use of existing infrastructure while an-
other for multi-modal transport would emphasize rationalizing competing modes
of transport to mitigate overinvestment with concomitant underuse of capacity
in this sector. The operation for small industry credit will help strengthen
and diversify the structure of production among smaller producers which can
be expected to increase efficient import-substitution. Lending for water and
sewerage facilities would not only meet important residential health needs
but is designed to improve the export marketability of fresh agricultural
produce, some of which is currently being contaminated by raw sewerage ef-
fluent. Lending for energy, agriculture and forestry would not only con-
tribute to expanding output and employment, but would also increase net
foreign exchange earnings and savings.
23.       Although Chile's debt situation is currently limiting cofinancing
opportunities in the country, the responsible way in which the Authorities
are handling the country's external obligations augurs well for future opera-
tions in which the Bank could co-lend with commercial banks. International
commercial banks are considering providing Chile with new funds to tide the
country through the next year but have yet to resume lending on a voluntary
basis. Opportunities for IBRD-IDB cofinancing are also being explored. IDB
has a sizeable program in Chile; it is focussing primarily on agriculture,
industry, power, and transportation -- sectors in which the Bank is also pre-
paring operations. IBRD exposure in Chile currently stands at about five
percent of public debt and about two percent of total debt.
PART III - THE PUBLIC SECTOR
Background
24.       As a consequence of the economic liberalization initiated during
the 1970s (para. 4), the Government dismantled much of the apparatus that had
been built up by previous administrations to guide and control e.onomic
activity. Ministry payrolls were reduced significantly (for examp'le the
Ministry of Housing and Urbanism saw its staff reduced from about 40,000 to
around 4,000 employees), many previous functions of the Central Government
were either eliminated or relegated to local levels of government, and the
nation's public enterprises were revamped. The civil service has been sig-
nificantly reduced in size, it is generally competent and effective, and has
a well-earned reputation for honesty.
25.       While the Government's shift in economic orientation stimulated the
private sector and gave rise to a period of rapid growth between 1976 and
1981, the precipitous reversal described in Part I has revealed significant



7
weaknesses of an extreme laissez faire approach to economic management, par-
ticularly in an economy where a significant amount of the nation's productive
assets remains iTa the hands of the public sector. Whereas during 1976-1981,
Government economic teams resisted anything but a minimal role for the State
in economic matters, since 1983, the Chilean economic authorities have empha-
sized a more active role for the public sector in getting the economy back on
a sound footing. It continues to be committed to operating a free-market
open economy, but it recognizes that certain key areas of strategic impor-
tance to the economy require coherent and continuous public sector support.
Moreover, in a few key areas (such as the exploitation of natural resources
and the provision of what are commonly termed "public goods"), private deci-
sion-making may not always ade.quately take into account considerations of na-
tional interest.
26.       Important matters of economic policy are decided by the President
of the Republic in consultation with members of a military junta and with the
assistance of the Government's economic team, which is composed of the
Ministers of Economy, Finance, Agriculture, Public Works, Housing and
Urbanism, Miuing, and ODEPLAN as well as the President of the Central Bank.
27.       Until 1983 economic policies were essentially limited at the macro-
economic level to broad monetary, fiscal and exchange rate instruments. With
the exception of the social sectors, sector policies have tended to provide
orientation with minimal intervention and are formulated by the staff of per-
tinent line ministries under the mandate provided by the economic team. Ac-
tual inter-agency coordination and policy consistency were quite good, but
partly because virtually all members of the economic team interacted closely
at a personal level. Since February 1983, however, the Government found it
necessary to intervene in the operation of the economy simply to stave off
the collapse of the economic system. These interventions, such as financial
support to commercial banks and key sectors of the economy, were, for the
most part, fairly ad hoc. They were swift and direct responses to immediate
urgencies rather than carefully planned and programmed interventions within a
rational global context. The Government has recognized that a broader per-
spective is necessary and that the many separate actions required should be
coordinated within the context of a national economic framework with an ade-
quate time dimension. Correspondingly, the Government unveiled a three-year
economic investment program last year that marks an important step in a pro-
cess of stabilization and reactivation. Notwithstanding the competence of
the Chilean econ3mic team and civil service, after dismantling its apparatus
drastically, the Government does not possess the institutional capacity and
staff, nor the experience with setting and monitoring economic performance
targets and executing action programs involved in running an economy with
somewhat increased state guidance. In this regard, it needs and welcomes as-
sistance to strengthen the institutional, manpower and management capabil-
ities of key public sector entities to enable them to undertake additional
functions required by an enhanced role of the public sector.
Government Objectives and Strategy
28.       The Government's economic objectives are to:  (i) provide the basis
for a healthy economic recovery consistent with sound monetary and fiscal
policies; (ii) strengthen the country's export performance; (iii) increase
savings and consolidate the finances of private enterprises, including the
banks; and (iv) enhance the country's access to external funds.



-8-
29.       The strategy the Government is pursuing to achieve these objectives
is two-fold: (a) assuming a more active role in guiding policy decisions ia
the public sector, including the State enterprises, during a period of
limited internal and external resources; and (b) assisting those segments of
the private sector that can contribute most to economic recovery and struc-
tural adjustment by shifting the focus of production towards exports.
Main Problem  and Issues
Governent Invest_mnt Progremilg and Poliey Instruments
30.       The main agencies involved in controlling the economic activities
of the public sector are the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Finance,
the official Development Company (CORFO), the National Planning Office
(ODEPLAN), several commissions (e.g. the National Energy Commission, the
National Irrigation Commission, the National Copper Commission, etc.) and the
Office of the Controller General. The Ministry of Economy provides regula-
tory control through its influence on public utility tariffs, broad er,ploy-
ment matters and recently through the guidelines it provides on executive
compensation and appointments to boards of directors. The Ministry of
Finance exerts control through the Office of the Budget, which approves the
budgets of the State enterprises as well as of Government ministries. CORFO
was created in 1939 to channel public sector funds into various sectors. Ad-
ditionally, it was charged with formulating sectoral and subsectoral develop-
ment plans. Such plans were established, in fact, for development of elec-
tric power, steel production, petroleum extraction and refining, transport,
lumber and fruit production, fishing, livestock, and sugar production. Then
in 1965, the Planning Department of CORFO was transformed into a national
planning office directly responsible to the President of the Republic. This
office - ODEPLAN - was given permanent status by legislation (Law No.
16635) enacted in 1967. ODEPLAN no longer plans in the strict sense but
plays a key role in reviewing public investment proposals (para. 33). The
various commissions, generally with several ministries participating, provide
guidance on broader management issues for a few selected sectors. The Office
of the Controller General performs independent audits of the accounts of pub-
lic sector agencies.
31.       For the Government to assume effectively a more positive role in
orienting and guiding the economy it needs to: (i) translate macroeconomic
and sectoral policies into operational criteria for orienting and evaluating
programs and projects; (ii) assess the social and economic impact of alterna-
tive actions in relation to the operational criteria; and (iii) introduce
changes in information flows and organization to support improved policy im-
plementation.
32.       The principal formal management system of Government that affects
all ministries, agencies and State companies is the National Budget. The na-
tional budgeting process works well from the viewpoint of short-term fiscal
policy. Its major drawback, and one that is crucial during the current
period of resource scarcity, is that it introduces control late in the deci-
sion-making process. Consequently, it does not always result in the best al-
location of public sector resources because of lack of information in budget
submissions on broader sector and corporate needs, alternatives and prior-
ities. Budget cuts are thus usually made with short-term fiscal exigencies
in mind rather than longer-term economic impact. Additionally, external
audit and ex post reviews of expenditure decisions need to be increased to
improve accountability within the public sector.



33.        Public sector investments (both those of line siaistries as well
as of the State enterprises) are generally identified in the relevant line
ministries, agencies or enterprlses. All investments are screened by
ODEPLAN. This investment review is done strictly on a project-by-project
basis; it does not guarantee that projects will go forward but projects are
disqualified if they do not meet threshold rates of return. The investment
review process> while usefully serving as a centrally-managed safeguard
_against ill-conceived investment initiatives, :ls not a programming function
nor does it accommodate comparisons of trade-offs in a multiple-objective
context. Neither does it encourage   nis tries or agencies to flnd ways to
overcome weaknesses in project preparation capacity to generate projects in
high priority areas. The current economic and financial crisis requires that
Government decision-making include such features.
The Pblc E
34.       Prior to 1970, the share of public enterprise sales in total indus-
trial and mining sales never exceeded 25 percent. Then with the nationaliza-
tion undertaken during Allende's presidency, they are estirated to have
reached 50 percent by September 1973 with some 421 companies having at least
50 percent Government ownership. Since then the number of public enterprises
has dropped to 33, accounting for less than 30 percent of total industrial
and mining sales.
35.       The current Government strengthened management, eliminated chronic
financial deficits, and sold off as much of what it considered non-strategic
enterprises to the private sector as possible. However, the size of many of
the enterprises combined with the lack of adequate capital markets prevented
the Government from returning as many enterprises to the private sector as
should be. Regarding those enterprises retained in the public sector, it de-
centralized management so that they could operate in some respects as if they
were independent private companies. The effect of these actions was pro-
found. What had been torpid and inefficient State enterprises were trans-
formed into sound, financially viable and even dynamic businesses. The State
encerprises were prevented by Government from borrowing heavily as did many
private firms. Hence, in the aftermath of the financial crisis that began to
develop in late 1981 and fully unfolded during 1982, they were the only tom-
panies (with the exception of a very few small firms) that were able to es-
cape severe financial deterioration. They continued to operate with sur-
pluses and their debt-equity ratios remained respectable. In fact, now with
the private sector weakened and lacking the ct.f-i%ence to invest, the public
enterprises constitute a valuable asset - with appropriate revisions of
Government's control of their activities, they offer Chile a sound vehicle
for contributing to economic recovery.
36.       In addition to the National Bank (Banco del Estado de Chile) and
four private companies in which the Government has an equity participation of
less than 50 percent, Chile has a total of 33 entlties in the public enter-
prise subsector: 16 enterprises under CORFO, 16 other enterprises and the
State Copper Company, CODELCO, which for its size (annual sales over $2 bil-
lion) and world-class status, stands apart. Together, the public enter-
prises, when compared in terms of revenues and expenses, are almost as large
as the Central Government. Moreover, their performance has been impressive
by international standards. In 1982, the worst year of the depresslon, to-
gether they accounted for gross sales of Ch$306 billion (US$6.0 billion at
the average 1982 exchange rate, up 13 percent from 1981), with operating
costs of Ch$203 billion (about US$4.0 billion). They paid Ch$67 billion in
taxes (16 percent of Government revenues) and their net profit after taxes



- 10 -
reached Ch$14 billion or amost five percent of sales.  Instead of requiring
subsidies from the Budget, the enterprises paid in taxes alone more than the
total capital expenditure made by the entire public sector.
37.       But these positive indicators of performance hide problems which
became apparent during the recent crisis when a more coherent and dynamic
role of the Government was called for. If left uncorrected, these problems
would not only prevent the counrry from realizing the potential contribution
these enterprises can make to the country's economic well-being, but could
seriously undermine their financial and operating strength.
38.       The enterprises are not investing sufficiently and thus are not ex-
panding.  Some have been living off their capital by not maintaining nor re-
placing worn-out plant and equipment. In addition to the recent economic
malaise, which has hampered both private and public enterprises, the public
enterprises have to pay out all of their after-tax profits in dividends and
are subject to sbarp restrictions on their freedom to raise both debt and
equity financing. Therefore, they cannot operate with the perspective of
longer-term financial autonomy that would be possible in similar private en-
terprises.  Aftpr paying taxes, dividends and royalties, the public enter-
prises depend on budget allocations for investment but in recent years budget
submissions were pared back significantly for reasons that appear to have
more to do with fiscal balance than either the needs of the individual enter-
prises or the contributions that their expanded operations could make to the
national economy. Moreover, the enterprises are constrained by many regula-
tions and controls on operational activities, yet they do not receive posi-
tive guidance in terms of broader corporate strategy or other longer range
management issues.
39.       The Central Government's formal processes of control and management
of the public enterprises are few, aud control is frequently evaded through
infor.jal processes. For example, many companies which are required to clear
their management decisions through CORFO frequently circumvent this step
sending reports, requests, etc. diree:tly to other agencies involved rather
than through CORFO. The transportatior companies, which fall under the pur-
vlew of the Ministry of Transpurtation and Telecommunications tend to operate
without the appropriate guidance that Ministry is supposed to provide because
it does not have the institutional capacity to perform the function well. 1/
Hiring practices of senior executives tend to create a network of allegiances
and informal reporting that is at variance with formal structures of com-
mand. Not only do many of the enterprises lack the organizational capacity
and human skills for formulating longer-term strategies and investment plans,
but the Government also lacks tie institutional capacity to orient the enter-
prises by providing clear operational criteria reflecting coherent economic
poliUy and to review strategy proposals within the context of these crite-
ria. In each of the agencies involved with the public enterprires, too few
people are assigned to the task of monitoring, advising and controlling them
(about ten people in the Office of the Budget, four to seven in ODEPLAN, six
in the Ministry of Economy). Thus, although Government's avowed posture vis-
a-vis the compar"-s is ta be as non-interventionist as possible, it is inter-
vening too rigic..y in some operational matters and not sufficiently in other
areas where guidance is needed. Additionally, Government needs assistance in
establishing criteria and procedures to return a few of the public enter-
prises to the private sector that it believes warrant this action but for
1/  The Government is currenzly undertaking a Bak-financed study of trans-
portc._ion policies which is being managed by the Comision Economica para
America Latina (CEPAL). This study will probably identify some institu-
tional changes req-'-:ed for the transportation sector.



- 11 -
which it has encountered financial and institutional obstacles in making this
transition.
Economic Statistics
40.       The major economic and management problems highlighted in Part I
and immediately above call for careful policy analysis to support important
areas of decision-making. This requires reliable and timely data to be pro-
vided by the National Accounts Division of the Central Bank and the National
Statistics Institute. Yet despite the publication of numerous economic sta-
tistics and special studies, Chile's economic data base is not strong. This
is because the structure of the economy has experienced severe trauma In re-
cent years yet many of the data published on Chile's recent economic perform-
ance a-e based on the assumed characteristics of the industrial structure of
1977 with virtually no updating. Even the 1977 estimates were in large part
extrapolated from data of earlier years. The fact that new secondary data
with such weaknesses continue to be generated, collated and published with
regular periodicity in well-finished documents conveys a spurious impression
of the quality of the measurement of economic phenomena in the country. Im-
portant economic decisions, both public and private, are-unfortunately taken
on the basis of confidence in such unreliable information.
41.       While there is merit in fortifying Chile's entire economic data
system, what is urgently required is assistance to the National Accounts
Division of the Central Bank for improving the most critical areas of statis-
tical development for public sector decision-making. Information especially
needs to be improved for the service sectors, the external accounts and the
financial system to support key decisions regarding the internal financial
problems and management of external accounts, particularly the external debt.
Additional1y, current information on intersectoral physical and financial
flows is much needed to provide a better basis for economic policy formula-
tion.
Export Promotlon
42.       The Government's export promotion arm, PROCHILE, was created in
1974 as a dependent institution of the Ministry of External Affairs to pro-
mote nontraditional exports. It assists private exporters in their marketing
effort with a staff of 60 employees including commercial attaches in 19 coun-
tries. Government assigns high priority to export promotion which is re-
flected in the increased budget allocations to PROCHILE in the past few years
(now at around US$6 million).
43.       PROCHILE although staffed with competent and dedicated profession-
als, has a number of management problems. Export priorities are not clearly
defined and cost effectiveness of activities needs to be improved.  No sys-
tematic way exists for relating organizational goals to program goals. Rela-
tions with other public and private institutions within the export sector
need to be strengthened and the agency needs to increase its effort to reach
private exporters in the extreme regions of the country. Finally, the over-
seas network of commercial attaches needs improved communications with head-
quarters, clarification of priorities and lines of accountability, and more
resources dedicated to gathering market intelligence.
44.       The Government is aware of the above-mentioned needs and is conse-
quently in the process of substantially reorganizing and strengthening
PROCHILE with plans to transform the agency into a public enterprise with
representatives of the private sector on the board of directors. To execute



-12 
its export prootion plans, however, the Government will also require techni-
cal assistance to support PROCHIIE 's new operating programs covering comr-
cial information systems, international marketing practices and services to
exporters in the exterior.
Previous Bonk IInolemmt iv the Sector
45.       The proposed loan would be the first free-standing technical as-
sistance loan to Chile in the area of public sector management. An earlier
loan fcr technical assistance, Loan 978-CH, in the amount of US$5.25 million
was made in FY74, but this was to finance preinvestment studies in selected
sectors and did not have permanent institutional develipment as an object-
ive.  That project took much longer to disburse than was originally forecast,
partly because of ambitious schedling but also because of difficulties in
adapting project activities to changes in Government priorities during the
1974-78 period. It is expected that, because of the high priority attached
by the Government to the proposed project as well as provisions for sound
project management and review, prospects for successful execution are good.
PART IV - TOR PROJECT
46.       The proposed project was prepared by the Government with financial
assistance from UNDP for which the Bank acted as Executing Agency.  The pro-
ject was appraised in February/March 1984. Negotiations were held in
Washington, D.C., from January 23 to January 25, 1985. The Chilean delega-
tion was headed by Mr. Luis Arturo Fuenzalida, Director of the Budget,
Ministry of Finance.
Project Objectives and Desigm
47.       In spite of Chile's liberal approach to economic management, the
State still plays a major direct role in the economy. Since the public sec-
tor's institutional capacity was reduced (para. 24), it is no longer comen-
surate with the tasks at hand. Specifically, the central ievel of government
has insufficient orientation/planning capacity to direct the resource alloca-
tion process within the important public sector. The main objectives of the
proposed project would be: (i) to improve information, criteria, analyses,
organizational arrangements and control relationships for decision-making
within the public sector to help orient and strengthen the management of the
economy, and (ii) to support the Government's technical assistance program to
small- and medium-sized exporters. The Bank's role in financing the project
is justified since other sources, including the UNDP, were not found to have
resources readily available at this time.
48.       The proposed project would consist of technical assistance in the
following areas:
(i)  Improving the decision-making process in the public sector includ-
ing: (a) translating macroeconomic and sectoral policies into op-
erational criteria for orienting and evaluating programs and pro-
jects within a rational and coherent macroeconomic context; (b)
strengthening management tools such as programming, budgeting, mon-
itoring and control required for implementing economic policies
with particular emphasis on public sector investment planning and
coordination; and (c) revising communications and organizational
arrangements within the public sector;



- 13 -
(ii) Improving the potential medium- to longer-term performance of the
public enterprises in terms of efficlency and their contribution to
other economic objectives by introducing: (a) stronger corporate
planning capability in some of the enterprises where this is defi-
cient; (b) better Central Government capability to orient, review
and control public enterprise activities; and (c) criteria and pro-
cedures for privatizing selected public enterprises within an or-
derly transition period;
(iii)  Improving the quality of economic information and statistics used
in public sector decision-making by extending the coverage of na-
tional income accounts, updating data on quantitative relationships
between sectors of economic activity in terms of inputs and outputs
of goods and services as well as developing d:a on quantitative
relations between sectors regarding financial flows of funds; and
(iv) Developing a program of assistance to be administered by PROCHUIL
to the country's small- and medium-sized exporters in the areas of
commercial information systems, international marketing and an ex-
ternal network of export-related services.
A relatively large portion of the loan amount (US$2.0 million) would remain
available to provide the Government with flexibility in executing special
studies, selective training and other technical assistance consistent with
the objectives of the proposed project and as agreed between the Borrower and
the Bank.
_roject Xwagemt (US$0.8 Million)
49.       The proposed project would be managed by a full-time Project Coord-
inator (a competent senior official has already been appointed to the posi-
tion) in the Ministry of Economy. The Project Coordinator'z responsibilities
would involve:  (i) providing intellectual guidance and managing the overall
execution of work under the project including helping the relevant author-
ities and public enterprise executives in specifying terms of reference for
consultants, selecting consultants, supervising their work, promoting insti-
tutional change within Government; (ii) providing liaison between Government
decision-makers, other public sector agencies or companies and the Bank;
(iii) submitting to the Government and the Bank two progress reports per year
and maintaining a Project Monitoring and Reporting Information System to
facilitate decision-making by Government and superuision by the Bank (para.
50); and (iv) maintaining timely and accurate project accounts. The Project
Coordinator would be assisted by two senior professionals with training and
experience in public administration on a full-time basis in executing his
responsibilities. Additionally, the Government would provide other re-
sources: facilities, staff and logistical support as appropriate (Section
3.01 (a), (c) and (d) of the draft Loan Agreement). In this regard, Govern-
ment is currently considering commissioning the UNDP Office of Project Execu-
tion (OPE) to assist with consultant recruitment and administration.
50.       To ensure that key decisions arising out of the work of the pro-
posed project, upon which subsequent work will depend, are appropriately made
in a timely way, the Government will be required to institute a formal moni-
toring and review process and have the Project Coordinator maintain the in-



- 14 -
formation required to support this process. The process and information
would comprise: (i) a rolling work planning system whereby work for the next
twelve months is planned task by task, expected outputs wsith target dates for
completion are specified and resource allocations are expressed for each of
the twelve months in terms of staff and equipment as appropriate (e.g. com-
puter facilities, vehicles, etc.); (ii) a work monitoring system whereby
actual resources applied each month are recorded and progress achieved each
month is recorded; (iii) monthly analyses briefly s:mmarizing progress
achieved in comparison with expected achievement and resources applied in
comparison with resources initially committed; and (iv) periodic reports (two
per year) assessing progress in qualitative and quantitative terms  and re-
viewing priorities with lists of actions and changes to the work plan to
serve as a basis for agreement between the Government and the Bank regarding
future direction and focus of the work to be done under the project. It was
agreed that this formal review process would be established not later than
June 30, 1985 (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement and Supplemental
Letter). The project would be implemented over about a three-year period.
It would be completed by December 31, 1987 and the closing date would be June
30, 1988.
(1) Pblic Sector luvestDemt Planning and Review CompoDent (US$2.0 Blli0on)
51.       This component, to be located and implemented in ODEPLAN in close
collaboration with the Office of the Budget and the Ministry of Economy, is
designed to: (i) improve the Government's capacity to translate economic
policies into operational criteria and to coordinate plans, programs and pro-
jects throughout Chile's public sector in terms of their potential and ex
post contribution to relevant economic goals and objectives; (ii) improve
two-way communications between Central Government and other levels of the
public sector regarding policy implementation, especially investment plan-
ning; and (iii) help introduce appropriate organizational changes to accom-
modate improved public sector decision-making. The services of two consult-
ants speciaLized in public investment planning and programming and budgeting
methods would be required for a total of 72 staff-months. The consultants
would be expected to identify special training requirements associated with
this component. Additionally, three full-time counterparts would be required
- two at a senior level and one at the research assistant level. Computer
support (hardware, software and personnel) would be provided by Government
(see Annex V: A).
(ii)  Public Enterprise Nan ent Component (US$7.1 Million)
52.       This component, to be located in the Ministry of Economy, is de-
signed to help the Government improve the quality of its control over the
public enterprises within the context of an appropriate framework for the al-
location of public sector resources (to be developed concurrently as part of
the component described above). In addition to the design of the appropriate
management and control systems, the consultants would also be expected to
identify alternative permanent organizational arrangements and to help
Government select from the alternatives an organizational design for imple-
mentation. The work would consist of about 284 staff-months of consultant
time of specialists in management separated into a design and development
phase (84 staff-months) and an implementation phase (200 staff-months):



- 15 -
(a) The design and development phase would involve conducting analyses
of the operations of five public enterprises to be selected by the
Government, helping them develop medium-term strategies and pro-
grams of action, assisting the Government in evaluating these
strategies and programs in terms of economic and social impact, and
defining informational and organizational requirements for institu-
tionalizing these activities in future. In addition to improve-
ments in the coordinating control at the level of Central Govern-
ment aud internal control within the enterprises, improvements in
external control within the Office of the Con..roller General would
also be introduced. Moreover, criteria and procedures for return-
ing ownership and control of some of the public enterprises to the
private sector would also be established; and
(b) The implementation phase would involve modifying the operations and
procedures within several Government agencies and up to about 20
public enterprises to facilitate the new control relationships.
This would entail defining functions, information flows, new job
descriptions; introducing modifications to information generating,
reporting and decision systems and writing operating manuals.
Both phases would include on-the-job training as well as the identification
of additional training requirements. Counterpart contributions would com-
prise six professional staff, computer services (including computer support
staff) and logistical support (in-country travel, communications, etc.) at
the level of Central Government as well as one professional counterpart, of-
fice, clerical and logistical support from each of the public enterprises to
be selected by Government for involvement in design of the management frame-
work (see Annex V: B).
(iii) Economic Statistics Component (US$1.0 Million)
53.       This component would be located in the National Accounts Division
of the Central Bank and would concentrate primarily on information required
to support public sector decision-making, especially where current inform-
ation is inadequate and misleading, by: (i) improving the compilation and
analysis of economic statistics; (ii) improving data collection; and (iii)
producing new benchmark input-output tables and developing financial flow-of-
funds accounts. The work of the consultants would involve, for each sector
of activity, assessing current practices of data compilation, defining new
data required, developing procedures for data collection, training staff with
the new procedures introduced and helping develop the institutional arrange-
ments for implementing the new procedures.  A total of about 60 staff-months
involving up to 11 consultants with specialization in economic statistics
would be needed over a three-year period. Counterpart professional staff
would contribute about 150 staff-months of time. This component of the pro-
ject would also involve the procurement and use of microcomputers. Office,
clerical and logistical support would also be required as counterpart contri-
bution (see Annex V: C).
(iv) Export Promotio Componunt (US$2.1 Million)
54.       This component of the project would be located in PROCHILE and has
been designed: (i) to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the cur-
rently functioning commercial information systems available to the country's



- 16 -
exporters; (ii) to assist small-and medium-sized export enterprises with in-
ternational export marketing expertise provided by consult!ants with special-
ized knowledge of their products and poter.tial markets; and (iii) to evaluate
and propose improvements in PROCHILE's external network of export assistance
to the country's exporters. Regarding the program of improvement of commer-
cial information systems, two consultants specialized in export market in-
formation and information system technology would be required for a total of
12 staff-months. Additionally, information system hardware would be procured
under this component of the project. Two counterparts would be required to
operate the improved information system over a two-year period. Regarding
the program of assistance in international marketing, some 45 staff-months of
consultant time would be required on individual assignments in Chile with
average duration of about two-three months each with short, intermittent fol-
low-up visits. The program to strengthen PROCHILE's external network would
involve two consultants specialized in organizational management and interna-
tional marketing involving a total of 18 staff-months. Under each program,
counterpart contribution would comprise professional staff, office and logis-
tical support as required (see Annex V: D).
Futu-e Studies and Other Technical Assstance (US$4.0 M on)
55.       During preparation of this project, the Government expressed inter-
est in receiving assistance in other areas of economic management but had not
decided upon the exact scope nor in some cases the priority of these require-
ments. These areas include special studies to support Government's industri-
al and financial rehabilitation efforts for the private sector, the prospects
for privatization in the telecommunications sector, analyses of key agricul-
tural sector issues, capital markets development, employment generation and
promotion of private foreign investment. Therefore, in order to enable the
Government to respond flexibly to changing circumstances throughout the exe-
cution of the project, a portion of the loan would remain available for these
purposes. Additional studies, selective training and other technical assist-
ance either to support the other components of the project or to address ad-
ditional issues consistent with the objectives of the project (para. 47)
could be undertaken. This would be done upon mutual agreement between the
Government and the Bank on the priority of the proposed component, its spe-
cific objectives, the scope of work involved and the expected output of the
additional technical assistance (Section 3.01 (d) of the draft Loan Agree-
ment).
Project Costs and Financing
56.       The total cost of the project excluding taxes is estimated at
US$20.7 million with an estimated foreign exchange component of US$11.0 mil-
lion (see Annex IV). The proposed loan of US$11.0 million would finance all
of the estimated foreign exchange cost of the project. Retroactive financing
of up to US$500,000 is recommended to meet costs incurred after June 30, 1984
in order to accelerate project implementation (Schedule 1, para. 2 of the
draft Loan Agreement). The costs of consultants, both externally-recruited
and internally-recruited, have been estimated based on comparable consultant
costs in Chile as of October 1984. While the use of local consultants
(either individually or in association with foreign consultants) will be en-
couraged where their capability is commensurate with the tasks involved, the
public sector investment planning, public enterprise management and export



- 17 -
promotion components will require world-class expartime of a highly special-
ized nature. For this reason, consultant cost estimates for these components
have been based on the fee structures of international anagement consulting
firms. No physical contingencie have been calculated. Price contingencies
have been derived from the following projections for international inflation
based on 1984 US$ costs: 8 percent in 1985; and 9 percent during 1986-87.
Rirlw of Conuultants end Procuzremat
57.       The functions, responsibility and selection of individual advisors
and consulting firms and their terms and conditions of employment, as well as
the terms of reference and awards of contracts for studies, will be decided
by the Government, subject to the Bank's concurrence. Agreement was reached
on the draft terms of reference for the four identified components of the
project (paras. 51-54) to be undertaken by consultants financed under the
loan. All consultants would be recruited in conformity with the Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers of August 1981 (Section
3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement). Procurement of goods (microcomputers and
information system hardware amounting to US$0.4 million - paras. 53 and 54)
would be in conformity with procedures for international comparative shopping
including quotations from at least three suppliers (Section 3.02 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Disborsement
58.       Disbursement of the loan would be made as follows:
(a) 100 percent of expenditures for consultants and training (US$10.6
million equivalent); and
gb) 100 percent of expenditures net of taxes for equipment (US$0.4 mil-
lion equivalent).
Disbursements would be against standard documentation for all items except
those under US$20,000 equivalent for which disbursements would be made
against statements of expenditure certified by the Ministry of Economy.
Special Account
59.       To reduce the interval between the time that the Borrower would
make payments and receive reimbursement from the Bank, a Special Account
would be established in the Central Bank from an advance of loan proceeds.
The initial capitalization of US$1.0 million would reflect the estimated
financial requirement of a three-month period. Replenishment of the Special
Account would occur on the basis of standard Bank procedures. The Ministry
of Economy would be entitled to make withdrawals in foreign or local currency
at the rate of exchange applicable on the day corresponding expenditures pay-
ments were made if such payments were made within 60 days prior to the re-
quest for withdrawal from the Special Account. Otherwise, the exchange rate
of the date of withdrawal would apply (Schedule 4 of the draft Loan Agree-
ment).
Accounts and nd-it
60.       The Borrower would establish and maintain consolidated project ac-
counts for all expenditures financed under this loan in a clearly identifi-
able manner (Section 4.01 (a) of the draft Loan Agreement). The Special



- 18 -
Account, as well as other accounts and supporting records pertaining to the
services and goods financed under the loan, would be audited annually by in-
dependent auditors acceptable to the Bank (Section 4.01 (b) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
ProJect Benefits and Risks
61.       The proposed project would improve the Government's ability to
guide the economy by improving economic policy execution and by harnessing
better the considerable productive potential of the public enterprise and ex-
port sectors. Moreover, it would afford Government with sufficient resources
for studies or other forms of technical dssistance to respond flexibly in
tackling priority issues as they arise.
62.       The main risk would be a possible deferral of studies or implemen-
tation of their conclusions because of changing Government priorities and
possible political pressures. This would be mitigated by having a competent,
full-time Project Coordinator with easy access to key economic decision-
makers, and by a formalized and structured review process (para. 50) that
would not only encourage Government to act on the new information provided
but would also provide the vehicle for re-orienting the application of tech-
nical assistance resources to provide maximum relevance during critical and
changing times.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Chile and the Bank
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
64.       The main features of the draft Loan Agreement are referred to in
the text of this report and are listed in Section III of Annex III.
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI-BEC         ON
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loen.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
February 15, 1985
Washington, D.C.



-19 -AMNB
ASLE 54                           Page 1 of 5
:jjj                  - |1AL LIC         U tTi lUnDATA
NM                      1mcm 3110     ) A
u ~ ~ mmm * d.,.ms in gnas                             IwuUW
zuzasa_uLk.   iLA. AM - CAR 0*3
ToAL                              757.0      717.0       757.0
AOIULIUAL                         134.4      156.9       174.3
- m  c            )                 660.0      LL10.0      2210.0             2106.6                 245.3
(uUUUMu ci OIL "      IW)        510.0       676.0       754.0               95.                  L2.
IOIU1AIZU*9-UM  (UU D)   7315.0             9366.0     LI667.0
1ge    UOPUA      (s of KOL)      67.6        71.3        62.1               6.5                     .6
POPULA?Z0M mmO3uOU
10WU1*        IF nu a20 CELL)                            14.7
ITTOA?NIUTA1I  (HILL)                              20.7
1 osuA     1N5                                           1.7
POPULM?I0  31651?
usa q. M.                        10.O       12.4        14.6               35.7             '       .
M  sq. M1. &ML, IAN              56.4       M.0         64.6               92.4                  156.6
PP0151A510 AC 613001333(2)
0-14 35                         3.1        36.1        31.4               3.9                    21.6
15-4  1U                        56.5        17.2        42.9               56.0                   61.1
35 MD *313                        4.3        4.6         5.6                4.1                    7.1
TOAL                             ..2         2.1         1.7                2.4                    1:.
a"                                3.7        3.1         2.4                3.4                    3.7
cmUIr? 3N    (M3  =W0s)            34.4       25.6        23.1               31.3                   23.4
33  M= AMQ (MoUl)                  12.6        6.9         4.7                6.1                    6.6
aROSS UsREU3 TIOU am                2.5        1.6         1.3                2.0                    1.6
?ANZMT iLAUlfhU
ACCEITO3U. Alai=  tS)              ..      216.7       265.6 Li
CZ or  OORID vom4. 
VW M -O -
13032 or 1000 Mm0. 133 CIfTA
C1969-71-100)                     96.02      104.0        96.               114.3                  114.5
M3 CaPrITA IIILT Of
043.0313 CZ 06 33qU13632T)      110.0      110.0       114.0              110.4                  12.6.
WMOSI  CM5C      D3)            71.0        71.0        76.0               67.3                   36.7
OF MM AiDlL  M11.3             28.0       30.0        27.0O              34.1                   34.5
'DW (ACRS 1-4) MM*13 31           20.0         9.0         2.0                5.7                    5.2
LIFE EXECT. AT 311  (TEALS)       56.9        62.4        69.7               64.7                   67.4
IFAN1T MT. RAT (P       S)       119.0       $2.0         27.0               60.6                  5S.2
ACCESS TO SAn wArESU (P1)
TOTAL                           62.0        3.0         62.0 id            65. 
UR3*                            78.9        67.0        93.0 7i            78.1
RURAL                            11.4       13.0        36.0               46.2
ACCESS TO tWA DISPOSAL
CZ or Xou
TOTAL                             ..        29.0        32.0 /a            52.9
UNSIP                             ..        33.0        36.0 7Te           67.0
L113*1.                        ..       10.0         1L.0 7            24.5
POPULATION FMQ FICrAN           1760.0      2130.0  Li 1930.0 /d           1917.7                 103.8
poP. PUs  mtI   n0               640.0       610.0       450.071            615.$                  754.4
POP. P3 HOSPITAL 35-
TOrAL                           260.0      260.0       250.0 A            367.2                  326.3
URUIA                           270.0      250.0       320.0 7            411.5                  201.5
3034.                              ..     1510.0       no.o70            2636.3
AfISSIO  iM  OWSTAL 3Ul    *         .          ..        26.0 L             27.3                   20.0
£0340 SIZE or MS0L
TJL                               5.4        5.1
33145                            5.2         5.0
aUAL                              6.0        5.5
£110 30. 0r 130S0C
TOTAL                             1.7        1.4
Ull                              1.4         1.3
RUZAL                             2.0        1.7
ACCESS TO ELZCT. CZ OP or   LLD G)
TOTAL                            70.6         *         78.9 /.
56.3         ..        90.0 7-r
RAL                              23.9         ..        35.0 7;



- 20 -ANiNEX I
Page 2 of 
l A ILB 36
1960Lk                 UmautU         LAT. MNIKA6 CAR                IUfS
ADJUNTID umWOLUM RATION
n=wAs    ToTL                      10.o         107.0        115.0                105.6                    101.1
MALE                    111.0       107.0         115.0                106.3                    105.
Ff6.                    107.0       106.0         111.0               106. 5                      6.7
ECOIIUATI TOTAL                     36.0        39.0          57.0                 63.3                     59.1
PAU                      26.0        36.0          53.0                 63.3                     66.9
SIAZ.                    36.0        63.0          62.0                44.3                     50.6
VOCATIONAL (T alp 0tUB )              36.2         33.0         29.2                 33.6                     21.1
PUPIL-TAC     RATIO
sr                                    ..         50.0         36.0 /d              30.1                     25.1
UECOIDiAT                           16.0         13.0         20.0                  1 |.                    20.5
ADULT LSTERACY RAT! (3)               63.6        $9.0             .                 79.5                     75.6
,ABIUR CABUITHOUSAND POP               7.6         16.6         60.3                 66.0                     54.7
U8O0  EiYSYIUSOUIAIID POP            130.1        169.6        292.7                225.6                    166.9
TV lZECEIYRs/TROUUlAD Mr               0.1         33.4        110.3                107.2                    123.6
IIRVSPA    ("DAILY CNRAL
PE     s OUS   r 'OPULATION        131.6        66.1          66.6 /d              63.5                     96.3
CDUMA ANNAL a1ZENDACCAPZTA             7.1 lb       6.7          1.4                  2.6                      3.9
Lam -01c
TOTAL WMO POIC S (TOIU)             2505.0       2651.0       36G0.0
PUW.  (PERCENT)                     21.7        22.0          26.6                 23.i                     36.5
AGRICULTURE (CPRCENT)               30.2        22.6          19.2                 31.5                     60.7
UMVI    C(PERCENT)                  20.1        21.0          19.4                 23.9                     23.3
nrvnZATiON un  (PRCENT)
TOTAL                               33.0         30.6         32.1                 33.2                     42.9
NILE                                52.1        46.4          47.7                 69.3                     56.7
-^Ls                                t1.2        13.5          16.6                 15.2                     31.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDEAN  L%Oc               1.3          1.4          1.2                  1.6                      0.9
111114 '1 PMVATE INCME
RZCEIVED B
lCESZ  F ROUNOLDS                     ..           ..
HIGHEST 20m oF WUSENOIDS              ..        51./ I          .
LOWES? 201 oF EIWSZIDLDS              . .        4.7.
LOIECI 4O0r IOUSZNLDS                 ..        13.6 7.
s  TAC  -
ESTIMATED ASSOLUTE POVnTY INCOME
LEL CUSS FE  CAPT)
URSBA                                 ..           ..        360.0 /d             28a.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..           ..                184.0
ESTIMATED  ELATIVE POVRTYn
LEVL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        640.0 /d             322..
IIDRAL                                ..           ..           ..                372.6                       ..
gsrTIATED POP. BZLOV ABSOLUTE
POVERTt INCGIE LVEIL (X)
UUJ                                   ..           ....
RAL                                   ..          ..            ..                   ..                       ..
. ?r AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a   The grop averaes for each ludicator Are populatSon-.ahted arithmeic neena.  Coverage of cmtrteu _amn  the
ladlcators dependa on awailabIllty of data  d  I.e not udfDm.
lb   Unlese otherwse noted. -Data for 1960" refer to any yar betcen 1959 and 1961; -Drte for 1970- bretwee  1969 and
1971. and data for Mtoat reant leclate  between 19B0 and 1982.
/c   1977; /d 1979; /a 1975; /f 1976; 1 Pereonnal In goverm.et earvices only; /b 1962; /  1968.
JUlL, 1986



-21-                                                             ANNEX1I
_____________                                          ~Paeg     3   of   5
an. I Is'selblm1  en dram Ism ie. gm."          iiv ad-    .me mm  sebinih"l'sts   PN ntiabs.. to missd eSe" iII sed mall  ibip NW i.  e b  SmniIsesilv
malelti, e btWaste  ml Iee 1e     .0 iea4dmvdim ed a   imgleem  iSsma. mad hi ililseame fmeemlmed tm mmlleelq s  iSis. lb. dgee em. lsseibii. welsi I.
odsetlb sNFgs Of 00dmitd. lilies, ins.. eel dkemi$Vmevm  'vmie ORION dlllens.m     bameem  manoleo..
V     lb nimimm   dfamm elm  III lbw m     eamlly It"me .1 tow i1elm4e smeslep era II) a essiti  grl"  tillitmA4 iaaaa  'slab'  anile  I   :emi It lb   "v si limpa   lbK~
.AlsJeit midw.re laigra`i leI  lit's IUSia lit mefl  ip mis , N1ddl  tm.a  avis AfvIn as Egdit. fllm' to e*m mesbisa                       al smne    medeollassi asi
etllslts's   is eb. lmlanmw dmW dale its masmem  51  leielmiltlad aiiblk"te  mmmc me isa' IndlumSe i am                          alga1   fblpeill  of lbe memrie  is e
deep 'sadae  lee. P., $ I MiL"m.  HlSie lb. i-aaea  if i til..  -A  ib. IMP.maeni hMPiade - W mb  sea11iIU, mofm AR                 Me toN  ellmft. tammel  ~ee  is
ea L.n fis Imalli  4sndae If oen  lidlealI IS aelisi.  Tfbs   .. aeieem ,ol. ; aisle  Is ""art"  lb. mete.  as Imilmele sa tie    ni.   lb. adiame teda
Mff,~ lbemad s     CSe I                                                                It.14ISM  Ia. efIIIM  - dloalmels.rdm. 145 Rv qembi ml eaeilletug
So.me  malt, e'.  rnitete   f.s    .te  ae.   it                                          illieiildms   sl    m. Oat                   O S  .msteastt OF tenet. t
ted 1141 dm1.                       PtF. .  .   ne Il                       Iiettailsil 4 9 'siiiiiesla     =aselillti  QOVnd   SIIIIebi eq  pneleld
Tls~7ii. isamaf.. sitS  so ait'sii 415cm   e.a mm. limits  iss,  unft sta"laldl.
"afLet. to heel5 Meid 0"ItsoImal ent "m"lsas'L. .5 npteSs bi
OW   ts   5Fitjfj *telPalcavl. illism  ame asies  uiflAl lime.1                       m.Iie esed I" ahlan.ad      " eimk's leen  i  amelgto lied ltmmeallel s t
Ieee.  mImi. isd llps d.d.                                                                    me a  temi ist Ibylt . %:bLaohleemi pyavldles vilmmmaltms asm lti4
mmii. esa meal dies.                                                J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.,AIM a It,% aJdjI6S    e* uTIle   umini dSeme  Oi  iaee
mIf n's de bde.
. Oem  imly Is mice. Ils, ado  INSSwt
VW I                                                                    NaL~~ dimiimifmui  enelis  eis ei e5igeiehwlhIAless I'P
tN ils ieetusi 11111 eesm.t O     ebn"       ilst  eisilmv   1                           *i4i l9 5l5'stqpid fo   lSiemlnm  vifhIiei.iil s"                   .ia-
s..eq   ell. I  letilip manlIts, iP "tluaes  tea  1- e.16 late.gtntor                                             ng$oGIO  d,DMMRs~M M
plaliqsmiilnem    lah faor  Imi ibm  tameleis a     of mba- .metwdp
JjI 1rjA temsf,d - i  nmmaaLs    sa    is   n-easiit  mllM
laMe i's~ sebellrmeieisif              t 1554 ,S is tsaeemt len  lis                       -smn    et-sgaiamImiuit   alb                            Cs   welt
mblmotrameis  of-l.m i     sa's   lestvamac. lb= ftin ,#jfame  p. mmiii                     tasb ar.idleiiltntn                        1elnedeaa   e
as- Iea   -15l dia SC   lbe  dee omnelie t ~" iites m          ne.11 P   bimllmams.l.smemmaiaani                                               I    leesoi vmeae
MeltO -aI  mm016d The itsel R        aeelilii. . a4ima st   mimd       bal                          s   u son      bins.rif eisa  -ib. mit eimi iitme  of
bets Wml   pseea  eisiieseala So "tmis eSpamIo    lieotl                                   4mflitulJoomstkSlt5SJe in t m flalid:  e  ebtam isasie
fa"l"otla    fls     -MI Sm i. laceemi    1SU la   s LOaS." ~ensb Is  an tee                  pnldasheed :     ~.0i4i..mma  Ot m iais"iseliis tliminlm"a I
.in"iEiia II      a e-f.pVi-staei-ea  twilstli bge.  baa  melhsdsstmmi.ai1e IS  u            1s *a           t     an binnr 00 INS  mm      ts aeleee la  ea".   a
lae . sm  11 l   40 lavadmill  IP   aue  ""ea ged   im. am                                  iseil  eleg
eea#.  a, pa.sofmise  m lb vise   l, eacis  mi  ia's1Is eit mnis                       .e$.u  5s?1i5 isia. 1al W -Iilla   sIl
aliliui ismimtil   seimiml  ts: tim Pss l.lm     mtm i.sa   .  l.                     i --foSS   -isdi QimdsiMl.ia mei.;ib   le    .Me's iws=el          f
lb    1ahi   Sao -Lertlms  -sass  atm Piia.r IR eee  II... mum, £                       iowlssist5im PI   a il ii  a,d   a niiei   ..  amleestpmnlilei.ma-o "af
to -   mnil    atIe,P0" e    a.It iei5 ist..  "Oima- emaini .ieds.lT7I    lf       .    l,im   11
jiiiifjjjWlilimaa    yimIs l,m..i    i.5 -I                        Al...ee  a5-.lsimala   eas
164    ci adms   at.p,Smlmfelmiee5 L                                                                               mm'ei .iill  tal.isai a   ls.) 
5. palM    etelndteiisee. ad sail - psisisiaji ii is-'ssse~~~~~~~~~~~~~ft                                                     6 th
liasillel  NS,   Prle   i   IIU Idams.                                                 --f-aeles         £ I-asmaetd    li...bee,i
S- .Ins   tm    am P.    I.isds sit                eillie        aelims.fW    .             9.      Ft--  
ghlid-  4-I. --I.SSS 5tJ .i                                                   lS   -  m -.Iad--la   it  lii
IT 11910.  W genj al..                                  "I~~~~~~.sllismad     imeeumee   .  nles   cii II 15        isitefmame ii   d
"M VIRSIORASS rw son.".                                           20"W OM~~~~~letf   abIadiasim e.il
B S hi U H ~ IhtS fh uII~ Iil.   weal  aa -  iA p.  M s l d .e                     _ __ _ __  __ _ __  _ __  __ _  __ _        Or Iste l tlm i   tise lw t 1,
W  i _114. 410fle   AIeIseII.                    e    It  alI                        _16 Oesil   adSI im  yeats a       imedali 9. n  5 eamo  emIs          r shee .
"W yeeral"geso [no   josta,:                                       oftentm A~deLsai   d Unwtior-t         ms".    -a     tdmee
I.I.Lma        p    ow C                                                                    Ps-I t "bis. dM55            P.lN.lI.isn-ls   Le.si Sois.  id IR       MaM
= 90                ~~~I b ~ If doana   aa  1  tel                          is tMed51y  til  selem P""      teie  lista lIr TV alt., .  9
mnjke s oimal ee           v e                               a    eltytltia-RolesLta1.I- kei0 Wd asS  ae a.4redM
eiill.etr.siie-ilsnuiieali. ii s.eemsd .qs.M  -L isee OR."WisP ci if  saeelmd  siolli sidte
pealsle nb.Mn Is.es   iIivlsi all celle    a.li   ass  e"l'
u.li-AN  tt       56jieli   6    w    lt.  mssmI   a                                                                          tim lslt  -5mL   hIs.. Imise  s
mel pieetle mlinmISe   ni a             e5~I.u...  adaditrj~~iL-S                                                   Is,e  It aflt. fstai'et.  a7udlI        111 a
fad   s  £.5  l.ee vse   iii.  tlus   ciil cIce tidii.eI l..ls  -    itiliw55  nse  tese sicm  sas,mil ca   miEel
be fais .5*5J misea E.i. .a II atIesi   t'ests  faa.                                silim    is    n         5 -    at.ae. -           e     teeles
5161 4i1m1. 4. e- ie   ha        iiI  5551   smalpw    alsvev                                     elaS=  ad tail. ssl   40 -el   wlms. ad em e .e elsastamr
degi  datteod asiNF          &il   i      hs . ladiil.9. wal-s is .is                        mail. teaft, a    in   da.6 Ssa rfeat ol.S  WeafOe       ieestiv Lt las
bepsile s- ns  5.- mast,S  1.1 mapli4ao.se.             1cl tis   and l.                    mslael55isCls.a   I  ilta   a    e    b    es
ISaIONts. aid Is tor    llmiit..      s   as   I              dI.Sem.mas.   tsmli           is   llse   codes fIn    amSaiI-iso . a-.   9    ft  ifel-
esl  sis alltidhi s bse-  mvsttsets  nta 11  mea                           ksitb           NSt -bala a  nsele a t I  P51  s  sil
-5Sflt     els I-allfa  OS.liin pitdIeee. I.. Mi. LS.mSm                                 loin . i    `1e 8 ilalas OM oa  haw me mg-Sem
it b"Ieeid IsndiL  155-a   tile   II 540 des=                                           5       Mft i    if        -ISt 2       _
i 0.e  W aP e siaty .d NWl s4 ee"       -    - less-At ,fiec   ad we ael                    sseemU FemI . - ibe' Is mooosab  e h  -0   tssls  hi et5bei
isl..emtes  usl     i t ip.   i.K =in     .   asIs atlas a" is-19bi-k                          % r    ="P7d  f  eies.at. Ufesss  U" wIeSs4.          ae   5w na
e slisel 1-t all aeilts. nlSllsd bleft             tl    s  ae                             b Ss
slIm  ad es mec .1neal iemtii we is     . ... tee   ad mise                                                                                      byisn.
.tme wel le elas-le ales sbmet.P "d b seelpymts. lbs.. 
itadi S         ri lae    lae nOme si  I laad  lest2-    P-iSI.. is   lt fiTiyita    nem    evss  aiv    dwn                                                    ni
ad Pa   peels ae a aSIMON lee Sb  -id.  meatb, iSC I. ,bsoIsad is tesepalted slit eladSlIbi  emlis
flee nhlsd  SIp m1 t-mt. mlev  as ie" 5s.-
Istdt,e  etl Ld a-   Is teas  -  dvi' mitt-ti, mil6e s mill                        setllliallly   den.i" pta ammel --aidss                  .-n i.ime e   otea
domes.                                                                                      alle1l6d,tt
Gil   Malin   i-  at     mmo. 0   ~ 9 I    "P,C-  Mgasse St dels  e  be isI .               _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
aw rae  pals,    asIsldni's  1?s         "ve    lee  as 515115                           ft~ts esmLmamfsa.emsetem7 th. ms  lsss,,4LJ%I         we   mIs_Wo
siu.tls. m1. delistin  Ils sble.:140.mile  S  IC  ismi                wen   Is9  ad  tb   mife. MARS,         bel I 16   .   -evattie lb sM.
~'Cets`Tve3IF  le'ssLslaftve  Sers.a   tt's&  ea  a-eas                                                                         ae-t. maliteapit   -A.t  nos ateo  fltili
naRSmeadeaply ISI    ormlud Clhoe fst"tPf4--I.6  assamilS              SIRenl   bels SadvSialnbet
Itmerla. Wls aM  o.ee    a~  a lil    -iesaway psltisl   Is ise-1
.ePb SCs wmIs lte"iaLaa. asfee mito t"Wele - 41tol.Ian eli te
Coa.  IsM antU eis  ismtialbi  sea saId   Il   hamsIl Sc
ISA eel is fa ed ditefetfdy. pihi M     ae          ~         o   et
h    MAIsa:   os-e   - &       -                iS CW    Mn- .



-22-                                             l  I
PW4 ot 5
'_~~~~~~~~- 1170                                          131x 1                  r             hm S
M YSV  OLIA  l,W.9-5 (190)
tim                  (a    "   ti = n M dm)         (_Mt  -            131, tim  in tIn plm)
Cha mnsm is)
us-ItD InW         1        5ti 9t5ui
Crom Dt1nz  h'adt            19.791             3.6      -0.3       3.1       5.9     100.D  10D.0   10D.0  100.0   i0.0
ABaCUlt                    1.13B             1.5      -          2.0       7.3       9.6    7.2      5.7    6.0    9.0
1tzllty3 ad Ma              6.WD              3.5      -1.7       2.8       8.3      40.4   42.6    32.7   31.0   29.6
errilums                   12,5tt             3.8       3.7       3.4       4.6        60   502      61.6   63.0   61.4
C     _u,Vtt                 17,312            4.9        0.0       2.8       1.4      81.9   83.7    9r.1    7.0   83.0
Gross iSuvenon                1 ,9t2            3.4     -11.6      -3.1       6.6      17.6   15.6      6.7   10-0   15.0
hinrt of cools '  IQ5         4.758             3.3       2.5      10.3       4.0      1.3    15.0    19.8   21       2.8
JRMrW of C. ad U              4C219            8.2      -2.7        6.0      15.0      12.8   14.3    23.2   21.0   22.8
gross Nattau Sup                 -              4.3      -7.7      -7.5      -         16.1   14.3      9.4    -      -
61211i I5                                               cowmWm or    mm, - 
at dllmo              A    -                                 Lq=   hum)
MM         MI35-  Wn5   =   T750 1560   19    195    19110   1581
YALmbtim cml23 636                              2.4      5.0    10.7    -5.5    m0         100.0      10D.0     100.0    100.0
1, t,585     4.6     4.1      4.7    -63      63.0      75.5       5ML       41.0     44.0
P1A 1 ft   . oods                  477         5.8     2.1    23.2      8.8      3.5       2.9       5.4       9.0      13.0
Yzfhbnt4poio           1;257                   0.7    10.4    14.0    -2.7      15.2       11.2      25.1      32.0     34.0
0ILw goods                         316        -2.9     0.6    21.0    -2.5      18.3       10.4      15.4     11.0      9.0
NEViChmul  Imrb                    3.32         7.3    -1.6    16.3   -10.8    SOD.0       10D.0      10D.0     100.0    10D.0
Food                               449        -1.8     6.6    14.3   -13A4      2.7        14.5      2D.3      17.0     13.0
Nmdbod emaw   aod                  454        12.5    -1.2    47.6   -22.7       7.3      t0.0       5.2       16.0     14.0
Petrd3iiU, oil. lubriafta          525         9.1     0.6    10.6   -10.7       2.7       3.0       14.2     18.       16.0
OUur lntaaniaft & cupL%l adt    1,X6           8.7    -4.1    14.0    -8.3      67.3      72.5      60.3      49.0      57.0
ltm      199       1i9D      VBt       tim       tim       1 j
{Y  DI   (111#)                        52.9      77.4      10D.0     113.4     126.2     159.4     196.0
*P   Aht. im- tSOIAIOD                125.0     1050       100.0     10D.0     76.6      49.5      39.8
hhp,  Pdr e    him                     53.3      83.7      100.0     91.7      105.8     132.9     163.9
lapoPrt e  Tidn                        5.6       82.5      10D.0    1C5.1     129.1      175.9     216.7
Tarmo 1of  gtO                         91.0      101.0      90.0      D.1      80A        8D.0      76.0
1965      1910    1175        182        19_
OPSOIL CWUUITM AS % OF GDP
Curnt  _erms                            25.0       31.5     28.7       31.6       28.0
current bpamiture                       24.0       28.3     22.7       32.7       31.0
Surplum (-) or deficit (-1              +1.0       -3.2     .6.0       -1.1       -3.0
Capital bpditure                         6.6        5.7      4.5        3.8        2.0
Poreig Fimnciag                          0.0       -1.5     -2.9        0.6       -0.1
196D-10  191075    19750   19B82   19E823    194
ONER DDICN
cupm n Rate (S)                          3.4       0.0       7.4       -14.0      -1.0       5.9
CDP per capita growth Rate (%)           1.5      -1.8       5.9       -15.7      -2.6       4.2
EDU coueutpt£o  groih rate (      S)    4.8       -0.3
ICOR                                     3.3    -17.9        1.2        n.e.      -4.7       2.3
Marginal Savings Rate                    0.1       0.1       0.1        n.e.       n.e.       n.a.
Import me.tietty                         2.3       1.4       2.1        10.0       6.9        3.2
21 P >1iwlalry dat.
LCIPA
February 6, 1985



GM              -s- -w -.       K
0~91         - 1e   a
_ 6                     ' ;q       uw
Cs6Sww             '     nm. S www a
-  -- p% ~ ~ ~~~ng 2o/qok
~~~-                 -      --                   --    W/9w s r
- -    Cc    rc    Ss    6-0    90   9g0    9ro 0l
C-      r L r        6*I    rk    6I    V's    G C :p   wc1        M ZW C
-     -    6EZ      9.-   CL    ri    9rk    6S       '6       W   :        -      C           -
O55        & 's  LS SS%   e s .    Fr    sli            5       X       ;      a    ccc
amS: amM
-     -  _q        0-59   £L     vre    -s rS       6-01
-  ~~~~0&    99~~~   9J    _1                    eV O  71(~m-~          ~
-6  -Z        9£J.   099 WL9    r6 79W
-  -6    c6k 6rs  L    9-o    B-g   g-s    S-n  cs   * -..  - -   b -= -
-C-   ~  re                S-    rs~   z    ff       r                        1P
:1-  ~66  srs:   9-S    S£   911.  _s9   u:    r: U:                  ~    w
6-M                                      am~~.   I  ~  1 -=  f
L£    g=        w     I    CPk    UV    Z8    6i  ;C~.B-
=':   ':    Ct1    6    rf;    a     rE     rf;e 5M                         :_
6m     Z%I          S7 9>Z  OW    Su    V';,  0: 6    9r  °:
-   -      2a IZ         2                                            t
SW-G::gas   OgIv ;=                w7 fL  cm    Z:L  M9                 wC --omaLm
k      2=       1   .S       i 5 L 0r;.  M6   zoe   a                    zqmrdpm ;
U-I    c-    -=    -C,  JE'L   Swz   ZwL  V            :D: I
_   ; s    Wz    owl   W-, &    g SW    IZ   SZ                       Jo
-L     -      e  e          a     6C      a     ZI    1:
IC     -     S      M1L    £      I ZIL  Ln   9&       9L                        CIE
xrL    r    9WL    Ws,  aw &    PL   amt   mz    -v ZPI
-     -      -O    S   ;S6       S    ~         £6     9'S 190*   ='v
-'    -      -      -      9      ,      Z      I      n
==  _  _1 -L                9O
or    16i  91       CD    Uc
Wi  ~~~~~~L    0k  ~ ~~~~~s    s£E5g
-                                                                                 -  _       _ _ - -    ;
-U     SC     m      ma    co
X6 0       96    WC    rw   '-         ut  S  S S                    9      t O           Z      £      0             ml
z  o1Z  G=   0-   wi  1              Jrs 1z  :rz ±br1 LWZ   Q                z cL  L s r Z   rsa1  rm   zt   _ ra  _
&L   &.-     -   IL-   a.- ce        0IU   fils   £-iwu e8-   wiri  .ls-  Clio-  VW    OD-  Wm                      mam an  -
M%  o0e'  91£L  &.  AWL  6iV ai  0           cum. L   ~ z1 tWCC   aofZ  O-AU£  rzW   95S   0-    z1    J            K cam -- m
eam   cm    am    or    =    C&       l9s    clSC o     ;  Zsru SW        '=    9Ur         ZS-t WI&-   e         mmcdov
GVi- 6Wi- J.Wk  IJti  Eaw&  66It-  vIaEz  ZTVk  9.wE-  ~  -6~-z-Ut- e213- 98-Sr   9.161   fIbo-                  -Mm=Mwmwx
Cc-   ICr  1±96    0m    C                                 sw      -*    OW    r. e    gm   m6    96 v          r
b6- aSu  s61L- WE- 211-  "A: U-   01r        0I   WD'   2  1w6t- cm D1 Vib-       6-  9.61F-   &m c  -       r_-
1g.'- sW&- 19-   9- 6L9fr vZ -  VELLP           . LD    0-o* 0-W&- j1%W6- o26-   e- a*6i- S-tE                  -. w;   DCmi
AWE GM   aL   W9   a"   gZ%   rat F" 9W     "W    S6  Snn  zW                       z rw z em9Zz z-  aW.  &w
Sm*i  WI  86i   as    62    at    06*    ria  r0-6e'  S r6  -wiri e86-  r0-   LW-  4b   CIe-                   my
-1    a         .  - sa
It|rw                                                            twa



-24-                                AKCK II
rage 1a of 1
M STAms OF BANK         Pe OPBRIUNS IN CIE
A. STIAIBGNT OF BANK LOANS AID IDA CREDITS (as at September 301 1986)
Loan or                                                     V$ miliuo
Credit     Fiscal                                   Amount (less      eltioo)
Number      Year    Borrower                           ak   IDA   fhdisbuxsed
25 loans and one credit fully disbursed             326.2   22.9 1/       -
1832        1980    Chile        Water Supply        32.4    -         10.8
1902        1981    Chile        Agri. Cretit        36.0    -         17.4
1927        1981    Chile        Road Rehab.         42.0    -           1.8
2297        1983    Chile        Road Rehab. II    128.0    -         107.1
Total                                                564.6   22.9
of which nas been repaid                          204.4    4.2
Total now outstanding                               360.2   18.7
Amount sold                      7.2
of which has been repaid       7.2
Total now held by Bank and IDA                      360.2   18.7
Total undisoursed                                                      137.1
B. SXAXIME1fl OF .FC INVESTHMENITS (as at Septemb.er 30, 1984)
Fiscal                             Type of            Amount in US$ million
year        2Bar bsiuess                              Loan   Equity    Total
1958, 1959, Empresa Hinera de
1966, 1984    Mantos Blancos       Copper mining      35.10    4.25    39.35
1959, and   Fideos y Alimentos
1965          Carozzi S.A.         Food oroducts       1.50    0.15      1.65
1960, 1961
and 1965    Cemento Bio-Bio S.A.  Cement                1.-j    0.10      1.30
1963        Cia. Yanufacturera de
Papeles y Cartones  Pulp and paper       3.00     -        3.00
1970        Minera Sagasa S.A.    Copper mining       10.45    0.45    10.90
Money and capital
1982        Inverchile               capital market      -      0.20     O.ZO
Total gross commitments                   51.25    5.15    56.40
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                    34.75    0.70    35.45
Total Co=nitments nov held by IFC   16.50    4.45    20.95
Total Undisbursed                     26.99    1.88    28.87
1/ Includes exchange rate adjustme-rs. The original amount of the credit
was USS19.0 million.



-25 -
= uI
EKMUBLIC OF CBU=
PMUUC SECTOINEAR         TBCMEECAT..5SS        PROJECT
S_M rARY POJECT DM 
Section I: Timtable of ey Events
(a)  TIm takn by tihe country to prepare project:  10 months
(b) Project prepared by: Government with UNDP financing for which
the Bank acted as Executing Agency
(c)  Plrst presentatilo  to the Bunk: November 1983
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mlsson: February 1984
(e) Completion of Negotiations: January 1985
(f) Planned Date of Loan Effectiveness: April 1985
section - : Special Bank   ple io ctio
Early supervision activities would involve assisting the Government with
implementation of a project management information system. Commitment
has also been obtained from relevant specialized units within the Bank
to provide assistance in supervising the project.
Section III: SPeCIal CAnditios
(a) The Government will maintain a fulltime Project Coordinator to be
provided with appropriate facilities, staff and logistical support
(para. 49).
(b) The Government will be required to institute a formal monitoring
and review process and have the Project Coordinator maintain the
information to support this process (para. 50).



- 26 -
Air= I V
Page 1 of 2
PROPOSED PULC SECTO                T IC&I    IR IOJUECT
Project Gost Estimates
(USS '000)
Foreig   local.  Total
I. Project N.imn eer                                   00     795    795    4.8
Management Staff                                     (195)  (195)   1.2
Office and Logistical Support                        (200)  (200)   1.2
Administrative Assistance                            (400)  (400)   2.4
xv.  NbPlc Sector luvestuent Planing
mand  neviw                                    864   1,096  1,960   11.8
Consultants                                 (864)           (864)   5.2
Counterpart Staff                                    (486)  (486)   2.9
Computer Support                                     (610)  (610)   3.7
II.  Pbblic Enterprise  anagemat                      4,100   3,000  7,100   42.6
A.  Design                                (1,500) (1,300)(2,800)  16.8
Consultants                           (1,500)         (1,500)   9.0
Counterpart Staff                               (740)  (740)   4.4
Computer Support                                (400)  (400)   2.4
Office and Logistical Support                    (160)  (160)   1.0
B.  Implementation                        (2,600) (1,700)(4,300)  25.8
Consultants                           (2,680)         (2,600)  15.6
Counterpart Staff                               (800)  (800)   4.8
Computer Support                                (500)  (500)   3.0
Office and Logistical Support                   (400)  (400)   2.4
IV. Economic Statistics                                500     254    754    4.5
Consultants                                   (400)           (400)   2.4
Counterpart Staff                                      (154)  (154)   0.9
Computer Hardware                              (100)          (100)   0.6
Office and Logistical Support                          (100)  (100)   0.6



- 27 -
AMx ILV
PageZ of 2
V. Export Promotlon                                1,395     664  2,059   12.4
A. Commercial Information                   (468)   (114)  (582)   3.5
Consultants                             (168)          (168)   1.0
Counterpart Staff                                (64)   (64)   0.4
Information Hardware                    (300)          (300)   1.8
Office and Logistical Support                    (50)   (50)   0.3
B. Company Export Assistance                (675)   (350)(1,025)   6.1
Consultants                             (675)          (675)   4.0
Counterpart Staff                               (150)  (150)   0.9
Office and Logistical Support                   (200)  (200)   1.2
C. PROCMELE-External Network                (252)   (200)  (452)   2.7
Consultants                             (252)          (252)   1.5
Counterparts and Logistics                      (200)  (200)   1.2
VI. Putue Studies and other Technical               2,000   2,000 (4,000)  24.0
Total Base Costs                       8,859   7,809 16,668  100.0
Price Contingencies                    2,141   1,886  4,027
Total Project Costs                   11,000   9,695 20,695



- 28 -
ARM V: A
Page I of 3
DRAFT TERMS OF RFER1ENCE FOR A
PUBLIC SECTOR             PLADUI   AND REVI  COrPONET
Objectives
1.        The objectives of the Public Sector Investment Planning and Review
Component are to: (1) improve the Government's capacity to translate econom-
ic policies into operational criteria and to review plans, programs and pro-
jects throughout Chile's public sector in terms of their potential and ex
post contribution to relevant economic goals and objectives; (ii) improve
two-way communications between Central Government and other levels of the
public sector regarding policy execution, especially investment planning in
terms of directives, guidelines, requests for resources, performance indica-
tors and feedback; and (iii) help introduce appropriate organizational
changes to accommodate improved public sector decision-making.
Sco   of Work
2.        The consultants will be expected to commence work on this component
as early during project execution as feasible to complete the following
tasks:
Ci)   help Government articulate a coherent policy regarding the
role of the public sector in the economy in sufficient detail
to permit identification of criteria (such as economic effi-
ciency, employment and distributional equity effects, net
foreign exchange impact, etc.) for public sector investment
decision-making;
(ii)  establish a set of socially-relevant indicators (such as net
present values, economic rates of return, net job-years
created, capital cost per job-year created, domestic re-
sources expenditure to net foreign exchange earnings ratio,
etc.) together with appropriate methods of calculation, re-
flecting the criteria identified in (i) above to be used for
evaluating public sector investaent;
(iii) in close consultation with top Government decision-makers,
develop a set of decision rules or screening criteria to be
applied to public sector investment;
(iv)  in close consultation with top Government decision-makers,
develop an organizational framework for economic decision-
making specifying responsibilities and information flows with
particular emphasis on investment planning; the design of
this system should adequately accommodate the interaction be-
tween investment planning criteria and other key policy cri-
teria (e.g. pricing, fiscal, monetary policies, etc.); once
accepted by Government this system design should provide
guidance to the Public Enterprise Management Component of the
project;



- 29 -
Page 2 of 3
(v) once the Government has agreed on the prriposed systems and
organizational changes, design and implement the information
systems and operatlng procedures (with instruction manuals)
required throughout the public sector for conducting public
sector investment planning and review; the public enterprise
subsector vill be handled under separate ters of reference;
(vi) assist the Government for a limited period after implementa-
tion to analyze at regular periodic intervals the investment
plans and proposals of the various levels of the public sec-
tor in accordance with the planning and review framework de-
veloped; and
(vii) conduct on-the-job training and identify additional training
requirements needed to create a permanent institutional cap-
ability in public sector investment planning and re-iew.
a.-
Specific Outwts and T!Iiag
3.        Tasks (i) - (iii) above should be completed within the first two
months of execution of the assignment and are expected to involve four staff-
months of consultant input. A report should be delivered articulating Gov-
ernment policy, recommending control variables and socially-relevant indica-
tors, and setting out a set of decision criteria with an explanation of their
implications regarding the degree and nature of control involved.
4.        Task (iv) should be completed within the subsequent eight months at
which time a report should be presented to Government specifying in detail
the organization of key aspects af decision-making: activity initiation, in-
formation generation and dissemination and directives (command or control).
This task -would involve about 16 staff-months of consultant time.
5.        Task (v) should commence about halfway through the execution of
Task (iv) once the Government has agreed on the proposed systems and organi-
zational changes and would culminate in a set of interlocking information
modules within the key Government agencies involved to create the information
syst'em.  A set of operating manuals describing the information generation
functions involved should be presented to Government at the end of this task
which is estimated to require about 24 staff-months of consultant time over a
12-month period.
6.        Task (vi) should commence during the latter half of the execution
of task (v) and should result in a set of reports to Government at agreed in-
tervals on the state of investment projects and programs in the country as-
sessed in terms of potential contribution to economic goals. This task would
be ongoing from month 23 through month 36 of the project and would involve
about 14 staff-months of consultant time.
7.        Task (vii) should be conducted intermittently throughout the execu-
tion of the project involving regular reports to Government via internal
memoranda at agreed intervals. It is estimated to require four staff-months
of consultant time.



- 30 -
ARM T: A
Page 3 of 3
Couterpart inat8
8.        This component would be located and executed within ODEPLAX in
close collaboration with the Office of the Budget and the Ministry of the
Economy. It is expected that Government will provide, in addition to a full-
time project coordinator and office and logistical support common to the
overall project, the following:
(1)   two counterpart investment analysts on a full-time basis;
(2)   one research assistant; and
(3)   computer support (hardware, software, and personnel).



- 31 -
AMN  T: B
Page 1 of 5
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR A
PUILIC ENTUPRISE  AI&GRIENT CCIKPONENT
Objectives and Policies
1.        The objective of the public enterprlse management component is to
improve the medium- to longer-term performance of the public enterprises in
terms of efficiency and their contribution to other economic objectives by
introducing: (a) stronger corporate planning capability in some of the en-
terprises where this is deficient; (b) better Central Government capability
to orient, review and control public enterprise activities; and (c) criteria
and procedures for privatizing some public enterprises within an orderly
transition period.
2.        As guidelines for the search for solutions to achieve the above-
mentioned objective, the following comprise the main elements of Go-7ernment
policy toward the public enterprises:
I.     The companies should be profitable, and to the extent possible,
self-financing.
II.    The Government should be able to guide the development of the com-
panies in a way that is supportive of its economic policy.
III.   The allocation of resources to the companies should be undertaken
with a long-term view. Short-term constraints should only alter
the pace of development and not its direction.
IV.    The State should try to decrease its ownership, totally or partial-
ly, of the public enterprises. However, it should manage effec-
tively the companies it has not yet divested, including financing
their growth if growth is appropriate.
&J1ect Scope
3.        This component involves the development and implementation of im-
proved systems, procedures and organizational arrangements for the public en-
terprise management control framework and includes the following specific
tasks:
(i)    In coordination with the work to design the broader framework for
public sector resource allocation to be developed under the public
sector investmont planning and review component of the project, de-
sign procedures for resource allocation for the public enterprises.
This would include defining: (a) which types of decision are to
fall within the purview of the public enterprises and which types
are to be referred to higher levels of decision-making; (b) which
types of information are to be communicated in what form and with
what periodicity from higher levels of decision-making to the pub-
lic enterprises for the latter either to take decisions or to pre-
pare proposals for referral back to the higher level; (c) which



- 32 -
ANR    V: B
Page 2 of 5
types of information are to be communicated in what form and with
what periodicity from the public enterprises to higher levels of
decision-making; (d) which organizational changes are required; and
(e) which external control and ex post review activities need to be
introduced and how the results of these would feed back into the
decision-making process. Particular emphasis should be given to
appropriate decision-making and organizational arrangements for
those parts of the public sector where multiple tiers of control
exist such as in the transportation sector, the CORFO companies and
those sectors guided by national commissions. At the end of this
task, the detailed work plan for undertaking the public enterprise
management component would be finalized and agreed with the Govern-
ment in the light of the findings. This work plan would serve as
the basis for soliciting proposals and contracting the rest of the
work to be done under this component.
5ii) Assist a group of test enterprises (about five), selected by the
Government, in preparing their strategy and options for future de-
velopment using the procedures for resource allocation designed un-
der (i). This preparation of strategies and plans involves con-
ducting analyses and making forecasts of enterprise operations in
sufficient detail to enable strategies and plans to be drafted that
represent viable actions specific to each enterprise's situation.
It also involves helping each enterprise's Board of Directors and
Management   select the future course for the enterprise from pos-
sible options for submission to higher levels of decision-waking
such as the Ministry of Economy. During this work, the consultants
should identify information requirements, especially from higher
levels of decision-making and identify any inadequacies in existing
information and communication.
The corporate strategies and plans for the public enterprises to be
assisted would include:
(a) an analysis of the "market' and regulatory and institutional envi-
ronment;
(b) an inventory of enterprise resources;
(c) a clear statement of medium-tc-longer term objectives;
(d)  a well-articulated stra-egy for achieving the objectives taking in-
to account, regulatory, resource, competitive and other factors;
(e) a set of targets quantified and with time frames where possible de-
rived from the objectives - e.g. size, market share, profitabil-
ity, diversification of activities, employment, etc.;
(f)  a set of instruments or "action parameters- -  e.g. pricing policy,
investment plan, maintenance plan, marketing and promotion plan,
employment plan, financing plan, organizational features such as
new marketing channels, licenses, etc.;



- 33 -
AMIV : 3
Page 3 of 5
(g) alternative sets of sales forecasts and investments, employment,
production and financial projections based on explicit assumptions
regarding market conditions, regulatory environment, and resource
availability; and
(h) recommended actions derived from analyses of (g).
(ili)  Assist the Ministry of Economy in reviewing the strategies, plans
and proposals developed by the public enterprises. During this
work, consultants shguld identify information requirements to
undertake adequate review, especially that required from the
enterprises, and identify any inadequaciee in existing information
and communication.
(iv)   Carry out a study of the organizational options related to the re-
vised management and control framework for the public enterprise
sector. The study should examine organizational options with an
analysis of the advantagea and disadvantages of each and should
present a preferred option for the Government's consideration.  The
organizational options should be presented in terms of divisions of
responsibility and functions with clearly identified reporting, de-
cision and control relationships (coordinating, internal and ex-
ternal control). For those enterprises having either the Ministry
of Transportation and Telecommunications or CORFO to report to,
careful analysis will be required for defining the functions to be
performed at each level (e.g. within the enterprises, within the
Ministry of Transport or CORFO and within the Ministry of Economy)
and the required information flows between levels. This will re-
quire close coordination with the current study of the transport
sector being managed by the Comision Economica para America Latina
and the public sector investment planning and review component of
this project. This study should also identify criteria and pro-
cedures for returning ownership and control to the private sector
within an orderly transitional period of a few selected public en-
terprises that will not fit within the long-run organizational
*                 framework for policy reasons.
(v)    Design and conduct executive workshops to introduce the new
methods to all of the public enterprises.
(vi)   Assist in implementing changes in management systems, procedures
and organizational arrangements within the Central Government agen-
cies and public enterprises once these have been agreed upon with
the Government. This would involve defining functional responsi-
bilities for organizational divisions, rewriting (in some cases
writing for the first time) job descriptions, modifying information
generating and disseminating functions and systems (both manual and
computerized), writing manuals of operation and procedures, helping
draft legislative changes to be introduced, and testing systems and
procedures for consistency and design integrity.
(vii) Identify training requirements.



- 34 -
AmnNK V: B
Page 4 of 5
Specific Outputs and Timing
4.        Task (i) is anticipated to involve about 4 staff-months of consult-
ant time from the very outset of the project through a period of no more than
ten calendar months. Because this task must be coordinated with and receive
information from the work to be executed under the Public Sector Investment
Planning and Review component of the project it will depend upon the rate of
progress made under this other component. It is envisaged, however, that
preliminary design structures should be developed and modified in a series of
successive approximations to provide broad guidance to the individual enter-
prise review exercises as early as possible. This will enable the enterprise
reviews to start without excessive delay. Two interim reports on an appro-
priate resource allocation method should be produced at around month two and
month six with a final report to be submitted in month ten.
5.        Task (ii) is expected to commence in month three of project execu-
tion to be conducted in five enterprises selected by Government with two con-
sultants assigned per enterprise over a period of about six months. This
would entail about 60 staff-months of consultant time. About mid-way in each
enterprise review, an interim report indicating main strengths, weaknesses,
constraints and assessed prospects should be provided as feedback to the work
being undertaken in Task 1.
6.        Task (iii) would commence in month 11 of praject execution and
would take place over a three-month period involving about 8 staff-months of
consultant time. At the end of month 13 of project execution a report should
be submitted to Government on (a) assessments of enterprise strategies and
corporate plans; and (b) assessment of information, decision-making and con-
trol aspects arising out of the strategy and plan assessments. This latter
information will provide a basis for fine-tuning the design of the public en-
terprise resource allocation and control mechanisms. It will also facilitate
a decision by Government on the proposed mechanisms, which is assumed to re-
quire a lapse of one month.
7.        Task (iv) would commence also in month 11 of project execution and
would take place over four months involving about 8 staff-months of consult-
ant time. Final results of this task would depend upon the decision to be
taken by Government at the end of Task 3. It should culminate in a report
that analyzes organizational alternatives for setting up the public enter-
prise control framework decided upon by Government but should also provide a
single recommended organizational structure for Government consideration.
The decision on the proposed organizational structure should be taken by
Government by month 18 of project execution.
8.        Once the decision on organizational structure is taken, Task (v)
would involve the consultants holding a series of workshops for the benefit
of Central Government officials and all of the public enterprises to commun-
icate the new control framework and organizational arrangements. These ses-
sions should incorporate audio-visual aids for maximum effect as well as pre-
pared written materials. The workshops would involve about 4 staff-months of
consultant time plus communication costs.



- 35 -
AIMD V: B
Page 5 of 5
9.        Task (vi) would involve implementing changes in the Ministry of
Economy, Office of the Budget, Office of the Controller General, Ministry of
Transport and Telecommunications, CORPO as well as in as many as 20 public
enterprises following agreement by the Government on the program of changes
to be implemented. Changes that Government agrees to have implemented during
the design phase could be undertaken. The rest of the implementation phase
probably would commence in month 20 and run through the duration of the pro-
ject (to month 36) and involve a total of about 200 staff-months of consult-
ant time.
10.       Task (vii) would be conducted intermittently throughout the execu-
tion of the project as an integral component of the other work and would in-
volve reports in the form of internal memoranda to Government on an agreed
periodicity.
Governuent Counterpart Resource Coitnents
11.       This component would be located in the Ministry of Economy.  It is
expected that the Government will provide the following counterpart resources
in addition to the full-time project coordinator, office space, secretarial
and other logistical support that would be common to the overall project:
(i)     Five Government professionals with appropriate business training
and experience to participate in the review of public enterprise
strategies.
(ii)    At least one legal expert to assist the project coordinator in
looking at ownership and other corporate legal issues.
(iii)   Computer back-up for strategy reviews.
(iv)    Transportation for official purposes within Chile.
12.       Additionally it is assumed each public enterprise to be assisted
will provide:
(i)     A full-time project coordinator.
(ii)    The commitment of the Board of Directors and General Manager to
allocate necessary enterprise resources to the exercise and the
willingness to review results and implement appropriate changes.



- 36 -
ADM=V: C
Page 1 of 3
DRAFT TERKS OF REFERENCE FOR AN
ECONOMIC STATISTICS COMPONEN
Backgrud
1.        Over the last ten years, the Chilean economy has been subjected to
periods of rapid growth and contraction resulting in substantial realignment
of its internal structure and a large build-up of international debt. Effort
has been concentrated more on the analysis of the economic aituation than on
the gathering of reliable data, with the result that the most up-to-date sta-
tistical information on the industrial and foreign trade structure relates to
1977 and on the price structure relates to 1974. The Government of Chile
wants to take a number of initiatives to improve the statistics to a level
that can support complex policy analysis.
ObJectives of External Assistance
2.        The objectives of the study are:
vi)    to improve the compilation and analysis of economic statistics;
(ii)   to improve data collection; and
(iii)  to produce new benchmark input-output tables and develop financial
flow-of-funds accounts.
Speeific Tasks
3.        Under the general supervision of the Director of the Central Bank
and closely working with the Director of the National Statistics Institute
(INE), the consultants will perform the following tasks:
(i)    With regard to the sectors:
(1) Mining, energy, and transportation
(2) Agriculture, forestry and fishing
(3) Manufacturing industry
(4) Construction
(5) Commerce
(6) Nonfinancial services
(7) Financial services
(8) Private households
- assess the present compilation of data;



- 37 -
AN= Ts C
Page 2 of 3
- define the data needed to monitor key featues of the see-
tore from the point of veLw of government policy and evalu-
ate then In relation to the data presently collected;
where necessary, coaduct small-scale inquiries to estimate
missing data;
-  develop a procedure for data collection for each sector, al-
so with regard to short-term indicators, and train the staff
in its use.
(ii)   Wiith regard to the sectors (1) - (4):
- assess the present system of collecting data concerning the
level of investzment, level and age structure of the capital
stock, and measures of capacity utilization;
-  conduct small-scale inquiries to estimate missing data and
develop a syste  of data collection, with speiCial attention
to direct estimates for investment in plant and machinery.
Cii) Establish a current input-output matrix by:
C1) collating the data gasthered in task (i) and checking the con-
sistency of the underlying asumptions and the relative accu-
racy of the vrious components;
(2) structuring the updating process and deeloping procedures of
data collection for gradual updating of the i    tt
matrix.
(iv)  Improve the national accounts by:
-  compiling income and outlay, and capital accounts by sec-
tors;
- developing flow-of-funds tables;
- developing procedures to insure timeliness and quality of
national accounts estimates, by, inter alia, improving sea-
sonal adjustment and deriving le&&UW-f=ators;
- tra-ining the staff in the use of new methods and equipment.
(v)    Develop the -InstitutLonal arrangement for the national accounts
division to effectively implement the new procedures and to estab-
lish patterns of interaction with INi.
Logistics, Tixing and Xanpower
4.        The consultants will work as advisors in the national accounts di-
vision of the Central Bank collaboratEng closely with the staff.  Each con-
sultant would have to prepare a full report on the revised process of data
collection and analysis in his area of specialty. Necessary secretarial and
support staff would be provided by the national accounts division.



-38
ARMY: C
Page 3 of 3
5.        It is estimated that a total of about 60 staff-months lnvolving up
to eleven consultants Uill be needed, spread over a period of two to three
years. Additionally, about 150 staff-months of counterpart input would be
provided.



- 39 -
AEM ZV: D
Page 1 of 3
DAFT T OF S 01R          FOR An
EXPORT PRU0T IO
Objectives
1.        The Government of Chile is embarking on a major effort to strength-
en its export promotion program especially regarding nontraditional exports
by small- and medium-sized firms as part of its overall effort to improve
management of the economy. In this regard it is strengthening the organiza-
tional structure, management and operational activities of PROCHILE, the
Government's export promotion agency. The technical assistance to be pro-
vided under the project would have as its main objectives:
i)   to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the currently func-
tioning commercial information systems available to the country's
exporters;
(it)   to assist small- and medium-sized export enterprises with interna-
tional export marketing expertise directly related to their pro-
ducts, potential markets and capabilities; and
(iii)  to evaluate and propose improvements in PROCHILE's network of ex-
port assistance to the country's exporters.
Scope of Work
2.    (a) Program to Design and Test Commercial Information  ystem: Ihe fol-
lowing tasks would be conducted by the consultant(s):
(i)  identify the main sources of international commercial infor-
mation in terms of prices, commercial opportunities, techni-
cal information related to products, standards and quality
control, etc. to improve existing commercial infcrmation sys-
tems;
(ii) determine the specific staff and techaology requirements to
operate the improved integrated commercial information sys-
tem; and
(iii) implement the proposed changes to the information system once
design has been completed.
(b) Program of Assistance in Internationral Xarketing:  The consultants
would:
(i)   analyze the product line and market prospects of individual
groups of exporters regarding market characteristics, product
characteristics, price and non-price competitiveness, appro-
priate marketing strategies including product standards,
packaging, promotion, channels of distribution, pricing,
etc.; and



40
J DeV :  D
Page 2 of 3
(ii) provide direct assistance to exporters to adapt their market-
ing practices accordingly.
(c) Program to Evaluate and Strengthen PROCILE's Commercial Network in
the Exterior:
The tasks Envolved would include:
(i)   analyze PROCHILE's new organizatLonal framework, its staffing
strengths and weaknesses, and its management;
Cil) through vLSits as necessary to PROCH RE's overseas offices
and other countries to which Chile is or may become a signL-
ficant exporter, assess the strengths, weaknesses and re-
quirements of the existing network;
(iii) in consultation with PROCHLE and Government officials, as-
certaLn the objectives of export promotion, PROCHILE*s cover-
age desired, target cost-effectiveness subject to resource
limits; and
(iv) develop a recommended program of action to achieve the export
objectives with full costing to determine the expected cost-
effectiveness of the changes recommended.
Inputs, Oixtpsts and Tiing
3.        Program (a) would be initiated as early as possibXe during the exe-
cution of the project and would involve two specialists for six months over a
six month period for a total of 12 staff-months of consultant time. The con-
sultants should produce an interim report after the first three months of
their work stating their progress, findings to date and preliminary conclu-
sions. Their final results should be presented to Government En a final re-
port complete with analysis, conclusions, system design (with operating manu-
als), and other recommendations. Once the system design has been approved by
Government, the consultants should assist in its implementation.
4.        Program (b) would also be initiated as early as possible during ex-
ecution of the project and would require some 45 staff-months of specialist
or consultant time over a period of 24 months on individual assignments in
Chile with average duration of about two - three months each with short, in-
termittent follow-up visits. Reporting requirements for the consultants
would be in the form of a brief memorandum (format would be provided by
Government as part of the individuals contract) at the end of each assignment
outlining the nature of the assistance provided and its expected impact on
company operations.
5.        Program (c) would also be initiated as early as possible during ex-
ecution of the project with two specialist/consultants over a period of up to
nine months infolving about 18 staff-months of specialist/consultant time.
An interim report would be required mid-way through the assignment on find-
ings to date and preliminary conclusions. A final report with full analysis,
conclusions and recommendations would be required upon termination of the as-
signment.



- 41 -
AMU T: D
Page 3 of 3
Cotsat  Izpzs
6.        This cosponst would be located in PROCEIL3. Government can be ex-
pected to provide, in addition to a full-time project coordinator and office
and logistical support common to the overall project, the following:
(i) office space for all specialist/consultants in PROCKILE;
(ii) secretarial and other clerical support (5-6 persons);
(iii) in-country transportation for official purposes as required;
(iv) counterpart professional staff (6 persons); and
(v) communications (telephone, telex, cable).
.1



PERU E-    A Rr     B
Pan,,acora~~~~~  REGIOI4~~                    Z      REGION.
=S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D Aconc
Auirs  -S              I \                                                2VALPARA5O  Z
F I ,,~~~~~~.                                                             ?.;,-.-
tr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S NOEr RS2
IQu5Qie                                                  Vs Cum  W
REGION  t           r                                                       :E:
DTACbPAA                                           G0 '    DE  gid                                            5
~~1J_~__ _ __ _  _ 
COOU  '~'~ -                                    ,/ e   t 
TARAPACA       m      1
REGION    Cdm~~~~~~~~~~~EGO
ANTOFAGASTA
C'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
REGION ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~REO  DEL
w  REGION 
24r                                                 2V-   LA ARA 4C*  A
Gmgmuibi~~~ ___                         --                           Paen



IBRD 14306R1
~~~~ _CONTIMOURS   100 uNTERhL
1         se  aw                      FM ;O <;PO        --S*ENENTINLIRO
J  ILgti-.,POITNaAL /- -
1A&l      ,ei y                                     ,a,                 ;     -- RGOb  OJAIS~
^.\Q) ( ii'Ol  ..........  (~--NTRNTIOAL E
e3Nncwo                                   ofCt35l;   
L t < cQ [.r ,.-\x\;Per-os,
'l,-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mi FIO AD >cSr
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SLN LAKECISE                                          m  
ICE ~ ~ DEEME FIELD






