Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY                                              Report No. 10340
Report No. 10340-CH Type: (PCR)
ANDERSON, / X31676 / T9111/ OEDD2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHIIE
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2504-CH)
FEBRUARY 11, 1992
Public Sector Management Division
Technical Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



LIST OF ACRONYMS
CASEN II          Encuesta De Caracterizacion Socioeconomica Nacional
(National Socioeconomic Survey)
CORFO             Corporacion De Fomento De La Produccion
(The Official Development Company)
EDELNOR           Empresa Electrica Del Norte
(A Private Hydroelectric Power Company)
ESTRAVAL          Estudio De Evaluacion y Desarollo Del Sistema De Transporte
Urbano Del Gran Valparaiso
(Study on the Valparaiso Urban Transport Model)
IANSA             Industria Azucarera Nacional S.A.
(National Sugar Company)
INDAP             Instituto De Desarrollo Agropecuario
(Institute for Agricultural Development)
INE               Instituto Nacional De Estadisticas
(National Institute of Statistics)
METRO             Empresa De Transporte De Pasajeros Metro S.A.
(The Santiago subway)
MIDEPLAN          Ministerio De Planificacion y Cooperacion
(National Planning Office - earlier known as ODEPLAN)
MINECON           Ministerio De Economia, Fomento y Reconstruccion
(Ministry of Economy)
MINVU             Ministerio De Vivienda y Urbanismo
(Ministry of Housing and Urban Development)
ODEPLAN           Oficina de Planificacion Nacional
(National Planning office)
PCU               Project Coordination Unit
PPAR              Project Performance Audit Report
PROCHILE          Direccion de Promocion de Exportaciones
(The State Export Promotion Agency)
PSK I             First Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Project
PSM II            Second Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Project
SENDOS            Servicio Nacional De Obras Sanitarias
(The State Water Company)
UNDP              United Nations Development Programme



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
TH[ WORLD BANKe
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
oe of OfwtorhCflehaI
- ;atns Evakuitkm
February 11, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:     Project Completion Report on Chile -
Public Sector Management Project (Loan 2504-CH)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Chile - Public Sector Management Project (Loan '2504-CH)"
prepared by the Public Sector Management Division, Technical Department of the
Latin America and the Caribbean Region, with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department
at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE UNLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT LOAN
(Loan 2504-CH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PaEe No.
Preface  . ............ .          .      .     .      *..           *     i
Evaluation Summary .....       .....   .     ...... . ..  .    ... ....... iii
PART I:   FROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Project Identity .. .      . ............    .   . . .        ....    1
B.   Background .................. . .   .   . . .....    1
C.    Project Objectives and Description .  ........  . . . ....  ..   2
D.    Project Design and Organization. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
E.    Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   .   .        7
F.    Results.    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  7
G.    Sustainability ............  ...   ....... .                          8
H.    Bank and Borrower Performance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
I.    Project Relationships. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
J.    Consulting Services. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
K.    Project Documentation and Data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
L.    Lessons Learned from Project Experience. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . 12
PART IIl:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION AND TABLES. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
1.  Related Bank Loans and/or Credits. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
2.   Financing Plan.. . . . . . . .. . . 36
3.   Total Project Costs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
4.   Proiect Costs and Financing      ..       . . ..  .   38
5.   Loan Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . .  . .  . . . . . . . . . 39
6.   Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements. . . . . . . . . . . 40
7.   Status of Studies. . . . . . . . .       . .    .   . . . . . .  42
8.  Status of Covenants . . . .                     . . .  . . . . . . . 48
9.   Iission Data..                              .       .   .  ... .  .   50
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-1-
PROJECIT COMPLETION REPORT
CUZLE
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT LOAN
(LOAN 2504-CHI
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Public Sector
Management in Chile, for which Loan 2504-CH in the amount of US$11.0 million was
approved on March 14, 1985. The Loan amount was subsequently reduced to US$6.5
million on December 29, 1987. The Loan was closed on December 31, 1990 with
total disbursements amounting to US$6.4 million. An amount of US$ 142,706 was
canceled as of February 11, 1991.
The PCR war prepared by the Public Sector Management Division of the LAC
Technical Department. This report is based upon a review of documentation in
files of the Bank and the Project coordinating Unit (PCU). The PCR is also based
upon extensive interviews with Bank and Borrower staff involved in project design
and implementation, semi-annual and annual project reports by the PCU, and back-
to-office reports from the eleven supervisions conducted by Bank task managers.
Part II of this PCR, including comments on Parts I and III, was prepared by the
Government and delivered to the Bank in June 1991.



-i£ii-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT LOAN
lLOAN 2504-CH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
i.    The Government of Chile radically restructured the public sector in the
late 1970s, including privatization of public enterprises, reduction in size of
the civil service, and decentralization or elimination of goveraiment functions.
The recession of the early 1980s resulted in the Government reassuming ownership
of bankrupt privatized firms and in general increased the importance of the
Government as economic policymaker. Since Government capacity to plan and manage
the economy had been largely eliminated, Bank assistance was sought to strengthen
public sector decisionmaking.
Obiectives
ii.   The overall objectives of the project were to improve information and
analyses for economic decision-making in the public sector and facilitate export
growth through support to small and medium-sized exporters. A USS 20.7 million
dollar project with USS 11.0 million in Bank financing was designed to (i)
improve public sector investment planning and review, (ii) strengthen public
enterprise management, (iii) increase the quality of Government statistics, and
(iv) promote exports.   The single largest component (US$ 4.1 million) was
allocated to public enterprise management, and a relatively large sum (USS 2.0
million) was left unallocated.
iii. Two years after loan effectiveness less than five percent of the loan was
disbursed, and changes in both macroeconomic circumstances and Government policy
required major revisions in project design. Consequently, in February 1988, Bank
financiag was reduced to US$ 6.5 million, unallocated funds were eliminated, and
the loan closing date was extended. Even while the overall objectives of the
project were retained, project revisions resulted in project priorities changing
to some extent. For example, strengthening public enterprise management became
a less important objective, while support to public sector investment planning
and economic statistics became more izaportant.  Initial project documentation
seems to be fairly detailed in linking project activities to well-defined
objectives, but, justification for the inclusion of components added subsequent
to loan effectiveness is less clear.



-iv-
ImpleMentation ExPerience
iv.   Weak project preparation namely, loosely defined components, availability
of specific TORB for only a limited number of pro4ect activities, absence of
formalized work plans, lack of Government commitment, bureaucratic decision-
making framework for project management, and frequent changes in project
coordinators contributed to the slow implementation of the project. Government
commitment increased when it concluded that slow progress on the project might
provide a wrong signal to the Bank, from which support was being sought for the
first of  three structural  adjustment  loans.   Once the Government became
committed, specific proposals consistent with project objectives and government
strategy were prepared, discussed with the Bank, and quickly finalized; the
built-in flexibility in project design, which had impeded initial implementation,
facilitated redesign of the project.    The decision-making  framework was
simplified; an experienced and competent project coordinator employed and given
significant real-.onsibilities and managerial autonomy; and close and constant
communication between the coordinator and the Bank task manager was established.
The result was relatively smooth and effective project implementation, with
ninety percent of unexpended funds disbursed over the next two and one-half
years.
Results
v.    The redesigned project contained some twenty-eight independent components
under the four overall objectives. Of these, only two were not fully completed.
The Public Enterprise Database was designed but not implemented due to large
reductions in the numbers of such enterprises and changes in institutional
responsibility for monitoring parastatals. The Valparaiso Urban Transport Model
began late, in part due to delays by the Controller's office (CGR)' in issuing
a contract and inability of the contractor to complete the work on time. Aside
from these two exceptions, project results were fully satisfactory.
Sustainabilitv
vi.   The sustainability of the overall project is surprisingly high given the
project's checkered history. A two week PCR field mission attempted to determine
results, impact, and sustainability of the project; the results are given in
Table 8 of Part III of this Report. Despite a major change in Government prior
to project closure, almost all project results are being utilized and can be
viewed as sustainable.  In many cases, the Government is financing continued
development and implementation of project components. In a couple of cases, the
I The Contraloria General de la Republica (CGR) is the supreme audit
institution in the State.  It functions, primarily, as the official external
control agency for the Government, checking legal compliance by public service
agencies with programmed goals. As part of its control function, CGR is also
responsible for reviewing consultant contracts prior to their being formalized
in the Office of the President.



next stage of development is proposed for financing under a fol' w-on Bank
project.
Findings and _Lssons      le
vii. The project has i 'ortant lessons for projoet design and implementation.
The loosely-specified nature of the project clearly impeded effective
implementation and increased project coordination and supervision costs; once the
project was redesigned with greater specificit , implementation proceeded
smoothly.  Project redesign required a substantial time commitment on the part
of both the Government and the Bank.   The resulting project complexity also
required continued large amounts of supervision tin,e on the part of both the Bank
and the Borrower.
viii. The project reveals some of the critical factors which impede
implementation of Bank projects, namely, lack of Borrower commitment,
bureaucratic decision-making, and high turnover in project coordinators, even
tnough it is not possible to isolate the independent contribution of each. The
project also reveals that an administratively complex project can be effectively
and efficiently implemented in the absence of these factors.
ix.   Finally, the high degree of sustainability of project results demonstrates,
both, the value of financing components desired by the Borrower as well as moving
ahead with project-execution before Government priorities change and project
results became outdated.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN 2504-CH
PART I:   PROJECT FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Proiect Identity:
Project Name:   Public Sector Management Technical Assistance
Project
Loan Number:    2504-CH
Loan Amount:    Original: USS 11 million
Revised: USS 6.5 million
Regional Unit:  Latin America and Caribbean Region'
Country:        Chile
Sector:         Public Sector Management
B. Background:
1. The project was conceived during a period following the aftermath of rigorous
economic liberalization by the Government of Chile when it was beginning to
reemphasize a more active role for the public-sector in initiating economic
recovery. The 1970s constituted a period of pronounced economic liberalization
during which the major objective of the Government was to free the economy from
a high level of State intervention and, instead, assign resource allocation and
price determination to the marketplace.   This resulted in the Government
dismantling, to a substantial extent, state apparatus that had been built up by
previous administrations to guide and control economic activity. Nonstrategic
public enterprises were sold to the private sector; the size of the civil service
was reduced; and, several functions of the Central Government were either
eliminated or relegated to local governments.   While the shift in economic
orientation stimulated private investment and gave rise to a period of rapid
growth during 1976 to 1981, massive inflows of foreign borrowing combined with
world recession and domestic inflation between 1981-83 had an overwhelming impact
on Chile's economy.  Export earnings dwindled and inflows of foreign savings
dropped. A further lag in adjusting Chile's foreign exchange policy intensified
the recessionary trends.
2. With the deteriorating financial situation of many banks and firms during the
early 1980s, the Government found it necessary to intervene in the operation of
the economy to stall collapse of the economic system.  Beginning in February
1983, the Government undertook several measures to initiate the process of
stabilization and reactivation, such as financial support to the commercial banks



and key sectors of the economy served.  However, rather than being carefully
planned interventions with a long-term perspective, these initiatives, for the
most part, ended up as fairly adhoc and short-term responses to meet immediate
exigencies. This was largely due to a lack of sufficient institutional capacity
and experience within the Government to plan, execute and monitor national and
sector programs of the economy. To ensure a proper balance between short-term
orientation and a long-term strategy for a market-oriented economy, the
Government proposed a twofold strategy: (i) to play a more active role in guiding
investment decisions of the public sector, including state enterprises, during
a period of limited resources (both internal and external); in this context, in
addition to redirecting major investments, it planned to support small regional
and municipal investments; (ii) to assist those segments of the private sector,
such as small and medium-sized export entrepreneurs, who while lacking required
economies of scale and financial resources, possessed long-term competitiveness
and viability to initiate economic recovery.
3. The need fnr technical assistance for public sector management was identified
during the November 1983 e-onomic mission of the bank.  During that mission the
Government expressed its int6rest in possible technical assistance to:
(i) coordinate Central Government and public sector enterprise investment
planning; (ii) improve statistical information for guiding public sector
decirion-making; and (iii) help small and medium-sized businesses compete more
effe'2tively in international markets.  Agreement was also reached on a UNDP-
financed project preparation facility of US$100,000, for which the Bank would act
as executing agency, to assist the Government with timely diagnoses of technical
assistance requirements in three main areas, namely, public sector management,
economic information and export development.   The Bank-financed technical
assistance loan of USS 11 million was signed in April 1985 and, by supporting
related studies in the export sector, national accounts, public sector finances
and the social sector, was a precedent to the Government's interest in a Bank-
financed structural adjustment loan.
C. Proiect Obiectives and Description:
4.    The overall objectives of the project were to: (a) improve information,
criteria, analyses and organizational arrangements and control relationships for
decision-making within the public sector to help orient and strengthen management
of the economy; and (b) to support the Government's technical assistance program
to small and medium-sized exporters. Within this broad framework, the project,
as originally designed, provided technical assistance in the form of consultant
services, studies, equipment and training in the following areas (with original
financing allocations given in parentheses):
(i) Public Sector Investment Planning and Review IUSS 0.9 million):
This component was meant to improve decision-making processes in
the public sector including (a) translating macroeconomic and
sectoral policies into operational criteria for evaluating projects,
(b) strengthening management tools such as programming, budgeting,
monitoring and control required for executing economic policies with
particular emphasis on public sector investment planning and review,



- 3 -
(c) rovising organizational arrangements necessary for improved
decision-making.
(ii) Public Entery4rie Management CUSS 4.1 million):  The main
objective of this component was to improve the medium- to long-term
performance of public enterprises by ta) strengthening corporate
planning; (b) strengthening the Borrower's capability to orient,
review and concrol public enterprise activities; and (c) developing
criteria and procedures for privatizing public enterprises taking
into account -he need for an orderly transition.
(iii) gg2n2MJ& Statistics JUSS 0.5 million): Thiz *mponent sought
to improve the quality of information suppor          public sector
decision-making by: (a) strengthening data and .nformation bases
used in preparing economic statistics; (b) expanding national income
accounts; (c) updating data on quantitative relationships between
sectors of economic activities in terms of outputs and inputs of
goods and services (d) developing data on quantitative relationships
between sectors in terms of financial flow of funds.
(iv)  Exoort Promotion  (USS 1.4 million):   In this component,
activities were to be financed for developing a program within
PROCHILE to provide technical assistance to small and medium-sized
exporters in the areas of commercial information systems and
international marketing including the creation of an external
network of export-related services.
(v) Future Studies and Other Technical Asaistance (USS 2.0 million):
In addition to the above-specified components, unallocated financing
was included to provide the Government with the flexibility to
execute special studies, selective training and other technical
assistance programs consistent with the objsctives of the pro3ect as
agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.
St   On February 22, 1988 the Borrower was notified by the Bank about revisions
effected in the original loan amount and the closing date. The loan closing date
was extended to June 30, 1989 so as to permit completion of a large number of
project components which had not yet been initiated as of February 1988. The
loan amount was also reconfigured to an amount equivalent to USS 6.5 million due
to cancellation of som- earlier agreed activities and reduced costs estimates
resulting from hiring -. local consultants for most project-financed studies.
The revised project activities, with re-estimated costs, shown in parentheses,
were as follows:
(i) Public Sector Investment Planning and Review CUSS 2.0 million):
The Government proposed including additional activities which met
the objective of improving decision-making in the public sector.
These included conducting a household survey to assess social program
targeting, developing a regional data network to expedite work of the
Controller's Office, and doing an organizational stltdy of Fiscalia to
recommend improvements in the Government's capacity to identify and
prosecute anticompetitive practices.



(ii) Public EnterRrise Manaoement VUSS 1.7 millioni: Most of the
initially agreed activities to be executed under tho public
enterprise management component were canceled because, since loan
effectiveness, privatization in Chile had progressed rapidly thus
rendering the original terms of reference invalid. The Government,
consequently, proposed alternative project activities to achieve
objectives defined under this component. These included development
of a management information system to facilitate operation of the
Santiago subway (METRO) as an independent enterprise and development
of administrative structures and information systems to reorganize
the state-owned water company (SENDOS), into regional corporations.
(iii) Economic Statistics (USS 1.7 million): Funds were added to
conduct a household survey to develop new market basket weights for
the consumer price index (CPI).
(iv) ExRwrt Promotion (USS 0.5 million): The total cost for export
promotion activities, which had been proceeding with a mix of
foreign and local consultants, was reduced.
(v)   Future Studies  and Other Technical  Assistance  (USS 0.4
million): Funds allocated under this component were reduced from
the original proposed amounts since most of the additional proposed
clearly fit under one of the four categories listed above. This category
included miscellaneous project components to develop a methodology to
measure the environmental impact of energy projects, develop consumer
standards for electrical appliances, and construct a fisheries model.
D. Proiect Design and Organization:
6.    One of the unique design features incorporated in the project was to
specify only those priority activities which would be committed during the first
year of the project's  three-year  duration.    In addition  to  substantial
flexibility in project selection within the four principal categories noted
above, 18% of total financing2 was left unspecified to provide the Government
with the flexibility of responding to changing priorities during project
execution.   To ensure proper use of these unallocated project resources,
additional components could be approved by the Bank provided proposed uses were
consistent with agreed project objectives and provision was made for adequate
supervision of these components during project execution3. Some of the design
risks associated with large unallocated funds and non-specific components were
correctly identified early in the project but, perhaps, underestimated relative
to the advantages associated with a flexible project design.   In reality, a
flexible project design where the majority of components were left unspecified
2  This percentage indicates the loan amount provided for the special
component on future studies and other technical assistance.
3 Decision Memorandum for the Public Sector Management Technical Assistance
Project, April 24, 1984.



-5-
and detailed guidelines on the criteria of admitting additional components were
not provided, posed difficulties for the Borrower since project objectives
themselves were often perceived as loosely defined. This factor had particular
relevance in the case of Chile since the Borrower had no recent experience in
managing technical aosistance projects. Consequently, the methodology applied
by the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) for evaluating proposals for additional
studies and equipment under the loan  remained unclear4.  The lack of agreed
upon evaluation criteria led to the creation of a large project with several
components, some of them complex and posing difficulties of coordination and
supervision.
7. Given the flexibility in project design and the need to ensure consistent and
timely outputs in components added subsequently, an important feature
incorporated in the project was seeking the Government's commitment to appoint
a full-time coordinator with appropriate staff and administrative support to
carry out functions related to project implementation5.  In addition, a formal
project monitoring and review process6 had to be established by June 30, 1985
and maintained by the project coordinator. This monitoring system was meant to
both translate project objectives into specific targets as well as establish the
mechanisms for monitoring and assessing performance. While the monitoring system
was established on time and was fairly successful in reporting, in a systematic
manner, progress on each component in terms of actual resources committed and
actions completed, it is unclear how successfully it was utilized in making
realistic estimates of the outputs expected of each activity within a specified
timeframe. Nor is it clear how far it succeeded, as it was meant to, in linking
subsequent components to apecific project objectives or in specifying the
expected impact of activities undertaken in each component.
8. As a result of implementation delays which occurred in some of the more
complex components, the loan closing date was extended twice resulting in the
project finally closing on Decer43er 31, 1990, as against the original scheduled
date of June 30, 1988. Additionally, the loan amount was reduced in February
1988 from the original allocation of US$11 million to US$6.5 million. Most of
this reduction was the result of a cancellation -of the privatization activities
originally included under the public enterprise i..anagement component, while some
of it was due to reduced costs estimated from an increased use of local
consultants for a number of project components. While the reconfiguration in
dates and loan amount can, to some extent, be attributable to unforeseen changes
which took place during project execution, some of it does reflect design
shortfalls in the project as it was originally conceived. A three-year timeframe
for completing all activities of the project which, to start with, was loosely
defined (and thus operated under the implicit assumption of encompassing several
4 Evaluations appear to have been primarily based on an informal assessment
of the extent to which the proposals met overall Government strategy for the
public sector.
s Included in Section 3.01(b) & (c) of the Loan Agreement.
6 This formal review process was developed prior to loan negotiations and
included in Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement.



complex and diverse components to be identified during project execution) may
have been too optimistic. A review of Bank reports indicates that supervision
staff, on many instances, noted that several components such as METRO, SENDOS,
INDAP to name a few, were operating on very tight time schedules which either
delayed or led to incomplete implementation programs. Added to a tight operating
schedule was a large loan allocation of USS 11 million to be spent by the
Borrower within a limited time-frame. This allocation may have also been too
ambitious since a review of the project's implementation reveals that till
November 1987, nearly two and a half years after the loan became effective, only
an equivalent of USS 555,000 was spent. Project activities started to pick up
only after November 1987, when most of the studies started being contracted or
executed. Thereafter, new activities continued to be added to the project so
much so that a Bank report mentions that obtaining a final agreement from the
Borrower on limiting the number of components to be included in the project
seemed difficult. In fact, it was the absence of unallocated funds which finally
limited the tendency to include new items, which by this time, numbered 26
components. This trend seems to suggest that the Government may have, in fact,
been able to utilize the entire amount originally proposed in the loan had the
timeframe for utilizing this amount been longer.   This would have provided
executing agencies the required time and resources to identify needs, proceed
with execution and, finally, implement recommendations.
E. Project Implementation:
9.   Despite a delayed start in several components, implementation proceeded
fairly smoothly in the later phases of project execution. This was largely due
to competent PCU staff, strong Government commitment to the project, and close
Bank supervision, during the latter half of the project. However, initial delays
affected the completion schedule of several components.   In the case of the
Valparaiso Urban Transport Model, due to delays in contracting the study as well
as an overly ambitious implementation schedule proposed by consultants, the
component could not be completed as scheduled. Hence it was discontinued prior
to the loan closing date. In other instances, a late start in project activities
delayed not only the implementation schedules for the METRO, SENDOS and Fisheries
components but also affected the loan closing date.
10.    One of the reasons for a delayed start in the project was the lack of a
full-time coordinator in the Ministry of Economy who was assigned responsibility
for providing guidance to executing agencies and managing the overall execution
of project-related work. The failure of the Government to appoint a competent
full-time project coordinator during the earlier phase of the project resulted
in non-compliance to a loan condition and seems to signal low priority assigned
to the project at that time. There were as many as three coordinators during
1986, each holding only part-time positions in the PCU and spending the bulk of
their time doing special assignments for the Minister of Economy. Consequently,
insufficient attention was directed by them to details of the project which
involved such tasks as processing agency requests for technical assistance,
developing terms of references (TORs) and following-up delayed activities.
However, despite the discontinuities which plagued the PCU, project-related work
proceeded smoothly under the capable supervision of the two assistant-level
staff. The situation stabilized only after December 1987 with the appointment



-7-
of a competent and committed person to head the PCU, who while appointed part-
time, was able to coordinate successfully with the Ministry of Economy, obtain
the Minister's approval on project-related matters, and maintain ongoing
communication with the Bank staff, thus speeding up progress on each of the
project-financed components. Successful monitoring of various project components
was also facilitated,  to a large extent, by the placement of technically
qualified counterparts in each executing agency who closely followed-up the work
of consultants and evaluated feasibility of implementing their recommendations
in the agency.
11.   Project implementation, in the early stages of the project, also slowed on
account of excessive control by the 5-member Executive Committee constituted by
the Government between 1985-87 for maintaining overall responsibility for project
execution.  The Committee intervened frequently in matters of administrative
detail, such as review of TORs and short-listing of potential consultants, tasks
which should normally have been delegated to the project coordinator of the PCU.
These interventions served no purpose other than fueling frequent turnover of
project coordinators, each of whom felt managerially incapacitated to take even
routine decisions relating to the project.   Frequent interferences by the
Committee also slowed down processing of contracts and securing approvals on TORs
thereby further delaying start-up activities.
12.   Other implementation bottlenecks resulted from delayed clearances from the
Controller's office (COR), the agency responsible for providing non-objective
responses to proposed presidential decrees which are issued for formalizing
contracts with consultants and consulting firms. In the case of the Valparaiso
Urban Transport Model, which could not be completed during the period of loan
effectiveness, contracting was initiated by the agency in December 1988 but was
not cleared by the Controiler's office until May 1989.  Bank reports also mention
that consultants regularly commenced work before final confirmation of the
contracts was received from the Controller's office as in the case of the INDAP
Portfolio System and studies for Fiscalia and the Concepcion Origin and
Destination system.
F.    Results:
13.   Overall, the project can be termed successful.  Table 8 in Part III of the
report describes the project activities financed under the loan and discusses
their long-term impact on sustaining project objectives.   While some of the
activities originally included under specific project components were modified
during the course of project execution, components added subsequently fully
complied with the overall objectives, namelv, that of improving decision-making
processes in the public sector or supporting the Government's program for export-
related improvements. Out of the 28 components finally included in the project,
only two could not be completed as anticipated. The Valparaiso Urban Transport
Model was technically complex and its implementation under-estimated by the
consultants. In the case of the Public Enterprise Database component, design of
the data base was completed in time by consultants but due to large-scale
privatizations by the Chilean Government and shifting responsibilities for public
enterprise monitoring to CORFO, implementation of the MIS system in MINECON was
suspended.   However, most of agencies which have completed project-financed



-8-
activities are currently using the outputs of these activities, whether
recommendations of studies, equipment or staff training.
G.    Sustainability:
14.   Despite a major political transition in March 1990 and three changes in the
Subsecretary and Minister of Economy during the period of project execution, the
climate of reform initiated by the project was sustained. With the exception of
a few minor changes, such as deletions in the privatization study and minor
modifications in five studies resulting from shifting priorities of the new
Minister of Economy in December 1987, most components were relatively unaffected
by political changes as commitment of the Government and executing agencies
remained stable. Project-financed activities have not only helped contribute to
a number of short-term benefits in the area of public sector efficiency but are
also likely to have a long-term developmental impact.   In most agencies,
implementation activities were initiated upon completion of project-financed
components. For example, data results of the study on National Accounts was used
by the Central Bank during the period of project-execution for producing a
consistent series of national income statistics for 1986-89. Similarly, review
of special employment programs under a project-financed study resulted in these
programs being phased out after completion of the study. In other agencies, the
long-term benefits of the project are likely to be sustaining since they plan,
in future, to continue activities initiated under the project.  For example,
financing for a US advertising campaign is being continued by the Salmon Growers'
Association funds after termination of TAL-financing.   Further,  METRO has
financed, with its own funds, a study to evaluate the feasibility of implementing
recommendations of the TAL-financed study and proposes to purchase additional
equipment to ':acilitate its MIS operations.
15.   A  number  of  factors  were  responsible  for  creating  a  climate  for
institution-wide commitment. Bank supervision missions to the field encouraged
executing agencies to focus, fairly early in the project, on issues of project
impact. Similarly, Bank missions emphasized the importance for the PCU unit to
shift its focus from contracting responsibilities to monitoring institution-
building efforts of individual agencies. Additionally, the existence of a well-
developed institutional capacity within the various executing agencies to
evaluate and implement consultant recommendations was another important factor
ensuring long-term impact. This, combined with strong counterpart involvement
in each stage of project design and implementation, also helped build acceptance
within agencies for implementing recommendations proposed by consultants.
H. Bank and Borrower Performance:
16.     Given the Government's relative inexperience with technical assistance
projects, a UNDP-financed project was structured to provide the Government with
timely diagnoses of technical assistance requirements in three main areas,
namely, public sector management, export development and economic information.
Given the diversity of project components, prior commitment was sought from
select Bank sector staff for providing project preparation and supervision
support. During project execution, adequate support was provided by the sector



-9-
staff in finalizing terms of reference fo; studies, approving short-lists of
potential consultants, supervising and analyzing key issues and problems
including the application of methodologies and vetting draft reports. Strong
projecc support was also provided by the Bank task manager through frequent
supervisions in the field and regular communication with the PCU coordinator.
In fact, the high degree of involvement and commitment of the task manager to tt'-
project was a key determinant of success despite the size and complexity or its
components.  A change in task management resulting from the departure of the
former Bank task manager in June 1989, however, was a smooth transition with
project activities remaining unaffected hi the change.
17.   The Borrower's response to project-related activities was initially slow
on account of delayed clearances from the Executive Committee7, high turnover
of project coordinators and uneven attention given to the project by high level
Government authorities responsible for the project. However, with changes in the
Minister and Subsecretary of Economy in December 1987 and the appointment of a
competent project coordinator with sufficient delegation, progress on various
project components improved significantly. Even though the loan closing date was
postponed, a major Bank consideration in granting these extensions was
consistently good performance shown by executing agencies in completing project-
activities, most of which had been delayed due to reasons beyond their control.
I. Proiect Relationships:
18.   Bank and Government relationships remained collaborative throughout the
life of the project.   Despite being a large project with several components
involving diverse agencies, factors which might have negatively impacted project
relationships and performance, good managerial support from the PCU to executing
agencies and regular performance feedback and guidance from Bank staff were
consistently maintained throughout the period of project-execution. The PCU also
maintained a regular channel of communication with technical counterparts in the
respective executing agencies to involve them in issues of design and
implementation as well as to obtain feedback on project status and evaluation of
consultant performance. This exchange benefitted agencies in that it helped them
focus on future actions to be taken and how to sustain long-term impact of
project-financed activities.
J. Consultinq Services:
19.   A review of project-relateL. documents seems to suggest that the quality of
consultants hired under various components was high.   International firms,
especially those with local offices, were encouraged to compete for contracts.
Hcwever, the abundant supply of highly skilled local professionals and consulting
firms in Chile resulted in international firms being contracted primarily for
highly specialized studies (e.g., studies on export development and on
environmental impact of electric power projects). The use of local consultants
and local offices of international firms both reduced time for contracting and
significantly lowered consultant costs. In several cases, however, consultant
7 See Page 8, paragraph 11.



- 10 -
selection did suffer a setback due to delays by the Controller's office in giving
the non-objection to decrees prior to final contracting. Consultants, in most
cases, are reported to have commenced work regularly before a final confirmation
of the contract was received.  Prior to selection, consultant proposals were
evaluated for both technical soundness and cost effectiveness by a 3-member
committee which also included the tecnnical counterpart for the agency.
Counterparts were also closely involved in reviewing final recommendations
proposed by the consultants, with the exception of one component, namely
assessment of the environmental impact of power projects, where the agency
rejected the consultant's final report due to his non-involvement in the
evaluation of the report's recommendations.          The degree of counterpart
involvement at both stages, namely project design and evaluation of consultant
recommendations, was a key factor in determining the agency's commitment to
Implementation.
20. While the overall performance of consultants was satisfactory, some of the
more technically complex components suffered from consultants being either
overambitious in defining the scope given the limited time for completion or
miscalculating the complex issues affecting implementation. In the case of the
METRO and SENDOS studies,  .mplementation of administrative structures in the
regions was more difficult than foreseen by consultants and resulted in both
components being delayed. Similarly, an overambitious scope of work undertaken
by consultants under the Valparaiso Urban Transport Planning model not only
delayed the loan closing date but finally resulted in this component not being
comp'eted by the date of project closure.
K.  Proiect Documentation and Data:
21.   Detailed documentation was maintained on the project from its inception.
Good record-keeping was specially important for.a project in which flexibility
was built in and nearly 40% of the funds were left unspecified for emerging
priorities.   Given the loosely defined nature of the project, the Bank and
Borrower agreed, as part of the loan effectiveness condition, to establish and
maintain during project-execution, a fairly specific formal system for monitoring
and reviewing project performance.   Using the system, monthly analyses were
furnished to the Bank on actual resources committed to different components and
status of progress on component-ac;isrities.   In addition, two reports were
prepared annually by the Borrower briefly summarizing progress in qualitative and
quantitative terms and reviewing priorities which served as a basis for proposed
future action. Similarly, detailed records were furnished to the Bank on the
terms of reference, final contracts and reports prepared by consultants. While
the initial documentation seemed to have been fairly detailed in linking project
activities to well-defined project objectives, the justification for including
later components under the specified objectives seems to be less clear in the
project-related documentsa.
' The Memorandum of the President describes in detail the objectives, scope
of work, specific outputs and the timing for each of the specified components at
the time of project approval. While a Bank proposal justifying the reasons for
extending the loan closing date and reducing /reallocating the loan amount was



- 11 -
L. LeQsons Learned from Proiect Experience:
22.   The project both reconfirms  lessons already learnt  from prior Bank
technical assistance operations and disseminated by the Operations Evaluation
Department (OED), and, also, suggests new lessons to be considered in the future.
23.   First,  a loosely-specified project with a large percentage of unallocated
loan funds leads to project implementation difficulties for the Borrower,
specially when there is insufficient Borrower commitment to the overall
objectives of the project and little prior Borrower experience with technical
assistance projects. The situation best describes the PSM I project between the
date of effectiveness and reorganization of the project in late 1987.
24.   Second, when there is commitment by the Borrower to a clear overall country
strategy consistent with the objectives of the project, a loosely-specified
project permits the Borrower to select those project components of immediate and
highest priority to the Government and can result in effective impl:mentation and
sustainable results. This situation describes PSM I after reorganization of the
project.
25.   Third,  strong institutional support is required for project success.
Instability in project management and bureaucratic controls in decisionmaking in
the implementing ministry severely delay the project timetable. Similarly, a
committed Bank task manager with authority to approve significant changes in
project design can greatly expedite implementation.
26.   Fourth, conditionalities in the loan documents should be included after
careful consideration of the Borrower's situation and amended or waived in cases
of Borrower non-compliance during the course of project execution. The PSM I
project required the Borrower to appoint a full-time coordinator, but this
condition was not satisfied until late in the project (June 1990). The effective
performance of the part-time project coordinator during 1987 to 1990 demonstrates
that this requirement was not absolutely necessary. On the other hand, a full-
time coordinator between 1985 -1987 might have reduced delays in implementation.
27.   Lastly, when there exists both country commitment and implementation
capacity as in Chile, project complexity need not imply project failure. The
large number of project components in the reorganized PSM I project were
effectively implemented and by and large led to sustainable impacts.
presented in February 1988, a legal amendment to the loan was not signed with the
Borrower. Components added subsequent to loan effectiveness seldom contained
detailed justification for their inclusion in the project or their relationship
to specific project objectives.



- 12 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE



- 13 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
FIRST PUBLIC SECTOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2504-CH)
PART II.  PROJECT PERFORMANCE FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Plolect Imolementation
The main feature of the Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2504-CH) was its
design flexibility. The overall objective was open-ended, and that allowed the
Government to gradually introduce those components that needed assistance. This
was very positive, since the general situation of the Chilean economy had
significant variations between the project appraisal date (end of 1983) and that
of the redefinition of the project (end of 1987), and even different to the
conditions prevailing in 1985 when the Loan was signed, when the Government did
not feel there was a clear need to spend resources on external assistance that
would ultimately increase its already significant foreign debt.
Trhus, it was because of the recognized .ieed to use those resources, a
precondition of the third Structural Assistance Project, that studies were
undertaken to support circumstantial needs. This is probably the reason for the
variety of components which nevertheless were compatible with the Project's
general objectives.
Because of this characteristic, it is not surprising that only two
differences can be highlighted between the initial plan and its final
implementation.
One of them was the implementation period. During the project preparation
phase, a duration of two years was programmed, which was later extended to almost
six years.
This is explained, on the one hand, on the slow allocation of resources
during the first period, which prompted the World Bank to advise the extension
of the deadline to meet the original goal. Further extensions were due to the
need to complete studies which were already underway.
Under this aspect, it is interesting to note that during the project
implementation period, it should be considered that:
a)    Not  all  the  components,  at  least  in  our  case,  were  began
simultaneously.
b)    There are complex studies whose projected preparation is not always
real and extend over twelve months.



14 -
C)    The administrative process for Decrees within the Government system
delays the start of the studies.
d)    Besides all these aspects,  the duration of component execution
should necessarily consider the period prior to the call for bids,
including the possibility of their been declared void, and the need
for a second and even third call for offers.
Another important difference between what was planned for the Third Public
Sector Project in Chile, is the loan amount, which originally was US$ll million
and later reduced to US$6.5 million. This reduction in the amount bore a direct
relationship with extending the implementation time, sirce resources had to be
adjusted to a feasible program to be developed within the allotted time.
When analyzing Project implementation, it is convenient to refer to the
role of the Coordinating Unit. At the beginning, this was a Unit with little
autonomy whose Coordinators shared this function with others assigned by the
Ministers of Economy during the period.   Later, by early 1988, during the
redefinition stage, when it was necessary to make the Project more agile, the
Unit was strengthened assigning the necessary staff on a full-time basis to these
tasks, making possible better follow-up on the progress of the studies, as well
as greater participation in the development and processing of Terms of Reference,
calls for bids, and component definition, for which we received close cooperation
from the different Bank missioni.
Note should be taken of an important factor which was the valuable
cooperation received from the Project Coordination Office, which was highlighted
by the technical and professional excellence of all the persons that participated
as technical counterparts in the studies made, whose dedication and commitment
oriented the tasks of the consultants toward the desired objectives.
Proiect Results
The objective of the T.A. Project was to support the restructuring and
development process of the Chilean economy, through improvement of the efficiency
of administrative and institutional systems on which it was based, in such a way
as to streamline to the maximum the decision-making process.
Thus, studies were carried out and/or computer equipment was purchased for
the sectors requiring preferential attention such as: the National hccounts
System and that related to statistics and assessment of social program;-; programs
and studies oriented to foreign trade information; the improvement of the quality
of information for complex Governmental insi:itutions such as the General
Comptroller of the Republic, and state enterprises, with special emphasis on some
of them such as the Sanitation and the Transportation Sectors, e.g. Santiago's
Metro, Emporchi port tariffs, etc.
In general, through the project's 28 components, the Governmental system
now has in some sectors of our economy, more modern and efficient information
systems and measuring tools, oriented toward a better and timely decision-making



- 15 -
process, that although it has not been possible to measure quantitatively in the
majority of the cases, it is perceived notably superior in qualitative terms.
Particular objectives and achievements for each one of the components are
listed in the attached Annex.  Nevertheless, it is particularly necessary to
mention two of them, given the situations that took place during their
development.
One is the "Managerial Improvement of the Metro General Directorate." This
was a most ambitious, comprehensive project, encompassing the entire institution,
adapting besides the systems to its new business status (it was previously an
entity within the Centralized Government Administration).   Its development
constituted, since its inception, actual needs for radical changes that were
resisted by some sectors within the company. This was compounded by the change
in administration when the new Government took office.   The new Metro Board
decided to hire external auditors (Catholic University) to evaluate the validity
and quality of the study underway. The results indicated full agreement with the
study, recomnending its application and immediate implementation and its
complement with systems and equipment to be financed with Metro's own resources
which required considerable amounts.
The second study that requires special mention is the "Evaluation of Urban
Transportation in the Greater Valparaiso Area", the only component not completed.
It is the opinion of the consultants that preparation of the study was not given
sufficient time. To this it should be added the fact that gauging activities for
the demand models required more time than that foreseen, which was not objected
by the technical counterpart "in benefit of quality, an important element
required to obtain reliable results in this type of study." This delay implied
that completion of the study would be in March 1991, three months after the
closing of the TAL Project (December 1990), at which time the study would not
substantially increase its content, thus, the decision was made to leave it
unfinished by September, when the contract entered with the consulting firms for
its preparation expired. The Urban Transportation Commission plans to complete
it during this year with its own resources.
Performance of the World Bank
This Project was characterized by its flexible design, thus at the
beginning there were only three components defined and the rest were developed
after the Agreement had been signed. During this stage close cooperation from
the Bank was essential, and this facilitated and helped the development of the
rest of the components; the same can be said for the project redefining stage,
end of 1987, where Supervision Missions and the highest executive levels provided
support and confidence, advising on the preparation of Terms of Reference for
several of the proposed studies and also cooperating on their quick approval by
the Bank.
The cooperation and joint spirit of work previously mentioned was the
general characteristic that identified all the Bank missions involved in this
Project.



- 16 -
Close cooperation and fluent communication between Government authorities,
the Coordinating Unit, and Bank missions, contributed in large measure so that
the flexibility of the Project did not present problems in its development.
It iu important to highlight an important factor present in this Project:
both the Project Coordinator and the Bank Supervisor, who also had additional
authority which allowed her to approve Terms of Reference during the Missions,
remained in their positions during the period of greater project activity.
The valuable cooperation of the last Supervision mission should also be
mentioned with respect to all those processes that included the termination of
the Project, the closing of the Coordination Unit, preparation of reports, and
very especially the suggestions for the preparation of this Completion Report.
In spite of the intense work carried out during the Bank missions, their
duration was adequate for the coordination needs, with few exceptions, which was
achieved with good organization of the available time.
In connection with the disbursements requested from the Bank, it should be
said that they were made in a normal manner, with waiting periods as expected,
which did not cause problems.
Performance of the Borrower
During  the   Project   Preparation   Phase,   the   Chilean  Government
representatives participated actively in cooperation with the Bank,  and a
government mission travelled to Washington, D.C. when it was necessary to work
out some details on certain aspects of the Loan Agreement.
As established in the Agreement, the Borrower provided the Project with a
Coordination Unit, with the required infrastructure.   Project Coordinators
enjoyed the confidence and the support of Government authorities, which allowed
them to carry out their functions efficiently and to take decisions with the
necessary promptness, especially during the second part of the Project.
High Governmental authorities, i.e. the Undersecretaries and Ministers of
Economy, met always with the Bank Supervision Missions, producing valuable inputs
and accepting the suggestions proposed by them.
The Government institutions beneficiaries of the studies and equipment
financed with Project reso-urces provided the necessary support and commitment,
designating highly qualified professionals for the technical counterpart tasks,
actively cooperating with the Coordination Unit and also with Bank Missions as
necessary.
Provision of periodical information requested by the Bank was no obstacle
for the B0rrower, nor to adapt to its Regulations for the administrative
processing of bids, contracts, and bid awards, etc., since legislation and
regulations in effect in Chile for Government administration in these matters,
is as rigorous or more as that of the Bank.



- 17 -
These regulations are monitored by the General Comptroller of the Republic,
an autonomous Governmental institution, which in the performance of its functions
makes document processing that it must monitor, takes time that normally delays
processes, if they have not been previously anticipated.
Relations between the Wog4d Bank ar.1 the Borrower
From what has been said above, it is inferred that during the entire
duration of the project, relations between the World Bank and the Chilean
Governments were very good, which undoubtedly were a factor contributing to its
success.
CQONC_USIONS
As was noted in a previous paragraph, shortly after tho completion of
Project implementation, there is still no accurate perception of its outcome,
although we can perceive a significant improvement in the elements contributing
to decision-making in those sectors benefitting from studies financed with
project resources.
Nevertheless and notwithstanding the future course of the different
components, the Borrower believes that this first Technical Assistance Project
to the public sector was a success.  This allows the Borrower to state what
elements it believes should be present in this type of Projects.
..   When defining the needs for assistance, it is convenient to establish
priorities according to the objectives it wishes to achieve. These objectives
should be very well defined by the Government, at the senior levels, within their
respective areas of competence.
It is not only necessary to be clear and consistent as to the objectives;
it is also important to have a good professional team to implement them; Chile
has them and this Project is a good example.
2.    The Project Coordination Unit should functionally be placed within
the Government's administrative organization, at a level with real decision-
making powers. It should report to the highest political authority responsible
for the area.
As to future follow-up of the components, there are no clear plans. It
seems logical that the future course will depend on the projects' typification.
Some, which could be designated as institutional, with permanent results and
slower in terms of time (in our case, for instance, improvement of the National
Accounts System, INE statistics) or even others with results in the future as is
the study for the Metro, could be analyzed in seminars; on the other hand, this
is not the case for all those studies with immediate effects such as computer
training and procurement, for instance.



- is -
ANNEX
DESCRIPTION OF PROJECTS
1.    Evaluation of IANSA Facilities
The general objectives of the Project were to assess IANSA's performance,
am the only national sugar manufacturer, considering the analysis of
production and operation costs, and an evaluation of the improvements
required by each of the five IANSA facilities.
The work of the Technical Counterpart was performed by IANSA, which
besides providing, coordinating, and facilitating the work of the
consultant, provided office administrative support.
Thomas Rodgers and Francisco Negroni were the consultants.
The Project was completed in August 1986.
Results: The study was a valuable evaluation tool in the privatization
process of the company, since it allowed the determination of its economic
value and the quality of its production process.
2.    External Network for Exports
The Project's objectives were the identification of exportable products
and/or productive sectors' exportable supply with comparative advantages,
as the basis for the eventual development of promotional export actions by
the International Economic Relations General Directorate (PROCHILE).
Within this context, the work was formulated through a survey of a set
number of small- and medium-sized companies, basically manufacturers,
preselected on the basis of their export potential.
The technical counterpart work was undertaken by the Ministry of Economy
and PROCHILE. The two institutions monitored and supervised the correct
implementation of the work, and also promoted the survey among the Chilean
business sector, providing support to the consultant team in the
coordination of field work and contacts with the senior levels of the
surveyed companies.
The consultants who carried out this survey were the University of Chile
and IPAC.
Results: The results of this study generated major actions in support of
Chilean exports, improving their quality and quantity in significant
productive sectors; the results also permitted the definition of products
with real comparative export advantages.



- 19 -
3.    Social Prices
The objective of the study was, in the first place, to avoid misallocation
of resources in view of the political and economic repercussions that this
would imply in the short, medium, and long term. The main reasons behind
the study were:
i.    The use of a less significant base year.
ii.   Obsolete and/or less than adequate update methodologies to reflect
the evolution of the real economic conditions.
The secondary objective was to increase the quality of decision-making
with respect to investments through:
i.    The development of a methodology both to determine social prices
taking into account the difficulties of their calculation and allowing for
their timely update through time.
ii.   Calculating of social prices according to this methodology and
determination of bases for its timely update.
The role of technical counterpart was performed by ODEPLAN through its
Investment Department, and it was also responsible for project development
control and follow-up, besides providing all the required means to obtain
the relevant information.
Consultant services were provided by the Pontificia Universidad Cat6lica
de Chile.
The Project was completed in May 1987.
Results:   This is a valuable tool for permanent use in social evaluation
of public investment projects financed with fiscal resources.
4.    National Accounts System Improvement and Expansion
The objective of the Project was to expand and improve the NAS.
Updating of the system refers to the base year of the accounts at constant
prices. Updating implies the development of a new Input-Output Matrix for
1986 and the lateral studies required for this.
Expansion sought the development of income and expense accounts, as well
as the development of sactoral capital and investment destination series.
Improvement means a linkage with investment and updating of quarterly
accounts and short-term indicators, with a review of the processes that
add value within the input system used by this, safeguarding the quality
of  these  inputs.    NAS  improvement  also  included  the  design  and



- 20 -
implementation of a computerized system for the development of a
significant part of the work of the expanded accounts system.
The function of technical counterpart was performed by the Central Bank of
Chile's Office of Studies t'irough its Domestic Accounts Department. This
counterpart unit looked after the correct development of the project and
at the same time took an active role in carrying out the work involved.
The study was carried out by Maria Luisa Duerr as Project Coordinator;
Sergio Almarza was in charge of the building and housing rehabilitation
sector; Jorge Carvajal was the expert in Statistics and in the study of
the cargo and passenger road transportation sector; C.I.C.A. in the study
of the agricultural and silvicolous sector; Irene Cer6n in the study of
sectoral capital: INECOM in the study of civil works structure; and XEROX
in computer equipment.
The study was completed in March 1990.
Results:  The results are self-explanatory,  showing that the proposed
objectives were met and that we now have in place a better measurement
system for the National Accounts.
S.    Study on Special Employment Programs
The study had the following objectives: to carry out an analysis of the
situation of special employment programs up to that date.   There was
special interest in determining at least the following:
i.    Those adscribed but not belonging to the work force, i.e. those
appointed that were it not for the SEP, would not have been part of the
work force (desegregated by national regions).
ii.   Those adscribed who, besides receiving the subsidy, had another
source of income or business (desegregated by national regions).
iii. Reserve salaries for the adscribed in urban and rural areas
(desegregated by national regions).
iv.   Expectations of being hired by the Municipalities or the Public
Administration.
v.    Age and educational level of the adscribed.
vi.   Breakdown by sex and age.
ODEPLAN acted as the Technical Counterpart, and also participated, along
with the consultant team, in the development of certain phases of the
Project. It provided the consultant with the means to obtain specific
information and liaised with other public sector institutions; monitoring
and supervising the correct implementation of consultant tasks with



- 21 -
respect to terms, direction, and final products. The Consultant was the
University of Chile.
Results:  The Project was completed in January, 1989 and was used to
reorient the Government's soc..'l expenditures toward the poorest sectors.
6.    Expansion and Enhancement of the Household Survey Program of the National
Statistics Institute (INE).
The general objective of the study was to improve the methodologies and to
expand the coverage of household surveys carried out by INE.
In fact, the development of the IV Family Budget Survey meant the design
and improvement of methodologies and the obtention of information not
covered by INE statistics. From a methodological point of view, it was
necessary to compatibilize the sampling design with the information
required through the survey. Moreover, the new statistics generated had
as a framework the obtention of background information for the definition
of new weighings to calculate the CPI and the supplementary studies.
The specific objectives pursued were: to determine household consumption
expenditure structure to update the CPI's calculation base; determine
household and individual income sources and structure; determine household
and individual income distribution; provide information to update and
improve the National Accounts System; link the information on income and
expenditures with individual, household and housing characteristics;
provide information for other important studies for the design and
implementation of economic policies; determine the consumption expense
structure of households in the selected rural areas to evaluate possible
differences with respect to estimated weighing indicators in the above
objectives, and to technically evaluate the relevance of considering,
eventually, a wider geographical area to determine the weighing factors
used to calculate the CPI.
The technical counterpart work was performed by INE, through its Studies
and Coordination Division, reporting to the Technical Assistant
Directorate.
Consultant services were provided by the Pontificia Universidad Cat6lica
de Chile.
The project was completed in August 1989.
7.    CASEN II
The Project's general objective was to provide a diagnosis of the
socioeconomic situation of Chilean households, with a view to support the
Government's social welfare planning and evaluation, harmonizing technical
aspects with the population's perception of the Government's social
welfare program. Specific objectives of the study consisted on estimating
the population's income distribution with representation at the regional



- 22 -
urban-rural level and for some counties, to estimate the impact on income
distribution by the different Social Network Programs (Consolidated Family
Subsidy,   family  allowance,   welfare  pensions,   general   pensions,
unemployment subsidies and special employment programs, those programs in
the education, health, nutrition and housing-related areas); devalopment
of a comparative analysis between the years 1985-1987 of the population's
income distribution and the effectiveness of the social network and to
evaluate the population's perception on the different programs encompassed
by Social Welfare.
The technical counterpart function was carried out by the National
Planning office.
Consultant services were provided by the University of Chile.
Results: The study was completed in March 1990 and is presently in use,
serving as the basis and the link for similar and supplementary studies of
the current Government.
8.    Marketing Campaign for the PROCHILE Southern Salmon
The objectives pursued by the Project were to harmonize packing and
packaging designs and materials for exports of Chilean salmon, provide the
Chilean product with a quality image (similar to that of the Norwegian and
Scottish Salmon) and that this be recognized through the "Quallty Seal",
promote such seal, develop a market perception that identifies the salmon
as coming from Chile, make the buyer (importer, wholesaler, retailer,
etc.) trust the capability of regular salmon supplies during the season
and expand the demand for Chilean salmon in the main East and West Coast
cities of the U.S., which traditionally buy the product, such as Los
Angeles, San Francisco, Portland, New York, Boston, Miami, Washington,
etc.
The technical counterpart was formed by PROCHILE, the Ministry of Economy
and the Salmon and Trout Producers' Association, who supervised the
implementation of the campaign.
Consultant for this Project was Marketing Solutions.
Results: The Project was completed in November 1388, and was very useful
in improving foreign marketing of this important export product.
9.    Methodology and Specifications on Environmental Impact for Hydro and
Thermo-Electric Power Stations
The goal of the Project was to develop a detailed analysis of all factors
considered pertinent to evaluate the corresponding environmental impact of
hydro and thermo-electric power stations; it includes defining the
surrounding project areas, information and analysis of the area without
the project, analysis and alternatives for the Project, identification of



- 23 -
Project elements and actions which could have an impact and the proposed
means to correct them, identification of impact and cause-effect
relationships, prediction of the magnitude of the impact on environmental
factors, transformation of the magnitude of indicators or of effects on
comparable units of environmental quality, weighing of environmental
indicators,  analysis  of  possible  positive  environmental  impacts,
evaluation of the socioeconomic cost of rejecting the proposed Project and
selection of a specific alternatives, evaluation of the cost of related
actLons decreasing the environmental impact of the Project to acceptable
levels and final evaluation of the net impact.
The technical counterpart for the study was the responsibility of CORFO.
The consultant performing the study was Dames & Moore Ltd.
Results: The study was completed in August 1989 and is a valuable tool to
evaluate and analyze the future construction of power stations.   The
recently created National Environmental Commission, has adopted it and
will use it in the study of several issues within its scope.
10.   Preparation of Preliminary Design and Evaluation of and Small and Medium
Power Projects
The study covers a systematic analysis of all aspects and parameters
necessary to evaluate Projects in the categories of Microstations,
Ministations, Small Stations and Medium Stations.
The Technical counterpart function was performed by CORFO.
The study was carried out by the Japanese company Electric Power
Development Company, Ltd.
Results: The study was completed in August 1989 and is of great value for
planning and evaluating small projects. which are permanently being
evaluated, such as the case of a private electrical company in the
Northern part of the country which has used it in the study of a central
station they plan to construct.
11.   Measures to Control Illicit Use of Electric Power
The study had the objective of carrying out a detailed collection and
analysis of existing data and of previous studies made on the issue at the
national level, and an analysis and collection of experiences in
controlling electric power theft at the distribution level in major urban
centers with low-income housing areas in other countries.
The technical counterpart for this study was CORFO.
The company carrying out the study was EBASCO Business Consulting Company.



- 24 -
Results: Completed in October 1989. It represents an important element
in the evaluation of policies that should be enforced to solve this
important, resource-consuming problem, such as the case of the subsidies
for basic needs of low-income sectors.
12.   Improvemwent of Metro's General Directorate Administration
The general objective of this Project was the development and
implementation of an administrative and financial management system with
a comprehensive approach to confront its new status as an open stock
corporation, assuming full and independent responsibility of its
administration.
Specific objectives were to set up the necessary integrated management
information systems.   Fro.n these, design, establish, and implement at
least the management information systems considered to be prioritary for
the financial and administrative management. These were the financial-
accounting management system, materials management, and personnel
management.
The technical counterpart function was performed by the Metro General
Directorate.
The project was executed by C.P. Chile Ltd., and ECOM S.A.
Results:   Completed  in October  1990.   It is under  implementation,
supplemented by additional equipment and studies financed with significant
own resources.
13.   Training Programs on Computer Equipment Use for MINVU
Complying with MINVU objectives, a modern computational equipment was
acquired which presented the need for the development of a National
Training Program. The objective was to train staff from the Ministries'
Regional Secretariats and the Regional Housing and Urban Services, in
handling and operating computer equipment assigned to each region, and in
the future, form a cadre of professionals to perform the maintenance and
development of the Central Computer to design and execute new computer
applicatione required by the sector.
The technical counterpart function was performed by three representatives
from MINVU.
The Project was executed by Sergio Solis Mateluna, Systems Engineer.
Completed in March 1990.



- 25 -
14.   Financial Management Support, INDAP
The overall objective of the program was to establish a collection system
to reduce financial costs by using resources more efficiently and
simultaneously becoming a valuable decision-making tool.
The technical counterpart function was performed by INDAP.
The Project was carried out by the consulting firm Bakovic and Balic and
Company Limited.
Completed in December 1989, it became an important support and management
improvement tool for institutional management.
15.   Improvement of PROCHILE's Information System
The Project's objective was to make the Institution's information systems
more agile, efficient and effective through the use of computers to
provide more relevant, timely and complete information to the different
agents participating in the export process.
Achievement of said objective was obtained with the development of three
components:
Subproject A:   Expansion of computational infrastructure for PROCHILE
Santiago, which supports the Directorates for Bilateral Economic Affairs,
Multilateral Economic Affairs, and Coordination and Promotion.
Subproject  B:    Improvement  of  Information  Systems  for  PROCHILE's
Documentation Center which includes bibliography management and
administration systems of PROCHILE's Documentation Center.
Subproject C:   Acquisition of computational equipment for PROCHILE's
External Network - Second stage, which increased the number of offices of
the External Network that have computerized support in order to improve
and ease from its inception the information cycle handled by the
Institution.
The technical counterpart function was under PROCHILE's responsibility.
Successful results.
16.   Economic Evaluation of Telecommunications Technical Guidelines, MINTRATEL
The overall objectives of the study were:
a.    To demonstrate to specialists, technical and general staff working
in the development of telecommunications technical guidelines, the
economic significance of decisions on the issue, in terms of a



- 26 -
balance between the value of services rendered and the required
resources.
b.    To demonstrate,  in general  terms,  that  relaxation of certain
guidelines and technical regulations in national transmission plans
and/or orientation generates savings of important resources for the
country and does not cause incompatibilities with international
telecommunications guidelines.
c.    To develop a methodology to determine the type and level of optimal
requirements for guidelines for different telecommunication aspects,
which should be consistent among themselves and adapted to our
economic environment.   Essentially, a methodology was sought to
compare the social value of services rendered, and the necessary
resources to render them (especially investments).
The technical counterpart function was performed by the Telecommunications
Undersecretariat of the Transportation and Telecommunications Ministry.
The consultants in charge of the study were TELECONSULT, ECONSULT and
INTELDATA.
The study was completed in November 1989 and is used permanently in the
evaluation of sectoral policies especially those related with the
improvement of the rate system.
17.   Evaluation of Greater Valparaiso Urban Transport System CTU
The main objectives of the study were the following:
1.    Implementation of a model and procedures system allowing continuous
planning and management of the Greater Valparaiso Urban Transport System
(STU):  this system includes demand, supply and equilibrium conditions
forecast models that may be necessary as well as the methodologies for its
use and permanent update.
2.    Establishment of a data base compatible with the above objective.
3.    Creation of regional technical capability to support the planning
and continuous management process.
4.    Preparation of a medium- and long-term development plan for the
Greater Valparaiso STU.
5.    Make recommendations on policies to be pursued with respect to
expansion of the present elevators network, identification of the primary
road system and recommendations for actions to optimize its operation,
proposals for handling vehicle transit in the Valparaiso and Vifha del Mar
downtown areas and Urban Transportation System organization and
management.



- 27 -
The technical counterpart function was performed by the ODEPLAN's Urban
Transportation Commission.
Consultants in charge were CITRA and CIS; computer support equipment was
purchased from Avanzados Sistemas de Conocimientos, S.A.
This was the only component among twenty-eight that was not completed.
The consultants did not complete their objectives during the period
established in the contract and in view that the most probable completion
date was March 1991, after the closing date of the TAL Project, the Bank
decided to suspend financing during phase number four from a total of six.
18.   Survey on Origin-Destination Trips in Greater Concepci6n CTU
The objective of the study was to overcc;..  a.. important part of the
information shortfalls constituting a starting point, on which future
sector studies will be based, considering both the expansion of the urban
nucleus Concepci6n-Talcahuano as well as the increase in port activity
resulting from wood products exports.
Considering the strong existing pressures in order to solve certain road
problems, on the other hand, the absence of reliable information to
formulate projects favored the prevalence of political or group pressures,
which in turn resulted in decisions devoid of basic technical
considerations.  The overall objective of the study was, therefore, to
contribute to the improvement of analysis procedures for investment
projects in urban transportation in the Eighth Region.
The technical counterpart for the Project was ODEPLAN's Urban
Transportation Commission, who also maintained close interaction with the
Consultant during the development of the study in order to carry out a
detailed follow-up of the technical activities established in the work
program.
Consultancy work was performed by the Pontificia Universidad Cat6lica de
Chile.
Project completed in April 1990.   It is an important tool for future
planning, a basis for supplementary studies which are planned to be
carried out in the future.
19.   Port Tariffs Study
The objectives of the study were:
a.    Development of a systematic approach to tariff policy which will
make the best possible use of resources, both those currently used
by the port and those used in other parts.



- 28 -
b.    Ensure that the tariff system gives adequate signals for investment
or disinvestment, so that the investments policy is consistent with
the tariff policy, giving an expected financial return equivalent to
what those assets would earn under competitive conditions in the
private sector.
c.    Explore  institutional  actions  or  formulas,  such  as  external
contracts, privatization, etc., that offer greater possibilities of
achieving the summarized objectives, and explore more convenient
contractual or regulatory clauses to reach those objectives
protecting, at the same time, the public interest.
The technical counterpart was a Commission formed by Representatives from
the Ministry of Economy, Treasury, Transportation and Telecommunications,
ODEPLAN, and EMPORCHI.
The consultancy was carried out by the Pontificia Universidad Cat6lica de
Chile.
Resultss   Completed in December 1988,  and although it has not been
implemented, the methodology and basic concepts constitute signaling
guidelines for eventual definitions on the issue.
20.   Developmer\t of an Information System for Public Enterprises, MINECON
The objectives of the study were:
1.    Analyze all the information related to public enterprises received
by the Ministry of Economy, identifying its periodicity and their
different formats.
2.    Determine the proportion of information received and used for any
specific purpose, or that responded to any specific or present
objective.
3.    Determine the percentage  of  information not used nor  further
processed,   clearly  identifyiLg  each  document,   its  origin,
poriodicity of arrival, placing emphasis on the reasons that caused
its lack of use.
4.    Determine whether there was information previously requested and for
various reasons not sent, or similarly, not sent in time.
The technical counterpart function was carried out by the Ministry of
Economy through its Industry Division.
The consultant for the study was Price Waterhouse Company; computer
support equipment was purchased from Empresa Avanzados Sistemas de
Conocimientos, S.A.



- 29 -
Result.:  Completed in July 1989.   All the equipment recommended was
purchased, and io belng used to carry out the Minlstry's actLvlties, even
though implementation of the orlginal study has been suspended.
21.   Improvement of Natlonal Economic Audlting Office Management
The objectives posed by the Project were to provide the National Economic
Auditlng Offlce with:
a.    An organizatlonal structure allowing it to perform efficiently 'ts
responsibillties, define lines of communicatlon, facilitate planning
and control, and flexlbility and efficiency in reaching lts
objectives.
b.    An information system supporting both the operational management as
well as the degree of compliance of Lts objectlves, goals and
project being promoted.
C.    A system of indicators of monopolLstic practices carried out by
domestic companies, the design of procedures to collect information,
processing and generation of reports to detect and analyze
Irregularities in order to take the corresponding actions.
The Technical Counterpart for the study was the NatLonal Economic Auditing
Office.
Consultancy work was performed by the Deloitte Haskino and Sells Company;
computer support equipment was purchased from Empresa Avanzados Sistemas
de Conocimientos, S.A.
Results: The project was completed in September 1990 and ls currently Ln
full implementation stage.
22.   Improvement of Comptroller's Offlce Management
The Project "Government Personnel Aoministratlon Systems" had as an
objective to support the decision making process at the Government
authorities' level to provide them with overall information on the
Government's Administration staff, as well as to promote higher efficLency
in the operations of Personnel Departments within Governmental offlces, by
providlng them expeditiously complete and reliable lnformation on thelr
personnel payroll.
The technical counterpart was the General Comptroller of the Republlc
through its Registry and Control Division.
Consultancy work was performed by the company Synapsis, S.A.
The Project "Connection between Headquarters and Regional Offices" had as
an objectlve to provide the controlling agency with the necessary hardware



- 30-
and communications elements to access to and from the country's regions
the information generated by the agency's mechanized systems within the
Metropolitan Region, including also personnel training in the Regional
Offices on the use of the data base.
The technical counterpart function was performed by the General
Comptroller of the Republic through its Computer Center.
The equipment was purchased from the fo'.lowing companiess   Avanzados
Sistemas de Conocimientos, S.A., IBM Chile, S.A., MAINT and PRAGMA.
Results: The project was completed in May 1990; very useful in view of
increasing information requests from usual and new users of the
Comptroller Agency such as the Congress' House of Representatives which
has the responsibility of monitoring the actions inherent to public
functions.
23.   Structuring of Future Companies SENDOS
The general objective of this project was to transform the centralized
administrative system with which Regionai Directorates operated on the
systems required to allow new companies their normal functioning as open
stock companies, according to their regional location. To that end, the
consultant had to provide each company with an organizational structure,
define, provide and implement the information systems required by the
companies to support the operational and strategic management and
determine work loads and staff manpower for each company.
The technical counterpart function was performed by SENDOS during the
first stage and by the Ministry of Economy represented by the TAL Project
during the second stage, with the technical support of regional companies.
The consulting agencies for this Project were Deloitte Haskins & Sells and
Synapsis, S.A.
The study was cancelled before its completion with the implementation of
the pilot Region and payment of the 12th installment corresponding to the
progress report for Stage 14 of Gantt Letter.
The Project's second stage was constituted by the "Assessment of Drinking
Water and Sewage and Real Estate" study.
Results: The Project was completed in the first semester of 1990 and is
being currently implemented in certain regions, as their Board of
Directors approve the resource commitments required.
24.   Certification of Electric Appliances
The Project's general objective was to design and establish a system to
certify electric appliances to guarantee adequate protection for the



- 31 -
safety of non-qualified users and that its enforcement allow the businoss
soctor an agile and expeditious compliance with the requirements imposed
without affecting the productive and commercial system involved.
In order to establish a system with the above-mentioned characteristics,
it was absolutely necessary to bear in mind the level of development of
our industrial and Commercial sectors, since disregarding this factor
could have determined the establishment of a highly safe system, but with
no applicability to the circumstantial reality.
The technical counterpart function was carried out by the Ministry of
Economy, who carried it out through the Domestic Trade office, with
advisory services provided by Fuels and Electric Superintendency.
The consultant who carried out this work was Promotores Internacionales
para el Desarrollo Ltd.
The project was completed in September 1989. Its use is still pending the
issuance of the supporting legal legislation.
25.   Management Support to the Fishing Undersecretariat
The general objective of the program was to generate a practical technical
and decision-making capability to design and evaluate the administrative
measures of selected national fisheries units encompassing the biological,
economic, and social aspects involved from a systematic pe3rspective.
Specific objectives were:
a.    To  transfer  to  the  Technical  Departments  within  the  Fishing
Undersecretariat the decision-making process methodologies at the
tactical level.
b.    To  structure  and apply the decision-making  procedures  in the
selected National Fisheries in order to determine specific
development strategies.
c.    To structure and install an information system and its corresponding
computational structure to support specific functions determining
the requirements for the previous objectives.
The technical counterpart function was carried out by the Ministry of
Economy through its Fishing Undersecretariat.
The Consulting Firms for the study were ECONSULT and Deloitte Haskins &
Sells; computational equipment required was purchased from Avanzados
Sistemas de Conocimientos, S.A.
The Project was completed in October 1990 and is in the implementation
stage.



- 32 -
26.   Expansion of INDAP'. Financial Management
The original project did not contemplate training to maintain subsystems,
which had to be provided as follows:
a.    Training  for the  Institute's  Information  Unit  staff  on DUNGA
application in the different subsystems.
b.    Training to professionals from the Finance and Information Division
in charge of the financial model subsystem.
The Project was completed in January 1990.
27.   Management Training - SENDOS
The main project objective consisted of training geared toward the highest
decision-making levels of each Regional Directorate, to train in basic
administration and economy concepts, appropriate to modern business
management, from the point of view of a company delivering public
services.
The technical counterpart function was performed by the Director of the
National Sanitation Works Service.
Consultancy was carried out by the firm Deloitte, Haakins & Sells.
Completed in December 1989.
28.  T.A.L. Microcomputer
The objective for acquisition of the equipment was to support and
facilitate the management function of the T.A.L. Project General
Coordination.
The equipment was purchased from Avanzados Sistemas de Conocimientos, S.A.
Completed in November, 1988.



- 33 -
COMMENTS ON THE FINAL REPORT
Parts I and III of the Project Completton Report on Project 2504-CH
prepared by the Bank satisfactorily reflects their perception of the Project.
The assessment on the evolution of the Chilean economy is accurate; there are
certain parts or expressions within the text that we do not share, but we
understand that they correspond to a legitimate perception which we obviously
respect.
We believe that the Bank describes very aptly in the Evaluation Summary the
advantages for the Borrower of having available a loan with such a flexible
Project design. Under other scenarios this could have been a source of problems,
but in the case of Chile it had a great advantage: the possibility to adapt it
to our needs. It is true that at the beginning, the interest of the Chilean team
was less than that of the Bank, which explains the complex organization of its
coordination, the Coordinators, turnover and the slow project implementation,
described in the first part,  Project Organization and Design.   When the
Government finally committed itself with its development, it defined studies to
support areas with real shortcomings, attempting to harmonize them with the
Project's general objectives, but not as a necessary condition. Therefore, it
is based on this that the Bank perceives, in the Project's redefinition stage,
as lack of a clear objective or lack of criteria for the selection of the
Projects that were subsequently defined: all of this probably as a consequence
of our lack of experience in administration of Technical Assistance Projects. It
is possible that it may have been more convenient for the Bank to have a project
with fewer components, aiming at solving big problems but easy to monitor and
supervise, in the style of those by which it is renown in the developing
countries. Chile had different needs, and that was the merit of this credit,
which opened the possibility to adapt it to the needs of different times.
Furthermore, we believe that if it had so wished, as noted in the Report, the
Borrower could have utilized to its advantage the total credit as initially
defined.
It is necessary to clarify that when the Project restructuring was agreed
with the Bank at the end of 1987, the Government named a full-time Coordinator
from January 13, 1988, which does not agree with the statements made in
paragraphs 10 and 26 of the Report where it is objected the part-time dedication
of the Coordination Unit chief.
With respect to consultants' services, the Bank points out in paragraph 20
that in some cases the consultants were either too ambitious when defining the
scope of their work considering the available time, or made the wrong
calculations of the complexities of implementation, and points out to the Metro
and Sendos studies. The truth is that in the latter case, the consultants could
not have foreseen the difficulties in the institutional legal part of the
Sanitary Sector, a product of the Government's policy decisions, which proved to
be an obstacle to the timetable programmed for the study, which had to be
modified to provide better service according to the priorities at that time.



PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION AND TABLES
CHILE                                                       Table 1
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT                              .........
LOAN 2504 -CH
PROJECT COWPLETION REPORT
RELATED DANK LOAMS AND/OR CREDITS
LOAN           -           PURPOSE                                        DATE Of                STATUS
APPROVAL
........................... .......................................................... ... .... ...   ...............
Structural                 To support measures taken by the               10/22/85               Completed
Adjustment Loan I          Goverrment during 1965 and early 1966                                 PPAt 6/26/90
2625-CH                    in strengthening  incentives for
noncopper exports, increasing public
savings and efficiency of public
investment programs and inplementing
measures to improve condition of
banking end corporate finances.                                                                      (
Structural                 To support the Governnents 1986-87             11/20/86               Completed
Adjustment Loan II         program of economic adjustment and                                    PPA 6/26/90
2767-CH                    recovery by accelerating exports *nd
domestic ssvings as hell as iqproving
the condition of banking aid corporate
financing.
Structural                 To continue support for the                    12/15/87               Conpteted
Adjustment Loan III        Goverrsent's structural adJustment                                     PPMA  6126/90
2892-CH                    program through strengthening of
Incentives for noncopper exports as
oell as isprovements In public
savings, public expenditures nd
public efforts In the social sectors.



CHILE                                                      Tabl  2
PUBLIC SECTOR NANACEJENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN 2504 -CH
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FIHANCING PLAN
(USS Nlliia)
Foreign                    Local                         Total
Estlmted             Actual
Bank                                                11                        0                      11              6.36
Covernmnt                                            0                      9.7                    9.7               3.03 'a
TOTAL                                               11                      9.7                   20.7               9.39
s Includes taxes an consultant services. project adeinistration costs, payments for COEPLAN services end counterpart  upport.



COILE                                                                           Table 2
PtIC  SECTOR NANAEIENT TECWIICAL ASSISTACE PROECT
LOAN 2504 -CH
PROJECT COIPLET ION REPORT
FINANCING PLAN
(USS ml itia.)
Foreign                              Local                                  Total
EstImted                    Actual
............ ....................... 4......................................................................... ................. ..........................................
11on                                                                  11                                0                              11                   6.36
Govel went                                                             0                             9.7                             9.7                    3.03 %a
TOTA                                                                  11                             9.7                            20.7                    9.39
a   Incluces taxe   an consultant services, project uhinlstratlon costs, pyuents for WEPLAN srvices   nd counterprt stfW rt. 



i                                      a*
'U
a   I                                            
* 3
H                                                  C



PUSLIC SECTOR   NAGEMENT TECEICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT                                                            Table 4
tOAM  2504 -CN                                                                                .     .
PROJECT COWPLETION REPORT
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
(USS Thouwnds)
Estimtes at Loan Effectiveness (Aprit 1965)         Revised Estimates (Dec.1987)                 Actual (Dec.1990)
Ites                                 Iank         Goverrwent                Total        Bank  Governaent          Total          Sank Govmrnemnt%s         Totst
........... .................... ........ ............... ^........................................................................................................................... .... ........  . .    ............................ 
1. ProJect Management                          0          795                 795                                                  6.9         432          436.9
2. Pubtie Sector investment                  864         1096                1960        1973                                   1834.5       S65.2         2399.7
Planning and teview
-Social Pricing                                                                    110                                      110          22            132
-Special Eeployent Progrmn                                                         280                                      280          S6            336
-CASEN II                                                                          200                                      200          80            280
-N13VU                                                                             115                                      114        35.5          149.5
-IDAP                                                                             100                                    118.8        36.9          155.7
-Valparaiso Urban Transport                                                        600                                   485.1        189.6          674.?
-fiscalis                                                                           68                                    161.3        50.2          211.5
-Contraloris                                                                       500                                    365.3          95          460.3
3.  Public Enterprise                        4100        3000                7100         1722                                  1763.7       836.1         2599.8
Nonagement
-IANSA                                                                              32                                     31.9        14.3           46.2
-NETRO                                                                             430                                      425       165.9          590.9
-Controt of Itticit Use of Elee.                                                    70                                      100        86.7          186.7
-Telecom.Norms                                                                     370                                      369       319.4          681.4
-Port Tariff                                                                       IS0                                       75          15             90
-SENDOS                                                                            400                                      686       213.5          899.S
-NIMECON                                                                           270                                     76.8        21.3           96.1          oo
4.  Economic Statistics                       S00         254                 754         1692                                  1630.2       621.1         2251.3
-National Accounts                                                                 520                                    454.8       124.5          579.3
-Household Survey                                                                  a72                                    871.5       435.8         1307.3
-Concepcion Orig.& Destn.                                                          300                                    303.9        60.8          364.7
5.  Export Premotion                         1395         664                2059         451                                    455.3       286.7            742
- Camrcist InformtIon                    466          114                 582         149                                    149.2       115.1          267.3
- CaWanr Export Assistene                675          350                1025         107                                    107.3          93          200.3
- PRaCWILE - External                    252          200                 452         195                                    198.8        75.6          274.4
Network
6. Future Studie  and Other                  2000        2000                4000         382                                    672.7       204.4          957f.1
Tchnical Assistance
-Enviren.lopIectfnergy prol.                                                        92                                     92.1        27.5          119.6
-Smiel I med.h)dcrpouer enterprises                                                140                                    137.4         119          256.4
-Norms for elec.appliances                                                         150                                      248        77.2          325.2
-Fisheries Model                                                                                                          195.2        60.7          255.9
Total lass costs                         8859        7809               16668        6220                                   6363.3      3025.5         9388.8
Price Contingeniets                      2141        1886                4027          280
Totel Project Costs                         11000        9695               20695        65 W                                   6363.3      3025.S         9388.8
*     Csts inclu#e consultantfes mtsf                   ct nstrtt---e                    ricesad ELservics                                 ;
%a to ts include econultsnt ftes, p ys nts for proJect admninstrtiton. counterpart services *nd ODEPtUA" services.



CNILE                                                     Table S
PUBLIC SECTOR  AMANICMT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT                            ------
LOAM 2504 -CN
PROJECT COWPLETION REPORT
LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
Dlabsburntc
Category             Description                               Loan Agreement                 Revised            Actual
.......... ................................_.....                 ....................._.......
1.                   ConsuLtants' Services                       7,951 ,000.ao          5,400,000.00      6,306,090.69
ard Training
2.                   Goods                                         400,000.00              800,000.00         58,305.94
3.                   SpecIal Accosmt                              1,000,000.00                                (7,105.30)
4.                   Total Disbursed                                                                       6,357,294.33
5.                   Undiisburspd                                                                            142,705.67
6.                   Unallocated                                  1.649,000.00             300,000.00        135,600.37
7.                   Cancelted                                                          (4,500,000.00,   (4,50O.000.0OO
TOTAL                                      11,000,000.00           6,500,000.00      6,500,000.00



CHILE                                            Table 6
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT                  ----
LoAN 2504 - CH
PROJECT CONPIETIOU REPORT
CUMUUT IVE ESTIMATED AND ACTtIAL DISSJSENENTS
Disbursesnts in USS Millionm
1ank                                        Estimted         Actutl            Actual as X of
Fiscal Year               Quwrter          CumIlative        Ctwlative         Estimted
.. ..__....__..... ............. .... .... ............ ......................... .. .. ......... ................ ............
1986                  Sept. 19B5            1.00             0.99                99
Dec.1985             1.00              0.99               99
Mar.1936             1.00              0.99               99
June 1986            1.00              0.99               99
1967                  Sept. 1986           2.00              0.99                50
Dec.1986             3.00              0.99               33
Mar.1986             3.00              0.99               33
Jure 1987            3.00              0.99               33
1988                  Sept. 1987           4.00              0.99                25
Oec.1917             5.00              1.55               31
Mar.1988             6.00              1.55               26
Juie 1988            7.00              2.07               30



CUILE                                               Table 6
PUBLIC SECTOR MANGEMEUT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN 2504 - CH
PROJECT COWPLETIOU REPORT
CLDU.ATlVE ESTINATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSENENTS
Disbursements In USS Millions
Sank                                          Estimated          Actual             Actual as I of
Fiscal Tear                Quarter            Cuwulative         Cumlative          Estimted
1989                   Sept. 1988             8.00               2.68                 34
Oec.1988              9.00               3.18                 35
Mar.1989              10.00              3.98                 40
Jnwe 1989            11.00 af            4.50                 41                                                             4-
1990                   Sept. 1989                                5.02                                                                                3
Dec.1989                                 5.46
Nar.1990                                 5.61
June 1990                                6.05
1991                   Sept. 1990                                6.23
Dec.1990                                 6.23
Mar.1991                                 6.36
June 1991                                  */
a/   Original loan closinu date UaS revised to 06/30189 *nd subsequsntly extended to 12131/90.
In ddition. the loan amint was redLced by USS 4.5 million in February 1968.
___U          __sshB3==U==UeSUUUUUU33U3Uzf3ZUUUZZ3UeZSS3UUUUcZSZUflUU



Table 7
CHILE----
PtBLIC SECTOR ANAGCENENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN 2504 -CN
STATUS OF STUDIES
Date of         Cost             Purpose as defined at                           Descripton of                       Project Ipspct
Activities       Completion      (USS Thousands) Appraisal                            Status      Project tesults                     Suctalnbility
A. Activities Agreed at tbe Tihe of Loan Effectiveness:
.................... ......................................................................................
1. IASA StudV August 1986    US$ 39.8             AnalyzIng cost of production and    Completed  Study recmsnded several              IANSA privatized two yeasc after
improvesents required In each of                meures for isproving              clpetion of the studr.
the five EANSA plants                           operationat performnce of IASA
plants, including privatization.
2. Study on      February 198?  USS 237.5         Survey of smll and medium           Completed  DeveLopot of a data base on           Adoption of recmtiomn has
Exports                                          enterprises to enable PROCNILE to                potential exports by   lt nd        reutted In an incre_s in
identify  nd rece_end products                  oedlua enterprise.                 eaport-revu-a  In mr_l wd mdlue
mid sectors with export potential                                                   enterpis.
for developrent                                                                     - Oate ba  dewlopd Is berig
regutarly opdted.
3. Socialt           y 1987     IISS 110.0       improving resource allocation nd    Completed  Development of a ne  socil            New social pricing structure Is
Pricing Stud                                     Inmtoment by developing a                        pricing structure by identifyfng    currently used by 1It WPLA4 for
realistic base for calculating                  relevant social costs wnd a         etaluating scial Impwt of pibtle 
social pricing,                                 methodology for theIr calculation.  Investmnt projects                  N
4. National    October 1989   US$ 502.0           lproving the methodology and        Completed  Data of the study used by the        - Completion of a study on the
Accoumts study                                   updating data required for                       Central  ank for producing a        Investment sector.
calculating national accomts,                   consistent erles of nationl         - Propoed updating of the
including computation of the GNP.               incom  statistics for 1986-1989.   methdology for calculating qarterty
prices.
- Finacing by J _opwe grant for
flom-of-funds study to  ywra
national acounts to mt UN
giuidet ines
S. Activities Inluded Su*sequent to Loan Effectiveness:
.........................................................
S. Special        Jinury 1989  USS 280           Analyzing the efficiency of          Cowpleted   lecommetiona for progr_             Gmownunts special alomeunt
Emploment                                         existing employment progrms In                  chages  Including pasing out of  pro         ba  ben pd out.
Progrm  Study                                     term  of their objectives and                   special etployment progras.
coverage nd recmending
solutions for problems detected In
this reprd.
6. Incom  nd wAugAt 199    USS 871.5             Analyzing natialo   income l nd      Completed  Replacement of the 197IM  mrket      The nem CRI Index. starting April
Expenditure                                      experditure distribution for                   - basket with a na oer whicb          1969. ue  spnding mmi,ts of



CNILE                                                         Table 7
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEiENT TECNICAL ASSISTANCE PIOJECT                                     ......
LOAN 2504 -CN
STATUS Of STUDIES
Date of         Cost             Purpose as defined at                             Descripton of                       Project lopectJ
Activities       Coeletion       CUS$ Thousands) Appraisal                              Status      Project Results                     Sutstinobilfty
Sousehold Survey                                  developing a new market basket and                includes Infor_atlon an pending,  the nerw bsket.
weights for the CPI.                             income *nd living corditimr  for
6500 households.
T. CASEN 11    March 1990        USS 200.0       lIproving targetting of governernt  Coapleted   - Household Survey (1967)              - Survey data beIn9 used by RUOPLM
Survey                                            program br conducting *nslysis of                 completed *d distributed.      e      d i dh      Int reserdher to
the distribution of various                        Targeting analysis report         further study taretting leaes.
goverrment social expenditure                    prep red by Unliversity of Chile.    - Survey results used In world C nk
programs nd  studying the effect                                                     poverty study ed by  NINfLAN
on fmily income.                                                                     regional offices for Ift nt
pluming pmwpoaas.
- Followup surv ry CE A    i ti)
pltend for 19S1.
S. POCUILE    November 1968   US$ 178.8            epxoving packaging  nd quality       Coepleted   Iproved product Imp resulting    FlnineIng for the US adb  aeit
Salomn Marketing                                  control of salmons for export                     In  n export growth by nerly        cmpaign is beIng continued with    t
Study                                             markets.                                          sewvn time sinc  clptetion of    the Salmon Groers Assocation           V.
study. Additionat revwnu outturn  ftund after tereinrtion of INL        La
froem exports expected dirln  19P0  finanieng.
close to US$75 million. Market
share for fresh salmn  Increased
to 20M of the total market In the
US aw to 100X In Japan.
9. Envirormantal   August 1969  US$ 101.2         Developing a stcadard                 Coapleted   Coaprehensive mnual developed  nd  - Formtion ot an Emufronmntal
lpact of                                         enviromental lpact report                        widely disseminated.                Commission (COWIA) In the Ninfstry
Electric                                          defining areas to be menlyzed In                                                      of PbilIc Uwks In Aprit 1969.
Projects Manual                                   the construction of future power                                                      - Transltion of proposed nom  to
plants in Chile.                                                                     forml CGwernmnt Inatruttion
currently under review by 00llI.
10. Small and  Augut 1969        U5$ 229.0        Developing a standard mnemal for      Completed   wanal dnveloped and widely          several  1ll and mdlus
adius Power                                       evwluating proposed m*itl and                     dis _ Inated to regfonat            hydroelectric powe plants currently
Plants                                            medium hydropower plants by                       authorities, enterprises and        being evalusted using methdsogy
Evaluation Manual                                 private entrepreneurs.                            universities.                       proposed In the awual  for example,
EDEUIS.
11. Illicit Us  October 1989   USS 166.7          Analyzing electricity consumption   Ccmpleted  Study recomand tion to                 Electric energy pricing pelWelS
of Energy Study                                   between high and low-incme                        control the illicit use of          under Gowernent review.
households and recamending                        nergy by providing sutsidies to
measures for controlling illicit                 low cenAuption househobds.
use of energy. 



CUILE                                                       Table 7
K11IC SECTOR  _NMET   TECOIICAL ASSISTAMCE PUOCECT                                         '
Low 2504 -CU
STATUS OF STtDES
Date of        Cost             Purpoe as defined at                             Descripton of                       Project lpactJ
Actlvities       Cpletion        (USS Tholsads) Alrisal                               Status      Projct teuts                         steindbility
12. NETRO       Ictober 1990   USS 464.6         Developing an operational and        Cmpleted   Dwel mnt of a NIS systan to          - IMETIO-f lI d study for eltwtlmg
lcrenmization                                    finnclil control system required                 facilitate SETtO's opeation a       th  feaibility of IWaI_ntI
to wrag METRO as a private                      an Indqpadmt anterprie              rl cnndIt       tons coleted by te
enterpoise.                                     cxpleted wIth 1AL-finwving.         Catholic Unilrty of Chile.
- fmingcin  of cest*r oqui_it an
externl cawltants by NES to td
_munt of USsso.O .-
* Traincin  of MET  staff in the we
of the na sstm
i3. Coquer    Mrch 1990    uS 126.7              Training NIUW staff to  _ag  the  Cospeted   Training of NIrU  staff copieted   - Ministry twklad reprted to
training for                                     coeaerized date base an mortae                   In the thirteen regism.             have inrerasd  ithout lncroe  In
MIUW staff                                        and benficiaries of housing                     lerrmins in the regioal offices   mbs employed.
program,                                        are being used, on an aw g..,       - Trained staff am ecoitine
for 12 hours per day.              training progrs  far remaining
staff.
14a. IWW        Deceober 1969  USS 99.9         lStrengthening INDAPs computerized  Completed  Integrated on-line credit              - letpoveents In timlfne ss nd
Portfolfo Syste_                                 portfolio mnnaement of                           Inforintion syst_m implewented     quallty of  * gant Inforation. I
agriculturaI credit *nd developing              in regions.                         - Syste_ being *xpndod to cme alt
new financisl and * nagerial                                                        regims.
reporting system  for INDAP.                                                        - Goverment has roqsted the Six*
for fin ancing  proj et en
facilitating techlitnde tru ufor tn
the resgins.
14b. Training    Jemry 1990   US$ 32.1           Assessing cputer capeity.            Completed  Total of 6 staff trained In varlous Trained staff ar currently
for  IROAP                                        Identifying training needs nd                   regions1 offices.                   condueting propr   for training
Portftolo System                                 conducting staff training In the                                                     other staff in the regism.
use wnd inintenance of the new
system at the regional offices.
15. PRCUILE    DYebef 1969  US 23#4.5            Streawthening PROCHILE dota base    Completed  PIOCILE network inmtelled In 9        - silnificnt improvewsts in
Network                                          and ;nternationat computer                       cosmtrtes.                          timlt Im  and qu lIty of ex_   rt
commections.                                                                        fnforntion.
e- etwork is being epsidd to came
sma* cou,ntries.
16. Study on   Novemr 1969  USS 615.0            Reviewng technical norm and          Completed  Oevelopment of *vsluation            ect  ndsti1nu for Increing



CHILE                                                          Tabl* 7
PULILIC SECTOR tUAGEMENT TECNIICAL ASSISTA     PROJECT                                        -
LOAN 2504 -CN
STATUS OF S1I)IES
Date of         Cost              Purpose as defined at                              Descripton of                        Project lapectJ
Activities       Completion       (USS Thousands)  Appraisal                              Status       Project tesults                      Sustainabitity
............. ....................... ....................... ............................................ ..... ....... . ..................................... ... .. ... ....... ....... ................ ...............................
optimization ot                                     proposing new regutitlons required                 methodology for environmental        ftexibility of tetecom  nrm wnd
Tetec-mmiunication                                  for protecting                                     iwpact of teleomeutcation norm. strnqthening Telecom Sacretrafet
Worns                                               residentiat/connercial users.                                                           being fiwted wuder the propoed
meeting international and                                                               PSH II.
cosputer-l ink requirements wid
Improving export potential for
Chilean manufacturers.
17. votparaiso        n.a         USS 550.5        Development of a data base ard         Incomplete Data base  nd methodology              ESTUYAVAL maiting fiuwing from
urban Transport                                     adoption of the Santiago                           developed but not hplapmted.         other "gaicies. fnctuding the
.Xke  Sttudy                                        transportation model for                           9ank financing for the study "as   Government. to captete atudy In 191.
Valparaiso leading to a planring                   suspended since it could fot be
model nd policy recomendations.                    crsleted before the lton elosing
date.
1'.  Concepcion   April 1990      USS 303.9        Oata collection through aurveys,       Cospleted   Data of the study ued for             Model beirg apptled In Region Villa.
Origin aid                                          census aid transit flows in                        devetoping modet of the Conmepclon  for improving trport invetmnt
Oestination Study                                   criticat points in the                             urban transport system               pl mwing.
transportation network for
plamning urban trnsport                                                                                                      tn
Investments In the Concepcion
region.
19. Port Tariff  December 19U8   USS 75.0          Reviewing port tariff policies to    Completed   Study developed a pricing              The Goverwrnt has reqeted 3in
Study                                              improve port utilization aid to                    methodolog   nd a differentiat        fin neing to ihptIt study
guide future port investwents,                     tariff poticy to enc         Mort    recomedtiona.
efficient use of port ca4elty.
20. Pitlic         Juty 1989    tlS$ 87.5          Designing and implewnting an           C"pleted   besirp of the date base                                 None
Enterprise                                          In-howe data base mid Anagemnt                    cpleted. Nowever.
ataabase                                           i Information system  for pwhlic                  loplementation of the  IS system
enterprises and reviewing wnd                      In HIMECO  suspended cde to
antyzing information reWired for                   large-scatle privatization wd
developing key indicators for                      shift In mnitoring enterprise
monitoring pubtic enterprise,                      to CORFO.
21.  Fiscalia    October 1990    USS 179.2          Strengthening Fiscatiaes ability      Completed   - Completion of study and             - Finaning of a consultant to
stucty                                              to Investigate wnd prosecute                       ieplesntation of rtcomerdatlon    contimia ilplementation of
anticompetitive practices through                 for reorganitaing t scAlleas          remining recomedati1m  to be
lmprovements In organizetion,                     fimctions.                           provided under the proposed PI It
Informtion systema wd training.                     Cesuteriastion of Informtion    project.
system  resulting In Incresed        - Proposal for retraining fiselio



CUILE                                                          Table 7
PUBLIC SECTOR  MACENENT TECOICA  ASSISTANCE PROJECT                                          -
LOAN 250' -aC
STATUS OF STIDIES
Date of         Cost              Purpose as defined at                              Descripton of                        Project l pctl
Activities       Cospletlen       (USS Touawds) Apraisal                                  Statu        Project esults                       Susttainbility
.,..,,..........................,.,,,..................,. ... ... .... ... . ...... ........ ......................... ................................................._____._..__..  -----
capacity and reduction In tim  for staff to Incree their functiolna
date procesing us r requests.       cpacity for analyzing *nsle_ titve
practices In different m*rkets.
22. Contralorl  Wpril 1990        USS 66.7          Dewelap4ne a persotrel date           Completed   - Developoent of a coaprehansive    - Systm estbialdhed eider the
- Civil Service                                    nsnagmeent -.ystem for the pthlic                  date be   cawovering 240000 active   project is being updated regerwty.
Registry OSte                                       sector based on a survey of usetr                  civil service peracsmel In plae    - Orgnic Law of Contrelorla Is
gas,                                                needs,                                             of a *nual register.                 bering mdif ed to legally pernit
- R[eduction In time taken for       distribution of inforemtin an
processing user requsts an           civil service peremnni to dacislm
personnet.                           makers.
- Flexibility In adapting            - Plen  are In progre"s to extnd
statistical Infor_ tion to uer       systu_ to all the teslve reienal
requests,                            offices.
- Sfzeeble increae In
Contraioria's cpacity to provide
detailed date on civil s*rvice                                             I
persoaiel to decision  tesrs.
23. Contrelori  Nareh 1990       US5 360.2         Developing databases an               Completed   - Establishment of a coaputeriued   - Estabia I   nt of reional network I
R eglan 1                                           legslation. public accountir4  nd                 date base  hiche permits quicker      Will permit date to hbe acessed bv
Netw2r&                                             pers ennl wid linking these                        access of legal data besIs by        congress for decisii-  kin.
electronically with Regional                       ContraloriV's twelve regional        - Legal date bas Iis being
Contralorle offices.                               offices,                             regularly upeated pu  issuanc of
-  Reduction In tim  taken by        new lew *nd ruetaltiow.
Contraloris to furnish
Infotrmtion an Iaws med
directives to Its regional
offices from 1S deys to I hoes.
- Imrovemnts In Contralerflas
capacity to clear ptmic contracts.
24. SEW"iS        may 199D        US. 762.2         Developing information system  rd   Completed   - Law granting corporate status         - Proposed stutures undr
Rtewrulizution                                      adeinistrative structwres tor                      (S.A) to the eleen regional         fhpl _antftln In Regmna IV. VI,
reorganizing SEROOC Into regina 1                 offices of SEdDS passed In            Vili X  nd XI.
corporations including training of                 February I990.
regionln  staff to fuiction under                 - Informtion system developed
the new structure.                                 nd recmmendatiom nudb for
improving organization structure
of regional corperations.
25. Review of   Septeobet 1919 USS 275.6            Ievirewing aeisting norm  and         Completed   * Studv rewults disminated to    - Legistation for reoranizing



CHILE                                                          Table 7
PUBLIC SECTOR MANAGEMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTACE PROJECT                                          -
LOAN 2504 -CH
STATUS OF STUDIES
Date of         Cost              Purpose as defined at                              Descripton of                        Project Iqmct/
Activities       Completion       (USS thousands)  Appraisal                               Status      Project Results                      Sustainab tity
E         -ectrical                                 t-,posing new reguaotions and                      affected busint; wes                 functIons of th-   Seroic  for
App I nces Norm                                     implementation mechanisms focussed                                                      Etectricity and Cambustibles,
Study                                               on consumer protection and                                                              responsible for lmplemanting study
improved export potentiat for                                                           reconnendations under Covernrunt
Chitean manufacturers.                                                                  review.
26. Fisheries   October 1990    USS 216.9           Constructing and implemnting a        Completed   Developwent of the model              - Neuty deteloped modet belng
Modet                                               biotogical-economic modet of                       completed.                           further rtfined for optimu
fisheries stock and exploitation.                                                       exploitation of fisherles re aucs.
Perso_el tralned In scoemtry for
on-going apptlcation *d refina  nts
In the model.
4-J
_ _ * _ _ sr_ ssas w -s =  =sg s aXg  Xsszs--_==ts=sgss=Es-w    #ss=ss   -                                                _       _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



PULIC SECTOlt  _     T    TECILICAE   ASSISTA:;E PloJfCT                                                  Tablo 1
LOR 2504 -Cl                                                                         -------
PROJECT COPETION REPOIRT
STATUS OF COVEAUTS
Agr_emt         Section        Description of Covenant                          De dllne for               Status
Cowl n'ce
.. .. ._......... ................ e.................................................................................................. ............................................................................._. ........._..._.._.___
Loan            3.01 (b)       Naintaining a full-tim  coordinator for the    Until closing date.          Coordinator appointed onty part-tim  till
project in the Ministry of Econmy until the                                  ay 19g 8 but two capable assistants worked
closing date.                                                              full-time.
3.01 Cc)      Project Coordinator to be provided wit,;                                    Lack of stability In the head of the Project
appropriate staff  nd administrative spWpt.                                Coordinsting tUnit (PCU) in  be early mph
of the project.  vowre, project-related
work proceeded well through assistant-level
staff.
3.01 (d)      PCU to sumit to the  Sn  for Its approval                                   Coverant ipletented to the  Sank's
proposals for studies, training or other                                   satisfaction.
technical assistance approved by the Bank
including term  of reference for each
additional study. training or technical
assistance.                                                                                                                                     O
3.02          lank procurment guidelines to be followed for                               Sank guidelines cooplied with satisfactorily.
the purchase of goods financed wider the loan.
3.03          Employment of consultants In accordance with                                Covnat satisfactorily adhered to.
the Dank's guidelines and procedwres.
3.04          Establish   d m_intain a project monitoring    No loter than June 30.    Timely coepianca.  Borrower prepared
and reporting system satisfactory to the Bnxk. 1985                        seminuuma  report  for Sank
supervision missitm aid tracked project
progres via MIS.
4.01          Anmaul  udits in  ccordance with sound           Anmually                   Compiled with satisfectorilty.
wacommting practices.
Sch.2         Improving the decision-making process In the                                Relevnt studies mat stoted objectives  nd
Part A        pubtic  ector by tranlating macroeconomic and                               were completed satisfactorfily with the
ectorat policies into operation$t criteria,                                exception of the Valparaiso urban transport
strengthening management tools such as                                     model thich  as suspended due to ltack of
programming, budgeting with speciat emphasis                               completion within the closing date of December
on phlic sector Investment plaming aend                                    31, 1990. Delayed completion in the case of
review. revising organizational arrangements                               INDAP.
to accomodate appropriate division of labor
associated with improved decision-mking.



CHILE
PUSLIC SECTOR  UAAGENT TECHNICAL ASSISTAJICE PROJECT                                                   Table 8
LOAN 2504 -CN                                                                      -----
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
STATUS OF COVENANTS
Agreement       Section       Description of covenant                        Deadline for               Status
Compl ance
._. ............................................................. ..... ....... ... .. . ....... .......... ... ... ... ... ... ............... ........................... ......
Sch.2         Improving the medliu to long-term performnce                             Relevant studies copleted satisfactorily
Part B        of public enterprises by strengthening                                   with the exception of NINECON for ihitch
corporate planning srd the Iorrower s                                    Implementation was su_ede due to trasfer
capability to orient nd controt public                                   of resposibitity to CORFO for monitoring
enterprises as well as developing criteria  nd                           plbic anterprise perfor_nee. Delayed
procedures for privatizing.                                              coqpletion in the case of IETRO.
Sch.2         laproving the quality of fnformtion                                      Studies copleted satisfactorily.
Part C        supporting public setor decision-making by
strengthening data and informtion bases used
in prep ring econoic statistics. expanding
national Income accounts, updating data on
quantitative relationships between sectors In
term  of iputsloutputs srd finrncial flow of
funds.
Sch.2         Developing a progr_ within PROCHILE to                                   Coapleted.
Part 0        provide tehnical asistanee to small ndI
mediewsized exporters In the area of
ererelal Information system and
international cnmicatiSons Including the
creation of an extern l network of export-
related servimes.
Sch.2         Carrying out additional studies. selective                               in couplance.
Part E        training mid other technical  ssistneme a
reWqred to foster the objectives of the
project.
_a =s=-a-xs---ts--- -- --



Table 9
CHILE                                                 -------
PUBLIC SECTOR MUAGENENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN 2504 -CN
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MISSION DATA
Stage of Project Cycle   Date                  Number of       Mandays in           Specialization     Performnce       Types of
(month/year)           Persons             Field          Represented *J        Rating b/ Problem cJ
Identificetion            November 1983
Preappraisal
Appraisal                 February 1984
Suyervision 1*            June 1986                    3                14                       A                             M
Supervision 2             November 986                 I                11                       A                2            M
Supervision 3             may 1987                     4                 8                    A.B                 1            M
Supervision 4             November 1987                1                 8 aA                                     1 
Supervision 5             May 19t8                     2                 4                    A. B                1            T
Supervision 6             October 1988                 1                 6                       A                1            T
Supervisien 7             Jsnuary 1989                 1                 4                       C                I            T
Supervisfon 8             April 1989                   2                 7                    A B                 1            T
Supervision 9             November 1989                1                 7                       D                1            T
Supervision 10            May 1990                     2                 4                    B, 0                1            T
Supervision 11            October 1990                 1                12                       0                                                                  1
a A a Economist/Country Officer, 8 a Nationtl Accounts Specialist. C * Information Technology Specialist. 0   Piublic Finance Specialist
Xb  I a Problewfree or minor problem,  2 a Moderate problems   3 = ajor problems
%c   T * Terhnical   F a Financialt  M  anagerial
* Supervision for PMSL I urdertaken in ddition to that for another project.
m u M:ssss:tSl=s=asassssrstss-tstls



