Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4006 ALB 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Third Poverty Reduction Support Credit) 
 
between 
 
ALBANIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated December 8, 2004 
Page  2
2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 4006 ALB 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated December 8, 2004, between ALBANIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated October 
4, 2004, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to eradicate poverty 
from the Borrower
’s territory (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in 
support of the Program during the execution thereof;  
 
(B) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions described in 
Schedule 2 of this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has maintained a 
macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; 
 
(C) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit as hereinafter 
provided; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 2004), with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
 
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Development 
Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.”; 
 
(b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, withdrawals 
from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit account 
specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement.”; 
 
Page  4
-
2
-
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
 
(e) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) Not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the 
program referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations 
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit.”; and 
 
(f) 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 and 
9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.  
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Commune” means an administrative and territorial entity and the community of 
residents defined in the Article 5 of the Law on Organization and Functioning of Local 
Government (Law No. 8652, dated July 31, 2000); 
 
(b) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement;  
 
(c) 
“FY”  means the fiscal year of the Borrower beginning on January 1 and ending 
on December 31 of each calendar year; 
 
(d) 
“School Year 2003-2004” means the academic year of the Borrower beginning 
on September 15, 2003 and ending on June 9, 2004; and 
 
(e) 
“School Year 2004-2005” means the academic year of the Borrower beginning 
on September 20, 2004 and ending on June 16, 2005. 
 
Page  5
-
3
-
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to six million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,900,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account in 
support of the Program. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central bank, a deposit 
account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  All withdrawals from 
the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  If the 
Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Credit shall have been 
used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount of said 
payment; or (ii) if the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association. 
Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account 
for cancellation. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the 
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to 
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of 
Page  6
-
4
-
the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time 
be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing April 15, 2015 and ending 
October 15, 2024.  Each installment shall be five percent (5%) of such principal amount. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Particular Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower undertakes to implement the Program with due diligence 
to ensure that actions and policies adopted under the Program are put into effect. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either 
party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program. 
 
(c) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
 
(d) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken after the 
disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of 
the Program, or any action taken under the Program. 
 
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four  
(4) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
Page  7
-
5
-
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Additional Event of Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Termination  
 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as the representative 
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Bulevardi “Deshmoret e Kombit” 
 
Tirana 
 
Albania 
 
Facsimile: 
 
355 42 28494 
 
Page  8
-
6
-
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
   
64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Tirana, Albania, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
ALBANIA 
 
By 
/s/  Arben Malaj 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
/s/  Olav Rex Christensen 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  9
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit shall not 
be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
 
1.  
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; 
 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have financed or agreed 
to finance under another credit or a loan; 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in 
Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured 
 
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
Page  10
-
8
-
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph the 
term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import of which 
is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower is 
a
party);  
 
6. 
expenditures on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if 
such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that corrupt 
or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of 
the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation. 
Page  11
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Program Actions Taken By the Borrower 
 
1. 
The Borrower has maintained a satisfactory macroeconomic framework. 
 
2. 
The Borrower has: (a) completed a first time registration of land in eighty 
percent (80%) of its cadastral zones; and (b) implemented measures to resolve any 
potential disputes with regard to any land registered for the first time in the territory of 
the Borrower. 
 
3. 
The Borrower has increased the share of its budget allocation for the health 
sector for FY 2004 with a real increase relative to FY 2003 in: (a) targeted public health 
programs; and (b) operations and maintenance expenditures for primary care, which 
shall have been: (i) transferred to local governments as a conditional grant; or (ii) 
funded through alternative mechanisms acceptable to the Association, ensuring thereby 
appropriate funding for primary health care operations. 
 
4. 
The Borrower has increased the share of its budget allocation for the education 
sector in FY 2004 with a real increase relative to FY 2003 in recurrent salary and non-
salary expenditures. 
 
5. 
The Borrower has: 
 
(a) 
implemented a satisfactory policy on free textbooks for basic education 
for the School Year 2003-2004;  
 
(b) 
made satisfactory progress in continuing the implementation of the 
policy on free textbooks for basic education for the School Year 2004-2005; and 
 
(c) 
made satisfactory progress in implementing measures to provide free 
textbooks for secondary education in the selected eighty (80) poor Communes within 
the territory of the Borrower for the School Year 2004-2005. 
 
6. 
(a) 
The amendment (Law No. 9114, dated December 24, 2003) to the 
Borrower
’s Law No. 7703, dated May 11, 1993 on Social Insurance has been enacted 
and the Borrower has made satisfactory progress in its implementation with regard to 
the carrying out of an audit for the financial statements of the Social Insurance Institute 
of the Borrower by a qualified independent external auditor. 
 
Page  12
-
10
-
(b) 
The Borrower has made satisfactory progress in the implementation of 
the amendments to the Borrower
’s Law No. 7703, dated May 11, 1993 on Social 
Insurance with regard to a phased increase in retirement age and benefits reductions for 
those who retire early. 
 
7. 
The Borrower has provided evidence of satisfactory personnel actions, in 
respect of appointments and/or dismissals of personnel in key positions of the 
Borrower, which are consistent with the objectives of the relevant legislation as well as 
with the principles embodied in the Code of Ethics of the Borrower (Law No. 9131, 
dated September 8, 2003). 
 
8. 
The Borrower has prepared and published audited consolidated financial 
statements of budgetary accounts for FY 2002 related to its Ministries, its Social 
Insurance Institute and its local governments, and has made satisfactory progress in 
implementing measures to improve their quality in accordance with the international 
public sector accounting standards acceptable to the Association. 
 
9. 
The Borrower has adopted a comprehensive set of subsidiary legislation for 
implementing its Law No. 7971, dated July 26, 1995 on Procurement, and has adopted 
and published standard bidding documents and a user’s manual for the procurement of 
goods, works and services, acceptable to the Association. 
 
10. 
The Borrower has adopted policy papers on health, education and social 
assistance and their technical annexes, acceptable to the Association, which elaborate 
on: (a) local governments’ specific responsibilities regarding shared functions; and (b) 
an action plan to establish basic minimum national standards and performance 
indicators to evaluate services delivered by local governments.
 
