Page  1
1
Initial Project Information Document (PID)                  
29739
Project Name
ALBANIA
-
Poverty Reduction Support Credit III
Region
Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector
Central government administration (40%); Other social services 
20%); Health (20%
); General education sector (20%)
Theme 
Other economic management (P); Social risk coping (S); Social 
risk mitigation (S); Social risk reduction (S); Other social 
protection and risk management (S)
Project
P083337
Borrower 
GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA
Implementing Agency
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Address: Deshmoret e Kombit Boulevard
Contact Person: Deputy Ministers of Finance Adriana 
Berberi/Dritan Shano
Tel: (355
-
42) 284
-
05 Fax: (355
-
42) 284
-
94 
Environment Category 
U (Not Rated)
Date PID Prepared 
Ju
ly, 2004
Auth Appr/Negs Date 
July, 2004
Expected Bank Approval Date 
October, 2004.
Country and Sector Background
Albania  witnessed  recorded  high  levels  of  economic  growth  over  recent  years.
Real  GDP   
averaged 7 percent annually over the period 1999
-
2003. After a slowdown in 2002 caused by 
electricity shortages and floods, growth recovered to 6 percent in 2003 and is expected to reach 
the same level in 2004. The major contributing factor to the growth momentum was the gradual 
increase in domestic dema
nd.  Consumption  and  investment  were supported by growing real 
incomes generated by external flows of aid, remittances and foreign direct investment. The recent 
pick  up  in  output  growth  also  resulted  from  an  acceleration  in  merchandise  exports.  They 
inc
reased by 25 percent in 2001
-
2003, with a noted expansion in exports of textile and footwear. 
Growing demand for Albania’s exports in EU markets contributed to the growth momentum over 
the last two years. Improvements in power supply resulting from favorab
le weather conditions 
and progress on restructuring of the power sector have also helped to support output growth.
Despite sustained growth and macroeconomic stability, poverty in Albania remains pervasive.
 Per 
capita income in Albania (US$1,740 in 2003),
 is one of the lowest among transition economies 
and countries in South Eastern Europe.  Around 25 percent of the Albanian population, or close to 
780,000 individuals, fall below the poverty line. Furthermore increasing the poverty line by 10 
percent  incre
ases  the  percentage  of  poor  individuals  by  25  to  50  percent,  depending  on  the 
Page  2
2
poverty line used. Poverty in Albania is marked by spatial and regional dimensions, with rural 
areas and the Mountain region being consistently poorer than rest of the country. A
ccording to the 
2003 World Bank Poverty Assessment, poverty headcount in rural areas is 66 percent higher than 
in Tirana, and 50 percent higher than in other urban areas. Per capita consumption in rural areas, 
at 7,224 Leks, is about four
-
fifths of the con
sumption levels in urban areas. Poverty rates and 
depth in all other regions are around or below the national averages.
Structural reforms have advanced significantly since the late 1990s
.  This was largely the result of 
the broad dismantling of price and
 trade controls, the privatization and distribution of agricultural 
land, and the privatization of agricultural retail and small enterprises.  Immediately after the 1997 
collapse, a new banking law was passed and a privatization strategy was developed.  Si
nce then, 
trade has been liberalized,  the privatization of small and medium enterprises and of the banking 
sector has been completed, and there are only a few enterprises in the services sector that need to 
be privatized.
The Government intends to make A
lbania’s development strategy inclusive and focused on the 
poor with the objective of increasing its per capita income closer to the neighboring European 
countries. The National Strategy for Social and Economic Development (November 2001) rests 
on  two  main
  pillars
—
improving  governance  and  sustaining  high  economic  growth
—
and 
emphasizes education, health care, and infrastructure as priority areas for policy intervention.  
The  NSSED  identifies  Albania’s  main  development  challenges:  weak  law  enforcement; 
corrup
tion;  an  unattractive  investment  climate;  low  quality  and  inaccessible  social  services, 
especially education and health; poor infrastructure; and a shortage of basic necessities, including 
water, sanitation, and heating. The NSSED recognizes that weak gove
rnance and institutions are
at the root of Albania’s developmental problems. It also acknowledges that economic growth will 
be the main instrument to reduce poverty in Albania. Maintaining macroeconomic stability and 
adequate social protection are cited as
 preconditions for implementing the strategy. The NSSED 
also  emphasizes  stronger  public  accountability  and  increased  public  participation  in  decision 
making to empower the poor. 
The NSSED has five main goals: (i) achieve real GDP growth of 22
-
25 percent;
 (ii) reduce the 
number  of  people  living  in  poverty,  particularly  extreme  poverty;  (iii)  make  tangible 
improvements in infrastructure and related services, such as electric power, potable water supply, 
and sewerage, increasing the poor’s access to these se
rvices; (iv) reduce infant and maternal 
mortality  rates  and  the  incidence  of  infectious  diseases;  and  (v)  increase  elementary  and 
secondary school enrollment rates and the average schooling period.
Objectives
The  proposed  Poverty  Reduction  Support  Credit
  (PRSC3)  would  be  the  third  in  a  series  of 
operations supporting the National Strategy for Social and Economic Development 
-
 NSSED, in 
line with the Bank’s strategy presented in the CAS. It would support the implementation of key 
reforms  aimed  at  promoting
  economic  growth,  strengthening  public  sector  governance,  and 
improving social service delivery. The  proposed credit would help consolidate reforms in public 
administration,  public  expenditure  management  and  accountability  and  social  sector  service 
delive
ry.  It  would  support  the  country’s  efforts  to  increase  the  Government’s  accountability, 
responsiveness and effectiveness. Civil service administration reforms would help increase the 
professionalism of civil servants and, together with reforms aimed at imp
roving the performance 
of social sector line agencies and the social insurance institute, would thus improve the public 
sector’s capacity to effectively regulate, monitor and deliver services. Reforms in the areas of 
Page  3
3
public expenditure management, financia
l accountability and  procurement improve transparency 
and the effectiveness of public spending.
Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The  Bank  has been a  major  partner of the  Government  in  supporting  the  preparation  of the 
NSSED program. The IDA PRSC program
 has been an instrument to work with the Government, 
donors and other stakeholders to ensure the maximum level of coordination in program actions. 
For example, the PRSC program does not duplicate public sector reforms that are being supported 
by the Europe
an Union. Similarly, the PRSC does not duplicate reforms that are supported under 
other Bank operations, such as those related to energy. 
Description
The proposed PRSC III would be a single tranche adjustment operation providing balance of 
payment suppo
rt. It consists of four components to support the NSSED:

 
Promoting sustainable growth and supporting private sector development; 

 
Strengthening capacity to monitor and evaluate the policy agenda; 

 
Improving service delivery and social safety net effective
ness; and 

 
Strengthening the policy formulation process, public expenditure management and inter
-
governmental fiscal relations. 
Financing
The proposed amount of IDA financing is SDR 6.5 million, which will be released at credit 
effectiveness. 
Source (
Total  SDR 6.5 million)
BORROWER (0)
IDA (6.5)
Total Project Cost
: 6.5
Implementation
The  Government  has  designated the Minister  of  Finance  as  National  NSSED  Coordinator  to 
manage the overall implementation of the PRSC. The primary implementing agencies 
will be the 
Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economic Cooperation and Trade, the Ministry of Education 
and Science, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Local 
Government and Decentralization, the Ministry of Lab
or and Social Affairs, the Department of 
Public  Administration, and  the  INSTAT.  Overall  monitoring  of the  program  will  be  through 
regular reviews, in collaboration with the NSSED Technical Secretariat, and in the context of the 
preparation and supervision 
of the subsequent PRSCs. The NSSED will include a monitoring 
plan that will summarize the principal indicators to be tracked during the program, the related 
data sources, and the responsible parties. Input/output indicators will largely be tracked through 
administrative information and program reviews. Outcome and impact indicators will largely be 
tracked through survey data, especially through the Living Standards Measurement Surveys and 
follow on panel surveys that are an integral part of the NSSED progra
m. 
Sustainability
Page  4
4
The assessment of the sustainability of this operation is based on (i) regular macroeconomic 
assessments in coordination with the International Monetary Fund; (ii) an intensive dialogue on 
the Government's medium term budget program; a
nd (iii) sectoral reforms that are designed to 
improve the fiscal sustainability of social insurance programs, and to improve the adequacy and 
quality of spending in key sectors such as education and health.
Lessons learned from past operations 
The PRSC
 I and PRSC II programs and overall implementation of the CAS have highlighted (i) 
the importance of cross cutting sectoral issues for successful implementation of the Government's 
reform  program;  (ii)  the  critical  contribution  that  stakeholder  involvement
  plays  in  overall 
program ownership and implementation, as evidenced in the design of the NSSED program and 
specific sectoral strategies (e.g., social insurance); (iii) the importance of donor coordination in 
order to ensure the maximum leverage and to avo
id overlaps in external assistance; and (iv) the 
importance  of  developing  institutional  capacity  for  policy  development,  monitoring  and 
evaluation.
Environment Aspects
The proposed operation has been rated a structural adjustment credit governed under O
perational 
Directive 8.60, and does not require an environmental assessment rating. The project team has 
endeavored  to  identify  any  areas  that  may  require  particular  attention  with  respect  to 
environmental issues.
Contact Points:
The Task Managers for PR
SC III are Monika Huppi and Célestin Monga 
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone
: (202) 473
-
5733/(202) 473
-
5125
Fax: 
(202) 477
-
0574
For information on other project related documents, contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 
H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458
-
5454
Fax: (202) 522
-
1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily 
included in the final project.
