                                     Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                              Report No: 36524

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                      (IDA-40060)

                                          ON A

                                        CREDIT

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.9 MILLION

                                           TO

                                 REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA

                                          FOR

                    A THIRD POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT




                                      June 30, 2006




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            (Exchange Rate Effective June 28, 2006)

                                 Currency Unit = Albanian Lek (Lk.)
                                            1 Lk = US$ 0.0102
                                       US$ 1.00 = 97.72 Lk

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                  January 1    December 31

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AITPP   Agency for Inventory and Transfer of    SSDP           Social Service Delivery Project
        Public Properties
ASYCUDA Automated System for Customs Data       TA             Technical Assistance
BEEPS   Business Environment and Enterprise     IMF            International Monetary Fund
        Performance Survey
BISR    Budget Impact Submission Ratio          INSTAT         Institute of Statistics
BoA     Bank of Albania                         IPS            Integrated Planning System
BOP     Balance of Payments                     LDP            Letter of Development Policy
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy             LGU            Local Government Unit
CAD     Current Account Deficit                 LSMS           Living Standards Measurement Survey
CAE     Country Assistance Evaluation           M&E            Monitoring and Evaluation
CFAA    Country Finacial Accountability         MoAF           Ministry of Agriculture and Food
        Assessment
CoM     Council of Ministers                    MoE            Ministry of Economy
CPAR    Country Procurement Assessment          MoES           Ministry of Education and Science
        Report
CS      Civil Servant                           MoF            Ministry of Finance
CSC     Civil Service Commission                MoH            Ministry of Health
CSL     Civil Service Law                       MoLGD          Ministry of Local Government and
                                                               Decentralization
DfID    Department for International            MoLSA          Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs
        Development, United Kingdom
DoPA    Directorate of Public Administration    MPs            Members of Parliament
DPL     Development Policy Lending              MTBP           Medium Term Budget Program
ECA     Europe and Central Asia Region          NE             Ndihme Ekonomike
EIB     European Investment Bank                NHA            National Health Accounts
EBRD    European Bank for Reconstruction and    NSDI           National Strategy for Development and
        Development                                            Integration
ESW     Economic and Sector Work                NSSED          National Strategy for Social and Economic
                                                               Development
EU      European Union                          OECD           Organization for Economic Cooperation
                                                               and Development
FDI     Foreign Direct Investment               O&M            Operations and Maintenance
GoA     Government of Albania                   PARP           Public Administration Reform Project
GDP     Gross Domestic Product                  PEFA           Public Expenditure and Financial
                                                               Accountability

GPRS    Growth and Poverty Reduction              PEIR         Public Expenditure and Institutional
        Strategy                                               Review
HIDAA   High Inspectorate for the Declaration and PEM          Public Expenditure Management
        Audit of Assets
HR      Human Resources                           PHC          Primary Health Care
IDA     International Development                 PPA          Public Procurement Agency
        Association
ICR     Implementation Completion Report          PRGF         Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
IDF     Institutional Development Fund            PRSC         Poverty Reduction Support Credit
IEG     Independent Evaluation Group              TALGA        Training Agency for Local Government
Q&A     Questions and Answers                     TSA          Treasury Single Account
QAG     Quality Assurance Group                   TTFSE        Transport and Trade Facilitation in South
                                                               Eastern Europe
QER     Quality Enhancement Review                VAT          Value Added Tax
SII     Social Insurance Institute                VET          Vocational Education and Training



                                 Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu
                               Country Director     Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                                Sector Manager      Cheryl Gray
                             Task Team Leader       Sanjay Kathuria

                           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                  ALBANIA THIRD POVERTY REDUCTION SUPPORT CREDIT


                                               CONTENTS




                                                                                          Page No.
      1. Project Data                                                                           1
      2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          1
      3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                2
      4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   7
      5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    20
      6. Sustainability                                                                        20
      7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                         22
      8. Lessons Learned                                                                       23
      9. Partner Comments                                                                      25
      10. Additional Information                                                               30
      Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                     31
      Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                     36
      Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                     37
      Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                     38
      Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                     39
      Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                        40
      Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                    41
      Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                      42
      Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                                    45

                                                  Preface


The program to deliver Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs) 1, 2 and 3 to the Government of
Albania (GOA) in the amount of SDR 16 million, 13.1 million and 6.9 million equivalent, respectively was
approved with the first PRSC on June 20, 2002 and then disbursed as three single tranche operations.
Though it was disbursed on December 22, 2004, PRSC 3 closed on December 31, 2005. The program
disbursed fully and closed on schedule.

This ICR was written by Sanjay Kathuria, with an initial draft done by Richard Carroll (Consultant), and
with inputs from a core team consisting of Jolanda Trebicka, Alia Moubayed, and Nand Shani. For
comments and other inputs, the team wishes to thank Bernard Funck, Nancy Cooke, Nadir Mohammed,
Monika Huppi, Andrew Dabalen, Anna Gueorguieva, and Camille Nuamah. For comments and
discussions, the team also thanks Stefan Koeberle, Martin Rama, Philip Goldman, Mansour Farsad, Gary
Reid, Deborah Wetzel, Joao C. Oliveira, Junghun Cho, Belita Manka, Piet Hein Van Heesewijk, Verdon
Staines, Olav Christensen, Lorena Kostallari, Greta Minxhozi, Ibrahim Hackaj, Artan Guxho, and Sue
Berryman. Jolanda Trebicka and Nand Shani conducted the beneficiary survey and coordinated the

Stakeholder workshop. Enkelejda Karaj and Elda Hafizi provided logistical support to the ICR team in
Tirana, and Armanda Çarçani and Mismake Galatis provided support in Headquarters.

Project ID: P083337                                                  Project Name: PRSC 3
Team Leader: Sanjay Kathuria                                         TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR                      Report Date: June 30, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: PRSC 3                                                   L/C/TF Number: IDA-40060
   Country/Department: ALBANIA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (50%); Other social services (20%); General education
                            sector (20%); Health (10%)
                  Theme: Other public sector governance (P); Other economic management (P); Other social
                            development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/06/2004                                     Effective: 12/22/2004                12/22/2004
     Appraisal: 07/19/2004                                         MTR:
      Approval: 12/07/2004                                      Closing: 12/31/2005                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes Linn
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopolous                         Christian Poortman
Sector Director:                Cheryl Gray                                    Cheryl W. Gray
Team Leader at ICR:             Sanjay Kathuria                                Monika Huppi
ICR Primary Author:             Sanjay Kathuria
* PRSC 3 had joint team leadership in Monika Huppi and Celestin Monga.
2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: HS                               S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Having achieved macroeconomic stability after the collapse of the pyramid scheme in 1997, the
Government of Albania (GOA) developed a strategy aimed at rapid, sustainable growth with benefits to the
broad population. To achieve this rapid growth, the GOA had to address a number of priority institutional
and economic problems. The GOA requested IDA assistance for the implementation of its National
Strategy for Social and Economic Development (NSSED), initially referred to as the Growth and Poverty
Reduction Strategy (GPRS). IDA support came in the form of three Poverty Reduction Support Credits,
spread over 2002-04, whose overarching objective was to support the NSSED. The main objectives of the
NSSED/GPRS, built around the two pillars of improved governance and strong economic growth, were:

·      Annual real GDP growth of about 7 percent during 2002-2004.
·      Reduction in the number of people living in poverty, in particular, the worst affected groups.
·      Tangible improvements in infrastructure and related services, such as the supply of potable water,
       electric power, sewerage, etc., in particular increasing the access of the poor to these services.
·      Reduction in infant and maternal mortality rates and the incidence of infectious diseases.
·      Increase in elementary and secondary school enrollment rates as well as in the average number of
       years of schooling.

IDA credits sought to support the NSSED objectives via four reform pillars:

1.     Promoting sustainable growth and private sector development
2.     Strengthening policy monitoring and evaluation
3.     Improving service delivery and social safety effectiveness
4.     Improving core public sector functions and institutional arrangements

The PRSC-supported program objectives were fully consistent with the priorities laid out in the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) dated May 28, 2002, which envisaged a series of three PRSCs in FY02, FY03
and FY04.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives were not changed.

3.3 Original Components:
The PRSCs focused on four major policy areas. Each area had a specific set of objectives:

    1. Promoting Sustainable Growth and Private Sector Development

·      Consolidate macroeconomic stabilization efforts
·      Improve overall climate for private sector activity
·      Improve business entry and streamline the environment for business operations.
·      Enhance income and development opportunities in rural areas.

    2. Strengthening Policy Monitoring and Evaluation

·      Strengthen executive branch policy monitoring arrangements and capacities to monitor NSSED
       (earlier GPRS), in NSSED directorate, in INSTAT, and in line Ministries.
·      Ensure sufficient resources to design and implement new monitoring program.



                                                     - 2 -

·   Strengthen evaluation capacity and strengthen non-executive branch policy monitoring.

  3. Improving Service Delivery and Social Safety Net Effectiveness

     Health

·    Improve effectiveness and efficiency in resource allocation.
·    Expand access to quality health services in deprived communities.
·    Improve health outcomes through targeted public health interventions.

     Education

·   Increase the adequacy of resources
·   Improve policy formulation and management of sector.
·   Increase access and quality of education for poor families by improving teacher quality, reducing
    private costs of education, improving the quality of secondary academic programs, and improving
    market relevance and supply of secondary VET.

     Social Protection

·   Ensure that the pension system is both effective and financially sustainable over a 30 year time
    horizon.
·   Improve the effectiveness and efficiency of operations within the Social Insurance Institute (SII).
·   Measure the direct impact of pension and social assistance programs on income poverty.
·   Improve the targeting of social assistance cash transfers.
·   Introduce policies on support for community-based social services that interface with pension and
    social assistance policies and form part of an overall strategy for reducing and ameliorating
    poverty.

  4. Improving Core Public Sector Functions and Institutional Arrangements

     Improve quality of policy-making

·   Enhance contestability of policy formulation process i.e., increase the review and discussion of
    proposed policies to include a wide variety of key stakeholders, including the Council of Ministers.

     Civil Service reform

·    Enhance competitiveness and transparency of human resource management practices.
·    Improve capacity to attract and retain required human resources within the public administration.

     Public Expenditure Management, Public Financial Accountability, and Procurement

·   Strengthen the public expenditure management process.
·   Improve financial reporting and enhance managerial accountability and transparency within the
    public administration.
·   Improve competitiveness, transparency and accountability of procurement practices.
         .
     Accountability of Public Officials

·    Increase the accountability of High Public Officials.



                                                 - 3 -

         Decentralization

·       Implement regulation of local government's property rights
·       Assign specific expenditure responsibilities to local governments.
·       Assign autonomous revenue to local government.
·       Train local public officials on a uniform system of accounting, forecasting, reporting and
        management.

3.4 Revised Components:
No revisions.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry was satisfactory, or moderately satisfactory on a 6-point scale. This judgment
balances the strong focus on the NSSED against the large number of conditions in the program, and the
small size of the financing package, and the resultant loss of focus in some areas.

Strengths of the program at entry

The strengths of the PRSC program at inception included its close alignment with the Government's
NSSED, the depth of the analytical work, complementarity with investment and TA projects, and its
support to the establishment of a legal framework in several areas.

The PRSCs mirrored the NSSED program very closely, which was a very good starting point (but see later
part of this section, on weaknesses). The overall focus on promoting growth while improving governance
and social service delivery had the potential to have a significant impact on poverty. The focus on the
NSSED also meant that the PRSCs could play a role in inter-ministerial coordination, an area which is
usually very challenging at early stages of transition. (In fact, the GOA found the PRSC instrument to be
very useful for NSSED implementation and strengthening inter-ministerial coordination.)

Leading up to PRSC1, there was extensive economic and sector work, including a CFAA and a CPAR, an
education strategy, social assessments, a governance and anti-corruption report, and a PEIR, and an
NSSED poverty diagnostic. Significant analytical work continued through the program, and helped to
place Albanian reforms in the context of international development experience, which the client
appreciated. In addition, an effective country dialogue also helped to shape and inform the development of
the program.

The PRSC program complemented and was complemented by several investment operations, including
health, education, social services, land development, agriculture services, public administration, and legal
and judicial services. These investment operations provided the technical assistance that was relevant to
the development and implementation of the broader policy changes supported by the PRSCs. This included
cross-cutting reforms in governance--for example, the Medium Term Expenditure Framework process
(MTBP in Albania) was supported by the Public Administration Reform Project (PARP), and helped the
PRSCs to implement the prior action on the MTBP as well as support better prioritization of resource
allocation in the social sectors.

In a number of areas, the PRSCs' support to establishment of a legal framework was an appropriate first
step to improving transparency. Key examples are the Law on Internal Audit, the Law on Asset
Declaration, the Law on Organization and Functioning of the Council of Ministers, and a critical



                                                     - 4 -

amendment to the Law on Public Procurement . In other areas such as civil service reform, the strategy
was to build on the existing framework and design core prior actions aimed at enforcement of the existing
law on civil service. This emphasis on enforcement proved effective.

Weaknesses of the program at entry

A number of key implementing agencies complained that there were too many conditions in the PRSC
program (see Table 1), especially in view of the limited implementation capacity, with the result that focus
was diluted and implementation capacity over-taxed. It should be stated that this was partly a response to
the far larger number of policies conditions in the GPRS/NSSED. Nevertheless, the criticism stands,
because over time, successive PRSCs saw an increase in the number of conditions rather than a decline
(some core conditions were put as non-core in order to limit the total number of core conditions). This
increase was largely a design problem, with slippages in the preceding PRSC being picked up in the
following one, and again arose from the lack of focus in the overall program.

             TABLE 1: Tally of Core and Non-Core Measures for PRSC 1. 2 and 3

         Type of Condition            PRSC1              PRSC2             PRSC3            Total
   Core                                  18                16                 10             44
   Non-core                              20                37                 51             108
   Total                                 38                53                 61             152


Another quality at entry issue was the small size of the credits, a total of around US$53 million for the
three operations over three years, relative to the breadth of the reform. This was a conscious decision taken
by the Bank management at the time, arguing that traditional investment projects are necessary for building
capacity, and limiting the PRSCs to 15-20 percent of the lending program. Furthermore, the loan amounts
declined over successive PRSCs, even as the implementation agenda became more complex in terms of
total number of conditions. More importantly, the vast policy reform agenda as well as the low
disbursement rates on investment projects would have argued for a greater role for the PRSC program. In
addition, a focus on PRSCs, combined fully with complementary investment operations and technical
assistance, would have helped to circumscribe the overall number of projects, which were recently deemed
excessive by IEG's 2005 Albania Country Assistance Evaluation.

Finally, the proliferation in the number of conditions in the PRSCs led to heavy demands on the monitoring
and evaluation system. It also resulted in outcome indicators that were not always carefully designed to
reflect the policy actions, or based on sound and solid baseline data that allow for evidence-based
monitoring.




                                                      - 5 -

Risks and Mitigation

     TABLE 2: Assessment of Risks and Mitigation as stated in the PRSC3 Program Document
                           Risk                                                 Mitigation
Transparency gains from improved institutional            Legislation supports the achievements under the PRSC
mechanisms may be circumvented to reap political          program, providing safeguards against the unraveling of
benefits, especially as the mid-2005 elections approach. the reforms.
Decentralization may also be undermined.
 Successful PRSC implementation requires close             IDA is upgrading the capacity of its Tirana Office and
 cooperation among concerned line agencies, which          decentralizing core functional responsibilities for
 may be hampered by high turnover and limited              project and program management. This will allow for
 implementation capacity in core line ministries.          more continuous engagement with the Government
                                                           and other stakeholders.
                                                           IDA's current investment operations complement the
                                                           implementation of key structural reforms. Planned
                                                           operations would further sustain and deepen the
                                                           reforms initiated under the PRSC program, and ensure
                                                           reinforcement between programmatic and investment
                                                           operations.
 Contingent liabilities, such as the budgetary impact of  Government has a strong track record in prudent fiscal
 the proposed restitution and compensation of former      and monetary policies under the IMF PRGF program.
 landowners, together with shortfalls in revenue          The support provided under PRSC3 is expected to be
 collection, may threaten macro-economic stability.       followed by BOP support from the EC. The
 External sustainability could also be undermined by      Government is also committed to increase revenues
 declines in concessional finance and the expected        through improvements in tax administration and
 decline in privatization-related FDI.                    revenue collection.


Table 2 presents the risks and mitigation as presented in the PRSC3 Program Document (PD). The general
categories of risk were correctly identified. The mitigation was appropriate and plausible. However, the
Bank did not foresee that procurement reforms could be diluted through the use of concessions and
unsolicited bids. This has emerged as a major concern and has been targeted for reform in the new,
FY06-09 CAS. There was also over-optimism regarding the pace of implementation of some of the
reforms, such as treasury reporting and monitoring.

                TABLE 3: Credit Amounts, and Closing and Effectiveness Dates
                                        PRSC1                       PRSC2                        PRSC3
Amount (US$ million)                     20.0                         18.0                         10.0
Date Effective                        08/07/2002                   11/20/2003                   12/22/2004
Date Closed                           06/30/2003                   12/31/2004                   12/31/2005


QAG

A QAG quality at entry review rated the program at the time of the first PRSC (July 2002) as highly
satisfactory. The QAG review raised the question as to whether the PRSC program might even be too
narrowly focused, given the breadth of the Government's GPRS/NSSED. However, the QER also pointed
out that there were a large number of conditions over a wide area, but did not come to any specific
conclusion on this, and left it at noting that Bank guidance on PRSCs permits wide latitude to staff in
designing poverty reduction programs.

This ICR questions whether the guidance provided to the PRSC team was the right one, in light of the


                                                        - 6 -

experience with the proliferation of conditions and the consequent loss of focus during implementation and
lack of uniform attention to all the program outcomes. This ICR supports a somewhat lower rating
(satisfactory, would be moderately satisfactory on a six point scale) for quality at entry.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall outcome is rated satisfactory. An overarching success was the positive impact on growth
and poverty reduction (including rural poverty) which can be attributed in part to the actions supported by
the PRSCs. This success was underpinned by the successful monetary and fiscal framework adopted by the
government. In monitoring and evaluation, completion of the LSMS and its continuation, and utilization of
information to monitor poverty and social progress were instruments in the design of poverty reduction
measures. In the social sectors, the pension system achieved its goals of improved fiscal sustainability, and
had a large positive impact on poverty reduction. Rural land registration, a key to development, exceeded
its targets. Perhaps the most important achievements related to the institutions of governance, which are
also the most difficult areas in any developing country. Civil service reform made significant advances
towards its goal of a depoliticized and professionalized civil service, and creating a credible redress
mechanism. In decentralization, an improved platform was laid out to enable the next stage of reforms.
Public financial accountability improved, with the asset declaration process gaining momentum. The
MTBP and NSSED processes were institutionalized further, and continue to gather momentum under the
new government.

l Against these, progress was more halting in areas such as public procurement, some aspects of public
     expenditure management and public financial management, social assistance, health, and the business
     environment, even as there were significant achievements in individual areas within all these programs.
     More importantly, there are some concerns on the longer run sustainability of some of the reforms, but
     this ICR takes the view that these are to be expected in any reform program; that much of the program
     has not only been codified in legislation, but that significant capacities have been built in many
     government departments over the course of the PRSC program (since it did not rely on external
     implementing units); that even in areas where there have been some recent violations of the law (like
     civil service), the institutional mechanism, in this case the Civil Service Commission, has been doing its
     job with some zeal, delivering its verdicts in each case brought before it; that the prospect of eventual
     EU accession should help to keep overall reforms on track; and, finally, that institutional development
     is a long-haul process, and the continued engagement of the international development community will
     be crucial in helping Albania meet its development challenges.

The apparent lack of progress in indicators of corruption perception and bribery have not been factored into
the ratings here, since tacking corruption was not an explicit objective of the PRSCs, and no related
monitoring indicator was set up. Nevertheless, an institutional framework has been laid for tackling a few
of the issues that affect corruption (many other factors not supported by the PRSCs also affect corruption,
both on the demand and supply side, such as civil society participation, political accountability, or further
deregulation). The PRSC-type interventions, supported by others mentioned, can, over a period of a
decade or longer, possibly affect corruption in a sustained manner.

Overall, the judgment of this ICR is that the strengthening of the institutions has laid a platform for further
advancement and for the development community to drill deeper in their support for specific areas of
reform.




                                                       - 7 -

4.2 Outputs by components:
Annex 1 summarizes the key outputs of the PRSC program. This exercise was rendered difficult by the
proliferation of indicators, the lack of baseline information in some cases, the lack of data in others, and, in
a few cases, the need to make qualitative judgments. Details of each component are discussed below.

Objective 1.      Promoting Sustainable Growth and Supporting Private Sector Development
(Moderately Satisfactory)* (* indicates an attached annotation in square brackets). [The ratings for
components and sub-components are notional, since they are not required, but are given to help the reader
to see more easily the logic of the overall rating.]

The overall moderately satisfactory rating for this objective combines a satisfactory rating for
macro-stabilization and growth, with a moderately unsatisfactory rating for the business environment and a
satisfactory rating for rural development.

i)       Macro stabilization and growth (Satisfactory). There was continued progress in macroeconomic
stabilization (Table 4) that was supported by an IMF Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF)
program, whose review was completed in August 2005, with program performance being described as
satisfactory. While annual growth was lower than the NSSED target of 7 percent, it recovered from 2.9
percent in 2002 (a result of electricity shortages and floods) to 5.7 and 5.9 percent in 2003 and 2004
respectively. Similarly, inflation fell to less than three percent in 2003 and 2004, after having risen to 5.2
percent in the difficult year of 2002. There were significant gains on the fiscal front, with the fiscal deficit
declining from 6.9 percent of GDP in 2001, to 5 percent in 2004, and further to 3.3 percent in 2005. The
public debt ratio declined on a continuous basis, and was about 55 percent of GDP in 2005, down from 65
percent in 2002. However, the current account deficit (including official transfers) picture is less
positive--the decline in the CAD to GDP ratio from 7.2 percent to 3.8 percent over 2002 to 2004 was
reversed in 2005, and further increases are forecast in 2006. This owes in large measure to the narrow
export base and the continued and very high trade imbalance, estimated at 22.6 percent of GDP in 2005,
and is related to slow progress in the business environment (see below). Unemployment declined to 14.2
percent of the labor force in 2005, down from 16.4 percent in 2001. Finally, and most importantly, the
poverty headcount declined sharply from 25.4 percent of the population in 2002 to 18.5 percent in 2005,
and this owed to the significant growth of the economy over the period.




                                                       - 8 -

ii)      Business Environment (moderately satisfactory). There was significant progress in customs
administration, and some improvement in overall regulatory quality, but the tax regime remained
problematic. Also, companies on average spent as much time on bureaucratic procedures in 2004 as in
2002.

At the onset of the PRSC program, the Customs and Tax administrations and practices were considered to
be two of the main obstacles to business activity in Albania, according to a 2002 FIAS study, following
which the Government developed an action plan to eliminate administrative barriers to investment. With
the support of the EU CARDS program, technical assistance from the IMF, and the Transport and Trade
Facilitation in South Eastern Europe (TTFSE) project of the Bank, there has been substantial improvement
in Customs Administration. Automation of the customs system with the ASYCUDA system has
progressed, and has also reduced unofficial payments as well as clearance time for goods. In the BEEPS
surveys, the share of firms indicating customs regulations as a problem fell from 56 percent in 2002 to 49
percent in 2005, and clearance times for imports and exports fell significantly. However, the percentage of
firms that reported frequent bribery in customs remained about the same in 2002 and 2005.

Progress on tax administration has however been less successful. The BEEPS surveys find that 59 percent
of firms in 2005 indicated tax administration as a problem in doing business, compared with 53 percent in
2002, and the indicator for bribes has barely declined. Stakeholders in the private sector report frequent
and arbitrary inspections and audits, characterizing them as veiled demands for unofficial payments to
inspectors. Additional pressure for such inspections was generated by practices that were primarily
oriented to maximizing tax revenue collection from the existing base rather than expanding it. The current
system is geared more towards meeting short-term revenue targets than ensuring efficiency, equity,
transparency and predictability.* [Efforts are ongoing (with the support of the IMF and the US Millenium
Challenge Account) to further reform tax administration, and the revenue buoyancy in the first quarter of
2006 indicates that such efforts are bearing fruit.]

In other areas such as quality of the regulatory framework and bureaucratic behavior, the 2004
Self-Assessment showed improvement compared to the 2002 survey. The frequency of on-site inspections
fell from 19.9 per year in 2002 to 13.8 in 2004. The percentage of firms indicating business licenses as a
problem of doing business declined from 39 percent to 35 percent over 2002-2005, and those indicating
regulatory policy uncertainty fell from 71 percent to 55 percent (BEEPS). However, the Self-Assessment
does record an increase in the time taken for business registration between 2002 and 2004 (cost being
unchanged), and with the bribery rate increasing from 13 percent to 19 percent (also corroborated by
BEEPS, where firms reporting frequent bribery rose from 24 to 35 percent over 2002-2005).

PRSC 1 supported capacity strengthening of the bailiff offices, and creating out of court commercial
dispute resolution mechanisms. While the bailiff offices have increased their caseload, and an Alternative
Dispute Resolution institution has been formed, and its staff trained, only a few cases have been referred to
this institution so far.* [Since the rating is meant for PRSC 3, the judicial interventions in PRSC 1 are not
considered in arriving at the rating for the business environment component.]

Overall, the picture on the business environment is mixed. Despite improvements in customs
administration, inspections and several other areas, tax administration continued to be a problem. In any
case, business continues to have very serious concerns, including on tax rates and tax administration, unfair
practices, corruption, customs regulations, frequent changes in the regulatory framework, and so on
(BEEPS and Self-Assessment). This is also reflected* [with all the problems of attribution, and also noting
that private investment rates and trade deficits were not explicit monitoring indicators in the PRSCs] in the
stagnation of private investment to GDP at about 18-19 percent since 2002, and the continued high deficit,
in excess of 20 percent of GDP, in goods trade as well as in goods and non-factor services trade. Foreign



                                                       - 9 -

direct investment, although increasing during the period, remained largely driven by privatization-related
inflows, with limited greenfield investments.

The mixed progress in the business environment may be at least partly a result of the multiplicity of
conditions, which may have diluted the extent of attention devoted to it. The lack of specific technical
assistance in this area to complement the PRSCs also made the situation more difficult. Finally, on the
broader plane of the PSD strategy as a whole, an overall conceptual framework to guide all private
sector-related interventions was not explicitly articulated, which meant that a strong impact on outcomes
such as private investment and exports was less likely.

(iii)    Rural Development (satisfactory). Land registration was a core condition in PRSC 3, and was
fully achieved. Rural incomes, a key outcome indicator, increased significantly--as indicated by average
real rural household consumption per capita increasing by over 9 percent over 2002-2005. As a result,
rural poverty rates fell from 29.6 to 24.2 percent, a decline of over 18 percent and a significant
achievement over a three year period (urban poverty fell from 19.5 to 11.2 percent over the period).

Given higher rural poverty, and a major problem in land markets, the PRSCs focused on land registration
in rural areas. Critical progress was made in first-time land registration, with 81 percent of Albania's
3,064 cadastral zones now registered, exceeding the target of 80 percent. Dispute resolution mechanisms
linked to this registration were also implemented. The registered land is largely rural and is expected to
substantially improve the environment for agricultural production and other income generating activities.

The expectations on rural income and poverty were met, driven by overall growth of the economy. While
rural incomes grew somewhat slower than urban incomes (as is often the case in many countries), the land
registration process is expected to make the rural income generation process more sustainable. This
registration process was also complemented by measures under the Bank's Agricultural Services Project
(ASP), leading to a sizeable increase in credit to agriculture.

Objective 2. Strengthening Policy Monitoring and Evaluation (Satisfactory)

Committing to a stand-alone component on policy monitoring and evaluation reflected the Government's
priority to improve policy formulation through data collection and analysis, stakeholder consultation and
assessments of the economic and social impact of policies. On the whole, this component achieved its
objectives--some significant accomplishments were recorded, even though a few of the outcome indicators
are not easily measurable, and despite some emerging concerns on sustainability.

Under the PRSCs, the availability of data needed for policy formulation improved significantly. At the
outset of the PRSC program, the Government lacked information and data needed to develop, monitor and
evaluate policy. Significant achievements included the design and completion of an LSMS (with technical
assistance from DfID and the World Bank) in 2002, followed by panel surveys in 2003 and 2004. Another
LSMS was undertaken in 2005. Secondly, INSTAT, the key agency responsible for LSMS and national
accounts, was provided adequate staffing, budgeting and training. Thirdly, the coordination and monitoring
of the NSSED was institutionalized--the NSSED Directorate was set up in the Ministry of Finance, and
monitoring and evaluation functions were set up in all line ministries. This enabled completion of three
annual NSSED Progress Reports, from 2003-2005. Fourthly, a poverty and statistics monitoring unit was
set up within MoLSA. Other achievements included the development of policy and planning capacities at
the MoAF, MoES, MoH, and MoLSA, and the formation of a Data User group to enhance the relevance of
information to be collected and strengthen analytical capacity (the LSMS questionnaire is designed each
year in close consultation with this group).

On the other hand, a few concerns have also surfaced. While there is evidence that the NSSED Directorate


                                                     - 10 -

was using M&E in updating program targets and design, it is not clear that such an approach is being
followed in more than a handful of ministries. There are also concerns about the sustainability of funding
for INSTAT's survey activities. More recently, the new Government disbanded the NSSED Directorate,
and a new mechanism, the Integrated Planning System, has been set up, coordinated and monitored by a
new Department of Strategy and Donor Coordination (see also under Objective 4 below). This new
department is currently inadequately staffed, but its support at the highest level as well as within the donor
community could go some way to ensuring that there is continued demand for improved evidence on which
to base policy-making, and its use in all arms of government.

On the whole, the solid achievements on the LSMS and gradually increasing use of data for policy
development, monitoring and evaluation outweigh other concerns and lead to a `satisfactory' rating under
this component.

Objective 3. Improving Service Delivery and Social Safety Net Effectiveness (Moderately
Satisfactory)

In health (moderately satisfactory), the PRSCs helped to increase very low resource flows to the sector, but
primary care spending remained inadequate, and contributed to an ineffective primary care system. The
lack of an overall strategic framework for the sector was not addressed until PRSC 3. This may help to
explain the relatively better performance of education (satisfactory), which sought, early on, to improve the
management of the sector. A significant achievement was the competitive procurement of textbooks, and
their free distribution for basic education, as well as for poor students in secondary education. However,
there was less success in channeling more resources to education, and this reflected in low and declining
(relative to GDP per capita) salaries for teachers. Also, teacher salaries remained compressed over the
career cycle, reducing incentives and motivation for career progression. Finally, in social protection
(satisfactory), significant achievements included a phased increase in the retirement age, an improvement in
the pension dependency ratio, and a significant impact of pensions on poverty reduction. Also, targeting of
the cash transfer program improved, but there were concerns about leakages and its adequacy. Some
concerns also remain on sustainability of the pension system. In all three sectors, policy papers were
adopted on the roles and responsibilities of central and local governments in service delivery.

i)       Health (moderately satisfactory). The health sector posed significant challenges for the PRSC
program, with low and fragmented public spending, provider payments largely input-based, investments not
well prioritized, and large informal payments for health services. Achievements under the PRSCs were
mixed. Public health spending, which was very low by regional and international standards, and related
spending issues were targeted as core areas for PRSC support. As Table 5 shows, government health
spending rose modestly from 2.2 to 2.5 percent of GDP over 2002-04 (and to 2.6 percent in 2005, still low
by regional standards), and from 7.1 to 8.7 percent of total government expenditure. There were also
increased allocations to priority needs such as primary health care, with the PRSCs helping partially
reverse funding problems created by a hasty step to transfer expenditure responsibilities for primary health
and public health in 2002 to local governments. Nevertheless, 2005 spending on primary care outside
Tirana remains below the levels of 2001, and has contributed to a largely ineffective primary care system.
Allocations for public health programs also increased.

The lack of an overall strategic reform framework remained a weakness in the sector until PRSC 3, during
which a comprehensive health sector reform strategy, as well as a policy paper on the roles of central and
local governments, were adopted. However, a plan to improve equity of the health insurance system was
not developed. Another area of support (largely achieved) was targeted public health interventions, such as
increased coverage of child vaccinations and female tetanus toxoid vaccinations, and adoption of a National


                                                      - 11 -

HIV/AIDS Strategy (PRSC 3).

One of the problems evaluating this component of the PRSC (like several others) was the focus on
input-based measures. Thus, while some of the PRSC targets were achieved (in a few cases belatedly, by
PRSC 3), the broader sector weaknesses remain pronounced, with serious equity implications. It is not
clear that efficiency of sector spending has improved to any perceptible degree. Despite recent increases,
more needs to be spent on priority areas such as primary care and public health, and this partly reflects in
the poor quality of primary care. Moreover, the allocation of public spending is quite regressive, with the
highest public expenditures going to regions with the lowest poverty incidence.




ii)      Education (satisfactory). In education, as in health, the PRSC program emphasized higher
resource flows. It also emphasized improved policy and management of the sector, and increased access
and quality of education. Again, the multiplicity of indicators, and the lack of clarity on some of them,
renders the overall evaluation more difficult, but the major achievement on textbooks warrants a
satisfactory rating.

The targets for higher resources (and related indicators) were not met, even as the share of education in
total government expenditure increased from 9.9 to 10.7 percent of GDP from 2002 to 2004 (and further to
11.3 percent in 2005, Table 5). As a share of GDP, the recurrent education budget did not even attain the
levels of 2001, and also fell from 2.7 to 2.6 percent of GDP over 2003 -2004--while the goal (as proposed
by the PRSC indicators) was to move towards an OECD benchmark of 4.4 percent of GDP. Pay levels of
teachers, despite modest increases, continue to be low, and affect incentives to perform. This is reflected in
a declining ratio of average teacher salaries to GDP per capita, from 1.07 in 2001 and to only 0.98 in 2004
(Annex 1). Teachers' incentives were also affected by lack of opportunities for significant salary changes
over the career cycle, as reflected in the stagnant vertical compression ratio over the PRSC period. There
was progress, however, in meeting minimum qualification norms for teachers, with the number of teachers
without adequate qualifications falling over 2002-2004 from 19 to 12 percent of teachers in basic
education, and 5.2 to 3.4 percent in secondary education.

Better results were recorded in terms of the objective of policy formulation and management of the sector.

During PRSC 3, as part of decentralization, the Government adopted a policy paper which clarified the




                                                     - 12 -

respective roles and responsibilities of various levels of Government and other players (e.g. schools, school
boards etc) and mapped out a path for gradual decentralization. Other achievements included restructuring
of the Ministry of Education, instituting of annual performance audits of the Ministry, budget tracking of
education spending, and regular publication of core education sector achievement indicators as part of an
Annual Statistical report on education.

Perhaps the most significant accomplishment in the education program related to textbooks, as part of the
objective of increasing access and quality of education. The PRSC program supported competitive bidding
for textbooks, which reduced the cost of textbooks by about 50 percent, and reduced the scope for
corruption. All new textbooks are now procured under competitive tendering, and an increased fraction of
tenders are being bid internationally. The quality of textbooks also improved--in 2001, a substantial
portion of textbooks fell apart because of poor binding, but now textbooks last three to four years under
normal wear and tear. The other aspect of the textbook policy was the free provision of textbooks, begun
under PRSC 2, to all children at the basic education level. This was extended under PRSC 3 to poor
students in secondary schools.

The PRSCs sought to influence enrollment and completion rates by improving the demand for education,
and complementing the work undertaken by an ongoing Education Reform project. Between 2002 and
2005, secondary and tertiary net enrollment rates improved significantly, by 16 and 9 percentage points, to
reach 55 and 18 percent, respectively. Primary education is almost universal, although the poorest two
quintiles of households still have drop-out rates of 6.4 and 4.4 percent in 2005. While this means that the
situation has improved over the last three to four years, the pre-transition levels have not yet been achieved
in several areas--for example, while the gross enrollment rate in secondary education was 78 percent in
1990, it was 64 percent in 2005.

iii)     Social Protection (satisfactory)

Social insurance (satisfactory)

The objectives for this sub-component were to improve sustainability of the pension system, and improve
the efficiency of pension administration. These objectives were largely achieved (but some sustainability
concerns remain, see Section 6), with some significant achievements being recorded, particularly on
pension policy. As part of pension policy reform, a phased, five year increase in the retirement age was
introduced, starting in July 2002. Payroll contributions, which were (and still are) very high, were reduced
by 4 percentage points. Benefits were reduced for those who retired early. The functioning of the Social
Insurance Institute (SII) was made more transparent and efficient, professional auditing of its financial
statements adopted, and steps taken to transfer social insurance collections from SII to the General Tax
Department.

Outcome indicators show an improvement in the dependency ratio from 1.06 pensioners per contributor in
2001 to 0.86 in 2004, and an increase from 31 to 36 percent in the share of the working age population (18
through retirement age) contributing to pension. The pension program also has a significant impact on
poverty reduction--the poverty rate among urban pension recipients in 2005 was 14 percent with the
pension, but would have been 39 percent without the pension; for rural pensions, the corresponding figures
are 23 and 39 percent. Also, the poverty rates for pensioner-headed families declined from 26 percent in
2002 to as low as 11 percent in 2005. The urban pension deficit of the pension system has declined by
0.27 percentage points of GDP from 2002-2005, from 1.34 percent of GDP in 2002, to 1.07 percent; the
rural deficit stayed constant (see Section 6.1 on sustainability concerns). However, the social security tax,
with collections at 3.9 percent of GDP in 2005, remains one of the worst performing taxes in Albania.



                                                     - 13 -

Finally, the operating efficiency of SII has improved somewhat--the error rate in claims processing fell
from 12 to 10 percent over 2001-2004; and claims processed per employee increased from 24 to 26.

Social Assistance and Community-Based Social Services (moderately satisfactory)

The PRSC measures supported the efforts of another Bank project, the Social Service Delivery Project
(SSDP) with the key objective of improving the targeting and efficiency of the social assistance system in a
fiscally sustainable manner, and also evaluating the effectiveness of all social protection (SP) programs in
alleviating income poverty. Overall, SP programs have had increasing coverage of the poor between 2002
and 2005, but a larger share of the program benefits has been going to the non-poor, and significant
leakages remain.

In the case of the Ndihme Ekonomike (NE), the only specific poverty-targeted program, while 31 percent of
extremely poor households received the cash transfer in 2002, this rose to 51 percent in 2005 (25 and 33
percent respectively, for all poor households). Similarly, for all SP programs, while 64 percent of the poor
were recipients in 2002, this rose to 72 percent in 2005. However, the share of benefits going to the
non-poor has been increasing--for NE, the share of the overall benefits going to non-poor households rose
from 57 to 64 percent (or poor share going down from 43 to 36 percent). While this owes partly to the
decline in overall poverty, there is still some leakage to the richest among the non-poor, with the top half of
the consumption distribution receiving almost 20 percent of NE funds, which could be better targeted to the
poor and extreme poor. Similarly, while the NE has achieved better targeting, with a decline in the number
of recipient households by 20 percent between 2000 and 2005, there are concerns on the adequacy of the
benefits, with the real value of the benefits declining by 27 percent in urban and 14 percent in rural areas.
This is also reflected in the decline in the NE benefit from 17.1 percent of the consumption of the extremely
poor household in 2002 to 15.7 percent in 2005. In terms of overall effectiveness of SP programs, the
urban pension program has the largest impact (2005 data), reducing poverty from 24 percent without the
program to 19 percent with the program; corresponding figures for rural pensions are 22 and 19 percent,
and NE 20 to 19 percent.

Progress was made in the other objective of strengthening the framework for community-based social
services. A policy paper that demarcated the roles of central and local governments in the delivery of cash
social assistance and social care services was adopted in 2004, and has paved the way for a strategy by
Government, and is now being implemented. Under the SSDP, more than 20 contracts were signed by
March 2005 for the provision of home or community-based services. However, the decentralization of
social services has not yet been followed by a sustainable financing strategy, which undermines its
effectiveness.

Objective 4. Improving Core Public Sector Functions and Institutional Arrangements (Satisfactory)

This was arguably the most difficult component of the PRSC, since it often involved fundamental changes
in institutions and in the way government officials functioned. Outcomes were significant in many cases,
and on balance, the component is judged to have been satisfactory.

Major achievements were recorded in civil service reform, accountability of public officials, and
decentralization, all rated as satisfactory. The civil service advanced towards becoming more depoliticized
and professionalized; for its oversight, a credible, although not perfect, redress mechanism was created.
Accountability of public officials improved, and compliance with the new asset declaration law is very
high. The process of decentralization advanced further, with reforms in local taxes, defining the role of
Prefects, and policy papers adopted that elaborated on shared functions in education, health and social
assistance. Public financial accountability (satisfactory) also progressed, with enactment and


                                                      - 14 -

implementation of the internal audit law, and improved government cash management. The contestability
of policy formulation (satisfactory) was enhanced, with enactment and implementation of a law on
functioning and organization of the Council of Ministers. However, progress was moderately satisfactory
in public expenditure management (lagging implementation of important objectives such as better
investment management), and unsatisfactory in procurement (problems in implementation of generally
sound legislation).

Contestability of policy formulation (satisfactory). This sub-component sought to introduce more
system, rigor and feedback into the MTBP and NSSED processes that began in 2000 and 2001
respectively. Progress was satisfactory, starting with the enactment of the law on the organization and
functioning of the Council of Ministers (CoM). While there is still room for further improvement,
coordination between the MoF and the line Ministries has improved, and policy and financial analyses are
done prior to submission of proposals to the CoM. There have been real process changes with more
regular briefings from the MoF for Parliament and more organized mechanisms for communication,
including basics such as mail boxes for MPs, which did not exist earlier. There are weekly Q&A sessions
for MPs with the CoM. A record of proceedings has also been reinstituted, so now there is a written,
public record of statements by the MPs. These process changes have led to heightened substance in
Parliamentary economic policy debates, as well as substantive policy debates between the MoF and CoM.
The PRSC also supported improvement in Parliament's own capacity to debate the budget and economic
policy (which has also been enhanced through MPs' greater awareness of the MTBP), although this still
remains weak and fragmentary.

In November 2005, the Government (with the support of IDA, DfID and other donors) introduced a new
Integrated Planning System (IPS) to help further improve the system. The IPS will be monitored by the
newly set up Department of Strategy and Donor Coordination (DSDC), located within the CoM. The two
pillars of the IPS are the National Strategy for Development and Integration (NSDI), which will integrate
all different policy frameworks (EU integration, NSSED and NATO); and the MTBP, which is being
targeted for closer linkage with the NSDI.

Civil service reform, including transparency of human resource management (satisfactory).
Looming over the whole reform process has been the issue of civil service reform, which is a key to
governance, professionalism, and service quality. It is also one of the most difficult areas for reform,
demands continuous and long-term engagement (which the Bank has had, since 1999), and therefore one
where expectations for short-term results need to be tempered. In the light of this, the PRSC support to
civil service reform can be judged satisfactory.

The main impact of PRSC was to reinforce the Law on the Status of Civil Servants (CSL), enacted in
1999, through adoption of subsidiary legislation and measures to ensure enforcement of the CSL, as well as
implementation of competitive recruitment procedures. The post of Secretary General for each line
Ministry was established, and competitive recruitment procedures put in place. Core actions in PRSCs 2
and 3 included measures to ensure that recruitment and dismissals followed the relevant legislation--and
the legislation was tested on several occasions during the preparation process for these operations. The
PRSCs supported other measures aimed at greater transparency in areas such as personnel evaluations,
ethics and public expenditure management training, and reduction in appointments on contract. The
percentage of new appointments by contract fell to 0.3 percent in 2005 (second quarter figures) compared
to 16 percent in 2001. The number of CS positions that were subjected to a performance appraisal
improved from 59 to 89 percent over 2002 and 2004. However, the appraisals themselves have been slow
to change, with the decline in `very good' ratings compensated by an increase in `good' ratings, and those
showing `sufficient' or `insufficient' ratings in fact declined over the period. The CSL rules on hiring and



                                                      - 15 -

firing were also extended to those working in taxes and customs administrations in 2004. However, while
the Public Procurement Agency has CS status, the staff of the PPA does not get civil service level salaries,
which, for positions as sensitive as the PPA, is an anomaly.

As a result of the above, the civil service became much more depoliticized and better paid, and a redress
mechanism was established. Civil servants moved towards becoming a select cadre of elite staff, and
human resource management was characterized by improved transparency, improved capacity in the public
service and a decline in political patronage. A new civil service pay scale was implemented in 2002, based
on a salary survey, and brought public salaries closer to those in the private sector. Civil servants reported
unanimously during the ICR mission that job security was heightened, thus relieving civil servants of a
considerable degree of political pressure. A less tangible impact was that civil servants, feeling more
secure in their jobs, exhibited a tendency to becoming somewhat less risk-averse. Civil servants also
reported improved professionalism in the management of the civil service. DoPA and the Civil Service
Commission (CSC) contributed to this outcome, by playing their roles as supervisory and advisory bodies.
Civil Servants have regularly used the right to appeal dismissal decisions to the CSC, which has often
rejected the actions of the Government. As a result, ministries became far less inclined and, indeed, less
able to dismiss employees without grounds.

Recent events, especially the dismissals of about 500 civil servants after September 2005 (after the change
of Government), have led to renewed concerns about the sustainability of civil service reforms. As
indicated earlier, CS reform is always a difficult process, and some amount of friction is to be expected
after a change of Government, especially in a country with few traditions of professional public service. In
this context, the functioning of oversight institutions such as the CSC, which has carried out its mandate
with a fair amount of zeal and professionalism, irrespective of the political environment, is a positive sign.

While a final judgment on the impact of the reforms must await the passage of time, even the recent events
cannot take away from the undoubted achievements in civil service reforms--which become obvious when
the situation in 2006 is compared with that of a few years earlier. However, the CS reforms are now being
put to their most severe test to date, a situation which calls for continued and strong advocacy by the
international community, including the World Bank.

Should the reforms have targeted a wider body of public servants? This ICR deems that the strategy
followed was the right one in the circumstances, one that allowed some tangible achievements in a difficult
environment--for example, limiting competitive recruitment to a select cadre made the process more
politically acceptable; it allowed the fiscal impact to be affordable, given the much better pay entitlement
for civil servants; and it made smooth implementation of HR and other reforms that demand adequate
capacity, more likely. The narrow focus was a break from the wholesale public administration reform
strategy typically supported by the Bank at the time. More recent research in the Bank is providing support
for the Albania approach, i.e., that civil service reforms are more likely to succeed with a narrow rather
than government-wide approach.

Public expenditure management (moderately satisfactory). The PRSCs sought to support strengthening
of the link between the MTBP, introduced in 2000 and operating on a three-year rolling cycle, and budget
planning and resource allocation. Progress was moderately satisfactory, with policies and intentions not
being fully implemented.

Expenditure planning in Albania benefited from further institutionalization of the MTBP, an ongoing effort
supported by the Bank and DFID. Both the MoF and line ministries confirmed that the PRSC policy
matrix was an important tool in developing line ministry support for the MTBP. The MoF prepared


                                                      - 16 -

evaluations on the consistency between the annual budgets and the corresponding three year MTBP, as well
as with the NSSED. In 2004, the MoF started issuing a budget circular to help prepare the 2005 budget
based on the 2005-07 MTBP, a practice which continues. The number of ministries that prepared sector
strategies linking expenditures to strategies increased from 4 in the 2001-03 MTBP to 10 in the draft
2006-08 MTBP. Processes were also started for selection of public investment projects, and to include all
donor-financed projects in treasury accounts and reports. A database on public investment projects was
also started.

Budget predictability has improved on the aggregate between 2002 and 2004 (actual expenditure/budgeted,
and actual revenue/budgeted, from 94 to 95 percent, and 93 to 99 percent, respectively). However, the
deviation in expenditure in individual ministries has not improved on the average, with the average across
ministries of the actual expenditure/budget remaining at around 90 percent over 2002-2004. In terms of
the MTBP process, the budget submissions from the eight largest line ministries continue to exceed the
ceilings set in the preceding MTBP by significant amounts in some cases (PEIR).

Overall, the judgment is that while procedures were set in place and a good start was made, these were not
implemented fully and a large agenda remains in the area of public expenditure management. Thus, the
database on public investment projects, essential to improve planning and budgeting, is still not complete.
Investment planning still remains rudimentary, and a significant proportion of externally financed
investment projects remain outside the budget. All these and other PEM issues will need to remain key
concerns of the development partners. On the related PEFA indicator, multi-year perspective in fiscal
planning, expenditure policy and budgeting, Albania rates a C (CFAU).* [PEFA scores can range from A
(highest) to D (lowest), but intermediate scores of B+, C+ and D+ are also possible.]

Public financial accountability (satisfactory). This sub-component supported implementation of the
Bank's 2002 Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA), towards improved financial reporting
and accountability. Progress was satisfactory.

Notable achievements included the enactment of the Law on Internal Audit in 2003 and its implementation
in areas such as adoption of internal audit standards, development by MoF of a comprehensive audit
manual, and establishment of a functional audit process. Twinning with the Public Administration Reform
Project (PARP), the PRSCs supported improved cash management and reconciliation of cash flows
between the district treasury offices and the Bank of Albania, but slow progress in automation has been a
constraint in achieving expected gains such as sending of daily payment data by district treasury offices to
the central treasury. Better progress has been made in government cash management; a close-of-business
cash position of the treasury single account (TSA) is made available to the Treasury from the Bank of
Albania (BOA) on a daily basis, and the banks can no longer use delays in payments as a means of `float
financing'. The reconciliation between the transaction data from the treasury system and the cash balance
at the BoA is done on a monthly basis.

Further improving the transparency of public spending will require overcoming constraints imposed by
different accounting standards between the treasury system (cash basis) and the accounting system
(modified accrual basis). The related PEFA indicators on effectiveness of internal controls rate B,
effectiveness of internal audit rate C+, and recording and management of cash balances, debt and
guarantees rate B (CFAU).

Accountability of public officials (Satisfactory). Significant improvements resulted in this
sub-component, with the PRSCs supporting the enactment of a new Law on Asset Declaration in 2003.
The High Inspectorate for the Declaration and Audit of Assets (HIDAA) was established a few months


                                                     - 17 -

later, and became fully functional by 2004. Furthermore, steps were taken to amend the legal framework
governing conflict of interest. Although outside the PRSC framework, the support in this area helped in the
enactment of a new Conflict of Interest Law in April 2005, with further amendments in February 2006. A
Code of Ethics was also adopted by Parliament and provided to all civil servants.

Compliance with filing asset declarations has been strong, with only 18 of 4093 officials not filing
declarations within the stipulated time frame in 2004. In 2005, the number of declarations increased to
4879, and in 2006, to 6849. Fines are levied on officials who do not file within the deadline. After
verification, HIDAA can seek more information from the filing parties. While citizens can access the
declarations on applying to HIDAA, the media often publishes the filings of high officials (in some
countries, the filings are published on the internet). The audit of assets led to the dismissal of five officials
and referral of two other cases for prosecution in 2005. In 2005, HIDAA was also asked to take over the
implementation and monitoring of legislation relating to conflict of interest.

Public procurement (unsatisfactory). The PRSC program sought to support implementation of many of
the recommendations of the 2001 Country Procurement Assessment Report as well as expand coverage of
the CSL to the Public Procurement Agency (PPA). Despite progress, implementation was well short of
expectations, and overall progress is judged to be unsatisfactory.

The PRSCs supported improvement in the legal framework, with a key amendment to the Law on Public
Procurement (LPP) that introduced a requirement that evaluation of public contract bids be done on the
basis of pre-announced, objective and quantifiable criteria. PRSC 3 also supported introduction of a
comprehensive set of implementing regulations to the LPP, adoption and publication of standard bidding
documents, as well as a users' manual on procurement.

The other important reforms related to fully staffing the PPA and extending to its employees the scope of
the CSL. However, PPA staff was not given civil service salaries, and the head of the PPA not given civil
service status, which is an anomaly since it means that he/she is not protected by the CSL, unlike the
employees who report to him/her. The capacity of public procurement entities has improved at the central
level, but needs major strengthening at the local level.

As at the time of the 2001 CPAR, problems remain in implementation of a legislative framework that is
generally sound, leading to outcomes that are less than satisfactory. According to BEEPS data, the
percentage of firms citing frequent bribery to obtain government contracts rose from 33 percent in 2002 to
41 percent in 2005. Related, the 2001 CPAR found low participation in public tendering, since potential
bidders were not convinced of the fairness of the system, an area where the 2006 CFAU found no evidence
of improvement. This was despite improvement in access to information, with the public procurement
bulletin being published every five days with information on tender notices and contract awards. However,
the PPA does not have reliable data on the extent of direct procurement conducted in the system, and its
annual report is not comprehensive, accurate, or public. The incidence of open tendering has increased
only slightly, from 31 percent of the number of contracts in 2003 to 38 percent in 2005 (CFAU). In 2001,
the CPAR had concluded that a good procurement law is being undermined by poor application and lack of
enforcement, owing to weakness of the PPA and use of uncompetitive procurement methods. In 2006, the
CFAU has found no improvement in this situation. Thus, the overall rating given to Albania's procurement
systems (using the OECD-DAC-World Bank methodology), was 2.2 in the legislative framework, but much
lower and implying serious deficiencies in institutional and management capacity (0.8), procurement
operations and market practices (1.2), and integrity of the public procurement system (0.9). The rating is
from 0-3, with the expectation that a sound procurement system would score an average of about 2 on each of the
sub-indicators. A rating of 1 means that substantive work is needed to bring the system into full compliance, and 2



                                                      - 18 -

indicates need for some improvements to reach full compliance.

Decentralization (satisfactory). Building on the sound framework that already existed, including the law
enacted in 2000 on organization and functioning of local self-government, the PRSCs sought to tackle
weaknesses that had led to an impasse in further progress in decentralization. These included
fragmentation in local administrative units, confusion about the role of Prefects, lack of an action plan on
transfer of State property, weak administrative capacity, uncertainties in further assignment of local
responsibilities, etc. On balance, despite slow progress in areas such as property transfer, a stronger
foundation has been built for further reforms, and overall progress was satisfactory. An overall indicator
of progress is the increase in the local autonomy to allocate expenditures (including those financed by local
own revenues), from 8 percent of the local budget in 2000 to 45 percent in 2005.

The Law on Prefects (PRSC 2) helped overcome existing ambiguity and to clearly define the Prefects' role
vis-à-vis the regional and local governments--to exclusively provide legal oversight of local government
actions. Significant reforms in local taxes were undertaken in 2003 order to increase local revenue
autonomy (including the reinstatement of the land tax and the revised Small Business Tax as local taxes, a
revision of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees). This resulted in real increases in local tax revenue of 48, 18
and 22 percent in 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. As already mentioned, the Council of Ministers
adopted policy papers in health, education, and social assistance that elaborated on local government
responsibilities with respect to shared functions. On the latter, implementation started in the 2005 Budget,
when, for the first time, investments in pre-university education and primary health were delegated to local
governments, on a block grant basis.

There were other areas where progress was more halting. An action plan was adopted for the Agency for
Inventory and Transfer of Public Properties (AITPP) to identify and transfer State property to local
governments, and an inventory of these properties was to be completed by PRSC 3. However, this
identification is still ongoing--for example, an inventory of buildings has been completed for only 120 of
374 local government units (LGUs), and, for water facilities, for 229 of the 374 LGUs--which has also
delayed the process of transfer of property to local governments. Another area of slow progress was
capacity building. While a Training Agency for Local Government (TALGA) was established by law and
a National Training Strategy for local government approved (with donor funding committed), the new
government has demonstrated less commitment to this activity, and TALGA as well as local government
capacity building are making less progress than envisaged under the PRSC.

Despite such concerns, the overall progress supported by the PRSCs has been impressive, and has laid the
foundation for the work that is ongoing to further define local government responsibilities and service
standards. The PRSCs also spawned an IDF grant that is helping to define the framework for local
government financing, including local borrowing and insolvency resolution procedures.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A. This was a policy-based operation.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact is rated as substantial (see also Section 6 on Sustainability). As
discussed in Section 6, many of the PRSC-supported actions have been translated into legislation. Besides,
there have been permanent changes in the way Albanian institutions operate, in areas such as management



                                                     - 19 -

of the civil service, the budgetary process and the MTBP, and local and central government responsibilities.


Numerous government departments that were the focal points for different parts of the PRSC can be
expected to continue to provide expertise for, and also help catalyze, further reforms. Key agencies where
institutional development has been significant include the MoF, which coordinated the whole PRSC
process, but also implemented the public expenditure management agenda; CSC and, to a lesser extent,
DoPA, which, despite recent reversals in the civil service reform process, continue to perform; HIDAA,
which is now also in charge of monitoring the observance of the law on conflict of interest, besides
implementing asset declarations; SII, which not only distributes social insurance benefits, but also provides
inputs into policy-making; MoLGD, which pushed for decentralization (now a part of the Ministry of
Interior); and the MoES, which improved significantly its capacity in budgeting for strategic priorities.
Even in some areas where progress was not satisfactory, such as procurement, the nodal agency, the PPA,
gained significant expertise over the course of the PRSC program.

In the area of decentralization, the PRSC process also spawned an IDF grant which is continuing to help
the MoF to define the framework for local government financing.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
While growth fell in 2002 owing to floods and electricity shortages, it recovered smartly in 2003 and 2004,
and did not affect project outcomes. Significant macroeconomic consolidation was achieved over the
period.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Implementation over the course of the three PRSCs was affected by changes in leadership (no changes in
party in power). Political changes resulted in three changes in 2002, resulting in a slow start to the NSSED
and affecting the follow up to PRSC 1. These changes brought a number of new staff into the PRSC
process, which delayed ownership of reforms for PRSC 2. Political instability was again witnessed in the
second half of 2003, resulting in a new government in January 2004.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
There was no separate project implementing agency, although the Ministry of Finance took overall control.
Factors relating to individual agencies that were in charge of different components of the PRSC are
discussed in Section 4.5.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The three PRSCs totaled US$53 million in IDA credits (higher than original amount programmed owing to
SDR-dollar exchange rate variations), with the first, second and third credit amounts of US$ 23.5 million,
US$19.3 million and US$10.1million, respectively. The Credits were provided on IDA terms, with a grace
period of 10 years and a maturity of 20 years.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the processes supported by the PRSCs is likely, but would be somewhat likely were
this option available.

Macroeconomic stabilization has seen impressive results since 2000, supported by various IMF programs
between September 1992 and December 2004. More importantly in terms of domestic capacity, the Bank



                                                     - 20 -

of Albania has implemented well- informed monetary policy and has seen strengthening of its supervisory
framework. Many of the major reforms supported by the PRSCs have been legislated, and subsidiary
legislation also enacted. The new government that took office in September 2005 has reiterated its
commitment to the NSSED (and its successor, the NSDI), with full political backing for the IPS. The
Government has also expressed strongly its commitment to improve governance and reduce corruption, and
backed that up with several measures. It is going ahead with further decentralization, reforms in tax
administration (where significant revenue gains, exceeding projections, have been recorded in 2006), in
public expenditure management, and in the social sectors. Sustainability prospects are enhanced by the
fact that there were no special implementation agencies, and each ministry/department that was involved
(by definition a permanent body) developed relevant expertise over the course of the loans (see Section 4.5),
and that no extraordinary financing was involved.

On the other hand, concerns have surfaced about sustainability in some areas, especially in civil service
reforms, as already noted in Section 4.2. However, even in this case, the performance of the redress
mechanism, the Civil Service Commission, has been a very positive element in the quest for long-run
sustainability. There are also some concerns about the long-term sustainability of the pensions system,
given low revenue collections, the significant pension deficit, and the low replacement levels of pensions.
Also, the decentralization of social services has yet to be followed up with a sustainable financing strategy.
Finally, the sustainability of funding for INSTAT's survey activities is not assured, and may need the
continued interest of donors.

Overall, to build on the momentum already generated by past reforms including some notable successes and
institutional development efforts, the development community needs to continue to be engaged in Albania
on a long-term basis. This is also because development is a long-term and incremental business. The
long-term incentive for EU accession (Albania signed the Stabilization and Association Agreement on 12
June, 2006) could also be a key element in keeping reforms on track. Thus, support of the EU, the World
Bank (see Section 6.2), USAID (with the added incentive of the Millenium Challenge Account), DfID, EIB,
EBRD, and other development partners, will be critical.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The draft of this ICR has fed into the development of Albania's FY06-09 CAS, and into the new series of
DPL operations. This has led to continuity of Bank engagement in Albania, and to a more strategic link
between investment lending and the DPL program. New investment lending is planned (or already
approved) in 2006 in the areas of business environment (a weak spot in the PRSCs), land management (to
partly address registration in the urban cadastres), health (approved), education (approved, a multi-donor,
sector-wide approach) and transport. The DPL series, programmed to start in FY07, will follow up closely
on the agenda of the PRSCs. For example, in pensions, the DPLs propose to continue to support fiscal
sustainability, following an ongoing social insurance review. Similarly, in health, the DPLs would
complement the health operation (which will focus on improving access to quality health care, especially
for the poor) and again focus on fiscal sustainability. The DPLs will also be supported by a business
environment operation, remedying one significant lacuna in the PRSC program. Moreover, with the
objective of improving the fiduciary framework, the DPL program also proposes to support improvements
in procurement, public expenditure management, and a new law on concessions with the objective of
promoting transparency and competition in the process. The DPLs will also continue to pay close attention
to civil service reforms (a strong recommendation of this ICR) and decentralization in specific areas, and
support a sound framework for local government financing.




                                                     - 21 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Preparation of the PRSC 3 operation was satisfactory, but would be rated moderately satisfactory if
this option were available (see also section 3.5). The PRSCs mirrored the NSSED very closely, which
made them highly relevant. They relied on a large body of economic and sector work. There was
noteworthy complementarity with investment operations in a large number of areas. The significant stress
on institutional development and legislation was appropriate, given Albania's stage of development. Risk
identification and mitigation were by and large appropriate. Relations with the IMF were mutually
supportive. On the other hand, the major weakness in the design was in the large number of conditions,
which taxed limited government capacity, led to uneven quality of outcome indicators, and also partly
contributed to uneven outcomes in different areas of the project.

7.2 Supervision:
Supervision performance was satisfactory, with the Tirana office playing a key role in this outcome.
Strong capacity of Bank staff in Tirana, who was involved through the entire PRSC program, allowed
building of continuity and trust among counterparts, and also led to a dialog that was constructive and
efficient, and occurred almost on a daily basis. MoF and line ministries, for the most part, reported highly
cooperative and substantive working relationships with their World Bank counterparts, both in Albania as
well as those from headquarters. To deal with the demands of a large multi-sectoral project, the Bank
assembled a large headquarters team with relevant expertise, and the engagement of this team also helped in
incremental capacity building among client counterparts. The MoF also appreciated the flexibility of Bank
staff to deal with specific situations. Projects Status Reports paid close attention to development
objectives.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance was satisfactory. The Bank did a good job overall, and paid close attention to
critical areas of the project, and fostered capacity building. Despite the large number of conditions, the
preparation did result in operations that achieved substantial improvements and quantifiable outcomes, as
discussed in Sections 4.1 and 4.5. The PRSC program, by virtue of its design, also helped to improve
inter-ministerial communication and coordination.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Performance of the borrower during the preparation phase was satisfactory. Albania created a
relevant and credible NSSED (GPRS) on which the PRSC program was were based. Coordination
between different arms of government improved during the PRSC program, partly as a result of the PRSC
process itself, but also because of increasing government commitment to the NSSED and MTBP processes.
Ownership of government, which was initially hesitant, increased over the course of the program, helped by
the continuity of the program over the course of the three PRSCs, conscious MoF efforts, and a
Bank-organized stakeholder workshop prior to appraisal of PRSC 2.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance is rated satisfactory, but would have been moderately
satisfactory were this option available. The Government and particularly the Ministry of Finance, as the
key implementing agency of the PRSCs, was effective in efforts to maintain a stable macroeconomic
environment and continue the stabilization program. This strong performance led to steady economic
growth after 2002 and, thanks partly to a successful monetary program that kept inflation low and steady,



                                                      - 22 -

an impressive record of poverty reduction between 2002 and 2005. It also enabled policy attention for
sectoral reforms that are not directly linked to macroeconomic performance. In many areas, strong
leadership was demonstrated in pushing through important reforms in areas such as pensions, education,
decentralization, official accountability, and in crucial implementation support in civil service reform and
institutionalization of the MTBP. The Government met all core conditions without the need for extensions.

As documented in section 5.2, implementation was affected by the frequent changes in government
leadership and staffing in different ministries/agencies. For example, earlier ownership of cross-cutting
reforms such as the MTBP and NSSED could have helped to provide better sectoral strategies in areas
such as health and social assistance and push for accelerated efforts in policy monitoring and evaluation,
and in certain aspects of decentralization.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Implementing agency performance is rated satisfactory. Most agencies performed well, despite the
handicaps of frequent changes in staffing, and have developed capacity for policy making as well as
implementation (see section 4.5).

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall borrower performance is satisfactory. While the changes in leadership and staffing did affect
the pace of implementation in earlier years, preparation by the borrower was strong, and implementing
agencies did a good job. Core conditions of the program were achieved, and strong growth and poverty
reduction provides an overall positive orientation to the assessment.

8. Lessons Learned

The broad-based operation did allow flexibility to seize opportunities where both development impact
and likelihood of implementation were high. The wide-ranging operation allowed the Bank and the
Borrower to pick a wide range of high impact, but feasible reforms, such as occurred in the areas of civil
service reforms, asset declaration, land registration, and pensions. The programmatic nature of the
operation helped the Bank to be flexible where needed, a fact that came in for considerable praise from the
Borrower.

On balance, however, the agenda was too loaded. Ambitious policy operations with a wide variety of
conditions can sacrifice focus needed to drive home priorities. It was of course tempting to use the
PRSC to push through reforms in a wide number of areas, partly because of the multi-dimensional nature
of poverty, and partly because of the very long list of actions delineated in the GPRS/NSSED. However,
given capacity bottlenecks, the number of conditions, especially non-core conditions, was excessive, and
increasing with each successive PRSC. It is recommended that future policy-based loans take a more
focused view, pursuing a core theme in each leg of the overall operation, even while maintaining an
integrated approach to the larger agenda, given the long-term nature of most reforms.

At the end of the day, lack of ownership cannot be substituted by more conditionality. While this can
work in some instances, it cannot be a substitute for ownership. In this case, ownership outside the
Ministry of Finance was low, although it improved over the course of the operation. This also argues for
greater focus in the operation.

Monitoring indicators need to be given as much care as the conditions themselves. A strong lesson
emerging from the process of doing this ICR is that indicators need to be strongly linked to policy actions,
need to be quantifiable, have baseline data in the program matrix, and clear monitoring responsibility on



                                                     - 23 -

each indicator needs to be assigned. One reason why there was uneven attention to indicators in the PRSC
program was the proliferation of conditions--another reason why the program should be more focused.

The NSSED's close link with the World Bank reduced donor buy-in in some cases. The Bank faced
some concerns, especially on the part of other donors, that the NSSED was a Bank-inspired
document--which reduced buy-in from other donors in some cases. Perhaps there was because, as
mentioned above, the Ministry of Finance played the dominant role in supporting the NSSED process at the
time, with lesser ownership by the line ministries, despite the Bank's attempts. The remedy for this is even
greater ownership by government. This may be happening now, with the launch of the Integrated Planning
System by the Government of Albania.

Donor coordination pays strong dividends when successful. While it was not clear that the PRSC
helped achieve closer donor coordination in most areas--donor coordination did pay off when it was
achieved, such as in the implementation of cross cutting institutional reforms such as MTBP, civil service
reforms, decentralization and policy formulation.

Complementarity with investment operations should continue to be pursued. The twinning of
investment and policy-based operations worked well in the PRSCs. In a country with limited capacity, the
investment operations provide the capacity building, transfer of resources, and implementation push, while
the PRSC provides the impetus to the cross-cutting and policy agenda. This was the case, for example, in
education, when the PRSC enabled reinforcement of the ongoing education and public administration
reform projects. Similarly, the lack of investment operations was one reason for slow progress in some
areas such as the business environment and procurement. The logic of this demands a more strategic tying
together of the policy and investment agendas, and also circumscribing the scope for 'stand-alone'
investment lending (a point also echoed in the Borrower's comments).

Does size of policy-based lending matter? While there is no direct link between size of the PRSC
program and Bank influence, on balance, the share of the PRSC in the overall lending envelope should
probably have been larger. This view is based on the vast policy agenda as well as the low disbursement
on investment projects at the time. Moreover, higher PRSC lending percentages would have helped to keep
portfolio fragmentation in check, and direct resources to the core strategic tasks. Also, some of the line
ministries felt that the PRSC should have helped them to increase the flow of resources to them--but this
did not happen. Future lending would need to factor these issues into the agenda, and try to ensure that the
policy-based operations receive a significant share of overall lending, and are strategically tied to the
investment lending agenda.

Much of the agenda is long-term, and needs persistence, and sustainability cannot be defined
independently of development community support. The PRSCs supported significant successes in areas
such as decentralization and pensions, and civil service reform, and capacity building was widespread.
This notwithstanding, and as documented in this ICR, the development agenda is mostly long-term in
nature, institutional development is slow and incremental, and policy reforms need follow up as well as
implementation support. Therefore, to allow Albania to sustain the momentum of reforms, and build on the
successes already achieved, the Bank and the development community in general need to stay engaged for
the long haul.

Analytical work should continue through the program. While there was a strong foundation of
analytical work at the start of the PRSC program, there were some gaps, which, if redressed, could have
been useful. The major analytic gaps were in health, and in the business environment, which may also



                                                    - 24 -

partly explain lack of sufficient progress in these sectors (see next point also).

The contrast between health and education speaks to the importance of seeing the big picture at the
outset of the program, and is echoed in the business environment. The education program was able to
achieve more significant results than health, owing partly to the early emphasis on improving management
of the education sector. This helped to impart greater focus and direction to policy actions. For example, it
had focused but ambitious objectives such as competition in supply of textbooks and their free distribution
to the poor, which were fully achieved. In health, much of the program focused on resource flows, even
when it sought to influence public health programs, but the lack of an overall strategic framework remained
a weakness until PRSC 3. Thus, despite not achieving the targets on resource flows (unlike health, where
they were achieved by PRSC 3), the education sector enjoyed better success. Similarly, in terms of the
business environment, the lack of an overall conceptual framework to guide all private sector-related
interventions was not explicitly articulated, which meant that a strong impact on outcomes such as private
investment and exports was less likely.

Linkages with IMF program. The partnership between the Bank and the IMF has been a fruitful one.
The existence of an IMF PRGF program was instrumental in helping maintain fiscal discipline and
macro-stability, and has helped the PRSC achieve its objectives in this respect. Some government officials,
looking ahead to future operations, maintained that the scope of the Bank and IMF interventions be limited
to their respective areas of competence, and that there should not be any duplicate conditionality.

Organization of team work inside the Bank. The joint team leadership between the human development
(HD) and economic (PREM) teams did not pay off. On the plus side, it generated learning and dialogue,
and helped to more effectively highlight trade-offs of different conditions in the operations. However, these
benefits were outweighed by the increased transaction costs at each stage of the operation. The joint
leadership model is not recommended as one to be followed.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
                                             Republic of Albania
                                             Ministry of Finance
                                      General Directorate of Treasury
                                      Debt Management Department

Prot. No. 4120

                                                                                           Tirana, 06/09/2006


To: Mr. Nadir Mohammed
Country Manager & Head of Office
The World Bank
Tirana

     Re: Borrower's Contribution to Implementation Completion Report for PRSC I, II, and III

Dear Mr. Mohammed,




                                                     - 25 -

With reference to your letter of April 21, 2006, please find below our comments regarding borrower's
contribution in the preparation and implementation of the PRSCs in the context of the drafting of the
PRSCs ICR.

1.       Importance of objectives and components vis-à-vis the national priorities

The PRSCs program was drafted in support of the implementation of the NSSED. The program came in
response to the national priorities because it supported the implementation of key reforms that aimed at
achieving economic growth, strengthening the governance of the public sector, and improving social
services delivery.

The Government of Albania and the World Bank cooperated in the formulation of the program by
specifying the objectives, the actions to be undertaken, and the monitoring indicators. In the course of the
program implementation, the Ministry of Finance, as the main coordinator, the line ministries and other
public institutions (not reporting to the GoA) were involved and committed in meeting the conditionalities,
even though several times we faced difficulties pushing the public institutions not reporting to the GoA to
meet the conditionalities on time, and within the given timeframes. The commitment of the GoA was
translated into concrete actions, which are identified with the achievement of the monitoring quantitative
and qualitative indicators.

2.       Meeting the Objectives and Outputs

2.1      Results/Meeting the Objectives

The PRSC program achieved its objectives. The program conditionalities were met, and this was translated
into the disbursement of the three credits. The progress of the objectives was monitored via monitoring
indicators, and based on the status of these indicators we can say that the project developmental objectives
are rated as `satisfactory".

The main achievements of the PRSC program include:

·        Maintenance of a satisfactory macro-economic framework, which is still being supported under the
IMF PRGF.

·        Development of the rural sector through a comprehensive rural development program. In the
context of the PRSC, the focus was implementation of the legislation and rules related to enforcement of
the property rights. Some of the achievements include: (i) initial registration of immovable properties at
80%; (ii) preparation of 3 regional development plans, which were approved by the Inter-ministerial
Committee for the Rural Development; (iii) approval of the law on the restitution and compensation of the
immovable properties, and formulation of a plan for its implementation.

·        Strengthening of the capacities for monitoring and evaluating the policy agenda through
establishment of institutional structures, and development of the relevant capacities to collect, analyze, and
disseminate credible statistical data necessary for the monitoring and evaluation of the effectiveness of the
policy agenda; Some of the achievements include: (i) introduction of monitoring & evaluation functions in
16 line ministries, (ii) preparation of 2002 LSMS; (iii) preparation of the national poverty profile, and
poverty maps needed for decision-making in the distribution of revenues.




                                                     - 26 -

The challenges for the future would be further strengthening of the capacities of the line ministries for
research, analyses, and making available the information for the decision-makers; encouraging a stronger
interaction among the line ministries on the methodology of Monitoring & Evaluation, and implementation
and review of the relevance of the indicators and objectives; further strengthening of the cooperation
between INSTAT and the line agencies via the data users group and undertaking of a joint
assessment/evaluation based on the LSMS to help guide the formulation of the policies in the future for the
priority sectors.

·        Progress in the area of civil service reform through the approval of the civil service law.
Satisfactory progress against some amendments of the main laws that govern management of human
resources in the public sector, which ensure compliance/consistency with the civil service law.

·        Preparation and publication of consolidated audited financial statements of the budgetary accounts
for 2001 and 2002 of the ministries, Social Insurance Institute, and of the local government, as well as
satisfactory progress regarding their improved quality. For the moment, work is ongoing for the adoption of
International Accounting Standards, and their implementation.

·        The recommendations of the Country's Procurement Assessment Report led to improved
transparency in public procurement processes through: (i) legal improvements in the public procurement
law; (ii) introduction of comprehensive implementation rules, standard bidding documents and formulation
of a user's manual for the procurement of goods, works, and services; and (iii) improvement of the
capacities of the Public Procurement Agency. Currently work is ongoing for fine-tuning the public
procurement law.

·        Public expenditures management is strengthened through increased budged ratio for education and
health as percentage of GDP; the process of MTBEF has been consolidated; the formulation of the annual
budget moved from the historical input-based trend into a budget based on policies and programs (output).
Currently is being finalized the draft of the budget organic law, which is projected to be the "constitution"
of the public finance, aiming at harmonizing all process such as the MTBEF, in terms of deadlines,
program actions in the medium-term with the annual budget with the final goal of making them part of one
single process.

·        Improvement of social services delivery through:

         o Improved allocation of resources for priority social services, increased expenditure for health
              and education as percentage of GDP;
         o Provision of free textbooks for students in primary education, and for the secondary education
              students in the 80 poorest communes in the country;
         o Improvement of the fiscal sustainability of the pension system through the approval of the law
              for increasing the retirement age, and reduction of pension for those that want to retire earlier;
              approval and implementation of the legislation requiring external auditing of the financial
              statements of the pensions fund; transfer of the collection of most of the taxes of social
              contribution from the SII to the General Tax Department;
         o The approval by the CoM of the LDPs for health, education, and social assistance, which
              include: (i) specific responsibilities of the local government regarding shared functions; and (ii)
              an action plan which defines the basic minimal national standards and the performance
              indicators for the evaluation of services delivered by the local government.




                                                        - 27 -

There has been slower progress in:

·        Improving the business and investment climate;
·        Implementation of the law for the restitution and compensation of immovable properties.

2.2      Institutional Development Impact

In the course of the three years of PRSCs implementation there has been progress in the validity and
credibility of data to monitor and evaluate the policy agenda, and to institutionalize the functions of
monitoring and evaluation in the line ministries. Through an order of the Prime Minister were established
16 M& E Units in the ministries. The NSSED Department in the MoF played the role of the coordination
and monitoring of the implementation of the NSSED. In order to strengthen its M& E capacities, the GoA
established the Statistical Monitoring and Poverty Unit in the Ministry of Labor, with the goal of analyzing
and delivery of information for monitoring of poverty and evaluation of the social programs.

INSTAT, with DFID and WB assistance drafted and completed the LSMS for 2002, and two panel surveys
for 2003 and 2004. INSTAT completed the poverty profile and prepared the poverty maps needed for
allocation of resources, and assessment of impacts of programs and budgets of the government.

Decentralization in the priority sectors marked substantial progress compared to previous years. Definition
of specific responsibilities for the local government strengthened harmonization of the regional development
policies with the NSSED. Decentralization in the sectors of education, health and social assistance helped
the representatives of the communities to come closer to the above mentioned sectors, and to decide
independently on the development polices for the above mentioned sectors.

3.       Main internal factors that influenced implementation and results

The process of decentralization throughout the course of the implementation of the PRSC program was not
easy, despite progress and achievements. It was clear that in the further steps for an efficient governmental
strategy there would be difficulties involved because of the following:

·       Fragmented structure of the LG units
·       Weaknesses of the administrative capacities (central and local)
·       Absence of clear standards of services and criteria for the measurement of performance in the
        services delivery
·       Insufficient revenue autonomy.

4.       Sustainability of the achievements of PRSC I, II, and III

The PRSCs program was drafted in support of the NSSED, and consequently we arrive at the conclusion
that the program results will be sustainable because of the importance of the NSSED, and the opportunities
of the GoA to strengthen institutional integrity and reduce corruption and state capture. We need to
reiterate that the main achievements of the PRSC program have been translated into laws, thus ensuring
strong support.

Some of the areas where we think that there will be continuity include: decentralization, civil services,
public expenditures management, and social protection (and in particular the pension's reform), rural
development, private sector, education and health.



                                                     - 28 -

5.      Bank's and Borrower's Performance

·       Bank's performance vis-à-vis the work with the GoA in the course of definition of the
        conditionalities is rated as very good.
·       Bank's performance in the supervision of the implementation of the PRSC conditionalities is rated
        very good.
·       Overall Bank's performance is rated "satisfactory"
·       The GoA has been very committed in the process of the formulation of the PRSCs, and has
        cooperated very closely with the WB.
·       In some instance there have been delays on the side of the GoA in terms of meeting of some the
        conditionalities given that the latter were many, and some institutions took over conditionalities that
        were not easy to be met, and MoF faced difficulties in promoting the fulfillment of some
        conditionalities for public institutions of a higher instance, and not under the GoA.
·       The implementing institutions in the process of the PRSC were overly committed and responsive in
        meeting the conditionalities
·       Overall performance of the GoA is rated as "satisfactory."

6.      Lessons learned

Positive lessons:

·         PRSCs represent the appropriate instrument in the area of reforms
·         In future PRSCs support should be given to those reforms/policies which have the capacities for
          implementation, monitoring indicators, and the conditionalities should be more achievable.
·         PRSCs have played a complementary role in the investment activities of the Bank.

Adverse lessons:

·       The credit amounts did not properly reflect the costs arising from the implementation of
        conditionalities that were too many
·       Technical assistance and training for the establishment of the relevant capacities would be needed
        for an efficient implementation of the PRSC objectives
·       More attention needs to be paid to different M& E levels
·       The conditionalities were too many, and this was reflected in the delays. To this end,
        conditionalities need to be more selective, and the achievement of the monitoring indicators needs to
        be clearly defined.

In the future it is recommendable to support the priorities as they are defined in the NSSED.

Thank you
Ridvan Bode
Minister

Sherefedin Shehu
Acting for the Minister
Deputy Minister




                                                      - 29 -

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information

One Project Status Report (PSR) was completed for each PRSC. Major aspects of the projects were
consistently rated satisfactory or better in the case of M&E.

                                 TABLE : Summary of PSR Ratings
        Category                      PRSC1                    PRSC2                  PRSC3
Achievement of PDO                        S                     S                        S
Implementation Progress                   S                     S                        S
Financial Management                      S                     S                        S
Financial Performance                     S                     S                        S
M & E                                   HS                      S                        S




                                                      - 30 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


                                Indicator                                                            Data
I. PROMOTING SUSTAINABLE GROWTH AND SUPPORTING PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
i) Satisfactory macroeconomic framework                                     Satisfactory completion of IMF PRGF program. See
                                                                            Table 4- Macroeconomic Indicators (Section 4.2 of
                                                                            ICR)
 ii) Improve business environment
Reduction of firms reporting `extreme dissatisfaction' with regulations,    Customs regulation a problem for 56% of firms in
bureaucratic behavior, and obstacles in tax and customs by 25%.             2002, and 49% in 2005 (BEEPS).
                                                                            Tax administration a problem for 53% of firms in
                                                                            2002, 59% in 2005 (BEEPS).
                                                                            Business licensing a problem for 39% of firms in
                                                                            2002, 35% in 2005 (BEEPS).
                                                                            Increase in time taken for registration between 2002
                                                                            and 2004 (Self-Assessment).
                                                                            Bribery rate increasing from 13% (2002) to 19%
                                                                            (2004) (Self-Assessment).
Reduction in number of on-site inspections by 25%                           On-site inspections 19.9 per year in 2002, 13.8 in
                                                                            2004 (Self-Assessment).
Reduction in the paperwork required to clear Customs based on an            Paperwork has been significantly reduced.
assessment by CAM-A.
Measurement of legitimate VAT cases refunded inside and outside the         Authorities now report to IMF on VAT claims and
statutory requirement.                                                      refunds.
iii) Enhance income and development opportunities in rural areas
Increase in the rate of monthly cadastral zone registrations from 33 to 40  81% of CZ registered, but most valuable land
per month.                                                                  remains to be registered.

Increase in the average income in rural areas.                              Average real consumption per capita in rural areas
                                                                            increased from 7212 lek per month in 2002 to
                                                                            7868 lek per month in 2005, an increase of 9
                                                                            percent.
II. STRENGTHENING POLICY MONITORING AND EVALUATION
i)  Strengthen executive branch policy monitoring arrangements and capacities
Regular and reliable information from survey and administrative            Improved, but the quality and reliability of
sources made available to key Government and non-governmental              administrative data in many instances still hampers
agencies.                                                                  adequate monitoring and evaluation. LSMS data are
                                                                           being produced, analyzed and disseminated regularly
                                                                           and they are beginning to inform the policy debate,
                                                                           though the capacity of line agencies to demand and
                                                                           utilize information based on surveys still requires
                                                                           further strengthening. 2005 LSMS data has been
                                                                           analyzed and initial results available.
ii) Strengthen evaluation capacity and strengthen non-executive branch policy monitoring
Improved staff skills in policy analysis.                                  Policy and planning units, established in several
                                                                           ministries, and staff received some training. But
                                                                           capacity to systematically monitor data and feed this
                                                                           into policy formulation varies across ministries.




                                                               - 31 -

 III. IMPROVING SERVICE DELIVERY AND SOCIAL SAFETY EFFECTIVENESS
 i)  HEALTH: Improve effectiveness and efficiency in resource allocation as well as health outcomes
 Health budget increases, closing gap with European average                Health spending as a share of total spending: 7.1% in
                                                                           2002 (actual) to 8.7% of total (actual) in 2004 (9.4%
                                                                           in 2005 (actual)); health spending 2.2% of GDP in
                                                                           2002 to 2.5% of GDP in 2004 and 2.6% of GDP in
                                                                           2005.
 Health budget targeted towards priority needs within Government's
 health strategy, including better balance between investment and          Share of capital budget in total budget: 7% in 2002 to

 recurrent budgets.                                                        15% in 2004. Real increases in PHC O&M of 18% in
                                                                           2004 (actual) relative to 2003, and 12% real increase
                                                                           for key public health programs.
 Capacity strengthened to track the flow of funds in the health sector,     Budget tracking survey and NHA have been
 evaluate policy impact, and introduce transparency for greater             completed.
 accountability.
 Strategy developed to improve equity and social protection in the health   An overall health sector reform strategy was
 insurance system.                                                          adopted in mid-2004, but no specific strategy was
                                                                            developed to improve equity in access. A policy
                                                                            paper on responsibilities of central and local
                                                                            governments in health care was also adopted.
ii) EDUCATION: Increase the adequacy of resources contingent on evidence of sector's effective use of additional resources
 1. Recurrent education budget moves toward 1998 OECD average for          1. (2001) 2.84%; (2002) 2.51%; (2003) 2.69%; (2004)
 recurrent expenditures of 4.4 % GDP                                       2.56%; (2005) 2.64%

 2. Teacher salaries as percent of GDP per capita                          2. Average pre-university teacher salary (as percent of
                                                                           GDP per capita) = 1.07 in 2001 and 0.98 in 2004.

 3. Increase in vertical compression ratio of teacher salaries (ratios of  3. No change in vertical compression ratio from 2000
 average salaries of highest-ranked teachers to that of entry-level        to 2004 for any level of education.
 teachers)

 4. Increasing % of teaching force meets MoES standards for "qualified"    4. Over 2002-04, share of teachers without adequate

 teachers                                                                  qualifications declined from 19 to 12 percent in basic
                                                                           education, and 5.2 to 3.4 percent in secondary
                                                                           education.
Increase access and quality of education for poor families
 1. Gross enrollment and completion rates for grades 1-4, 5-8, and 9-12    1. Net enrollment rates          2002      2005
 overall, for rural families, and for children of the poorest consumption               Pre-school          31.5      41.8
 quintile of families (increases over time indicate improvement, with                   Basic education     93.3      92.2
 achievement of enrollment and completion rate targets by end of                        Secondary edn.      38.7      55.3
 PRSC).                                                                                 Tertiary             8.7      18.0

                                                                           2. All children in basic education receive free
 2. Families with children in basic education report that they have        textbooks; secondary students in 80 poorest
 received free textbooks                                                   communities receive free textbooks.

                                                                           3. All new textbooks published under competitive
 3. Increased fraction of textbooks published under competitive            tendering.
 tendering




                                                                - 32 -

iii) SOCIAL PROTECTION: Improve pension sustainability and effectiveness of social assistance
Social Insurance- Ensure that the pension system is both effective and financially sustainable over a 30-year time horizon.
Sustainability: Current and projected deficit of the pension schemes as  (% GDP) 2002           2003      2004       2005
a share of GDP                                                             Urban      1.34%     1.27%     1.15%      1.07%
                                                                           Rural      0.49%     0.45%     0.42%      0.49%

System dependency ratio [= number of pensioners/ no. of contributors].   1.06 (2001); 0.86 (2004).

Coverage: Social insurance contributors as a share of the population     0.31 (2001); 0.36 (2004).
between age 18 and the retirement age

Poverty rate among pensioner-headed families, by gender of head and      Poverty rates of pensioner-headed families, LSMS
urban/rural residence.                                                   data
                                                                                                2002       2005
                                                                         Total                  26.4      11.2
                                                                         Rural                  32.0      16.0
                                                                         Urban                  21.5        6.0
Measure the direct impact of pension and social assistance programs on income poverty, and improve the targeting of social
assistance cash transfers.
Percentage of each program's beneficiaries who were poor; percentage     The 2002 and 2005 LSMS indicate that of all Ndihme
of poor people within each program's target group who were               Ekonomike (NE) recipients, 43% were poor in 2002
beneficiaries                                                            and 36% poor in 2005; coverage of the poor however
                                                                         improved, with the share of poor families covered by
                                                                         NE rising from 25% in 2002 to 33% in 2005 (31% and
                                                                         51% of extreme poor). If NE did not exist, the overall
                                                                         poverty rate would have been 0.9 and 1 percentage
                                                                         point higher.

                                                                         In 2002 and 2005, 64 and 72 percent of poor families
Proportion of ndihme ekonomike funds allocated to families meeting       received transfers from one or more public sources.
national criteria for eligibility.                                       Of public transfer recipients, 21 and 18 percent were
                                                                         poor, respectively. In both years, 15 percent of the
                                                                         total transfer amount went to poor families. If these
                                                                         benefits did not exist, the overall poverty rate would
                                                                         have been 12 and 11 percentage points higher in 2002
                                                                         and 2005.
IV. IMPROVING CORE PUBLIC SECTOR FUNCTIONS AND INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
i)  Enhance contestability of policy formulation process.
Budget impact submission ratio (BISR): Fraction of proposals             These measures were not monitored with specific
submitted to CoM that included analysis of budgetary impacts             indicators but reform measures were tracked. The
acceptable to MoF (increases over time would indicate improvement).      Integrated Planning System is expected to improve
                                                                         monitoring. In addition, a new regulation on
Budget impact approval ratio: Fraction of proposals approved by CoM      submitting the proposals to CoM for approval, adopted
that included analysis of budgetary impacts acceptable to MoF            in 2003, sets out clearly that no proposal will be
                                                                         approved by the CoM if there is no calculation on the
                                                                         impact it will have on the budget.




                                                            - 33 -

ii) Enhance competitiveness and transparency of human resource management practices
Contract Employee Index: Fraction of civil service positions staffed by   The incidence of new appointments made on
contract employees.                                                       "contract" basis fell from 16% in 2001: Q4 to 4.0% in
                                                                          2002: Q4; to 2.6% by 2003: Q2 and 0.1 % in 2004:
                                                                          Q4; and 0.3% in 2005: Q2. However, the incidence
                                                                          rose significantly in 2006.

Quarterly turnover rates of civil servants.                               Turnover rates after CSL adoption were highest in
                                                                          2000: Q2 (9.7%), lowest in 2000: Q3 (0.5%), and
                                                                          1.5% in 2003: Q4. They increased again in 2005 and
                                                                          rose significantly in 2006 owing to the retrenchments
                                                                          (note that starting in 2004, the data includes only
                                                                          dismissals, and is not comparable to earlier data).

                                                                          By 2002 59.2 % of CS positions had been subjected to
Percentage of CS staff subject to appraisal, and distribution of          a performance appraisal, in 2003 this number was at
performance appraisal ratings.                                            75.6%, and in 2004 it was 88.6%.


                                                                           % of Civil Service           2002      2003     200
                                                                           rated:                                          4
                                                                                                        57.8      44.3
                                                                           Very good                    34.6      51.4     43.2
                                                                           Good                         7.0       3.9      51.1
                                                                           Sufficient                   0.16      0.41     5.1
                                                                           Insufficient                                    0.6

                                                                          Average number of applicants per vacancy was 8 in
Applicant Quality Index: Average number of qualified applications per     2003, 10.2 in 2004 and 8.5 in 2005.
advertised civil service position (rising number would indicate
improvement).
iii) Strengthen public expenditure management process

                                                                          Actual expenditure/budgeted expenditure was 94% in
Realistic Budget Proposal Index: Ratio of initial budget proposal for     2002 and 95% in 2004. Actual revenue/budgeted rose
each budgetary institution to actual budget approved by Parliament, by    from 93% in 2002 to 99% in 2004.
budget user by year (average ratio should approach, but not actually
reach, 1.0 over time; budget institution ratios that greatly exceed 1.0   Average deviation of actual expenditure/budget in
should signal to MoF that they should put greater pressure on that        individual ministries constant at around 90 percent
budget institution to make more realistic budget proposals)               between 2002-2004.




                                                               - 34 -

iv) Improve public financial accountability and increase accountability of high public officials
·     Cash Management Indicator: cash float of banks reduced to one         Float reduced to 1 day
      day.
·     Audit policies on compliance, and audit risk assessment updated       Internal audit manuals including audit policies and
      to international standards and issued to audit units.                 risk assessment in line with international standards
·     Internal audit units with qualified auditors and audit committees     issued to all internal audit units
      established in all ministries                                         Internal audit units established and audit committees
                                                                            established
·     Asset declarations filed in HIDAA
                                                                            In 2004, 18 out of 4093 officials did not file
                                                                            declaration within the required deadline. In 2005, the
                                                                            number of declarations increased to 4879, and in 2006,
                                                                            to 6849. Five cases of audit of assets led to dismissal,
                                                                            and two other cases were referred for prosecution in
                                                                            2005.
v) Improve competitiveness, transparency and accountability of procurement practices
   (i) Requests submitted to the PPA for the use of Direct Procurement,     Law specifies conditions for use of direct procurement,
  including their outcomes                                                  but there are distortions in interpreting the
                                                                            `emergency' clause. PPA in any case has no statistics
                                                                            on the extent of overall use of direct procurement in
                                                                            the system.

                                                                            In 2003, 259 out of 435 requests going to PPA to allow
                                                                            direct procurement were rejected. In 2004, 222 of 340
                                                                            requests were rejected.

  (ii) Penalties imposed on procuring entities and public officials for
  breaches of the LPP
                                                                            In 2004, significant penalties were assessed for
                                                                            breaches of Law on Public Procurement, including
                                                                            dismissal of three secretary generals and demotion of
  (iii) Firms and individuals banned from participation in public           another.
  procurement.                                                              No administrative procedures have been put in place
                                                                            to debar bidders engaged in corrupt practices, even
                                                                            though bidding documents include clauses against
                                                                            corruption and false documents. However, according
                                                                            to the Public Procurement Bulletin, there were four
                                                                            companies debarred from public tenders in 2006 for a
                                                                            period from 1-3 years and there are nine other
                                                                            companies in the process of being debarred.
vi) Advance decentralization process
Asset structure compatible with local governments' responsibilities.        Property transfer lagging. The inventory of state
(Indicator: the official list of properties transferred, compared to the    properties, to be completed by PRSC 3, is still
time frame for implementation)                                              ongoing.
Delivery of public services compatible with responsibilities. (Indicator:    The 2004 budgets (State and Local) reflected ad-
2004 State and Local Budgets reflect the assignment of responsibilities.     hoc agreements on responsibilities and funding for
                                                                             local governments, including some education
                                                                             capital expenditure responsibilities for Tirana.
                                                                             The 2005 budget earmarked conditional
                                                                             investment grants for education and health in line
                                                                             with the decentralization policy papers. The 2006
                                                                             State and local Budgets reflect the assignment of
                                                                             responsibilities.
Significant local tax base and no unfunded mandate. (Indicator: increased    Real increases in local tax revenue of 48, 18 and
share of local tax revenue in the total tax collection--2003 data as a base  22 percent in 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively.
line).




                                                                - 35 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                         Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                         Estimate    Estimate      Appraisal
                     Component                          US$ million  US$ million
PRSC1                                                     20.00         23.52            118
PRSC2                                                     18.00         19.26            107
PRSC3                                                     10.00         10.14            101

Total Baseline Cost                                       48.00         52.92
                        Total Project Costs               48.00         52.92
                  Total Financing Required                48.00         52.92




                                                - 36 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 37 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)           Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                          Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               10/26/03 ­               17    TL (2); Lead-public sector man          S               S
               10/31/03                       (1); Public sector man. Specialist
                                              (1); Economist-rural dev (1);
                                              Senior economist (2); Economist
                                              (4); Snr Financial Management
                                              Specialist (1); Consultant (3);
                                              Operations officer (1); Health
                                              specialist (1)
                                                                                      S               S

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               Pre-Appraisal            13    TL (2); Snr Economist (1);              S               S
               04/19/04 ­                     Economist (5); Snr Financial
               04/23/04                       Management Specialist (1);
                                              Consultant (2); Snr
                                              Operations Officer (1);
                                              Operations officer (1);
               07/26/04 ­               12    TL (2); Snr Economist (2);              S               S
               07/30/04                       Economist (3); Snr. Financial
                                              Man Specialist(1); Lead Pub
                                              Sector Man (1); Consultant (2);
                                              Snr. Operations Officer (1)

 Supervision
               03/03/2005 -                   TL(1); Economist (1)
               03/11/2005


 ICR
               05/21/05 ­                3     TL (1); Economist (1); Snr.
               05/26/05                        Evaluation Officer (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               71.0                            296.5
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    30.3                            115.2
  Supervision                              20.0                              53.7
  ICR
  Total                                   121.3                            465.4




                                               - 38 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 39 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 40 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Government of Albania
Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy (GPRS 2002-2004), Council of Ministers, Republic of Albania.

National Strategy for Socio-Economic Development (NSSED), Council of Ministers, Progress Reports,
2003, 2004, 2005.

Ministry of Economy, Albania, `Removal of Administrative Barriers, Ongoing Process to Improve the
Business Climate', Government Self-Assessment, March 2005.

World Bank

Albania--Country Fiduciary Assessment Update (CFAU), draft, June 2006.

Albania--Public Expenditure and Institutional Review (PEIR), draft, 2006.

Albania--Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), January 2006.

Albania--Country Assistance Evaluation (CAE), April 2005.

Albania--Country AAA Assessment, Quality Assurance Group, September 2004.

Albania--Country Lending Assessment, QAG, April 2004.

Albania--Quality at Entry (QAE) Assessment for first Albania PRSC, Quality Assurance Group (QAG),
October 2002.

Albania--Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR), 2001.

Albania--Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA), 2001.

Implementation Completion Report for first Albania PRSC, December 22, 2003.

Simplified Implementation Completion Report for Second PRSC, June 29, 2005.

Program Document for a Proposed Poverty Reduction Support Credit in the Amount of SDR 6.9 million to
Albania, November 3, 2004.

Program Document for a Proposed Poverty Reduction Support Credit in the Amount of SDR 10.0 million
to Albania, May 24, 2003.

Program Document for a Proposed Poverty Reduction Support Credit in the Amount of SDR 16.0 million
to Albania, May 24, 2002.




                                                - 41 -

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results


                                    BENEFICIARY SURVEY SUMMARY
                                 PRCS REFORMS' IMPACT ASSESSMENT

1.       This summary presents the main findings of the general beneficiary opinion survey conducted in
April ­ May 2005, in Albania, for measuring the impact of the reforms undertaken by the Government of
Albania in the framework of the PRSC 1, 2, 3 program. The purpose of conducting this survey was to
gather opinions of different groups: government officials, parliamentarians, civil society and citizens, who
were not directly involved in the preparation or implementation of the PRSCs The feedback is based on a
survey of 200 randomly selected people. The number of responses received was 41, out of which: 37 percent were
at a specialist level, 34 percent held the position of director (or executive director in an NGO) and 29 percent are
high officials (including General Directors, Mayors and Parliamentarians). .

2.    The PRSC reform program seems to have impacted the job performance of some categories of
respondents. The majority (59.5 percent) responded that the reforms had a minor impact on their job
performance, but one-third of those surveyed who work in the public institutions, such as line ministries,
parliament and local government, rated the program as of "great" or "significant help".

3.       The impact on the ground A 4 point scale was used, going from 1= worsened to 4 =highly improved.
was assessed through a series of questions related to public administration reform with a focus on
adequacy in the number of employees and their quality of work, budget and capacity building support,
impact on improving services in health, education and social protection. Respondents' opinions are
summarized in the table below:

4.       When asked to evaluate the Government's performance in carrying out the reform program,
48.7 percent of respondents were of the opinion that the government performance was "fair", 23.1 percent
good, 2.6 percent excellent, but 25.6 percent were of the opinion that it was poor. Government officials
working in central administration tend to be more positive compared with local government officials.
Twenty-nine percent of local government officials rated the government performance as "poor". The
mayors of the north-east region of Albania were less positive in their evaluation, while those from the
center or south-west tended to be more positive. This could be explained by the more problematic situation
in the North, compared to the rest of the country.

5.       In general, the respondents were not optimistic about the sustainability of reform
achievements. The majority of them (51.4 percent) projected that the reforms would be weakened in the
future and 18.9 percent suggested that they would be completely negated. Only 39.6 percent responded that
the achievements will be preserved and sustained and that they expect strengthening of the reform program
in the future. The skepticism on the sustainability of the reforms achievements may be due in part to timing
of the survey, which was conducted two months before general elections were due, and when the level of
uncertainty about the future may have been greater.




                                                          - 42 -

          Area Addressed by the Reform            Worsened No Significant Improved
                      Program                                Change       to Highly
                                                                          Improved
                                                     1          2           3 ­ 4
  1   General
1.1   Adequacy of number of staff                    11.5%        38.5%       50.0%
  1.2 Adequacy of quality of staff                    10.0%       46.7%       43.3%
  1.3 Adequacy of budgetary funds                      8.3%       25.0%       66.7%
  1.4 Opportunities for training                      10.3%       27.6%       62.1%
  1.5 Capacity to monitor and evaluate program         5.3%       31.6%       63.1%
      performance
  2   Sector Related
2.1   Education Sector
2.1.1 Quality of teachers                              6.7%       80.0%       13.3%
2.1.2 Teacher attendance                               6.7%       46.6%       46.7%
2.1.3 Supply of textbooks                             18.8%       12.5%       68.7%
2.1.4 Quality of textbooks                            14.3%       50.0%       35.7%
  2.2 Health
2.2.1 Supply of drugs and vaccines                     6.7%       13.3%       80.0%
2.2.2 Quality of health services                      11.1%       44.4%       44.5%
2.2.3 Timeliness and efficiency of health             11.1%       61.1%       27.8%
      services
  2.3 Pensions, Social Protection, etc.
2.3.1 Effectiveness of assisting people who are       11.8%       64.7%       23.5%
      truly poor
2.3.2 Fairness of pension contributions and            3.2%       71.0%       25.9%
      benefits
2.3.3 Confidence in the pension system                14.3%       57.1%       28.6%
  2.4 Efficiency and fairness of land                 36.4%       36.3%       27.3%
      registration
  2.5 Efficiency and fairness of customs              20.0%       50.0%       30.0%
      procedures
  2.6 Efficiency and fairness of taxation             29.4%       41.2%       29.4%
  3   Governance
3.1   Administrative paperwork                                    26.1%       73.9%
  3.2 Degree of corruption in the line ministry       25.9%       55.6%       18.5%
  3.3 Degree of corruption in the local gov't         10.7%       57.1%       32.2%
  3.4 Your perception of integrity of public          12.2%       39.0%       48.8%
      officials
  4   Overall functioning of government
      levels
  4.1 Central government                              24.2%       36.4%       39.4%
  4.2 Local government                                 3.2%       40.9%       56.1%
  5   Your own job security                          20.0%        33.3%       47.1%



                                               - 43 -

6.       There were mixed views about the relative importance of different factors in helping to
sustain the reform achievements. However, the respondents rated the following factors as critical, in
order of importance: (i) government participation and commitment; (ii) participation of non-government
stakeholders; (iii) the quality of staff; (iv) decentralization and legal reforms and (v) sufficient budget
resources ­ in order of importance. Other factors, including those beyond the government control, were
considered less important.

7.       The following were the most common/notable suggestions for improvements in the design and
implementation of the program:

·       Provide more support for decentralization and greater involvement of local government.
·       Include programs for solving housing problems.
·       Have a more effective strategy for tourism development.
·       Provide more support for the development of agriculture.
·       Include more support for improving service delivery in social protection and education, as main
        areas for reducing poverty.
·       Provide support for more radical reforms in health, to foster the development of the private market
        as a means for ensuring better quality of service delivery.
·       Ensure quicker processing of projects funded with concessional resources.
·       Establish clear mechanisms to support long term sustainability of reforms.
·       Support greater involvement of a broader range of civil society groups in the design stage.
·       Ensure greater transparency with the public.

9.       As mentioned above, the respondents were not directly involved in the PRSC program. However,
those who did have some contact with the World Bank missions recorded their appreciation for that
interaction. In particular, the interaction with Parliament was appreciated, during the review and approval
of relevant legislation supported by the program. Country Office staff also came in for praise.




                                                        - 44 -

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results

A workshop was held with senior government officials involved in the PRSC to evaluate the experience
under the program and to draw lessons for the future. Participants reported that the PRSC was critical in
pushing forward reform in the majority of sectors, most notably however, in decentralization, public
finance (expenditure and tax reforms) and in agriculture. Social services and over-arching governance
issues remain a challenge. Many participants pointed to the strong government and good
Government-Bank collaboration as key factors in the successes of the program.

It was widely acknowledged that the PRSC was instrumental in strengthening policy prioritization,
coordination across government bodies, and monitoring and evaluation, including through the establishment
and updating of program indicators, across the government machinery. However, intra-governmental
coordination weaknesses remain, particularly in the private sector development (which requires a
comprehensive strategy) and agriculture agendas. Although several participants acknowledge the impact
of PRSC financing on sector performance (e.g. in education through the funding of text books), others
called for a better balance between general budget support and specific financial support for costly reforms
at the sectoral level. In terms of impact on the ground, several participants called for greater attention to
the second and third levels of government, including through more upstream involvement of local
governments and routine monitoring pf progress at the local level during implementation.

Looking forward, key suggestions included: (i) more selectivity in choosing priority sectors and more
upstream analysis of priority reform issues; (ii) greater involvement of other donors; and (iii) closer
upstream attention to capacities of line ministries in formulating conditionalities and monitoring indicators.

LIST OF PARTICIPANTS IN PRSC WORKSHOP MAY 24, 2005, ROGNER HOTEL


1         ZHANI SHAPO                      DoPA Director
2         MARGARITA DUKA                   Director of ITAP
3         TERANTA YAHJA                    INSTAT
4         MELI IDRIZI                      Head of TS, CoM
5         AGRON DHIMA                      CoM
6         BEHAR ZENELI                     Director of Public Procurement Agency
7         EDMOND DUNGA                     Director of ACMU
8         DRITAN SHANO                    DM, MoF
9         GJERGJ TENEQEXHI                 SG, MoF
10        MIMOZA DHEMBI                    Director of Budget, MoF
11        SYBI HIDA                        Adviser to the Minister, MoF
12        ADRIAN CIVICI                    Director of NSSED, MoF
13        GJON NDREJA                      Director of Internal Auditing, MoF
14        ANILA CILI                       MoF
15        PRANVERA KASTRATI                Specialist, Ministry of Economy
16        GAVRIL LASKU                     Director of SME, Ministry of Economy
17        ASTRIT KUKA                      Director of Social Insurance Dept.,
                                           MoLSA




                                                        - 45 -

18    ENKELEJDA PUSTINA    Director of Statistic Dep., Social Insurance Institute
19    NEXHMEDIN DUMANI     Director, Coor. & Dev. Dept. , MoLSA
20    ILDA BOZDO           Head of Poverty Monitoring Unit, MoLSA
21    SOKOL DEDJA          General Secretary, Ministry of Health
22    VJOLA COPANI         Specialist, Dept. of Policy & Planning, MoH
23    ILIA PALUKA          Head of Monit. Unit Curricula Dept. , MoES
24    VJOLLCA IBRO         DM, Ministry of Agriculture
25    TATJANA DISHNICA     Ministry of Agriculture
26    NDOC VATA            Ministry of Agriculture
27    ARBEN MOLLA          Head of Monit. & Evalu. Unit, MoAF
28    AGIM SHEHU           PIU Director, ASP
29    NATASHA PACO         DM, Ministry of Local Government
30    FRAN IBRAHIMI        Director of Decentralization,
                           Min. of Local Gov.
31    ZYHER BECI           Chief of Cabinet, Min. of Local Government
32    FATOS HODAJ          ED of Association of Mayors
33    AGRON HAXHIMIHALI    ED of Association of Communes
34    ALBANA DHIMITRI      Deputy Mayor of Tirana
35    KRISTINA ZOGA        Municipality of Kucova
36    ALBERT COPI          Deputy Mayor of Elbasan
37    ARTAN HAXHI          Mayor of Shkodra
38    FATMIRA LASKAJ       Head of High Inspection Declaration of Asset
39    ARTAN HOXHA          Institute for Contemporary Studies (ICS)
40    SILVANA BRACULLA     Urban Research Institute
41    AURON PASHA          IDRA
42    YLLI CABIRI          HPDC
43    EVIS GJEBREA         Specialist in MoF




                                         - 46 -

- 47 -

