Report No. PID6543
Project Name                     Latvia-Health Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Health
Project ID                       LVPE8528
Borrower                         Government of Latvia
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Welfare
Skolas Street, No. 28
Tel:     (371) 702-1597
Fax:     (371) 782-0396
Environment Category             C
Date This Pid Prepared           May 8, 1998
Projected Appraisal Date         August 24, 1998
Projected Board Date             December 3, 1998
Country and Sector Background:
The Republic of Latvia is situated on the eastern coast of the Baltic Sea, has
an area of about 25,000 square miles, and a population of 2.5 million
inhabitants. Latvia is firmly on track completing a successful transition to
a market economy and membership of the European Union in the course of the
next decade. After high inflation and sharp declines in income and social
indicators in the initital years after independence in 1990, the economy has
stabilized and growth has resumed. Latvia is implementing the policies needed
to meet the challenges presented by EU accession requirements and maintaining
economic growth. The Bank and other donors have developed assistance programs
to support EU accession and assist in maintaining macroeconomic stability,
including strengthened public administration, private sector development, and
development of social sector services, including health.
Main Health Sector Issues. Latvia's health profile is similar to that of
other CEE/FSU countries. Aggregate health indicators have deteriorated
compared to the pre-transition period (pre-1991) and there is a significant
gap in health status compared to EU countries. The natural growth rate of the
population has been negative since 1991, because of declining birth rates and
increased mortality. Several factors contribute to the dynamics of declining
health status -- worsening socio-economic conditions during transition,
deteriorating behavioral health determinants (alcohol related injuries,
poisonings, suicides), increased mortality from preventable diseases
(perinatal mortality, CVD mortality of working age males, TB), and high
prevalence of smoking and unhealthy diet. The Latvian health system is not
sufficiently proactive in addressing the root causes of ill health nor
efficient in coping with the burden of disease. Declining public funding for
health services and lack of investments into and maintenance of health care
infrastructure exacerbates the situation. Many of the inefficiencies were
inherited from the soviet system -- excessive, unbalanced and low quality
infrastructure, dated qualifications for health and management professionals.
These problems are compounded by inefficient management of health



expenditures, and lack of an appropriate policy and regulatory framework.
1.      Project Development Objectives
The development objective of the proposed project is to improve
efficiency, quality, and access of the Latvia health care system. These
objectives would be achieved mainly through: (i) development of a "single
pipe" public health financing mechanism; (ii) adoption of payment mechanisms
to health care providers based on DRG standards for hospitals and capitation
standards for primary health; (iii) improved rationale and transparency for
allocation of the investment budget; (iv) reduction of number of bed days and
hospital floor space; (v) introduction of cost-effective medical technologies
to reduce hospital stay; (vi) increased number of population registered and
serviced by newly certified GPs; and (vii) development of effective
prevention and treatment for specific priority disease programs behavior.
2.      Project Description
The proposed project is the first health project in Latvia and would
support the implementation of the Latvia health financing reform and through
the development of national health investment policies and programs. The
project will also support further policy development and capacity-building in
other key health care reform areas. The proposed Project has four components:
Implementation of Health Care Financing Reforms. To increase the efficiency
of the health care financing system the project would support development of
policy framework for health financing, improve the effectiveness of the budget
process, develop a health care payment model and contracting system,
strengthen the management of health insurance funds, strengthen management
information systems, and provide management training;
Development of Health Care Delivery System. To improve the efficiency and
quality of health sector investments, the project would develop the capacity
to prepare consolidated health investment plans for effective allocation of
resources, promote primary health care, strengthen public health promotion and
disease prevention programs, develop targetted programs for high-risk
diseases, improve coordination of the national health care system, and promote
effective use of technologies;
Health Reform Communications Strategy. To promote support for health sector
reforms and public awareness of health care issues, the project would
strengthen the capacity of the MOW to design and implement health
communications strategies; and
Project Management. To ensure effective management and timely implementation
of the Project, support would be provided for strengthening the PCU of the MOW
which now manages the Welfare Reform Project.
3.      Project Financing
Total Project cost is estimated at about US$40 Million, financed through
the Government (US$8.OM), the Bank Loan (US$30.OM), and Sida (US$2.OM). Other
donors are also expected to participate in the project and provide more
limited funding. The project would finance refurbishment of health facilities,
medical equipment and supplies, computers and software development for
management and financial information systems, technical assistance, and
national training and fellowships. Funds would be disbursed over a four-year
period.
-2-



4.      Project Implementation Arrangements
Project Management. The Project would be implemented over four years through
the Ministry of Welfare, utilizing the already-existing administrative
structure of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) established in 1996 for
implementation of the Welfare Reform Project. A Health Project Coordinator
was appointed during Preparation and would work in parallel with the Welfare
Reform Project Coordinator. The Project's Steering Committee provides policy
direction and acts as the main decision-making body for project design.
During the project preparation phase, Component Working Groups representing
various stakeholders prepared project activities. During implementation,
stakeholders and entities at the central and local levels responsible for
health care management, financing, and service delivery will be directly
responsible for the project. The Deputy State Secretary for Health, as Project
Manager would be the chief MOW official overseeing project implementation and
achievement of the Project's Development Objectives. Other main entitities or
departmetns responsible for implementation would be the Central and
Territorial Sickness Funds, and three departments of the MOW -- Health
Affairs, Public Health, and Public Relations.
Annual Implementation Review: The PCU would prepare and organize an annual
implementation review of the Policy Matrix as the basis for review and
approval of an annual Consolidated Health Investment Program (CHIP). Three
reviews would be held during the four-year project -- Phase I during
Negotiations in late-December 1998, and Phases II and III respectively in
October 1999 and 2000. Semester progress reports for the Project will be
prepared by the PCU according to an agreed format, and will be based on the
contribution of individual reports prepared by Component or Activity
coordinators. Additionally, a comprehensive final evaluation would be carried
out as part of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR).
5.      Sustainability
The issue of sustainability of the proposed Project applies only to the
implementation and adoption of reform policies to be developed by the Project;
however, this risk is not assessed as being significant since most of the
reform policies have been adopted by the Government and require to be
articulated in greater detail for implementation. The Project would support
the development and implementation of health reform policies. The Project is
not expected to generate any significant incremental recurrent costs but would
generate savings that could be redistributed to lower levels of the health
care system and increase. This redistribution of resources would increase the
quality and quantity of health care services to the population as a whole.
The Project does not envisage any new contruction nor any increase in
recurrent costs, but would include refurbishment and consolidation of
facilities as well as retraining or redeployment of staff which would result
in efficiency gains and increased quality and quantity of health care
services.
6.      Lessons Larned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
Project implementation in Latvia has been good with the nine projects approved
to date. Project performance ratings have been satisfactory for both
achievement of development objectives and progress in implementation. Loan
disbursements also have been managed effectively and are satisfactory. Other
lessons from projects in the social sectors in the ECA Region which include
sector policy reforms have been taken into consideration, mainly that: [Note:
Lessons learned from completed and ongoing projects financed by the Bank and
other development agencies.](a) expectations for the reform process have been
-3 -



too optimistic for both the World Bank and the client countries; (b)
institutional aspects of reform are as important as technically proficient
strategies; (c) greater attention needs to be paid to political economy of the
reform; (d) projects have been too complex; and (e) adequate resources need to
be committed to supervision of projects.
7.      Poverty Category
Although the project is not a program of targetted interventions, two of
the subcomponents of the project would benefit directly the most disadvantaged
groups: (i) through better provision of primary health care and well trained
General Practitioners, quality and access to basic health care services would
improve for low income families; and (ii) through specific disease prevention
programs targetted at high-risk individuals, the most socially disadvantaged
groups of the population would benefit from better preventive and curative
care for these group of illneses.
8.      Environmental Aspects
The project has been rated "C" for environmental aspects. Disposal of
medical waste is usually the main environmental issue in health care. The
project will results in a positive environmental impact stemming from various
activities: (i) extensive hospital management training will include awareness
and guidelines for handling medical waste according to environmentally safe
standards; (ii) the provision of more modern technology will replace more
dated equipment to diminish environmental hazards, while being more energy
efficient; (iii) refurbishment of buildings will include energy efficiency
measures and more effective use of space, both of which will produce savings
in energy consumption; (iv) policy measures to introduce smoke-free public and
working space environments are also expected to have beneficial environmental
impact; and (v) Annual investment programs will undergo and environmental
evaluation, and mitigating measures will be undertaken if a probability of
negative environmental impact exists
9.      Program Objective Categories
The project supports two Program Objective Categories: (i) Economic and
Financial Management (90%); and    (ii) Poverty Alleviation (10%).
10.     Contact Point:
Toomas Palu, ECSHD
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 473-9241
Fax No.:         (202) 477-0711
Note:     This is information on an evolving project.    Certain components may
not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by InfoShop week ending June 19, 1998.
- 4 -



