                      Document of
                   The World Bank




                                               Report No: 27521

         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                  (TF-20376 SCL-44080)

                         ON A

                         LOAN

          IN THE AMOUNT OF US$11.46 MILLION

                        TO THE

                        LATVIA

                        FOR A
               HEALTH REFORM PROJECT




                      June 8, 2004




ECSHD
ECCO9

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective December 2003)

                                  Currency Unit = (LVL)
                                       LVL 1.0 = US$ 1.8681
                                      US$ 1.00 = LVL0.5353

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                   January     ­ December

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL   Adaptable Program Lending
ATLS  Acute Trauma Life Support
CAPA  Computer Assisted Political Analysis
CEE   Central and Eastern Europe
CHIP  Consolidated Health Investment Program
CMC   Catastrophe Medical Centre
CVD   Cardio-Vascular Diseases
DRG   Diagnosis Related Group
ECA   Europe and Central Asia
EA    Emergency Assistance
EU    European Union
GOL   Government of Latvia
GP    General Practitioner
LDP   Letter of Development Policy
MOE   Ministry of Economy
MOF   Ministry of Finance
MOW   Ministry of Welfare
PAD   Project Appraisal Document
PCU   Project Coordination Unit
PHC   Primary Health Care
PHRD  Population and Human Resources Development (Japanese Grant)
PIP   Project Implementation Plan
RSF   Regional Sickness Fund
SAL   Structural Adjustment Loan
SCHIA State Compulsory Health Insurance Agency
SHC   Secondary Health Care
SIDA  Swedish International Development Agency
TB    Tuberculosis

                                Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu
                              Country Director     Roger Grawe
                               Sector Manager      Armin Fidler
              Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Dominic S. Haazen

                                           LATVIA
                               HEALTH REFORM PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               19
9. Partner Comments                                                              20
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            32
Annex 8. Executive Summary and Conclusions and Recommendations                   33
of InDevelop Uppsala Evaluation Report

Project ID: P058520                                                  Project Name: Health
Team Leader: Dominic S. Haazen                                       TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 15, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Health                                                   L/C/TF Number: TF-20376; SCL-44080
   Country/Department: LATVIA                                                             Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Health (54%); Compulsory health finance (36%); Central
                            government administration (10%)
                  Theme: Health system performance (P); Law reform (S); Other
                            communicable diseases (S); Injuries and non-communicable diseases
                            (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/18/1998                                     Effective: 01/01/1999                03/23/1999
     Appraisal: 08/20/1998                                         MTR:                             03/26/2001
      Approval: 11/12/1998                                      Closing: 12/31/2001                 02/27/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF LATVIA /MINISTRY OF WELFARE
                      Other Partners:      SWEDISH INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY and STATE
                                           COMPULSORY HEALTH INSURANCE AGENCY

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes Linn
Country Director:               Roger W. Grawe                                 Basil Kavalsky
Sector Manager:                 Armin Fidler                                   Chris Lovelace
Team Leader at ICR:             Dominic S. Haazen
ICR Primary Author:             Dominic S. Haazen; Sati Achath


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The Latvia Health Reform Project sought to support the Government of Latvia (GOL) to implement a
long-term health services restructuring strategy, based on an agreed Letter of Development Program which
addressed key health policy issues, and using an Adaptable Program Lending (APL). The development
objective for Phase I of the APL (US$17.6 million project; Loan US$12.0 million) was to create a
framework for a modem and effective health care system, including policy reforms, institution building and
skills development for the health financing system, health investment policy, primary health care reform,
hospital restructuring and effective public health programs Phase II would provide support to a Consolidated
Health Investment Program (CHIP) by directly financing investments to implement health services restructuring,
in accordance with the Master Plans..  The project aimed to achieve a sustainable performance-oriented
health system where health care providers are rewarded for quality and efficiency; each patient has his/her
own primary health care doctor of his/her choice; health insurance coverage ensures access to affordable
and effective health care; and continuous progress is made with regard to priority health status targets.
Progress towards this purpose was expected to contribute to the improved welfare of the Latvian
population as measured by gains in health status and public satisfaction with the national health system.

The objective was clearly stated, important to the country's social development, and realistic in scale and
scope. It was also timely and appropriate for the situation in Latvia at the time of project preparation,
considering the country's need for the improvement of the health system in light of deteriorating health
indicators, lack of effective public health policies, ineffective health care delivery system, inefficient
management of health expenditures, and lack of transparency. Moreover, aside from the knowledge base,
the capacity of implementing such changes was quite limited. The focus of Phase I on capacity building,
planning and the limited piloting of interventions was well founded. However, one problem created by this
approach was that, it appeared to those outside the system that very little was happening, and excessive
amounts were being spent on technical assistance, instead of "real reform". This proved to be a problem
for the government going into the October 2002 elections.

The project was consistent with the Bank's Latvia's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), discussed by the
Board on May 19, 1998 (Report No. 17706-LV). The CAS outlined five areas for the Bank support to
Latvia: economic management; private sector development; support to reshape the State's role; development
of sub-national government capacity; and provision of improved social services, including health care.
According to the CAS, an improved health care system will be a means to improve the welfare of the
Latvian people through improved health status and satisfaction with the national health care system. In
addition, the project was expected to: (i) act as catalyst and leverage for some long-term policy strategies;
(ii) secure funding for some critical investments to ensure sustainability and credibility of the health care
reform; and (iii) mobilize and consolidate donor support.

The project was also in line with the government strategy to address the main sector issues, which was
defined in: (i) "Strategy for Health Care Development in Latvia" adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers on
September 24, 1996; and in (ii) the government regulations on implementing health reforms passed during
1997, including Health Care Law, Physicians Practice Law and a number of Cabinet health financing
regulations.

The project took into account lessons learned from other health projects in the Europe and Central Asia
(ECA) region which showed that: (a) health sector reform is a lengthy, politicized process and expectations
for the reform process have been too optimistic for both the World Bank and the client countries; (b)



                                                       - 2 -

institutional aspects of reform are as important as technically proficient strategies; (c) greater attention
needs to be paid to the political economy of the reform through marketing reforms to lawmakers, the
medical community and the public; (d) projects have been too complex; and (e) adequate resources need to
be committed for supervision of projects.

The project envisioned the following benefits that justified the implementation of this project on its own
merits:

Society at large: (i) Improved access to a comprehensive range of secondary health care for all
acute illnesses at the multi-specialty emergency centers as proposed in the Secondary Health Care (SHC)
development strategy; (ii) Improved quality of care and outcomes due to concentration of specialties and
expertise in multi-specialty emergency centers with better understanding of health care reform, patients'
rights and obligations; (iii) Information and incentives for healthy lifestyle choices; (iv) Positive
externalities from public health legislation to reduce tobacco use, and improve revenue; (v) Improved
efficiency of health care spending to allow for more efficient use of scarce public financing to purchase
more care for a monetary unit; and (vi) "single pipe" funding and need adjusted regional allocation to
reduce cross-regional inequities in terms of available resources.

Population at risk (exposed to risk factors): (i) Secondary prevention programs implemented by PHC
providers; (ii) TB programs that would disproportionately benefit poorer segments of population where the
disease is more prevalent; (iii) Improved support for depressed and suicidal citizens; (iv) Reduced exposure
to environmental tobacco smoke; and (v) Reduced risk of alcohol-induced traffic fatalities.

In addition, the project also took into account the expected benefits to health policy decision makers and
opinion leaders; State Compulsory Health Insurance Agency (SCHIA) and Regional Sickness Funds;
Medical Academy, Association of General Practitioners (GP), Center for Professional Medical Education,
Center for Health Promotion; and General Practitioners

The project had some complexities and risks, although these were recognized from the outset and mitigation
strategies were developed. Probably the key element that was not adequately planned for was the changes
in mind-set that some of the interventions required, such as the development of the health care master plans
and the consolidated health investment strategy. Fluctuating borrower commitment also played a role,
although once this issue was addressed implementation progressed quite quickly. There was remarkably
little desire on the part of the Borrower to deviate from the original development objectives or
implementation program during the course of the project. Some deviations, such as replacing the outpatient
center in Daugavpils with eight GP practices due to funding limitations, were agreed to without significant
problems. Both the Bank and the Borrower recognized that due to cost over-runs in other civil works
activities, there was not enough funding remaining for the outpateint center. The alternative preserved the
essence of the development objective by promoting increased access to GP services in an under-serviced
area. In this respect, it may have been better than the original concept.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objectives were not revised

3.3 Original Components:

The project consisted of the following four components:




                                                       - 3 -

Component I: Implementation of Health Care Financing Reforms: (US$8.3 million: 47% of the total
project cost)

This component was to include the following activities: (i) improving the effectiveness of the budget
process; (ii) developing payment models for health care providers and contracting system; (iii)
strengthening institutional capacity of health insurance funds by providing training in general management
as well as in technical functions of health insurance; (iv) developing medical and financial audit capacity;
(v) developing client relations; (vi) providing appropriate premises for the SCHIA; and (vii) establishing an
initial country-wide health financing management information system.

Component II: Development and Restructuring of Health Care Services. (US$8.1 million: 46% of the
total project cost)

Planned activities included: (i) supporting the Ministry of Welfare (MOW) to develop a consolidated
health investment and capital financing policy; (ii) developing effective capability in the MOW, State
Compulsory Health Insurance Agency (SCHIA) and Regional Sickness Funds (RSFs) to undertake health
service planning, (iii) setting investment priorities and monitor the investment program; (iv) developing
health technology assessment capacity in the Health Statistics and Medical Technologies Agency; (v)
developing an agreed methodology and training in investment project appraisal; (vi) supporting
development of regional and national health services master plans, an associated Consolidated Health
Investment Program (CHIP) and capital financing plan; (vii) supporting a pilot hospital restructuring
project; (viii) developing a standard legal framework for public hospitals; (ix) training hospital managers;
(x) developing capacity for training and retraining of primary health care providers and support pilot
Primary Health Care (PHC) projects; (xi) developing capacity for surveillance of non-communicable
diseases and related risk factors; (xii) supporting operational public health research, developing a national
public health report and priorities; and (xiii) supporting pilot health promotion and disease prevention
programs.

Component III: Implementation of Health Reform Communications Strategy: (US$0.6 million: 4% of
the total project cost)

This component involved: (i) strengthening the capacity of the MOW to design; and (ii) implementing
health policy communication strategies.

Component IV: Project Management: (US$0.5 million: 3% of the total project cost)

The component included: (i) strengthening the PCU of the MOW; and (ii) supporting development of the
Project Implementation Plan (PIP) for the Phase II of the APL.

3.4 Revised Components:

N/A

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Satisfactory. The ICR deems the quality at entry to be satisfactory and the project as well conceived. As
mentioned in the earlier section, the project objectives were consistent with the country assistance strategy
and the government priorities and met the critical needs of Latvia's health sector. During preparation of the
project, lessons learned from other earlier projects in the health sector in Latvia were considered and



                                                       - 4 -

incorporated into the project design. In addition, the project design recognized and took into account the
following major risk factors which could affect project implementation:

·        Government will not remain committed to reform. To mitigate this risk, senior civil servants who
participated in the design of the program and the project were expected to stay on after the 1999 elections.
The APL instrument was also expected to provide opportunity and flexibility for continuous policy
dialogue and establish clear triggers for continuation of the program.

·        Key stakeholders do not accept reform concept. In order to minimize this risk, efforts were to be
made to ensure that public and stakeholder communications strategy would develop and maintain a
constituency which would support reform.

·        Public communications strategies are not effective in educating public on reform initiatives and
choices. For mitigating this risk, regular public opinion studies were to be conducted to assess
effectiveness of reform communication function and make adjustments.

·        Local governments will not reach consensus on regional health services restructuring plans. This
risk was to be reduced by technically well grounded plans developed by the project, special consensus
building efforts and leverage with APL Phase II funds.

·        Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Economy will not support proposed changes in health
investment strategy. By the involvement of Ministry of Finance (MOF) and Ministry of Economy (MOE)
representatives in the working process, this risk was aimed to be mitigated.

Extensive stakeholder consultations and the participatory process in project preparation substantially
contributed to the quality and readiness at entry. For example, during project preparation, Latvian experts
carried out a stakeholder analysis with regard to the proposed health care reform program and planned
stakeholder consultation and participation strategy. The analysis used Computer Assisted Political Analysis
(CAPA) methodology to describe the political dimensions of policy decisions and design effective strategies
for influencing policies' feasibility. The analysis organized descriptive information on policy content, key
stakeholders (position, power, networks and coalitions), policy consequences, interests of stakeholders,
opportunities and obstacles for change.

The design proved to be remarkably durable during the course of implementation, and in hindsight many of
the interventions are probably even more important than originally anticipated. For example, the Master
Plans and CHIP approaches are crucial inputs to accessing European Union (EU) structural funds and any
other investments, such as the Public Investment Program.

The project emphasized capacity building and developing an adequate communications strategy. An APL
was expected to allow for management of complex policy issues through a phased approach allowing for
less complex design for each phase and better monitoring of progress.

However, quality of entry could have been further enhanced in four areas: (a) less ambitious project
design; (b) more realistic timelines and implementation targets -- in retrospect, the two and half year
implementation period was far too optimistic; (c) more realistic costing of civil works and goods -- many
of these costs were grossly under-estimated, leading to reallocation issues during implementation; and (d)
more initial capacity building for project implementation, especially for the PCU, and also for the MOW
and SCHIA staff



                                                       - 5 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Satisfactory. The project succeeded in achieving its specific objectives and laid a good basis for Latvia in
continuing with health reforms and undertaking needed investments. The project also succeeded in fulfilling
the triggers needed for the Phase II under the APL. The major outcomes and achievements of the project
are as follows:

Trigger Indicators:

There were ten trigger indicators for the project, each of which was met prior to Phase II appraisal:

·       90% of health services funded through a single pipe financing mechanism by FY2001.

In 2002, the target of 90 percent "single pipe" financing was reached, which was two years later than
originally planned. However, while both the expected increase in revenue for 1999 and the agreed
allocation from income tax revenue were provided, the 10 percent share of state basic budget revenue was
not reached until 2002. Despite the LVL 20 million increase in 2002, the total of income tax and state
basic budget revenue was still almost LVL 10 million below the level anticipated in the Letter of
Development Policy (LDP) and the PAD for Phase 1. The cumulative difference since 1998 of over LVL
49 million is roughly equivalent to the current arrears of the hospitals in Latvia. For the supervision of
health care, and monitoring of public health, the budget revenue for 2003 was LVL 197.82 million, and for
2004 it was LVL 230.33 million. Budget expenditure for 2003 was LVL 202.84 million, and for 2004 it
was LVL 230.33 million. According to the Ministry of Finance formula (including administrative costs),
budget expenditure (including the Bank Loan) for 2003 was LVL 203,64 million, and for 2004 it was LVL
231.09 million.

·       DRG/PVQ payment model for hospital services and per capita PHC financing model developed

Revised payment systems for hospital and general practitioners have been introduced, and both have been
evaluated by independent consultants. In the case of the hospital payment system, the current approach is a
combination of a case-based payment by diagnosis group (64 groups), a per diem payment, and an
additional payment for specific surgical and medical interventions. A formal system of prospective
payment based on Diagnostic Related Groups (DRG) has been in development and a recent consultant's
report recommended the use of the Nordic DRG approach. This has been accepted by the SCHIA and
MOH.

·       30% of the population registered with certified GPs to be funded through capitated primary
health care contracts for FY2001

A capitation system for general practitioners was introduced for all GPs outside of Riga, and the approach
was changed several times over the last several years. In July, 2002, a modified capitation system was
implemented on a pilot basis for the 33 percent of the population residing in Riga. Therefore, over 80
percent of the population is currently registered with capitated, certified GPs. In 2003, the Government
indicated that it wished to implement a single capitation system across the country, leading to a significant
amount of concern and discussion from both groups of GPs, who each prefer their current approach.




                                                     - 6 -

·        MIS for SCHIF, including Regional Funds, Branch Offices, target hospitals and PHC providers
has been procured and is ready for country-wide roll- out.

This system is currently in operation, although adjustments are being made through the warranty period.
Implementation is currently under way, and the system is technically ready to process all information on
state-paid health services. Currently elements of the "old" system are interfacing with the new, as new
modules are successively integrated.

·        Government-approved CHIP (Consolidated Health Investment Program), consistent with State
Health Care Master Plan and standard hospital legal framework, prepared according to agreed
methodology.

The guidelines for CHIP were developed and applied in the development of the 2003 Public Investment
Program submission. This included the use of the Health Statistics and Medical Technology Agency to
ensure that proposals were sound from a health technology point of view, and were consistent with the
Master Plans and Ministry priorities. Master plans were developed for all regions of the country (the target
was five regions) and a consolidated plan for all of Latvia has been developed. These plans call for
improving primary and emergency care services to allow over 70 hospitals to be closed or converted to
long-term care or community health centers.

·        Primary health care pilots implemented and evaluation report issued by the government.

With regard to the pilot projects, the hospitals in Kraslava and Daugavpils were renovated and the
children's division was refurbished and moved from a separate site. GP offices in Daugavpils (1 common
practice for 8 GPs), Kraslava (4), Dagda (2) and Indra (1) were renovated and equipped. The government
decided to improve one common practive, where 8 GPs provide services for patients in another area of the
Daugavpils city (Jauna Forstate) so that primary care services would be provided for patients who live in
this neighborhood. The out-patient department of regional rehabilitation center was established in
children's health center (previously children's polyclinic). The in-patient department of regional
rehabilitation center was established in premises of Daugavpils city hospital as originally planned. An
evaluation of the pilot projects (both qualitative and quantitative) was completed at the end of May 2002,
and updated early in 2004. It showed the following results in the pilot areas:

        l 1/3 increase in proportion of people registered with GP's to 93 percent (target 80 percent)
        l 14% increase in per capita utilization of primary care services (steady over last 2 years)
        l 2 percent increase in the average length of stay at Daugavpils hospital (owing to the merging of
             the tuberculosis and infectious disease hospitals), and 4 percent decline in Kraslava (target 30
             percent)
        l 24 and 7 percent reductions in emergency medical services calls (target 30 percent)
        l the changing hospital structures due to amalgamation and accounting system changes makes
             the overall financial evaluation of the pilot projects difficult, but it is worth noting that
             Daugavpils hospital, which underwent the largest restructuring went from a 15 percent budget
             deficit in 2001 to a break-even position in 2003.
        l the heating costs of the Kraslava hospital, which underwent the energy efficiency
             improvements, decreased by 57 percent between 1999 and 2003, with an NPV and rate of
             return in line with original estimates.
        l the overall level of support for general practice increased among medical professionals (from
             more than 70 percent with positive impressions, compared to just over 20 percent in the 2002



                                                      - 7 -

             survey), but declined among the general population (30 percent vs. 55 percent).

·        Regional health services master plans developed for at least five health regions.

Eight regional master plans were developed. To ensure national consistency, they were consolidated into a
State Master Plan and now form the basis for very essential decisions such as health care system
optimization, investment needs for improving of health care services accessibility and quality, as well as
EU structural fund submissions. Although not originally envisioned as being part of the master planning
process, PHC have been included in the regional master plans.

·        Public health strategy with targets in priority areas issued.

The Public Health Strategy was approved and represents a critical reference document for the development
of the health system in Latvia. Specific strategies were also developed in a number of areas (mother and
child health, HIV/AIDS, mental health, cardiac health), which provide integrated approaches to prevention
and treatment covering all areas of the health system (public health, primary, secondary, tertiary and
emergency care). This fundamental change in the approach to addressing health issues is a major
accomplishment that is not commonly achieved in the region. The various initiatives were also well linked
and integrated. The CHIP program provides the foundation for future development, and the Master Plans
and Public Health Strategy provide key support and guidance. The specific strategies are based on these
three elements and cover the entire health system and beyond as necessary to achieve their objectives.

·        The Government has submitted to the Parliament draft legislation proposing a schedule for
gradual increase s of taxes and duties on tobacco products to EU levels.

With the intention of providing the underpinning to the projected legislation, background work on a tobacco
economics study was completed during late 2000/early 2001. Since this was a cross-ministerial subject,
and a subject for which the MOW direct responsibility is limited, an inter- Ministerial group chaired by the
ministry of Finance was established in mid- 2001. Progress is slow, since powerful local business interests
are reported to be against any such reform. Further, one of the conditions for accession to the EU is a
similar requirement. Latvia is trying to negotiate a waiver of this requirement, which is itself an indication
of the strength of forces against these reforms. (to update)

·        Regular and coordinated health behavior surveys conducted.

Health behavior surveys were started in 1998 using the FINBALT survey model. Initial experience was
encouraging and a similar FINBALT survey was conducted in 2000, with a third survey conducted in
March 2002. Data are being used in the communications component, sector planning and implementation,
including sub- nationally with some assistance provided to local offices. Health behavior surveys were
started in 1998 using the FINBALT survey model. Initial experience was encouraging and a similar
FINBALT survey was conducted in 2000. Raw data from the FINBALT surveys are made available by
the contractor and the Ministry of Welfare has the capability and expertise to undertake more detailed
analyses. [Note: the FINBALT Health Monitor is a collaborative system for monitoring health behavior in
Estonia, Finland, Latvia and Lithuania. Research into health behavior is a way to gain information about
the public's attitudes toward health, about the distribution of risk factors and about the public's readiness to
change. This type of survey has taken place annually in Finland since 1978. Estonia joined in 1990,
Lithuania in 1994, and Latvia in 1998.]

4.2 Outputs by components:



                                                      - 8 -

Component A: Health Financing Reform Component

A.1 Strengthening Health Financing.

As discussed in Section 4.1, substantial progress was made in the areas of single pipe financing, payment
models, and GP registration.

A.2 Strengthening Institutional Capacity of Health Insurance Funds.

        Renovation of SCHIA building was completed on April 1, 2000 ­ because the MOW decided to
restore a historical building to its initial state, the cost significantly exceeded what was budgeted and the
Bank was reluctant to proceed. The MOW decided to continue using their own funds.

        Training for the SCHIA and RSFs personnel. A comprehensive training program was
implemented, aimed at building the management capacity of five key institutions involved in the reform, ,
including SCHIA and sickness fund staff. The program comprised 8 courses targeted for 25-30 participants
per course, and a core group of 6 senior managers.

        Development of financial and medical audit systems. A system for internal audit has been
established within the government structure and is being used, though not fully developed. This is an
ongoing process involving all Ministries and ministerial Agencies. An Audit and Control Department has
been established within HCISA, responsible for audit of contracting, financing, management, targeting and
other processes. Training in financial and accounting management has been carried out under the project.
International consultants were contracted to assist in the development of financial and medical audit
systems.

        Development and implementation of the public relations programs. HCISA created a Public
Relations Division which actively participated in planning the public information campaigns, coordination
of surveys of public and provider satisfaction, and other public information and monitoring activities.

A.3 Implementation of Management Information System.

See Section 4.1 for a discussion of progress on the MIS trigger indicator. In addition, MIS training was
provided to two systems administrators at HCISA. Training of end users has been mostly done in the form
of planning activities, due to the delay in implementation. A study visit to Sweden was also carried out, to
observe large public organizations with tailor-made applications for health care and law enforcement
organizations. The Head of Information Technology and MIS Project Manager participated.

The performance of the Health Financing Component and its sub-components as follows:

        (Sub)-Component                                          Rating
        A.1 Health Care Financing Policy                         Satisfactory
       A.2 SCHIA Development                                     Satisfactory
       A.3 Management Information Systems                        Satisfactory
        Health Financing Component                               Satisfactory




                                                          - 9 -

Component B. Health Care Services

B.1 Investment Policy Development.

Investment planning, approval and control approaches, principles and procedures were compiled for the
development of Health Care Reform and Consolidated Health Investment Program for 2002- 2007. In
addition, an Investment Manual was prepared and distributed to SCHIA, HSMTA, Regional sickness
funds, health care policy makers, hospitals and other interested parties

B.2 Support to Primary Health Care Reform.

Renovations were completed for the PHC pilot practices and the necessary medical equipment was
delivered. An inspection commission that included representatives from the corresponding local
governments and regional sickness funds, inspected all these practices and drew up the deeds of
conveyance. Finally, the evaluation of pilot project and four PHC training practices located in Latgale
region was prepared, fulfilling the trigger indicator.

The University of Latvia made up five groups of internists and pediatricians with 50 students in each. In
addition, 70 training physicians completed their studies at University of Latvia by November 30, 2002.
Finally, the education of 240 public health nurses finished in September 2002. A total of 16 clinical
practice guidelines were prepared, issued and distributed to general practitioners. An evaluation of the use
of the guidelines was completed. The Family Health Education Center was provided with computers to
assist in the GP Training.

Guidelines for General Practitioners Sixteen clinical Guidelines for General Practitioners were prepared
and were distributed in 2002. Their main purpose is quality improvement and enhancement of the
knowledge of newly-qualified GPs. The guidelines cover management of common diagnoses, symptoms,
and risk factors frequently seen in primary care. Guidelines were distributed in mid-2002 and an
assessment was carried out in early 2003.

Training of GPs: A total of 250 PHC physicians were trained through the project. Seventy GP physician
trainers have been trained and are entitled to train GP residents assigned to their practice. Twenty such
`training practices' have been established.

Training of public health nurses: Training of public health nurses was conducted by the Centre of
Professional Medical Education. Facilities of the Centre were renovated and training began in mid-January
2001.

B.3 Hospital Restructuring Program.

Training of hospital management staff was done with support from the Government funds. Tutors from
different health care institutions involved in this training. Training coordinated and supported by the School
of Public Health of Latvia.

Training in emergency assistance (EA): In total 170 EA teams, including physicians, nurses and physician
assistants, have been trained and 60 additional teams will need to be trained. Ambulance services to deploy
EA teams are established at 70 location points.

Elaboration of the Regional and State Healthcare Development Plans (Masterplans). One state and eight


                                                       - 10 -

regional healthcare development plans (master plans) were developed in co-operation with foreign and local
consultants.

Strengthening of the Emergency Medical Care System. Repair work was completed for the training division
of Disaster Medicine Centre; training was accomplished, including Acute Trauma Life Support (ATLS),
Acute Cardiac Life Support (ACLS), Emergency Care Management, Emergency Vehicle Operator
Training; computers and lay figures for provision of the training process were purchased and raining
programmes for emergency care training wee developed. Re- training of existing medical professionals into
Emergency Care specialists has also been completed.

B.4 & B.5 Pilot Project in Latgale.

See section 4.1 discussion on relevant trigger indicator.

B.6 Assessment of public health conditions and improvement of monitoring.

The Health Promotion Center (HPC) and the Health Statistics and Medical Technology Agency (HSMTA)
produced a substantial body of data on the public health situation, including routine statistics, behavioural
data, epidemiological, and health systems data. These surveys and routine reports are now institutionalised
and self-financed.

HPC has performed bi-annual health surveys in 1998, 2000 and 2002 (FINBALT), aimed at public
attitudes toward health, risk factors and the prevalence of health problems. The Ministry of Welfare
financed the 2002 FINBALT survey, and funding is committed to carry out the survey again in 2004.
Latvia participated in the Global Youth Tobacco Survey in 2002, and in the WHO World Health Survey in
2003. A survey on breastfeeding promotion was conducted in 2002. Data from these surveys have been
used to guide health promotion plans and interventions, training, and for policy and strategy use by
Ministry of Health.

HSMTA has produced comprehensive statistical reports on public health, and disseminated the reports
widely to providers, managers and policy makers e.g.:
        - Yearbook of Health Care Statistics
        - Semi annual Health Care Statistics
        - Maternal and Infant Health Care Statistics
        - Statistical overview on Health and Health Care

Development of prevention programs for priority public health issues.

In the area of public health, a Center of Excellence for Management of Multiple Drug Resistant TB was
established, serving national training needs. Public information campaigns on cardiovascular disease were
carried out. Studies were completed on alcohol economics, cervical cancer screening and the economics of
tobacco taxation. A Health Promotion Infrastructure Scheme, including a possible financing model was
developed and is currently in the process of implementation.

Implementation of the Public Relations Campaign

One continuous campaign was implemented rather than the originally planned six campaigns, based on
strategic and professional assessment. The campaign was launched in November 2000 and continued
through May 2002. Communications media included four nationally televised TV spots, booklets


                                                     - 11 -

distributed by mail to all households, information posted in health ca e institutions, a supplement in the
main newspaper, numerous topical articles in the press, and a World Health Day event. Messages were
tested using focus groups before finalising and disseminating. Five main topics were addressed:

         (i) The health care system and health reform
         (ii) Access to health services
         (iii) Advantages and differences between GP and specialist physicians
         (iv) The hospital optimisation process and master planning
         (v) Public health

The performance of the Development of Health Care Services Component and its sub-components is rated
as follows:

        (Sub)-Component                                          Rating
        B.1 Investment Policy Development Policy                 Satisfactory
        B.2 Support to Primary Health Care Reform                Satisfactory
        B.3 Hospital Restructuring Program                       Satisfactory
        B.4 & B.5 Pilot Project in Latgale                       Satisfactory
        B.6 Public Health                                        Highly Satisfactory
        Development of Health Care Services Component            Satisfactory



Component C: Health Reform Communications Strategy

This component played a key role in the preparation for Phase II, by coordinating the social assessment
activities and providing the results of both the ongoing surveys and the evaluation of the public information
campaign as key inputs into the design of Phase II. It completed all of the planned activities, including a
number of extremely useful public opinion polls, which aided project implementation, preparation of Phase
II and ongoing management of the MOW. For example, a public information campaign was initiated in
October, 2001, focusing on the health care system and health reform, access to medical services, the role of
the GP and advantages of using GP's, the hospital optimization process and master planning, and public
health. In addition, stakeholder meetings were held on a number of topics, including improvements in the
capitation model and hospital restructuring. A special supplement was also done in the main Latvian and
Russian language newspapers to provide more information on both primary health care and the master
planning process.

A public opinion survey was also conducted in May, 2002, to assess the impact of the public information
campaign to date and assess the general public perceptions regarding the health reform process. Two
documents were prepared: (i) the long-term Communication strategy; and (ii) the activity plan for
implementation of the Communication strategy.

Overall, this Component is rated as Satisfactory.

Component D: Project Management

Project management began with a significant learning curve, and it took a fair period of time before
capacity was developed. Just before the mid-term review, however, much attention was focused on this,
with the result that both the effectiveness and the capacity of the PMU had increased. After the October



                                                     - 12 -

2002 election, significant staffing reductions were made to the PMU, and implementation shifted into
simply completing the remaining activities, rather than actively planning to get the maximum benefit out of
the available resources.

Overall, this Component is rated as Satisfactory.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:

N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The project resulted in a substantial institutional development impact.

National level: The project increased significantly the capacity of the Ministry of Health, and the SCHIA
to plan and manage the health system. Specific attention was focused on health planning and health
investment project preparation and analysis. Administrative staff of all levels of health care system have
been trained in health management.

The project also assisted the overall health sector reform and strengthened the national capacity for
managing three of the main systems in the health care ­ (PHC), Emergency Medical Services (EMS) and
Hospital Services rationalization. A national Public Health Strategy and an Action Plan for the period
2001-2006 were also drafted.

SCHIA has been well established and is operating in an effective manner. Annual financial statements
show that the administrative costs of the Agency (including regional funds) are less than two percent of
total expenditure, which is very favorable by international standards.

Municipal level: The project strengthened the local governments' capacity to implement the health reform
at their level, by providing training in analyzing their health services and planning for the restructuring of
the health care in all regions of the country. The Health Promotion coordinators in some municipalities
have been established with a great deal of cooperation between the Health Promotion Centre,
municipalities and Sickness Funds.

Institutional capacity of HCISA and RSF was strengthened by the project. Capacity development in these
agencies came primarily through involvement in developing instruments and systems required for the health
sector reform. Working together with numerous international and national consultants, many HCISA staff
benefited from hands-on training. HCISA participated in developing the National Health Care Master
Plan, and working groups from RSFs and HCISA branches developed Regional Health Care Master Plans.
Likewise, the development of the capitation-based payment system for PHC, the Consolidated Health
Investment Program, and MIS development, all have conveyed substantial increase in institutional capacity.
Regarding MIS, inter-agency working groups were formed for eleven sub-systems, staff were trained in
software applications, and computers were provided by the project to HCISA, its branches, and 50
in-patient institutions.



                                                     - 13 -

In addition, through the various communications and public information campaigns financed or otherwise
supported through the project, the people of Latvia gained a better understanding of health issues, and were
encouraged to focus more on personal responsibility for their own health. For example, the latest Finbalt
survey of health related behaviors indicated that a higher percentage of respondents had measured their
blood pressure in the last year, and that more respondents are vaccinated against tick-born encephalitis and
diphtheria. Further a majority of smokers are either in the process to quit smoking or at least wish to quit
smoking and the number of respondents who have concerns over the harmful effects of smoking has
increased between 1998 and 2002. Dietary habits have also improved, especially among those in rural
areas, where the amount of animal fats have been cut in half since 2000. Despite this progress, high risk
health behavior is often identified among males, smoking prevalence and alcohol consumption are both still
very high. Only 1/3 of the population has enough physical activity, with 40.8% of the adult Latvian
population being overweight or obese. These data indicate that progress has been made, but that further
work is needed through sustained and ongoing attention to health promotion issues.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

(i) Donor coordination under the project was an example of good cooperation and coordination. The
project received funding from the Bank and Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA), and
bilateral support from CDC and other organizations. SIDA agreed to a common set of implementation
rules.

(ii) Political turbulence. Although there was some political turbulence during the implementation period,
these did not have a marked impact on the actual pace of implementation. However, senior ministry
management attention to ensure effective implementation did increase in the year or so prior to the October,
2002, election.

(iii) Task complexity. There was some delay in implementation resulting from the number, complexity and
variation of the tasks included in the project activities.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

(i) Frequent changes of governments in Latvia was a factor influencing the progress of the project, but
impossible to control. The most recent change of the government brought in a completely new view of the
basic principles in reforming health system in Latvia, which for some time even stopped the project,
especially affecting the preparation of the second phase of the APL. There was reluctance from the
government to make several serious policy decisions.

(ii) Rivalries between medical school and post-graduate education faculty. Because of rivalries between
these two medical institutes, there was a delay by the government for selecting the site for retraining of
family doctors. This held up the accelerated re-training of physicians and capacity strengthening of a
department of family medicine.

(iii) Delay in selecting an institution for management training program. There was a delay on the part of
government in selecting an institution for development of a management training program for health sector
managers because of their internal need for a perceived competition among training providers, and due to
the lack of selection criteria. This was holding up training program development and training of health



                                                      - 14 -

sector managers that was needed for more economic and business-minded decision making under health
financing environment in the proposed Phase lI of the APL.

(iv) Management Information System. The development of the management information system involved
great deal of delay, because of factors both within and outside the control of the MOW/SCHIA. Shortly
after the start of project implementation, a government-wide review of information technology (IT) activity
was conducted by the Ministry of Transport. This process delayed the finalization of the MIS tender
documents by approximately 12 months. The lack of technical capacity within the MOW and SCHIA, as
well as initial problems with the input from international consultants, also delayed the development of the
tender documents, and the subsequent tendering process. However, the PMU, together with a Bank IT
procurement specialist and the assistance of competent local and international consultants were eventually
able to complete the MIS tender and implementation.

(v) Health Service Master-plans. Work on regional health services master-plans was stalled due to
difficulty in attracting bidders for foreign TA assignment on master-plan methodology.

(vi) Development of healthcare service payment models and contract systems. Completion of these
activities was delayed as the initial task requiring the involvement of consultants was restructured several
times according to the World Bank's instructions and finally combined with several other tasks under the
component.

(vii) Development of investment policy. The realisation of all sub-component tasks started after a delay of
about 12 months. This was caused by the splitting of one task into separate contracts, complicated and
time-consuming procurement procedures and organizing of repeated procurement cycles.

(viii) Primary Healthcare reform. During the project planning exercise the majority of activities were
planned to start in January 1999. Due to lack of training of planners and lack of information on WB tender
and no-objection procedures, there arose a necessity to re-plan the timetable of activities, and consequently,
all activities were delayed by six months.

(ix) Strengthening PHC institutional capacity. Works related to this activity were delayed since the
preparation of renovation specifications were not included into initial plans.

(x) Strengthening of the Emergency Medical Care System. There was a delay in the ATLS training, which
was caused due to limited financial resources since the development of ATLS training program was not
included in the State Investment Program for 1998.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

In the beginning stage of project, implementation was delayed due to several reasons, such as: lack of
project management capacity and staffing problems; poor quality of documents submitted to the Bank for
reviews and no-objections in terms of English, clarity of content, and structure; and poor communications
with prospective consultants.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total cost of the project was US$20.40 million compared with the PAD estimate of US$17.6 million.
The difference was primarily due to the higher costs for civil works and the Management Information
System, which were financed from the Government's own sources. The Bank financed US$11.46 million



                                                      - 15 -

(56.0%), the Government contributed US$7.00 million equivalent in local costs (34.4%); and the
co-financier financed US$ 1.94 million (9.4%).

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Likely. The sustainability of the project is rated as likely. For several of the components and activities, such
as health financing, the interventions supported by the project have become part of the ongoing operations
of the health insurance agency and the ministry. Strong commitment and capacity in implementing
institutions (MoH, HCISA) bode well for sustaining the reforms, although technical assistance and
financial support will be required in the near future for specific areas such as MIS, DRG system, public
relations and promotion, and quality assurance.

For the MIS, stronger political support from Ministry of Health is needed, in addition to public relations
support, training, and intensified supervision. Sustainability of capacity development for health
communication strategy is weak due to several factors such as: (i) contracting out and weak integration of
the work into the regular activities of the Division; (ii) by design the activity was a campaign, not an
ongoing process; hence the "long-term" strategy was implemented on a relatively short term; and (iii)
personnel and leadership changes, restructuring, and the decision not to pursue Phase II of the loan resulted
in loss of institutional memory and momentum. The political decision not to continue with Phase II of the
project can create losses in the institution building and skill development that have been achieved in Phase I
of the project.

For others, such as the implementation of the master plans and the use of the CHIP methodology,
sustainability depends on long-term government commitments to making the tough decisions that must be
made in this area. The Ministry is pursuing the utilization of EU structural funds as an avenue for
obtaining the necessary investment funding to implement the rationalization strategies.

Sector financing remains the greatest risk to the ongoing development of the sector. The low level of public
financing for health care must be addressed if support for the reform process is to be maintained, and
public approval enhanced.

The Bank has discussed options with the Government of Latvia for continued involvement to enhance the
sustainability and impact of the reform process. These discussions have includeded proceeding with Phase
II, developing a Technical Assistance loan package, to be financed either as a stand-alone operation or
through the PSAL II DDO funds (which are already available), and continued policy dialogue and Bank
provided TA. With the recent change in Government, all three of these options are currently being pursued
by the Ministry of Health, in consultation with the Ministry of Finance. As of June 15, 2004, no firm
response from the MOF has been received. In terms of Bank provided TA, reviews were recently
completed for the Director of the SCHIA of the current financing formula and options for a methodology to
determine the content of the benefit package.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The project investments were directly linked to regular operation of the system. Transition to the new
systems of primary health care, EMS and health insurance has already been implemented and the systems
are now in regular operating mode. The investments made and the activities are part of the reform in the
health care and are ensured with ongoing funding from MOH and SCHIA budgets.



                                                      - 16 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Satisfactory. The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project was
satisfactory. The identification process focused on critical gaps and opportunities for interventions in the
health sector. The project's consistency with the government's development priorities and the Bank's
country assistance strategy were assured. In addition, the Bank also covered in-depth sociological aspects
while designing the project. With a harmonious team of a good skill mix, it brought in state-of-the-art
expertise into project design, providing for flexibility and responsiveness to local needs.

During preparation and appraisal, the Bank took into account the adequacy of project design and all major
relevant aspects, such as technical, financial, economic, and institutional, including procurement and
financial management. In addition, during the appraisal, the Bank assessed the project's risks and benefits.
The Bank had a consistently good working relationship with the Borrower during preparation and
appraisal. Extensive stakeholder consultation was highly productive, and initiated a process of ownership
that proved invaluable at the implementation stage.

7.2 Supervision:

Satisfactory. The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was satisfactory.
Sufficient budget and staff resources were allocated, and the project was adequately supervised and closely
monitored. Over the five years of project implementation, there were seven supervision missions. The
Bank's client relationship was very cordial and productive. Review teams included specialists in public
health, information systems, financial management, operations, disbursement, and procurement. External
consultants were used for specific aspects of project components.

Aide-Memoires were regularly prepared and transmitted, flagging outstanding issues and underscoring
benchmarks for actions. These alerted the government and the implementing agencies to problems with
project execution and facilitated remedies in a timely manner, in conformity with Bank procedures. The
Project Status Reports (PSRs) realistically rated the performance of the project both in terms of
achievement of development objectives and project implementation. Whenever delays in implementation
occurred, the Bank's task team was able to define concrete steps and timetable for putting the project back
on track and pace. The Bank paid sufficient attention to the project's likely development impact. The
quality of advice, and the follow-up on agreed actions were adequate. Loan covenants and remedies were
enforced effectively.

With the decentralization of Bank functions to the Resident Mission in Latvia, the Bank could provide
quick response and follow-up. The staff also showed flexibility in suggesting needed modifications in
implementation. They worked closely with the government and the implementing agency, and provided
them with extensive assistance including technical advice.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Satisfactory. Overall, the Bank performance was satisfactory during project preparation, appraisal and
implementation.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:



                                                      - 17 -

Satisfactory. The Borrower's performance in the preparation of the project was satisfactory. The Borrower
displayed the required level of commitment to the objectives of the project and covered the adequacy of
design and all major aspects, such as, technical, financial, economic, institutional, environmental and
sociological factors, including stakeholder commitment. The government officials and staff of the
implementing agencies both at the central and state levels worked closely with the Bank's project team on a
continual basis, with full cooperation and enthusiasm.

Government commitment to the policy program and the project was demonstrated through policy dialogue
with the Bank, including several policy steps taken under the Structural Adjustment Program. Key policies
have been agreed in the Letter of Development Program and the policy matrix which was the basis for the
activities of the project. A series of government regulations launched the key reform activities January 1,
1998. Organization of the project preparation process included most top civil servants in respective policy
areas.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Satisfactory. The government implementation performance was satisfactory. It consistently maintained its
commitment throughout the implementation. MOW, which was responsible for the overall implementation
of the project, consisted of senior policy makers and experienced managers. They were very responsive to
take corrective implementation measures, and were effective in dealing with outstanding operational issues.
Appropriate levels of review and approval were usually in place; financial accountability and follow-up
was observed, and expenditures were duly authorized before they were incurred; and documentation was
maintained properly for periodic review. The project did not suffer from any counterpart funding
problems, as GOL took timely corrective measures and made appropriate budget provisions.

Despite the initial slowdown, MOW managed to form a capable implementation unit able to face the
complex implementation tasks of the project. Regular reports and data on project management,
procurement, disbursements, and financial status were made available to the Bank. The audit reports were
also duly provided.

The Mid-term Review (MTR) process was handled very smoothly, both in terms of the organization and
the content. Specific requests for information or follow-up were handled quickly and efficiently. The
management of the MOW was quite engaged in both the management issues of the ongoing project, and the
MTR specifically.

The government showed ownership of the project and good will and capacity to advance the objectives.
Project implementation was on track, and project objective was achieved. Even with the change in
government, the commitment to successfully complete the remaining project activities was affirmed and
pursued.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Satisfactory. The commitment to the project and its objectives by the implementing agencies was very
strong, taking into account political changes, changes of the government structure and the change of key
personnel in the Ministry of Health.

The PCU was very well organized and effective in dealing with procurement, disbursement, progress
reports, and in maintaining proper records of the project. They were receptive to Bank advice, and highly



                                                     - 18 -

collaborative with respect to meeting demanding benchmarks and deadlines. The PCU regularly updated
the State Investment Project document, and based on this document it prepared the project procurement
plans. Poor response to advertised tenders and insufficient documentation of the expected activities were
among the problems. The project management unit gradually became more proficient at writing reference,
providing technical specifications and identifying vendors and firms, thereby easing the procurement
process.

The project financial accounting was performed consistently and in accordance with International
Accounting Standards. PCU regularly prepared project financial plans and ensured execution of payments
for rendered goods and services.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Satisfactory. The Borrower was pro-active and results-oriented in project preparation and implementation,
through the involved government agencies and the implementing agency. Based on all aspects of
implementation, the Borrower performance is rated Satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Policy-Level.

l It is important for the Bank to make the Borrower understand the value-added of the Bank's
    involvement in Latvia, over and above financing a project.

l Alignment of the project and government policy, and continuity in reform objectives are critical for the
    success of the project

l Confidence and communication among PCU, the management of implementing agency and the Bank
    team are critical for project's success

l Transparency, decentralization and open discussions are essential for making important decisions
    related to the project

l Project design during implementation should have some flexibility


l There is work to be done, even beyond the interventions included in the project, in explicitly targeting
    measures to ensure accessibility to health services and in better explaining the health reforms to both
    health care personnel and the general public.

Implementation

l It is important to ensure that the working groups are adequately staffed and take primary responsibility
    for the technical content of the various project components. Project management staff should play
    supportive roles, with respect to procurement, financial and other management issues.

Procurement

l In a transition economy, the Bank should explain clearly to the Borrower the relevance and significance
    of the Bank's procurement rules and procedures.



                                                     - 19 -

l There is a need for accurate costing of procurement activities ex ante, and accurate preparation of
    tender documents, particularly in the case of construction works. In order to avoid considerable
    increase in quantity and the cost of the construction the tender should consist of working and validated
    designs. Likewise, it is important that the Terms of Reference of the consultants are precise and clear.

l The inclusion of procurement specialists with specific expertise in management information systems
    was critical to the successful IT bidding process and subsequent implementation.

Project Management

l There is a need for well trained, prepared and highly motivated staff with clearly defined
    responsibilities to make managerial decisions. Management matrices, which were developed and
    refined just prior to the mid-term review, proved to be very useful in ensuring that responsibilities were
    well understood.

l State­of-the-art computer system for financial management and management of the Project proved
    important for good management.

l Maintenance of accurate documentation filing and archiving system is important for good project
    management.

l The combination of foreign and local TA had a positive impact on capacity building in the Ministry
    and other implementation agencies.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The PMU has commented extensively on the draft ICR, and these comments have been incorporated into
the text of the document. In terms of substantive comments on the project itself, an independent evaluation
of the project has been commissioned by the Ministry, and this report has been endorsed by Ministry
management. The executive summary of this report, as well as the section on conclusions and
recommendations, is reproduced in Annex 8.

(b) Cofinanciers:

The draft ICR was sent to SIDA, and Mr. Max Inverin of SIDA responded with the following comment:

    "Thank you for a informative and well written final report. I am grateful that you have taken the time
    to explain the financial deviation. Also I sincerely hope that phase II will gain political support in
    Latvia since I share your belief that such a continuation is necessary."


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

A. The Bank's ICR Team consisted of the following members:




                                                    - 20 -

Dominic Haazen (Task Team Leader)
Sati Achath (Consultant)
Lilita Sparane (Projects Assistant)

B. List of Task Team Leaders of the project in chronological order:

(i) Loiuse Fox
(ii) Lorriane Hawkins
(iii) Toomas Palu
(iv) Dominic Haazen

C. Denomination

The original loan was denominated in German Marks, with an amount of DEM 21,715,000. With the
introduction of the EURO, this amount changed to EUR 11,102,703.20.




                                                  - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                    1
                Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
Create a framework for a modern and             90% of health services funded through a         Fully met. The Approved budget for 2002
effective health care system, including policy single pipe financing mechanism by FY            was 89.9% Since 2004 the health care
reforms, institution building and skills        2001.                                           special budget was closed down and these
development for the health financing system.                                                    calculations were not made.
                                                DRG/PVQ payment model for hospital              Fully functioning capitation and DRG
                                                services and per capita PHC financing model payment systems exist, although refinements
                                                developed.                                      are needed.

                                                Standard hospital legal framework, conducive Required legislation was enacted but further
                                                to efficient delivery and investment in highest refinements are needed.
                                                value projects established.

                                                Public health strategy with targets in priority Strategy was published in the spring of 2002.
                                                areas issued.                                   Action plan for implementation of Public
                                                                                                Health Strategy accepted by the Cabinet of
                                                                                                Ministers on February 2004.
                                                Regional health services master plans
                                                approved at regional level.                     Master plans adopted by Government and
                                                                                                regional authorities. Initial implementation is
                                                                                                through EU structural funds. MOH plans to
                                                                                                use Public investment program and all
                                                                                                possible financing resources for this, and
                                                                                                have started discussions with MoF about
                                                                                                possible options. .
                                                Government-approved CHIP, consistent with
                                                SHC master plans, prepared according to         CHIP operational. MOH is preparing
                                                agreed methodology.                             priorities for Public investment program for
                                                                                                2005 ­2009 with are for implementation of
                                                                                                master plan.
                                                At least 80% of provider contracts satisfy      Not measured
                                                yearly quality control audits and are renewed.
                                                80 percent of population covered.


Output Indicators:
                                                                                    1
                Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Improved national health insurance system 1.1 SCHIA and RSF run effective population 80 percent of population registered with
in place at central and regional levels (funded registries, 30% of population registered with   certified GP's.
from tax receipts)                              certified GPs
                                                1.2 Annual report of health insurance           SCHIA annual reports for 1999 and 2000,
                                                performance issued to all key stakeholders      2001 and 2002 completed, report for 2003
                                                                                                being finalized
                                                1.3 Medical and financial audit system          Internal audit units established in health care
                                                operational throughout the system by year       institutions based on Law of Internal Audit.
                                                2001
                                                1.4 Improved client satisfaction with the       Less than 30 percent of providers feel that
                                                health insurance system                         the current reform agenda would
                                                                                                substantively improve health care. For the
                                                                                                general public, just 45 percent felt that health
                                                                                                services were accessible to them, down from
                                                                                                58 percent a year earlier.
2. Policy framework developed and               2.1 Investment project appraisal manual         Done, draft CHIP for period of 2003-2007,
institutions established prior to Phase II      produced and disseminated                       including Phase 2 activities, was prepared
health investments, health services                                                             and submitted to Ministry of Economy on
restructuring program developed and pilot                                                       3/1/2002 Public investment program for
tested.                                                                                         period 2005 ­ 2009 in developing process.
                                                                                                Investments in health sector were not made
                                                                                                in 2003.




                                                                    - 22 -

                                        2.2 Guidelines for investment planning,        Done, see above.
                                        approval and monitoring procedures
                                        accepted by stakeholders
                                        2.3 Development plans for HSMTA and            Done, HSMTA review included in CHIP
                                        SCHIA Investment Unit, specifying roles,       methodology
                                        accountabilities, approach and methodology
                                        2.4 Financing mechanisms ensure similar        Transition strategy developed, legislative
                                        institutions face similar cost of capital for  amendments required to implement fully
                                        similar investments                            Current Shortage of money means that the
                                                                                       price for health care service can not cover
                                                                                       capital costs or depreciation
                                        2.5 Family doctor training capacity at various Largely completed, with both training and
                                        levels improved                                re-training programs established. Internists
                                                                                       and pediatricians trained as GP. Lack of
                                                                                       human resources in each of medical
                                                                                       specialties
                                        2.6 Hospital restructuring program piloted     Latgale pilot projects completed, evaluation is
                                        and evaluated by 2001                          completed.

                                        2.7 Secondary care managers and                EMS personnel and hospital managers
                                        emergency care personnel trained               trained.

                                        2.8 National disease prevention programs       Public Health strategy and Action Plan
                                        and policies developed by 2001                 approved. Some special programs like AIDS
                                                                                       prevention approved. Tobacco convention will
                                                                                       be signed.
3. Capacity to design and implement     3.1 Baseline public opinion survey             Completed in November, 2000.
effective communication strategies      conducted by December 1, 1999
strengthened at national level.
                                        3.2 Role, responsibility and authority of      Completed. Unit was further strengthened in
                                        Public Relations Unit approved by January 1, May, 2001
                                        1999

                                        3.3 National health reform communication       Activity plan accepted in August, 2000 PR
                                        strategies designed and approved by            unit in Ministry of Health established. Mass
                                        February 28, 1999                              media regularly receive all information on
                                                                                       activities in health sector.

                                        3.4 Six sustained communications               Campaign began October, 2001, survey to
                                        campaigns implemented by 2001                  review effectiveness to be done in May, 2002.
                                                                                       Campaign on patients' rights was
                                                                                       implemented over December 1999 - March
                                                                                       2000
4. Phase I well managed and systems in
place for management of Phase II.       4.1 Project management matrix developed        Completed in March, 2001
                                        and agreed by stakeholders

                                        4.2 Adequately staffed and equipped project Done on an ongoing basis
                                        management office maintained

                                        4.3 Annual training plan prepared by           Staff training needs reviewed as needed
                                        February, 1999

                                        4.4 Periodic stakeholder assessments of        Stakeholder assessment done for MTR
                                        satisfaction with project procedures           (March 2001), with follow-up based on
                                        administered & follow up workshops             findings
                                        conducted, with first by June 1999

                                        4.5 PIP for Phase II developed by              Not yet due, as previous Government
                                        September, 2000                                decided not to proceed with Phase II.


1End of project




                                                            - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million   US$ million
A. 1. Strengthen Health Financing Policy                     0.79            0.71           89.87
2. Strengthen Management of Health Insurance Funds           1.92            1.72           89.58
3. Strengthen MIS of Health Insurance Funds                  4.62            6.10          132.25
B. Financing Reform                                          0.86            1.35          156.98
1. Investment Policy Development

2. Support Primary Health Care Reform                        2.35            1.99           85.53
3. Support to Hospital Restructuring Program                 2.78            5.16          186.33
4. Support to Public Health Reform                           1.33            1.44          108.27
C. Implementation of Health Reform Communication             0.55            0.76          138.18
Sttrategy
D.Project Management and Coordination                        0.46            1.06          230.43
Front-End Financing Fee                                      0.12            0.12             100
Total Financing

Total Baseline Cost                                         15.78          20.41
 Physical Contingencies                                      1.27
 Price Contingencies                                         0.57
                         Total Project Costs                17.62          20.41
                  Total Financing Required                  17.62          20.41


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00            1.60         0.00         1.10          2.70
                                   (0.00)          (1.30)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (1.30)
2. Goods                            4.60            0.00         1.70         0.30          6.60
                                   (3.90)          (0.00)      (1.20)         (0.00)       (5.10)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         5.80         2.00          7.80
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (5.50)         (0.00)       (5.50)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00         0.50          0.50
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                            4.60            1.60         7.50         3.90         17.60
                                   (3.90)          (1.30)      (6.70)         (0.00)      (11.90)




                                                - 24 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 0.00               1.78              0.00             1.63              3.41
                                           (0.00)             (1.60)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (1.60)
   2. Goods                                 4.30               0.15              1.42             1.62              7.49
                                           (3.70)             (0.00)            (0.61)            (0.00)           (4.31)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              5.99             3.50              9.49
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (5.55)            (0.00)           (5.55)
   4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                4.30               1.93              7.41             6.75             20.39
                                           (3.70)             (1.60)            (6.16)            (0.00)           (11.46)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
A1. Strengthen Health           0.59                      0.27        0.44         0.07       0.20       74.6               74.1
Financing Policy
A2. Strengthen                  0.35         1.63         0.22        0.01         1.71       0.64        2.9     104.9    290.9
Management of Health
Insurance Funds
A3. Strengthen MIS of           3.54         0.72         0.97        4.20         1.26       0.19       118.6    175.0     19.6
Health Insurance Funds
B1. Investment Policy           0.60         0.16         0.17        0.66         0.50       0.05       110.0    312.5     29.4
Development
B2. Support Primary             2.41         0.17                     1.74         0.20                  72.2     117.6
Health Care Reform
B3. Support to Hospital         2.62         0.54                     2.92         2.24                  111.5    414.8
Restructuring Program
B4. Support to Public           1.15         0.28                     0.83         0.47       0.13       72.2     167.9
Health Reform
C. Implementation of            0.53         0.08                     0.53         0.19       0.04       100.0    237.5
Health Reform
Communication Strategy
D. Project Management           0.09         0.05                     0.01         0.36       0.69       11.1     720.0
and Coordination




                                                           - 25 -

Front-End Financing Fee  0.12                   0.12                100.0
Total Financing          12.00   3.63          11.46   7.00   1.94  95.5  192.8




                                        - 26 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 27 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                    No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                        (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year    Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Supervision

               11/05/1999                   5   TEAM LEADER (1);                      S               S
                                                OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                                HEALTH SPECIALIST (2);
                                                HEALTH ECONOMIST (1)
               06/09/2000                   8   PROGRAM TEAM LEADER                   U               S
                                                (1); OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                                (1); HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                                                SR. HEALTH SPECILIST (1);
                                                COMMUNICATIONS SPECIAL
                                                (1); WB RIGA OFFICE CHIEF
                                                (1); TEAM ASSISTANT (1);
                                                PUBLIC HEALTH SPECIALI
                                                (1)
               03/26/2001                   5   PTL (1); PROCUREMENT (1);             S               S
                                                IT SPECIALIST (DC) (1);
                                                COMMUNICATIONS SPEC.
                                                (1); PROJECT ASSISTANT (1)
               01/31/2002                   7   PTL (1); HEALTH SPECIALIST            S               S
                                                (1); LEAD HEALTH
                                                SPECIALIST (1); TEAM
                                                MEMBER (1); CONSULTANT
                                                (1); TEAM ASSISTANT (1);
                                                COMMUNICATIONS (1)
               01/31/2002                   4   PTL (1); PROJECT ASSISTANT            S               S
                                                (1); COMMUNICATIONS
                                                SPEC. (1); SECTOR
                                                MANAGER (1)
               05/16/2003                   3   PTL (1); PA (1); EXT (1)              S               S
               11/14/2003                   4   TTL (1); PAS (1); PA (1);             S               S
                                                COMMUNICATIONS (1)


 ICR
               There was no
               special ICR
               mission since the
               Task Manager
               was based at the
               Resident Mission



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
                                      No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)

                                                 - 28 -

Supervision    79.4          325.9
ICR             4.0          30.9
Total          144.1         606.0




                   - 29 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

§       Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports.
§       Project Appraisal Document, No. 18448-LV, October 18, 1998.
§       Health Behaviour Among Latvian Population, 2000.- Kansanterveyslaitos ­ National Public
Health                  Institute, Helsinki, Finland, 2001
§       Public Health Analysis in Latvia 2001- Ministry of Welfare, Health Statistics and Medical
Technology                        Agency, Riga, 2002
§       Mental Health Care in Latvia 1991-2000, statistics yearbook.- MoW, Mental Health Care Center
of                      Latvia, Riga
§       Appraisal of the Payment System of Health care Diagnosis Related Groups (DRG): Report
prepared
        by the consultant Anders Wikman, MoW, 2001*
§       National Health Care Development Plan (Master Plan).- MoW, Riga, 2001*
§       CHIP: Consolidated Health Investment Program.- Riga, MoW, 2001*
§       Strategy for Limiting the Spread of HIV/AIDS in Latvia (1999-2003).-Riga, MoW, 1999
§       Creation of the Single-Pipe Financing.- Riga, MoW, 2001
§       Approbation of the Capital Investment Financing and Budget Model: Report by EPOS Health
                        Consultants.- Riga, MoW, 2001*
§       Quality Assurance in the Health Services. From Quality Control to Continuous Quality
Improvement:                      Report by FTA for provision of appraisal quality of HC services and
application of medical audit system.-
        Riga, MoW, 2001*
§       Medical Audit. Lessons from Experience: Report by FTA for provision of appraisal quality of HC
        services and application of medical audit system.- Riga, MoW, 2001*
§       Contracting and Financing. A TQM approach to contracting and financing: Report by FTA for
provision
        of appraisal quality of HC services and application of medical audit system.- Riga, MoW, 2001*
§       About depreciation costs calculating prices for medical services.- Riga, MoW, 2001*
§       State special health care budget resources allocation formula and system of rates. Regulations
approved                          by CoM, Riga, 2002*
§       On Changes to be Implemented in the Procedure for Organization and Financing of Outpatient
Health                  Care: Report by Working group.- Riga, MoW, 2002*
§       Public Health Strategy.- Riga, MoW, 2001*
§       Operation and Development Strategy Of the State Agency "Public Health Agency" for the period
                2002-2006: Appendix to the Letter of Public Health Agency.- Riga, MoW, 2002
§       The financing procedure of the Agency.- Riga, MoW, 2001*
§       Health Promotion Infrastructure.- Riga, MoW, 2002*
§       Evaluation of a Pilot project "Optimisation of Infrastructure for Health Care System in Daugavpils
and                     Kraslava regions" and four training PHC practices located in Latgale region.-
Riga, BKG Business                        Consultants Group, MoW, 2002*
§       Evaluation of Health Care Reform May ­ June 2002.- Baltic Institute of Social Sciences, Riga,
MoW,                    2002*

        *Including electronic files




                                                   - 32 -

Additional Annex 8. [Executive Summary of InDevelop Uppsala Evaluation Report]


                                                       FINAL REPORT

                                   LATVIAN HEALTH REFORM PROJECT
                                                   PHASE I, 1999-2003

I.       EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

The Latvian government committed itself to a new future for health care provision and financing through a
major sector reform involving the transition from a centralised to a decentralised health system. The World
Bank-financed Latvia Health Reform Project 1999-2003 was formulated through a process involving
policy dialogue with World Bank dating back to 1994, analyses of the transitional health care system in
Latvia in the mid-1990s, reviews of other European models, and extensive stakeholder consultations and
technical support from World Bank (WB), European Union (EU) and other development partners.

Central to reformed system was the establishment of primary health care (PHC) as the front line and
gate-keeper of health services, founded on a structure of locally-managed autonomous units. The
cornerstone of the sector is the family physician or general practitioner (GP), a shift which has demanded
rapid expansion of the GP profession, and a more health promotion-oriented PHC model. Rationalisation
of secondary and tertiary services through reduction in hospital facilities and beds, development of
multi-specialty centers, and creation of an emergency services network, is ongoing.

Health care financing has undergone a transition from a system in the mid-1990s based on health insurance
and co-payments from patients at the primary care level, to one of capitation-based payment and patient
fees administered through regional sickness funds. Financing of hospital care is under gradual
transformation from a unit cost or "point" system to payment according to diagnosis related groups (DRG).
Groups of related diseases that have similar cost/resource requirements. Private health services are a growing source
of care for patients with ability to pay.

An ambitious program of policy reform, to establish the legal and regulatory basis for the health sector
restructuring has made positive but uneven progress. Ongoing work in establishing the legal basis and
relationships of regional sickness funds, municipal governments and service providers is one such crucial
area of need. A fully-articulated primary health care policy, well-defined package of government-supported
services, and clearly prioritised master plans are under on-going development.

Human and institutional capacity development initiatives have included the creation of permanent training
institutions for general practice and public health nurses, management training at central, regional and
municipal levels, a national emergency care training center, education of the public through mass
information, and extensive informal training throughout the process of implementing the reforms. Key
institutions involved in health services financing, health promotion and quality assurance have be
strengthened through training, improvement of physical infrastructure, and technical assistance.

The array of initiatives which the Ministry and its partners have engaged in has been considerable. The
project has produced a body of instruments, systems and guidelines to establish the framework of the
reform, and has for the most part achieved its objectives. It could be fairly stated that planned initiatives
exceeded the overstretched capacity of Ministry of Health and its partners, both in the scope of work and



                                                             - 33 -

available time. Resource utilization was efficient, however uncertain ongoing financing of the reform and
the under-financing of the health care system in general are serious risks for the sustainability of the
reform.

Political commitment to the reform process was established well before the Latvia Health Reform Project.
This is amply demonstrated in the initiatives in the mid-1990s to test health financing models, create the
Central Sickness Fund, introduce general practice as a medical specialty, and pilot test capitation-based
financing. Aizsilniece I, Assessment of the Model for Primary Health Care Financing in Latvia (undated) Support in the
enactment and approval of laws, regulations and policies approved at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers,
has been forthcoming in key areas of the reform. Many reform instruments have however, been long
pending approval, or have lacked sufficient support at lower levels to advance through the policy process.
A key indicator of political commitment -- the proportion of GNP dedicated to health -- has remained
relatively unchanged during the project period, and is lower than that of comparable countries.

The future of the reform process is primarily an issue of strengthening and thereafter maintaining political
commitment. Competing pressures on the government budget, a focus on impending accession of Latvia
into the EU, and economic and security issues, are currently eclipsing health as a major government
priority. Technical development and capacity in the key institutions implementing the health reform appear
to be sufficient to carry forward the change process in the future. However targeted financial support and
technical assistance would be well invested for supporting unfinished areas of the reform agenda and
strengthening weak components

The Government of Latvia (GoL) has opted to forgo a second phase of the World Bank loan project. A
process is underway to identify areas of financial and technical need, based on the plans in the WB Phase II
Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and to obtain support for the continued reform process from EU
structural funds.

The report which follows was prepared by external consultants, who endeavoured to obtain an overview of
a large and highly complex project. The work was carried out through a process of document review,
interviews, brief field visits, and a small survey of project managers. Time did not permit delving into
depth in the many issues which would benefit from further analysis. Chapters were authored by the
individual consultants as follows:
Components A1, A2, B1, B3, D ­ Bengt Stålhandske; Executive Summary, Introduction, Components A3,
B2, B4-5, B6, C ­ Melinda Öjermark. Both authors contributed to the Conclusions and Recommendations.

According to the Terms of Reference for the assignment (Annex 2) the document comprises a Final Report
of the project, and a survey of key managers, which parallels a survey carried out in the Midterm Review
(MTR) report. It was agreed between the consultant team and Project Manager that report sections on
financial management, expenditure, and procurement would be prepared by the Ministry of Health, and
would be appended to this narrative report. Hence there is no analysis in this text of financial progress or
financial management issues.




                                                          - 34 -

    6. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS

The Latvia Health Reform Project fulfilled the objectives and achieved the results articulated in the Project
Appraisal Document for Phase I to a degree sufficient to warrant the preparation of the PAD for Phase II.
An evaluation of Phase I Activities was prepared by WB and is appended to the PAD for Phase II. Project
Appraisal Document on a Proposed Loan in Support of the Second Phase of the Health Reform Program, Report No. 25088-LV,
Addendum 2 to Annex 1 ­ Evaluation of Phase I Activities.


The Project Appraisal Document for Phase I of the health reform program cites lessons learned from other
health reform projects in the Europe and Central Asia Region. These points are fully consistent with the
experience of the Latvia Health Sector Reform Project:

-        health sector reform is a lengthy, politicized process and expectations for the reform process
have been too optimistic for both the World Bank and the client countries;
-        institutional aspects of reform are as important as technically proficient strategies;
-        greater attention needs to be paid to political economy of the reforms through marketing the
reforms to                lawmakers, the medical community and the public;
-        projects have been too complex;
-        adequate resources need to be committed for supervision of projects.

The above lessons learned were factored in to the design of the Latvia Health Reform Project, however
their full mitigation goes beyond the bounds of project design. The concerns above have been echoed in
numerous reports and studies, of the Latvia Health Reform Project, including WB supervisory missions.

The achievements of the project have been prodigious, and "the framework for a modern and effective
health system" is largely in place. Most results have been met or partially met. Policy reform and
behaviour change are process-oriented. They may be subject to ongoing change and do not conform to
project timetables. As such, the project did a more than laudable job of tracking, documenting and
analysing the change process. External factors, including staff loss due to political changes, shifting
government priorities, and ministerial restructuring, all affected the project.

Section 5 of this report, details the achievements of all of the components and sub-components. Each
section includes a summary of recommendations and conclusions. These constitute the main conclusions of
the report, together with the list of indicators and results in Annex 1. For the sake of brevity, they are not
repeated in this section. The following subsections address generic evaluation indicators and some selected
issues for the future.

Effectiveness Timeliness of implementation and delivery of project outputs was variable, with delays
primarily due to procurement and management inexperience, as documented in Section 5 of this report.
These delays were compensated by extending the project by an additional two years. The project
demonstrated improved effectiveness in procurement and increasingly responsive management as
experience was gained. All activities funded have achieved their intended purpose, although some are
ongoing at the close of project (e.g. MIS development, legal frameworks for hospitals, hospital
optimisation, medical audit system, DRG-based payment in hospitals, etc.).

All intended beneficiaries of the project received the planned benefits, e.g. training, equipment, information,
technical assistance, services and improved infrastructure. No comprehensive measurement has yet been



                                                         - 35 -

made of the benefits to end-users (e.g. realisation of incentives gained by service providers, patient
satisfaction, quality of care). The latter should be included in future study of the impact of the reforms.

Validity of assumptions and risk assessments. Critical risks identified in the PAD were well-founded and
the assigned ratings predicted accurately the areas of vulnerability of the project. Two areas which were
rated as "substantial" risks have proven challenging, and risk minimization measures had limited effect.
Project Appraisal Document, Latvia Health Reform Project Phase I, pp. 24-25.


        Substantial risks                  Risk minimization / actual
        Government will not remain         Senior civil servants involved in the project
        committed to reform                development left after the elections. Continuation
                                           triggers were fulfilled, however, the government did not
                                           opt to continue the loan project
        Ministry of Finance will not       Tobacco economics study carried out and public
        accept proposed increase in        communication strategies launched, to explain the
        tobacco tax                        public health argument; however MoF chose not levy
                                           the tax.

Efficiency. The project has benefited greatly by the high capacity and professional excellence of a core of
senior managers and technical experts in MoH, MoW, HCISA, HPA and other partner institutions.
Insufficient staff, competing work and inexperience were the main capacity constraints. Systems to plan,
manage, monitor and assess the project were gradually developed. The PCU, under the supervision of the
Ministry, and guided by the Steering Committee, was an appropriate and efficient project management
structure. Monitoring, reporting and financial management were satisfactorily executed by the PCU. The
project was managed with necessary flexibility to enable adjustments in planning and strategies, based on
thorough assessment.

Impact. The necessary policy instruments and systems are in place to enable the Latvia Health Reform to
operate according to the design envisioned in the PAD. The structure for delivery of primary health care
has been transformed to a GP-based community health model, health financing through a single-pipe
mechanism has been put in operation, 90 percent of the Latvian population are registered with GPs and
receiving the PHC services through that mechanism. These are but a few illustrations of impact.

Sustainability. There is little doubt that the health reform process will continue in Latvia, even in the
absence of a second phase of the WB loan. This is based on the strong ownership of the Latvian
government, which initiated the reform process already in the early 1990s. Loss of momentum, with the
cessation of loan financing, is however likely. The degree of future political support, and the position of
health on the government policy agenda are unpredictable, although there appears to be wide concensus in
the project that health is not a top priority for the present government.

Strong commitment and capacity in implementing institutions (MoH, HCISA) bode well for sustaining the
reforms, although technical assistance and financial support will be required in specific areas for some time
to come (MIS, DRG system, public relations and promotion, quality assurance,etc.). The implementation of
the health master plans and ongoing development and operation of the reforms require increased investment
in the sector in the years to come. Financial sustainability is at risk, in the absence of a new loan phase.
As stated in the PAD for Phase II, "Not proceeding with the next phase of this project would significantly
reduce the effectiveness of the reforms supported under the first phase, and may leave key components of
the reform agenda unfinished."



                                                         - 36 -

Selected areas of concern. Following is a list of some selected areas for ongoing concern. It is not
comprehensive and the reader should refer to Conclusions and Recommendations following each chapter in
Section 5 of this report.

Financing the sector. As stated in the WB evaluation of Phase I, the low level of public financing for
health care must be addressed if support for the reform process is to be maintained, and public approval
enhanced. The agreed allocation from the state basic budget revenue committed to Phase I in the PAD fell
considerably short of target. Sector financing remains the greatest risk to the ongoing development of the
sector.

Institutional capacity. HCISA is the central agency in implementing financing reforms, and is operating
very effectively, as are its branches and regional sickness funds. The 90 percent "single pipe" financing
result was reached, albeit two years behind schedule. During four years of testing and implementation, the
capitation system for PHC providers has been revised and improved, and the two existing models being
forged into a unified national model. The hospital financing model is still transitional, currently a
case-based payment by diagnosis group, with the future intention of adopting the DRG approach. The
remaining scope of work for the agency is daunting. Achieving full operation of the MIS, including
training at all levels, is one of the greatest challenges and vulnerable areas for HCISA.

Marketing the reforms to politicians, health managers and providers and to the public needs greater
investment and breadth. The benefit of wider political support could have facilitated the project, eased the
policy process and secured a more certain future for the reforms. The public relations capacity built within
the Ministry was not sustainable for a variety of reasons: personnel changes, a too-large measure of
out-sourcing the work, and a lack of financing to maintain public information activities. The PAD for
Phase II proposes "more proactive and vigorous public information and dissemination activities."
Sustainable means, such as government-sponsored public service advertising should be found for long-term
support.

Analysis of impacts of the reform needs more attention. Public and provider opinion was given a
pre-eminent role in Phase I, as the barometer of perceived progress in the reform, and as the means of
assessing project management. These, while useful for general trends, are limited in accuracy and scope.
Additional, specific and in-depth analyses of the effects of the reform are needed using objective assessment
tools. The need for deeper study of the implications of rapidly changing financing models, which have
demonstrated unpredictable consequences, is one such example.

Legal and policy framework. In general terms the health financing aspect of the project has been
successful in establishing structures and models for a modern health system. However, the roles and
relationships between the provider structure and the purchaser must be clarified. Systems for restructuring
of hospital services (masterplan) as well as advanced models for investments in the health sector (CHIP)
have been developed and implementation has begun. However the lack of financial support to the sector and
an unclear legal situation for the provider structure will inevitably limit the use of plans and models that are
established.




                                                       - 37 -

- 38 -

