Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4408 LV
Loan Agreement
(Health Reform Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated November 25, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4408 LV
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 25, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF LATVIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A)  the Bank has received a letter dated September 16, 1998, from the 
Borrower describing a two-phased program of policies and actions (the Program) 
designed to achieve reforms in the Borrower’s health sector, and declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to implementation of the Program;
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Bank to support the execution of the two 
phases of the Program through extension to the Borrower of Loans up to the equivalent 
of $32,000,000 over a period of seven (7) years; 
(C)
to assist in financing the Project, the Borrower intends to obtain from 
the Swedish International Development Agency (Sida) a Grant in the amount of 
$2,000,000 equivalent (the Sida Grant) under an arrangement (the Sida Grant 
Arrangement) to be agreed upon between the Borrower and Sida;
(D)
the Borrower intends to cause its Ministry of Finance and its Ministry of 
Welfare to enter into arrangements regulating the use of the loan proceeds to be made 
available under this Agreement as well as the repayment thereof; and
(E)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project;
Page  2
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, as amended 
through December 2, 1997, (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Central Fund” means the State Compulsory Health Insurance Central Fund, 
a separate health insurance fund managed by MOW;
(b)
“CHSMT” means the Center for Health Statistics and Medical Technology 
established under MOW, or any successor thereto;
(c)
“Deutsche Mark” and “DEM” means the lawful currency of the Federal 
Republic of Germany;
(d)
“MOW” means the Ministry of Welfare of the Borrower;
(e)
“PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit; established under MOW;
(f)
“PHC” means primary health care within the Borrower’s health care system;
(g)
“Pilot Operation Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 
3.01 (d) of this Agreement;
(h)
“RSF” means any of the Regional Sickness Funds, incorporated as a 
municipal limited-liability company or managed by the Central Fund;
(i)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(j)
“Steering Committee” means the committee established under the 
chairmanship of the Borrower’s Minister of Welfare to be responsible for overall 
management of the Project; and
(k)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and the Central Fund pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time with the Bank’s concurrence, 
and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to 
twenty-one million seven hundred fifteen thousand Deutsche Mark (DEM 21,715,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
works, goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan.
Page  3
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Deutsche Marks a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the loan, on or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable on February 15 and 
August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through MOW and PCU with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate financial, administrative and health care standards, and 
shall provide, promptly, as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
For the purposes of Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall relend the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Categories (1) (a) and (2) (a) of 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to the Central Fund under a 
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower of the Central Fund 
(the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Bank. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, such terms and 
conditions shall include the following:
(i)
the principal amount of the subsidiary loan shall be repaid by the 
Central 
Fund to the Borrower in semi-annual installments over 
the same period 
specified for repayment of the Loan according 
to Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
and 
(ii)
the Central Fund shall pay:
(A)
a commitment charge on the unwithdrawn amount of the 
Subsidiary Loan at 
the same rate for commitment charge on the 
Loan according to Section 
2.05 of this Agreement; and
(B)
interest on the amount of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding 
from time to time at a rate equal to the rate payable 
by the Borrower 
from time to time on the Loan pursuant to 
Page  4
Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(d)
For the purposes of Part B (3) (iv) of the Project, the Borrower, acting 
through an appropriate instrumentality, shall: 
(i)
conclude, on terms which shall have been agreed upon with the 
Bank, an 
agreement with relevant municipalities or hospitals 
in the Latgale Region or 
any other region agreed upon with the Bank 
(the Pilot Operation Agreement) 
whereby the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated from time to time to Categories 1 
(b) and 2 (b) of the table 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
shall be made 
available to such municipalities or hospitals on terms and 
conditions which shall have been agreed upon with the Bank; and
(ii)
exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement and the Pilot 
Operation 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests 
of the Borrower and the 
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Subsidiary Agreement 
or the Pilot Operations Agreement or any provision 
thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
works, goods and consultants’ services required under the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the objectives of the Project and the Program; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in  
a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures for and in connection with the carrying out of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited; and 
(B) an opinion on such financial statements, records 
and accounts and a 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Page  5
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account 
was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02 (a) the Borrower shall cause the Central Fund to maintain records 
in accordance with sound accounting practices to adequately reflect its operations and 
financial condition.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause the Central Fund to:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors, or such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably 
requested;
(iii)
provide the Bank, within two (2) months of furnishing the audit 
report 
referred to in the preceding paragraph (ii), with a 
statement as to the 
comments, if any, contained in said 
report and the action to be taken by the 
Central Fund to address 
such comments; and
(iv)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts 
and financial statements and the audit thereof as the 
Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
a situation shall have arisen, which shall make it improbable that the 
Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out;
(b)
Central Fund regulations shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived without the Bank’s concurrence, so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of the Central Fund to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project;
(c)
the Sida Grant Arrangement shall have failed to become effective by June 
30, 1999, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that the 
Page  6
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of 
the Borrower under this Agreement; and 
(d)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Borrower to 
withdraw the proceeds of any grant made to the Borrower for 
the financing of 
the Project shall have been suspended, canceled or 
terminated in whole or in 
part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement 
providing therefor.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
established 
to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension, 
cancellation, or 
termination is not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and 
(B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from 
other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that: 
(a)
the event specified in Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement; or
(b)
the event specified in Section 5.01 (a) (i) of this Agreement (subject to 
the proviso of subparagraph (ii) thereof) shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on 
behalf of the Borrower and the Central Fund.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
1 Smilsu Street
Riga, LV-1919
Latvia
Facsimile:
371 7820010
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  7
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
By /s/  Ojars Kalnins 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/  Basil G. Kavalsky 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
DEM Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works:
85% 
(a) Part A of the Project
65,000
(b) Part B.3 (iv) of the
    1,626,000
    Project
(c) Other Parts of the Project   542,000
(2)
Goods: 
100% of foreign
expenditures,
(a) Part A of the Project
    6,324,000
100% of local
expenditures, 
(b) Part B.3 (iv) of the
      904,000
(ex-factory cost)
    Project
and 85% of local
expenditures for
(c) Other Parts of the Project  1,626,000
other items 
procured locally
(3)
Consultants’
     8,673,000
100%
services and
Page  8
training
(4)
Fee
215,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement 
(5)
Unallocated
     1,740,000
     _________
TOTAL
    21,715,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) under Categories (1) (b) and (2) (b) until the Pilot Operation 
Agreement has been concluded in accordance with the provision of Section 3.01 (d) of 
this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods and works under contracts 
costing less than DEM 530,000 equivalent each; (b) services of consulting firms under 
contracts costing less than DEM 175,000 equivalent each; and (c) services of 
individual consultants under contracts costing less than DEM 85,000 each, all under 
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project constitutes a part of the Program, and has the objective of 
improving financial management of the health sector and developing a framework for 
restructuring health services.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modification 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Reform of Health Care Financing
1.
Establishment of an appropriate policy framework for managing revenues and 
expenditures of the health financing system including: (i) development of a model for 
state budget allocation for health; (ii) development of a model for health care 
services payment; (iii) review of the health services entitlement packages; and (iv) 
establishment of an appropriate legal and operational framework for the Central Fund 
and the RSFs.
2.
Strengthening of the capacity of the Central Fund and the RSFs, including: (i) 
renovation of the Central Fund’s building; (ii) training of staff and managers at the 
Central Fund, RSFs and other groups operating in the health insurance system; (iii) 
strengthening of the medical and financial audit system; and (iv) strengthening of the 
public relations function of the health insurance system.
3.
Establishment of an initial country-wide health management information system.
Part B:
Health Care Services Restructuring
1.
Strengthening the capacity for formulation and implementation of health 
investment policies, including: (i) preparation of Investment Procedures Guidelines 
for MOW; (ii) assistance to CHSMT in the development of health technology assessment 
Page  9
capacity; (iii) development of methodology for and training in the appraisal of health 
investment projects; and (iv) development of a model legal framework for hospitals for 
accessing investment funds.
2.
Implementation of measures for Reform of PHC, including: (i) development for MOW 
of a legal/operational framework for general practitioners; (ii) training of general 
practitioners and other PHC professionals; and (iii) establishment of PHC pilot 
practices in selected areas.
3.
Support of hospital restructuring through: (i) preparation of regional health 
services masterplans; (ii) implementing hospital management training program; (iii) 
implementing  emergency medicine training program; (iv) implementing a pilot hospital 
restructuring operation in RSFs in the Latgale region, or any other region agreed upon 
with the Bank.
4.
Implementation of measures in support of public health reform, including: (i) 
development of a survey function to measure key health status determinants; (ii) 
regular reporting on national public health status and development of a national 
public health strategy; (iii) training of staff of public health institutions; (iv) 
establishment of a framework for debate/study of public health issues and policies, 
including discussion of appropriate regulatory acts; and (v) implementation of 
selected health promotion programs.
Part C:
Health Reform Communication Strategy
Implementation of measures to gain public acceptance of and support for health 
reform activities included in the Program.
Part D:
Project Management
Provision of technical services, materials and equipment to assist MOW and PCU 
in project management and implementation.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Interest and Principal Repayment Provisions
A.
General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period.
(b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date.
(c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day of the 
Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed Amount is 
withdrawn.
B.
Interest
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts. 
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
Page  10
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding to, but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings:
(a)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Deutsche Mark for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below 
(or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by 
it that include such Disbursed Amount for such 
Interest 
Period;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Deutsche Mark for value on the 
Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate 
based on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount:
(i)
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin, applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus
(iii)
the Bank’s risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount;
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
4.
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, Fixed 
Page  11
Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly upon 
the determination thereof.
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semi-annual installments payable on each 
February 15 and August 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh 
(7th) Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount 
and the last such installment to be payable on the eighteenth (18th) Interest Payment 
Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall 
be one-twelfth (1/12) of such Disbursed Amount.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after February, 15, 2014, the Borrower shall also pay on said 
date the aggregate amount of all such installments.
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and in September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto, related to preference for domestically manufactured goods, shall apply to 
goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and procured in accordance with 
the provision of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works under the Project estimated to cost less than $500,000 shall be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national competitive procedures in accordance 
with the provision of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $600,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
Page  12
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Procurement Guidelines.
(b)
Goods estimated to cost less than $75,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods and works to be procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in Part B of this Schedule; and (b) the 
first contract to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to Parts C.1 
and C.2 of this Schedule; the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Procurement Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection under a Fixed Budget
Services under Parts B and D of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
Page  13
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
 With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
Part A:
Management of Project Implementation
1.
The Borrower shall assign the general responsibility for management of Project 
implementation to MOW which shall, for this purpose:
(a)
maintain the Steering Committee until Project Completion and assign to it 
the overall responsibility for Project management; and
(b)
maintain the PCU until Project Completion with such staff and resources 
as shall be required for the PCU to perform the following functions under the Project:
(i)
coordination of the activities of various entities involved in 
Project implementation;
(ii)
coordination and supervision of the Preparation of bidding and 
contract 
documents under the Project, including coordination 
of the recruitment of 
foreign and local consultants required 
for Project implementation;
(iii)
technical monitoring of Project progress, on the basis of 
indicators set forth 
in the Program;
(iv)
maintenance of the project financial records and accounts and 
arranging for 
the audit thereof; and
(v)
preparation and furnishing to the Bank, starting in February 1999, 
of 
semi-annual reports on the progress of Project 
implementation, measuring 
actual progress against the targets set 
Page  14
forth in the Program.
2.
The Borrower shall ensure in the preparation of the draft budget to be submitted 
for Parliamentary approval: (a) that the proposed allocations for health expenditures 
in the fiscal year 1999 (excluding external financing and patient fees) shall increase 
by not less than 17% in nominal terms over such allocations for the fiscal year 1998; 
(b) that the proposed allocations for health expenditures (excluding patient fees) for 
the fiscal year 2000 and thereafter shall account for not less than 10% of the revenue 
estimate in the state basic budget and that allocations for health investments shall 
be included in the draft special health insurance budget; and (c) that not less than 
28.4% of the estimated income tax revenues shall be allocated in the draft budgets for 
the three fiscal years 1999, 2000 and 2001 for health care services.
3.
For purposes of Part A.1 (iv) of the Project, the Borrower shall: (a) by June 
30, 1999, prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its review and comments, draft 
regulations for the re-establishment of the Central Fund as a financially and 
operationally autonomous entity, and (b) thereafter enact such regulations, taking 
into account the Bank’s comments thereon, in accordance with a time-schedule 
satisfactory to the Bank.
4.
The Borrower shall maintain a specialist on the design and operation of 
management information systems and a working group within the Central Fund to assist 
such specialist in the establishment of the country-wide management information system 
for the health sector, referred to in Part A.3 of the Project.
5.
For purposes of Part B.2 (ii) of the Project the Borrower, acting through MOW,  
shall employ by March 31, 1999, an institution for re-training of general 
practitioners under procedures and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
6.
For purposes of Part B.3 (ii) of the Project the Borrower, acting through MOW, 
shall employ by March 31, 1999, an institution for development and implementation of 
hospital management training under procedures and terms of reference acceptable to the 
Bank.
Part B:
Monitoring and Evaluation
The Borrower shall:
(1)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the Program, the 
carrying out of the Project and of measures included in the Program;
(2)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank, on or about September 30, 2000, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (1) of this Part 
B, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project and the Program during 
the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended 
to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the Program and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(3)
review with the Bank, by March 15, 2001, or such later date as the Bank shall 
request, the report referred to in paragraph (2) of this Part, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
Program and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
Page  15
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
DEM 1,900,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to para\1fgraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the 
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice 
Page  16
to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent 
that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
