Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23 634-BUR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED GRANT FROM THE
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FAACILITY IRUST FlUND
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR6 MILLION (US$7.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
BURK[NA FASO
FOR A
PARTNERSHIP FORTNATIJRAL ECOSYSTEM MAANAGEMFNTr PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
SDR;14.8 MILLION (USD18.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
NATIONAL NATURAL ECOSYSTEM MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
April 22, 2002
AFrica Environment And Social Development TJnit
Country Department 15
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 2002)
Currency Unit = CFA Francs
740 CFAF = US$1
US$0.135 =100 CFAF
FISCAL YEAR
January -- December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFD           Agence Francaise de Developpement (French Aid Agency)
AGEREF       Association Intervillageoise de Gestion des Ressources Naturelles et de la Faune
(Inter-village Natural Ressources & Wildlife Association)
APL          Adaptable Program Lending
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CAP          Community Action Plan
CBNRM        Community-Based Natural Resources Management
CBRDP        Community-based Ruial Development Program
CCTP         Comite de Concertation Technique Provincial (Provincial Tecniical Consultation
Committee)
CDD           Community Driven Development
CITES        Convention for International Trade gf Endangered Species
CONAGESE      COnseil NAtional pour la GEStion de l'Environnement (National Environment
Management Council)
CTSP         Comite Technique de Suivi de la Preparation (Preparation Monitoring Technical
Committee)
CUSP         Conservation Unit Support Project
CVGT         Comite Villageois de Gestion du Terroir (Village Development Committee)
DFC           Direction de la Faune et des Chasses (National Wildlife Service)
DPEEF         Direction Provinciale de l Environnement et des Eaux et Forets (Provincial Forestry
Service)
DGEF          Direction Generale des Eaux et Forets (National Forestry Department)
GEF           Global Environment Facility
GEF COP      GEF Conference of Parties
GEPRENAF      Projet de Gestion Participative des Ressources Naturelles et de la Faune (Pilot
Community-based Natural Resources & Wildlife Management project)
lEC          Information, Education. Communication
NEAP          National Environment Action Plan
NSC          National Steering Committee
LDP          Local Development Plan
LPDRD        Letter of Policy for Decentralized Rural Development
PAGEN        Partnership for Improved Management of NaturaJ Ecosystems
PCU           Project Coordination Unit
PDSE          Programme de Developpement du Secteur Elevage (Program for the Development of the
Livestock Sector)
PRSP         Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PRONAGEN     PROgramme NAtional de Gestion des Ecosystemes Naturels
(National Natural Ecosystem Management Program)
PSB          Programme Sahel Burkinabe (Multidonor Local Development Program in Sahel region)
QAG          Quality Assurance Group
RAF          Riforme Agraire et Fonciere (Rural Land Tenure Law)
SCAC         Service de Cooperation et dcAction Culturelle (French Technical Cooperation Agency)
SILEM        Sahelian Integrated Lowland Ecosystem Management
STAC         Scientific and Technical Advisory Committee
TOD          Textes de la Decentralisation (Decentralization Law)
UICN         World Conservation Union
UNDP         United Nation Development Program
UNCDF        United Nation Capital Development Fund
VIF           Village Investment Fund
WCU          Wildlife Conservation Unit
ZICO          Zone d'Interet pour la Conservation des Oiseaux (Bird Conservation Hotspots)
Vice President:  Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:  A. David Craig
Sector Manager/Director:  Richard Scobey
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:  Jean-Michel Pavy



BURKINA FASO
PARTNERSHIP FOR NATURAL ECOSYSTEM MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective                                Page
1. Program purpose and program phasing                                               3
2. Project development objective                                                     4
3. Key performance indicators                                                        4
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                7
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans                 9
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                               13
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                    14
3. Benefits and target population                                                   1 4
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    16
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        18
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       19
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                              20
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 22
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      23
E. Summary Project Analysis
I. Economic                                                                         24
2. Financial                                                                        24
3. Technical                                                                        25
4. Institutional                                                                    25
5. Environmental                                                                    26
6. Social                                                                           27
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               28



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   29
2. Critical risks                                                                   31
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   33
G. Main Appraisal, Negotiation and Effectiveness Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          33
2. OtherAppraisal and Negotiation                                                   33
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        34
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       34
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        35
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  41
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       52
Annex 4: Incremental Cost Analysis                                                     53
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                             64
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                     65
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   78
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 79
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                80
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          81
Annex I 1: Ecological Description of Program Sites                                     83
Annex 12: STAP Roster Technical Review N°l and N°2                                     85
Annex 13: GEPRENAF External Review Summary                                             94
Annex 14: Matrix of Root Causes of Biodiversity Loss                                   99
Annex 15: Involvement of Other Donors in Biodiversity Conservation                    104
Annex 16: Summary of Environmental and Social Analysis                                106
MAP(S)
Country and Program Sites - IBRD 31 154R



BURKINA FASO
PARTNERSHIP FOR NATURAL ECOSYSTEM MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTES
Date: April 22, 2002                              Team Leader: Jean-Michel G. Pavy
Country Manager/Director: A. David Craig          Sector Manager/Director: Richard G. Scobey
Project ID: P052400                               Sector(s): VM - Natural Resources Management
Theme(s): Environment; Rural Development
Focal Area: B - Biodiversity                      Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
Estimated
APL             Indicative Financing Plan       Implementation Period          Borrower
(Bank FY)
GEF             Others      Total    Commitment    Closing
USS m     %      US$ m       USS m        Date       Date
APL 1         7.50    55.7    5.96       13.46    09/01/2002   12/31/2007 Government of Burkina
Loan/
Credit
APL 2         6.00    40.0    9.00       15.00    01/01/2008   12/31/2012 Govermment of Burkina
Loan/ (APL 2
Credit subject to
GEF
CEO
approval)
APL 3         5.00    33.2   10.04       15.04    01/01/2013   12/31/2017 Govemment of Burkina
Loan/ (APL 3
Credit subject to
GEE
CEO
approval)
Total        18.50           25.00       43.50
[ I Loan     [ ] Credit   Pq Grant     [ ] Guarantee     [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): GEF Grant USD 7.50 million
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                            Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWERIRECIPIENT                                             1.68           0.00          1.68
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                              0.59           0.00          0.59
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                                    7.15           0.35          7.50
FOREIGN SOURCES (UNIDENTIFIED)                                 3.62           0.00          3.62
FOREIGN PRIVATE COMMERCIAL SOURCES                             0.06           0.00          0.06
(UNIDENTIFIED)
Total:                                                        13.11           0.35         13.46



BorrowerlRecipient: GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT & HYDRAULIC (DIR. EAUX ET FORE-TS)
Direction Generale des Eaux et Forets
Address: Direction Generale des Eaux et Forets
03 BP 7044 Ouagadougou 03; Burkina Faso
Contact Person: SAWADOGO Bobodo Blaise, Coordinator of preparation
Tel: (226) 35 64 15           Fax: ( 226 ) 35 64 15           Email:
bobodo.sawadogo@hotmail.com & bobodo.sawadogogliptinfor.bf
Contact Person: ZOURE Leonard, General Director of Water & Forests
Tel: (226) 36 30 21           Fax: ( 226 ) 36 27 91           Email:
dgef_cenatrin.bf & leozoure@fasonet.bf & leozoure@fasonet.bf
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY          2003       2004        2005      2006       2007
Annual      1.12        1.61      1.58       1.63       1.56
Cumulative      1.12       2.73       4.31       5.94       7.50
Project implementation period: September 2002 to December 2007
ocs APL PAD F,. R, M. 2X
-2 -



A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
Background
Biodiversity loss has reached critical proportions in West Africa. Burkina Faso, an impoverished Sahelian
country, is trying to reverse the trend through sustainable management of woodland forests and wildlife.
Although somewhat successful, these efforts are curtailed by inadequate financing, capacity, and incentive,
as well as increasing pressure from growing population. Consequently, the country is having difficulties in
maintaining its critical ecosystems. It has requested Global Environment Facility (GEF) financing to assist
in conserving its globally important protected areas.
In its 2000 Biodiversity Action Plan, Burkina defined its long-term vision and commitment to incorporate
protected area management in rural development. To implement that vision, the Government proposed a
National Natural Ecosystem Management Program (PRONAGEN) and registered it as one of the national
programs in its Letter of Policy for Decentralized Rural Development (LPDRD). The GEF project which
implements PRONAGEN is called PAGEN: Partnership for Improved Management of Natural
Ecosystems. It is designed to complement Burkina's Community-based Rural Development Program
(CBRDP), an overarching program supporting the decentralized rural development strategy.
Financing instrument
The CBRDP financing instrument is a 15-year Adaptable Program Loan (APL) co-financed by the
International Development Association (IDA), Intemational Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD),
and other donors (Bank Board date November 30, 2000). As an incremental GEF complement to CBRDP,
PAGEN will also be implemented as a 15-year APL (see Annex 4 for Incremental Cost Analysis). This
instrument was selected, because PAGEN supports Burkina Faso's long-term vision and policy for
protected area conservation. In addition, because capacity building and ecological restoration require many
years, an APL provides the opportunity to set ambitious long-term objectives and addresses the
fundamentals of sustainability.
Definitions
A protected area is defined as an area whose limits are legally or traditionally defined and whose objective
is the preservation of natural ecological processes. A protected area can be a national park, a reserve, a
piece of rural land selected by the community for gazetment, or a gazetted forest that emphasizes wildlife
management. Protected areas are administratively consolidated by sets of two or three in a Wildlife
Conservation Unit (WCU). Burkina Faso contains 13 WCUs.
All protected areas within a WCU are placed under the coordination of a Forestry Department-appointed
conservator. Daily management of each protected area is to be entrusted to a concessionaire. Where no
concessionaire yet exists, the conservator and its team are substitutes. Concessionaires can be a private
frmn, an NGO, or a community association. PAGEN seeks the establishment of community associations
called Inter- Village Protected Area Management Associations (AGEREFs) to become entrusted as
concessionaires. AGEREFs' members are representatives of the Comites Villageois de Gestion du Terroir
(CVGTs) of all villages located in the periphery of a protected area. Some investments in protected areas
and utilization of wildlife and tourism are delegated by the concessionaires to private professionals of the
business called guides.
-3 -



Program purpose and phasing
The GEF intends to finance incremental costs beyond CBRDP with the 15-year purpose to have
biodiversity in priority protected areas sustainably benefit peripheral communities' local development.
The 15-year Global Objective is to secure biodiversity in priority protected areas. The GEF APL is
phased to gradually secure a sustainable global outcome: Phase One - Reverse biodiversity trends in
priority protected areas; Phase Two - Substantially improve biodiversity in priority protected areas; and
Phase Three - Secure biodiversity in priority protected areas.
2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
Phase One is expected to have significant impact on biodiversity trends and set the stage for long-term
improvement of protected area management. Its 5-year Project Development Objective and Global
Objectives are combined: to reverse biodiversity trends in priority protected areas.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Success in achieving outcomes set in the Program purpose will be measured by (1) the capacity of
protected areas to generate revenues necessary to finance their operating costs (as verified in the annual
budget reports and accounting books of concessionaires and guides) and (2) the amount of benefit
generated by the protected areas that finance peripheral communities' development funds (as verified in
World Bank statements and concessionaires' transaction records. Success in achieving outcomes set by the
Global and Project Development Objectives will be verified by (1) reduction of agricultural encroachment
in protected areas (as measured by remote sensing techniques) and (2) improvement of a set of
bioindicators (indicators of mammals in terrestrial areas and birds in wetlands) whose data will be collected
with technical (aerial surveys) and participatory (line transects) ecological monitoring.
Success in improving output related to the national capacity will be verified by (1) a new Forestry Code
and its implementation decree, which takes into account the orientations of the LPDRD; (2) recovery of
potential taxes in the protected areas sector; (3) increased share of the national budget allocated to
biodiversity conservation; (4) adoption of a long-term financing mechanism by the Government; (5) the
amounts committed by other donors in this financing mechanism; (6) the proportion of the conservators
who use their new skills to manage protected areas; (7) implementation of international protocols with Mali
and Cote d'Ivoire; (8) adoption and operationalization of an external monitoring system; and (9) use of the
results of this system in the determination of quotas.
Success in improvement of output related to local capacity will be measured by (1) number of community
institutions that are officially "concessionaires" of protected areas; (2) acquired capacity of Inter-Village
Protected Area Management Associations (AGEREFs) to act as concessionaires; (3) number of officially
approved protected area management plans; (4) level of implementation of management plan; (5) number
of protected areas successfully exploited by private guides; (6) decrease in poaching indicators; and (7)
efficiency and usefulness of participatory ecological monitoring.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex t)
Document number: 21285-BUR Date of latest CAS discussion: 12/2000
The Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) (June 2000) identified sustainable management of natural
resources as one of the major principles for combating poverty. It recognizes that in Burkina Faso the loss
Df biodiversity regarded as valuable and threatened on a global basis is to be addressed by the Bank as
- 4 -



part of its mandate as a GEF implementing agency. The Board approved a new Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) in December 2000. Its central objective is to support the Government's efforts to achieve
a sustained high growth rate; reduce the incidence of poverty; and improve the nutrition, health, and
education of rural populations. PAGEN is listed as a FY01 APL and in the baseline scenario as a
contribution to rural development "to increase productivity of rural assets (labor and land) through [...]
the conservation and renewal of natural resource" and as part of the following agenda: "supporting
opportunities for employment and income-generating activities for the poor."
la. Global Operational strategy/Program objective addressed by the project:
Burkina Faso has ratified the Biodiversity Convention (1992), the Convention on Migratory Species
(1990), and the Desertification Convention (1996). PAGEN is consistent with the GEF Operational
Strategy for biodiversity, particularly OP. 1 (Arid/Semi-arid ecosystems) through support for activities in
savannah habitats of the Sudanian and Sahelian ecosystems.
PAGEN is also consistent with Biodiversity Convention Conference of the Parties (COP) guidance. It
focuses on conservation of critical ecosystems/threatened species and supports involvement of local
communities in management decisions and as beneficiaries of protected area management. It responds to
COP3 guidance by promoting capacity building for conservation and sustainable use by improving
management of natural resources. In line with COP4 guidance, PAGEN takes an ecosystem approach to
maximize biodiversity conservation in a range of ecosystems under different management regimes that
involve a range of stakeholders: local communities, private sector, non-governmental organizations
(NGOs), and government agencies.
GEF financing in Phase 1 will be implemented in nine protected areas within four Wildlife Conservation
Units in the Sudanian savannah ecosystem and in the Sahel dryland ecosystem (see site description and
map in Annex 11). All protected areas targeted by GEF are listed in the main international strategies (for
example, Ecologically Sensitive Sites in Africa, World Bank; Conservation Strategy in the Afrotropical
Realm, IUCN; Strategy for Sahelo/Saharan Antelopes, Bonn Convention for Migratory Species; and
Birdlife's Important Areas for Bird Conservation), and they are priorities in the Burkina biodiversity
strategy.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Biodiversity
Burkina Faso's species profile includes 655 wildlife species (mammals plus and birds); 330 aquatic species
(including 121 fish species), and 1,055 plant species (751 grass and 304 tree and brush species). Solid
statistics on biodiversity trends are not available, but the facts are dire. Natural habitats--Sudanian or
Sahelian-- are now alnost restricted to parks, reserves, and gazetted forests, which in total cover less than
10% of the country. Outside of these areas, large mammals and birds, not adapted to the disturbed
environment, have almost disappeared. Agriculture has encroached on more than 70% of some areas, for
example, Dida Forest. Poaching has decimated the population of game animals in most protected areas.
Disturbance of nesting sites in wetland areas has led to the disappearance of migratory palearctic species
such as the white stork. Some species, including the oryx, cheetah, and giraffe, are reported extinct in
Burkina. The last Mali/Burkina redneck ostrich population may also be extinct. Others approaching
extinction include the black and white colobus, dama gazelle, leopard, and topi.
- 5 -



Poverty in relation to biodiversity
With a per capita GDP of US$240 (1997), Burkina Faso is among the poorest countries in the world. It is
number 172 of the 175 countries in the UNDP's 1997 Human Development Index. Human resource
indicators are extremely low: literacy 19% vs. 57% for Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA), life expectancy 48
years vs. 52 years for SSA, and infant mortality 128/1,000 vs. 92/1,000 for SSA. Of Burkina's 10 million
inhabitants, 84% live in rural areas. Nevertheless, per capita GDP growth of 4.0% in 1995, 6.0% in 1996,
4.7% in 1997, and 6.2% in 1998 gives hope that Burkina Faso can maintain economic growth that will
sustain reduction of poverty.
Overall incidence of absolute poverty is extremely high (45%) and is predominantly a rural phenomenon
(51% in rural areas vs. 16% in the cities). It is higher for subsistence farmers (77%) than for commercial
farmers (42%). Nearly half the population lacks adequate food and essential goods and services. The poor
spend 58 % of their budget on food, mainly millet and sorghum. Recurrent droughts cause food shortages
and occasional famines. To survive, the poor rely on income diversification and complementary wild
resources (for diet and pharmacopoeia)--a risk-management strategy widespread among men, and even
more so among women, who engage in transformation of agricultural produce, small manufacturing,
gathering of wild produce, and commerce. Migration is another way the poor cope with life-threatening
circumstances and diffuses the pressure to the south, where "environmental refugees" are less and less
welcomed.
Adverse climatic conditions and low productivity of the agricultural sector in the most densely populated
zone, coupled with over-exploitation of natural resources, are therefore considered the major constraints to
economic growth. They exacerbate the widespread poverty, severe food insecurity, and degradation of
globally important ecosystems.
Government strategies
The national operational strategies most relevant to PRONAGEN are the (1) 2001 Policy on Decentrali7ed
Rural Development, (2) 1995 reform of the wildlife and protected area sector, and (3) 2000 Biodiversity
Strategy and Action Plan.
(1) Decentralized Rural Development. Decentralization to the lowest level possible can play an important
role by placing key decisions and funds in the hands of those who stand to win or lose from the results of
development. Different from those of other countries, the Government of Burkina Faso has decided to
adopt a slow pace of implementation, consistent with the country's limited capacity to manage such
complex institution-building. The Letter of Policy on Decentralized Rural Development (June 2000) was
drafted in support of the CBRDP. Its objectives include "to ensure rational management of natural
resources". It sets the stage for PRONAGEN because (1) decentralized communities have full
responsibility for local development including the management of natural resources in their terroir and (2)
Government technical services are refocused on the functions of conceiving and monitoring policies and
law enforcement. The letter is to be implemented in two phases: (1) a transitory phase, which prepares
effective implementation of decentralization, and (2) a final phase, which ends when decentralization is
complete. The letter also proposes several sectoral reforms pertaining to the management of protected areas
by village communities.
(2) Protected area and wildlife management. The 1995 reform had already increased private and
community involvement in protected area management. At the time, Burkina undertook these reforms
because it lacked financial resources to efficiently manage its parks, reserves, and wildlife areas. The
reform was implemented in 1997 by a Forestry Code (Loi 006/97/ADP), which sets the National Forestry
- 6 -



Policy as being founded on (1) conservation of biological diversity; (2) utilization of forest, wildlife, and
fish resources for economic development and improvement of well being; (3) creation of employmnent and
income for populations; and (4) participation and empowerment of population in the design,
implementation, and monitoring of forestry activity through decentralized management of natural
resources. It was followed in 1996 by the creation of 12 Wildlife Conservation Units across the national
territory (Arrete 96-002 MEE/CAB). The objective was to consolidate clusters of protected areas under the
coordination of a Government-appointed conservator while delegating daily management and commercial
use of protected areas to private "concessionaires. The concessionaires pay taxes to the Government and
credit a "Collective Interest Fund" to benefit adjacent populations. The concessionaires must recruit
licensed "safari or tourism guides" for commercial use.
(3) Biodiversity. The stated purpose of the Strategy is to "ensure responsible management of biological
diversity by the populations by 2025. Among the approaches adopted are (1) participatory management /
gestion des terroirs, (2) territorial planning at the landscape level, (3) programmatic approach for coherent
national development, and (4) strengthening the decentralization process by building community capacity to
manage natural resources. In applying the Strategy, the Action Plan aims to ensure (1) the conservation of
important or threatened ecosystems/species, (2) sustainable use of biological resources, and (3) equitable
sharing of benefits from sustainable use of resources. It states that threatened ecosystems and species can
be conserved only with fully empowered populations. To achieve this, the Action Plan indicates that the
legal framework will need to be revisited to ensure equitable sharing of biodiversity benefits and that an
awareness campaign and capacity building will need to be the foci of future projects. The Action Plan
indicates that "Producers, NGOs, community associations, and individuals are responsible to implement the
Strategy while Government services will focus on planning, monitoring, control, and evaluation."
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Sector issues - biodiversity loss (see matrix analysis in Annex 14)
While low and variable rainfall are normal for the Sahel, recent decades have known the paroxysms of
dryness with severe water deficits in 1968-70 and again in 1984. As long-term trends indicate, such
occurrences are bound to recur. Consequences on the ecosystem are dramatic: the vegetation cover
regresses, problems of soil erosion develop, and livestock and fauna are forced to compete for access to
food on these few resources. In the Sudanian zone, where annual rainfall ranges from 800 to 1,100 mm,
climatic variability is a problem primarily for agricultural production. The impact on the ecosystem is less
drastic.
The "roots" of biodiversity loss in the Sahel are numerous. The ecosystem is threatened by burgeoning
human populations combined with inadequate land-use practices and substandard livestock, agriculture,
water, and wildlife policies. In the Sahel, high demography, low technology input, multiplication of
water-holes, and a shift in livestock ownership have led to significant increases in livestock numbers with
inappropriate use of the grazing potential and cultivation of marginal land (often good natural habitat). In
the Sudanian zone, higher population, combined with the cash opportunities provided by yam and cotton,
resulted in competition for arable land and clearing of natural habitat. Because of the livestock-agriculture
conflict, pastoralists are penetrating protected areas. At all selected sites, the lacks of incentives for
altemative behavior or practices, of awareness or knowledge, and of law enforcement caused the
near-disappearance of wildlife. Losses of mammals and birds are attributed not only to habitat loss but also
to poaching, particularly vehicle poaching by outsiders.
- 7 -



Strategic choice
As indicated earlier, the Wildlife Sector Reform, the National Biological Diversity Strategy, and the Letter
of Policy for Decentralized Rural Development provide the implementation framework for empowering
local communities to manage protected areas within the greater ecosystem or landscape. PAGEN addresses
the above "root causes" of biodiversity loss with the following strategic choices: (1) adopt and implement
national reforms to improve sector performance, (2) set an appropriate incentive framework for all
stakeholders, (3) gradually empower community-based management of protected areas, (4) focus on
conservation but leverage development and (5) construct an imnovative financing mechanism for long-term
coverage of incremental costs.
(1) Improve the sector performance with adequate reforms: With the preparation of the Letter of Policy
on Decentralized Rural Development, the 1997 Forestry Code needs to be adapted to the new country
policy. Consequently, the Ministry of Environment has initiated a reform of its forestry policy, legislation,
and institutions. The GEF will contribute to financing these reforms. During Phase 1, new reforms will be
adopted to conform to the Decentralized Rural Development and Biodiversity policies and to optimize the
incentive framework for improved conservation-oriented behaviors of all stakeholders.
(2) Improve the incentive framework: The strategy is to draw lessons from previous experiences to
improve current legislation and redistribute roles and responsibilities among all partners. The goal is to
improve incentives for communities, Government, and private operators to work together for the benefit of
biodiversity conservation. As part of this strategy, PAGEN will work with foresters to build their capacity
and incentive for improved collaboration with villagers and eniForcement of regulations. It will also help
safari and tourism guides to enhance their incentive to work with communities and operate their businesses
using sound management and ecological principles. The proper equilibrium, as well as rules and systems
that formalize the relationships among these partners and facilitate their working together, will be sought
throughout PAGEN's Phase 1 and fine-tuned in subsequent phases.
(3) Adopt a community-based management approach: The local strategy adopted by PAGEN is an
adapted, and intensified, version of community-based land management (gestion des terroirs) and local
development. It is based on the participation and increased empowerment of rural communities in decisions
concerning the protection and use of biological resources within protected areas. It is broadly participatory
and tries to involve all groups, however marginalized in society. To increase accountability, it gradually
delegates key decisions on investment choices and use of funds to local institutions set up by the
communities. Community associations will be empowered through appropriate legislation to make
decisions on the management rules of protected areas and implementation of these rules.
(4) Focus on conservation but leverage development: PAGEN's focus is the conservation of biodiversity
within protected areas. However, it is not implemented in a vacuum. It has already established strong
operational ties with development projects more able to take into account development concerns of the
population (Annex 4). Such coordination will ensure that community social and productive needs are
accounted for while not creating an unhealthy situation in which conservation incentives are linked to local
development financing.
(5) Seek sustainable source offinancing: The first strategy to achieve financial sustainability is to
optimize potential commercial use of biological resources such as tourism, safari hunting, and honey and
firewood production. However, for some protected areas, combining all revenues will not provide adequate
conservation incentives to all stakeholders. For these cases, the strategy is to provide additional funds by
establishing a long-term financial mechanism such as a trust and/or a foundation. This will be explored in
-8 -



Phase 1, tested in Phase 2, and fully implemented in Phase 3. A final strategy is to evolve from a
project-oriented operation to budget support. The fonn of such assistance will be designed during Phase 1;
it can take the form of direct budget support to the central Government, to local government, to community
institutions, and/or be channeled through a private foundation or trust. Financial support to subsequent
phases can also be linked to results rather than activities.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
Description of the baseline program: Community-based Rural Development Prozram (CBRDP)
The CBRDP's purpose is "to alleviate poverty in rural areas, by building local capacity to implement small
investments of a natural resources protection, productive or social nature, and by accelerating the pace of
public transfers to these areas." Within 15 years, CBRDP expects to reach all villages of Burkina. CBRDP
is tallied as the baseline because (a) it implements the long-term vision of the Government for decentralized
rural development; and (b) it provides the necessary conditions for successful implementation of PAGEN
by ensuring that the primary needs of communities adjacent to protected areas are fulfilled and that their
planning and organizational capacity is improved (see detailed incremental cost analysis in Annex 4).
CBRDP's approach closely links land development, agro-sylvo-pastoral development, and socioeconomic
infrastructure and services, thereby recognizing that rural development and conservation need
multi-sectoral interventions. Village-level investments will encompass natural resource and local
development (provision of infrastructure and services to support production growth and improve living
conditions). Investments will follow the village organization in Comite Villageois de Gestion du Terroir
(CVGT) and the creation of a Village Investment Fund. Under the "baseline Program," a wide spectrum of
village (and multi-village) micro-projects will be financed: tree planting, livestock production, agriculture,
fisheries, agroprocessing, micro-irrigation, transport infrastructure, water and sanitation, schooling and
adult literacy, and health and AIDS prevention.
To avoid duplication of efforts, bring coherent support to communities, and ensure that CBRDP targets all
villages in the protected area periphery, agreements will be signed between the ministries in charge of each
operation. Such agreements will detail the respective role of each team, and the timing of interventions. The
necessity to guarantee CBRDP support to protected area peripheral communities as a mitigation plan to
potential short-term loss of access to resources by community members was flagged by the "Environment
and Social Assessment" (ESA).
Description of the National Natural Ecosystem Management Program (PRONAGEN)
In 15 years, PRONAGEN plans to secure biodiversity in priority protected areas and sustain provision of
benefits to peripheral communities. Securing global biodiversity in priority protected areas implies (1)
increasing the ecological security of flora and fauna that are regionally or globally rare or threatened,
including the northernmost populations of African elephants; (2) restoring and preserving a representative
area of the West Africa Sahelian and Sudanian natural ecosystems, which are exceptional on a national,
regional, and global scale; (3) preserving genetic diversity within ecologically, economically, and culturally
important species in natural populations within their historical ranges; and (4) integrating sound ecological
management principles of natural resources, livestock, and agriculture related to protected area
management. Sustainably benefiting communities implies (1) securing community access to benefits
generated by improved management of protected areas and (2) ensuring that a financial mechanism is set
up to provide additional financial resources when benefits of improved management do not provide
sufficient incentive for conservation.
-9-



PRONAGEN is a Government program that is implemented by an array of projects. The GEF project seeks
to help the Government organize the management of several WCUs as well as improve national reforms
and capacity building. Other donors' projects contribute to the financing of other important WCUs and
protected areas therein. All these operations are coordinated by a single Steering Committee. Coordination
units are already working together and are expected to merge when institutional reforms create the
necessary conditions. Already, the teams are working on standards for impact monitoring and capacity
building. France has detached a senior technical assistant to help the Government with the sector's reforms
and initial implementations.
* GEF: Four WCUs are targeted by GEF funds: Sahel (several new protected areas in the northern part
of the Sahel: Nassoumbou, Seno Mango, Beli, Oursi, Darkoye); Como&Leraba (Comoe-Leraba
Reserve and Boulon-Koflande Gazetted Forest); Hauts Bassins (Mares aux Hippos Biosphere
Reserve); and Ponasi (Kabore Tambi National Park).
*   European Union: One WCU is funded by the European Union: the W (National Park and hunting area
of Tapoa-Djermna as part of the transnational support to W National Park).
*   France: France focuses on four WCUs: Hauts Bassins (Mou Forest), Boromo (Deux Bales National
Park), Arly (Arly National Park as well as Pagou-Tandougou, Koakrana, and Konkonbouri Hunting
Areas), Pama (Pama Centre Nord, Pama Centre Sud, Pama Sud Hunting Areas as well as Singou
Game Ranch).
* ADB: It finances the WCU of Diebougou (Bontioli, Nabere and Koulbi Forest Reserves)
Each phase of the GEF APL will seek the following global outcomes:
*   Phase 1: Reverse biodiversity trends in priority protected areas. GEF financing will help establish a
system of decentralized management of protected areas, set its legal and institutional framework
according to the long-term vision of the Government for wildland conservation, and explore innovative
results-based financial mechanisms to ensure sustainability by the end of Phase 3.
*   Phase 2: Substantially improve biodiversity in priority protected areas. GEF support will help
consolidate management of the Wildlife Conservation Units and protected areas with extension to
additional sites. Phase 2 will focus on implementing management plans, capacity building, and
establishing and testing a new financial mechanism including possibly a biodiversity trust or
foundation and direct budgetary support.
*   Phase 3: Secure biodiversity in priority protected areas. Phase 3 will focus on financial sustainability
with gradual withdrawal of project funds and strengthening of the new financial mechanisms
supporting incremental costs for community-based conservation.
In all of its phases, the PAGEN will be implemented through three components:
*   Component 1: National capacity building for support to decentralized management of protected areas
*   Component 2: Local capacity building to manage protected areas
*   Component 3: Program administration and monitoring
Component 1: National capacity buildingfor support to decentralized management of protected areas.
The GEF will support the Ministry of Environment to review the current legal and institutional framework,
especially the forestry code, to create the enabling environment for community-based protected area
management. Several important sector studies are programmed for Phase 1. By its end, major legal changes
will be enacted including the possibility to set up a long-termn funding mechanism (for example, a
foundation) and a new institution to manage protected areas. These will be strengthened in Phases 2 and 3.
- 10-



Sector studies will also help create a suitable environment to develop quality-based protected area tourism.
The component will also finance training of forestry staff and NGOs to improve their capacity to provide
conservation assistance throughout the country. It will also help provide the Government with tools to
supervise private sector operations, measure conservation results, and set a national database. Since there
are transboundary issues in several protected areas, international coordination will be strengthened.
Component 2: Local capacity building to manage protected areas - This component focuses on protected
areas themselves. It includes training and conservation awareness as well as implementation of
conservation activities for which technical assistance will be provided. Initially, training activities will
target the local forestry staff, the staff of other Government services, and the communities. Inter-Village
Associations (AGEREF) will be established during Phase I and consolidated in subsequent phases. The
members will benefit from project assistance and from training. A training plan will be prepared at the
beginning of the project and will be adapted during implementation as new needs arise. Conservation
activities will begin with several diagnostic studies and be followed by the design of protected area
management plans. Management plans will minimize investments and seek to maximize return on
investments. Implementation of management plans will be initiated in Phase 1 and completed in Phases 2
and 3. Phase 3 will provide an opportunity to consolidate the management and sustainable utilization of all
protected areas while securing ecological recovery. Technical assistance from national experts will be
provided but gradually phased out as the national and community capacity to manage protected areas
increases and responsibilities are transferred to the long-term concessionaires (the AGEREF) and guides.
Component 3: Program administration and monitoring. In Phase 1, GEF financing administration will be
entrusted to a small Project Coordination Unit (PCU), which will join the PCUs of other donors' projects
that are part of PRONAGEN. Some functions such as monitoring and evaluation will be cross-projects. It
is expected that in subsequent phases, these PCUs will be discontinued and their functions transferred to a
specific entity (this evolution needs to be thought through during Phase I as part of the reassessment of the
institutional set-up for protected area management in Burkina). The study on "capitalization of
experiences" to be carried out in Phase 1 will make recommendations on an adequate institutional anchor
for the long-term continuation of PAGEN in Phases 2 and 3.
Program Trig,eers (Phase I to Phase 2)
The triggers are selected among the target indicators for Phase 1 or as implementation milestones to ensure
demonstration of commitment by the Government of Burkina to the PAGEN outcome and to improve
govemance in the sector.
Trigger                                           Means of Verification
1. Percentage of agriculture encroachment is 0%  GIS system reports and maps (remote
Comoe-Leraba and Mares aux Hippos and Kabore     sensing based on most current satellite
Tambi; 10% Boulon-Koflande ; 20% Nassoumbou,     imagery)
Seno Mango; and other Sahel protected areas.
2. A new Forestry Code and its implementation decrees  Official journal
take into account the orientations of the Letter of Policy
on Decentralized Rural Development.
3. Applicable taxes in the protected areas sector that are  Audit report of concessionaires prepared by
due to the Government (trophy fee, tourism, concession  audit firms; Forestry Department Annual
fee) are recovered at 80%.                       Report on hunting and tourism campaign
4. The Govemment has adopted a long-term financial  Minutes of Government council meeting; PIP
- 11 -



mechanism for protected areas and presented an   Phase 2.
implementation plan acceptable to the Bank for Phase 2.
5. A standard monitoring system for wildlife census and  Decision signed by Forestry Department
agriculture encroachment is operational and adopted  director; Annual Reports on annual survey and
nationally.                                      GIS system
6. AGEREFs are legal concessionaires of Como&eLraba; Arretes signed by the minister in charge of
Boulon - Koflande; Mare aux Hippos               protected areas and contracts cosigned by
Forestry Department director and AGEREFs'
presidents
7. At least 6 of 9 protected areas have officially adopted a Decision adopting management plans signed
Management Plan.                                 by the Regional Forestry Director
8. At least 2 private safari/ecotourism guides are  Signed contract between concessionaires and
operating professionally and ethically in Como&eLraba  guides; audit report of guide operations
and Boulon-Koflande.                             attesting fulfillment of contract
Program Triggers (Phase 2 to Phase 3)
Tentative triggers to Phase 2 to Phase 3 are listed below to illustrate the continuation of the program. They
are based on the same logic as previous triggers. They will be refined at the end of Phase 1.
Trigger                                           Mean of Verification
1. Percentage of agriculture encroachment is 0%   GIS system reports and maps (remote
Como&eLraba, Boulon-Koflande, Mares aux Hippos    sensing based on satellite imagery) managed
and Kabore Tambi; 10% Nassoumbou, Seno Mango; and  by Forestry Department (built by consulting
Beli.                                             firm).
2. Applicable taxes in the protected areas sector that are  Audit report of concessionaires prepared by
due to the Government (trophy fee, tourism, concession  audit firms; Forestry Department Annual
fee) are recovered at 100%.                       Report on hunting and tourism campaign.
3. A long-term financial mechanism for protected areas is  Donors' Aide Memoire; Commitment letter;
set up with $10 million commitment to capital. (to be  financial statement from trust fund or
fine-tuned once the mechanism is designed).       foundation as the case may be.
4. The national external monitoring system is used to  Cross referencing of Forestry, concessionaire
I independently monitor conservation, set wildlife quotas,  annual reports with annual arrete setting
and influence national decision-making.           hunting quotas for each protected area and
Management Plans.
5. AGEREFs are legal concessionaires of all nine protected Arretes signed by the minister in charge of
Iareas targeted by GEF financing.                  protected areas and contracts cosigned by
Forestry Department director and AGEREFs'
presidents.
6. All nine protected areas targeted by GEF financing have Decision adopting management plans signed
officially adopted a Management Plan.             by the Regional Forestry Director.
7. At least 5 private safari/ecotourism guides are operating Signed contract between concessionaires and
professionally and ethically in all Sudanian protected areas guides; audit report of guide operations
and in one Sahelian protected area.               attesting fulfillment of contract.
8. The following rule for Phase 3 is adopted: Government PIP and grant agreement for Phase 2.
finances 100% of recurrent costs pertaining to PAGEN
administration.
- 12 -



C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a !L   cost
breakdown):
PAGEN will be implemented through three components:
Component 1: National capacity building to support decentralized management of protected areas
Component 2: Local capacity building to manage protected areas
Component 3: Program administration and monitoring
National capacity buildinL to support decentralized management of protected areas
Through this component, the GEF will finance: I. Incremental support to Forestrv Department; 11.
Awareness building and training, including (a) awareness building of forestry staff, concessionaires and
private operators, (b) training of National Forestry Department (Direction Gen&rale des Eaux et Foris,
or DGEF) staff, (c) training and awareness raising of private operators, (d) setting up a small
documentation center; III. Studies and workshops to support sector reforms, mcluding (a) legal and
institutional reforms, (b) national economic and financial analysis of protected areas, (c) long-temi
financing mechanisms, (d) professionalization of private guides and creation of label for protected area
products, (e) national audits of concessionaires; IV. Monitoring, information system, and
communication, including (a) national monitoring of bioindicators, (b) national monitoring of protected
area encroachment, (c) web gateway; and V. Intemational coordination
Local capacity buildin2 to manaze protected areas
Through this component, the GEF will finance: I. Incremental support to (a) local advisory fora arommd
protected areas, (b) Wildlife Conservation Units, (c) provincial services of agriculture, livestock, and
education; II. Technical assistance; III. Training and awareness raising, including (a) training for project
field staff and partners, (b) community awareness building, (c) community training, (d) local institution
building; IV. Local development, including (a) participatory diagnostics and establishment of Local
Development Plans in limited number of villages, (b) implementation of Local Development Plans (tallied
as baseline but not financed by GEF); V. Initial steps of protected area management, including (a)
identification of protected areas, (b) pastoral tenure and users' diagnostic in Sahel; (c) study of
conservation dynamics in Kabore-Nazinga-Sissili Complex; (d) water resource diagnostic of Mares aux
Hippos Biosphere Reserve, (e) preparation of protected areas management plans; VI. Implementation of
protected areas management plans, including (a) construction and maintenance of infrastructures, (b)
surveillance of protected areas, (c) use of protected areas, (d) local ecosystem monitoring; and VlI.
Administration of component.
Project administration and monitoring
Through this component, the GEF will finance: I. Incremental support to (a) the National Steering
Committee and Scientific and Technical Advisory Council, (b) the Conseil National pour la Gestion de
l'Environnement (CONAGESE); II.) Project administration, including (a) procurement,
(b) financial management, (c) planning and reporting, (d) implementation monitoring; and III. Audits.
- 13 -



The table below includes both project funds and parallel cofinancing from other donor's projects in
support to CBRDP.
Indicative         Bank     % of     GEF      % of
Component              Sector        Costs    *. of  financ,ng  Bank  financing  GEF
(USSM)   Total   (USSM)  financing  (USSM) finandng
I National capacity building  Environmental    1.56     11.3   0.00       0.0     1.21    16.1
for support to decentralized  Institutions
management of protected areas
2. Local capacity building to  Natural Resources  11.50  83.3  0.00       0.0     5.73    76.4
mranage protected areas   Management
3. Project administration and  Non-Sector Specific  0.74  5.4  0.00       0.0     0.56     7.5
mlonitoring
Total Project Costs                   13.80    100.0   0.00       0.0     7.50   100.0
0.00      0.0    0.00      0.0     0.00     0.0
Total Financing Required                   13.80    100.0   0.00       0.0     7.50   100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Project will support a reform of the Forestry Code to conform to the national policy on decentralized rural
development. Already FAO and French Cooperation Service (SCAC) are helping the Government analyze
its current legislation. During Phase 1, GEF funds will contribute to a series of studies to analyze
conservation experience in Burkina and align the Forestry Code with the rural decentralization process.
Institutional reforms may be required. As centralized administrations, the National Forestry Department
and its National Wildlife Service are intrinsically not efficient at achieving conservation or economic
results. A more adequate legal status for a national institution will be explored to set the stage for
improved performance and staff incentive as well as to coordinate decentralized management by
concessionaires.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits
Impact on living conditions. A marginal increase in income can be expected from new or alternate
activities (tourism, safari hunting, pharmacopoeia, optimization of natural resources use, wildlife
farming). Overall, the GEF's impact on living conditions will not be direct, but indirect through the
security provided by a healthy and functioning ecosystem and potentially restored access to disappearing
wild resources. Additional benefit includes diversification of income to the communities and to the
national economy through more efficient tourism. Targeted provision by the end of the APL of $1
equivalent per person per year to local development funds will undoubtedly improve community capacity
to finance local development.
Impact on natural resources. Under PAGEN, already improved sustainable use of natural resources
under CBRDP and Sahel Integrated Low-land Management (SILEM) will be broadened to include large
wildland areas as well as to fauna and flora. A special effort will be made to monitor PAGEN's impact
on the ecosystem, and beneficiary villages will be trained to gather key bioindicators. PAGEN diminishes
uncertainties by ensuring natural resource abundance/quality within protected areas and contributes to
food security in drought years. A better managed ecosystem will have far-reaching consequences on
rangeland quality (with long-term effects on livestock production), wildlife populations (with long-term
effects on food security and tourism income), and forest cover (with long-term effects on woodfuel
security and access to potable water through aquifer replenishment).
- 14 -



Impact on local capacities, awareness, and rights. Strengthened capacity and conservation awareness of
all partners as well as village, and inter-village organizations are prerequisites to the efficient execution of
PAGEN. The creation and strengthening of concessionaire AGEREFs and support to their internal
organizations and procedures will be key for the long-term sustainability of protected areas. When
necessary, adult literacy will be an essential ingredient in capacity building. In addition, improved
technical knowledge will result from corresponding training programs, thereby supporting the
introduction of additional activities and the diversification of revenues.
Impact on the policy, legal, and institutional environments. GEF support will reinforce coordination at
the village, provincial, and national levels, and integrate the intervention of a large number of actors
across a broad range of sectors and subsectors. By focusing awareness and capacity building on
foresters, who sometimes resist decentralization and conmmunity empowerment, the GEF may have a
far-reaching impact on the way conservation, as a whole, is approached in Burkina. PAGEN will
reinforce current decentralization trends by ensuring that the long-term vision expressed in the Letter of
Policy leads to adequate new legislation and institutions. GEF financing will also ensure better
coordination and harmnonization of current biodiversity conservation efforts by the Government and other
donors at the international, national, and local levels.
Impact on biodiversity conservation. It is expected that, over its initial five years, PAGEN will help
secure natural habitat and wildlife in about 400,000 ha of the Sudanian savannah, 200,000 ha in the
Sahel, and several hundred ha of wetlands in the Sahel. Significant restoration is expected in the 100,000
ha Comoe-Leraba Reserve. PAGEN will also reap global benefit linked to wider ecosystem conservation
and lesser desertification.
Target populations
Overall, a population of about 100,000 people will be affected by PAGEN.
Northern Sahel Wildlife Conservation Unit: In the Sahel Reserve, the target populations are mostly Peul,
Tuareg, Songhai, and Bela (30%-50% temporary nomads). The populations of the Departments most
affected by the project are 15,500 (Nassoumbou); 16,700 (Deou); 10,000 (Oursi) and 11,500
(Tin-Akoff). Poverty indicators in the Sahel are among the lowest in Burkina.
Comoe Wildlife Conservation Unit: In Comoe, the population targeted is 20,000 people--Senoufo and
Dioula--divided in 17 villages around the Como&-Leraba Reserve and 20 villages (about 20,000 people)
around the Boulon-Koflande Gazetted Forest.
Hauts Bassins Wildlife Conservation Unit: Seven villages--about 10,000 people of the Bobo ethnic
group--will be affected by the project at the Mare aux Hippos Biosphere Reserve. An additional unknown
number of migrant pastoralists will need to be consulted and involved in decision-making.
Ponasi Wildlife Conservation Unit: The teams are expected to work with a Gourounsi, Mossi, and Bissa
population of about 50,000 people in 90 villages. The final list of villages will be determined as the
project progresses and on the basis of their willingness to allocate land to an "elephant" corridor between
the Park and Ghana as well as the Nazinga Game Ranch. An additional unknown number of mnigrant
pastoralists will need to be consulted and involved in decision-making.
- 15-



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Institutional arrangements
Oversight (Maitrise d'Ouvrage) - PAGEN will be under the responsibility of the National Wildlife
Service (Direction de la Faune et des Chasses) in the National Forestry Department (Direction Generale
des Eaux et Forets) in the Ministry of Environment and Hydraulics.
Steering - A small National Steering Committee (NSC) will monitor implementation of all projects
financed under PRONAGEN. The NSC will be chaired by the General Director of the Forestry
Department and comprise at most 10 representatives of ministries, donors, and NGOs. It will meet
annually to (l) analyze the project results consolidated in annual reports, (2) analyze, discuss, and adopt
the annual work programs and strategic plans, and (3) advise the project teams on the conformity of
results, annual programs, and strategies with national policies and experiences.
Advising - A Scientific and Technical Advisory Committee (STAC) will provide overall scientific
and technical guidance on all project matters to the PCU of all projects implemented under PRONAGEN.
It will be chaired by the General Director of CONAGESE (under the Ministry of Environment) and will
comprise conservation specialists and partners from universities, Government, NGOs, donors, and private
operators. The STAC members will meet each semester or as requested by any of its members.
Implementation arrangements
National Coordination (Maitrise d'Oeuvre)
In Phase 1, for the GEF project and all project implemented under PRONAGEN, the Forestry
Department will set up a small Program Coordination Unit (PCU) within its Wildlife Office in
Ouagadougou. A National Coordinator will lead the PCU. A monitoring and evaluation specialist, a
capacity building specialist, an experienced financial management specialist and a procurement specialist
will assist him/her. The PCU will be responsible for day-to-day implementation of all components of
PAGEN at the national level, including management of project funds, monitoring and evaluation, national
procurement, consolidation of annual reports and work programs, and presentation of progress to the
NSC, STAC, and donors. The PCU will directly implement Component 1 (Cl above) and Component 3.
The PCU delegates implementation of Component 2 to conservators and concessionaires.
Conservators and concessionaires in Wildlife Conservation Units (Maitrise d'Oeuvre Deleguee)
Component 2 is implemented in nine protected areas within four Wildlife Conservation Units. Not all
Wildlife Conservation Units, and protected areas within them, start PAGEN's Phase 1 with the same
level of maturity or will follow the exact same scenario during implementation. Consequently,
implementation arrangements are variable from WCU to WCU. Nevertheless, in all WCUs, a conservator
is entrusted with (1) monitoring all project activities pertaining to the overall unit, (2) relations and
supervision with other Government services operating under protocol with the WCUs including
anti-poaching teams, and (3) providing advice, support, and supervision to concessionaires.
By program's end, concessionaires will ensure day-to-day management of all protected areas. However,
during Phase 1, only Comoe-Leraba and Kabore Tambi will be managed by a concessionaire. For other
protected areas targeted by GEF funds, the community has not yet been organized to be concessionaire.
In such cases, the conservator carries out all activities under Component 2, from (1) creating and building
- 16 -



capacity of an AGEREF-to-be-concessionaire to (2) activities that are normally under the responsibility
of concessionaires such as surveillance, initiating and supervising studies, preparation of management
plans, organization of ecological monitoring, and initial implementation of management plans. The
detailed set-up for each WCU is provided below:
Sahel Wildlife Conservation Unit: Because, there is no concessionaire in the Sahel unit, its
conservator is entirely in charge of implementation of all Component 2 activities. That unit comprises the
northern part of the huge Sahel Partial Reserve. It is sparsely inhabited, and no true protected area exists
today. There, the conservator will need to work with communities to negotiate and delineate new
protected areas. Several sites are already identified: Nassoumbou; Seno Mango; Beli; Oursi and Darkoye
Thereafter, for each of these new protected areas, the conservator will assist the creation and strengthen
an AGEREF until it can become concessionaire and recruit its guides. In the Sahel, this is not expected to
occur before Phase 2. Because of the dimension and complexity of the Sahel unit, its conservator will
enlist assistance from three specialists (one conservation, one sociologist, and one livestock), one
accountant, and six facilitators.
Hauts Bassins Wildlife Conservation Unit: Because there is no concessionaire in the Hauts
Bassins unit, its conservator is entirely in charge of implementation of all Component 2 activities. The
Hauts Bassins WCU possesses three protected areas. The project targets one of the three: the Mare aux
Hippos Biosphere Reserve. There, the conservator will assist the creation and strengthen an AGEREF
until it can become concessionaire and recruit its guide. To implement Component 2, the conservator will
recruit one conservation specialist, one accountant, and one facilitator.
PONASI Wildlife Conservation Unit: Only one protected area in the PONASI unit is targeted by
GEF funds: The Kabore Tambi National Park. This park is conceded to a local NGO called
NATURAMA. In coordination with the conservator, NATURAMA's staff will implement Component 2
in Kabore Tambi National Park through a sole-source, results-based contract. It will follow the steps
leading to the creation and strengthening of an AGEREF as well as carry out day-to-day management of
the park. When the new AGEREF has adequate capacity, NATURAMA will hand over its concession
rights over the Kabore Tambi National Park, expected to occur during Phase 2. The conservator will
recruit an accountant and two facilitators while NATURAMA will set up a team of three specialists (one
conservation, one sociologist, one gender specialist), one accountant, and 9 facilitators.
Comoe-Leraba Wildlife Conservation Unit: GEF financing targets the two protected areas of the
Como&eLraba unit: the Como&eLraba Reserve and the Boulon-Koflande Forest. The Comoe-Leraba
Reserve is already conceded to an AGEREF. As concessionaire, the AGEREF will implement all
activities under Component 2 (basically, implementation of the management plan) within its concession
through a sole-source, results-based contract. The AGEREF will staff up with a manager and an
accountant. The Boulon-Koflande Forest is not conceded. There, the conservator of the Comoe unit and
its team will implement Component 2 throughout Phase 1. He/she will follow the process of creation and
strengthening of an AGEREF until it can become concessionaire of Boulon-Koflande and recruit its own
guide. The conservator will recruit a conservation specialist, one gender specialist, a specialist in natural
resources management and an accountant.
Operational Manuals
Three manuals will facilitate and guide implementation of: (1) implementation plan, (2) administrative
and financial procedures, and (3) monitoring and evaluation. The Project Implementation Plan (Document
de Projet) describes the details of project execution. It also provides the terms of reference (TORs) and
- 17 -



draft contracts or protocols for all project staff, partner services, projects, or institutions. The
administrative manual lays out the accounting, internal controls, audit, and disbursements arrangements,
and the personnel policy and procedures. It provides the TORs for the auditors and administrative or
accounting members of the project teams. A monitoring and evaluation manual lays out the system
required to link financial disbursement to implementation to impact. The system builds on the
Community-based Natural Resources and Wildlife Management Project (GEPRENAF's) current
indicators and is similar to that of CBRDP.
Arrangements for APL Phase 2 and Phase 3 approval
Assessment of this APL program will be based on GEF's usual standards, with each tranche viewed as
separate but interlinked projects. Approvals for continuing GEF support of this APL are proposed to be
based on a delegated authority to the GEF CEO, and would be based on four ingredients:
(1) Approval of tranche releases would be based on the project meeting minimum benchmark
accomplishments and trigger points described in the Project Brief and in detail in the Project Appraisal
Document (PAD) developed for each tranche.
(2) GEF approvals would parallel the APL rolling review process used by the WB. Based on the PAD
approved by the WB Regional Vice President for proceeding to the next tranche of the APL, the WB
would request GEF CEO approval for GEF financing.
(3) On the basis of this informnation, the GEF CEO would confirm the adequacy of accomplishments of
the previous tranche and approve release of the next tranche. The CEO and Secretariat could request
clarification of performance indicators if required.
(4) The GEF CEO would provide an information document to Council based on these three elements,
indicating to Council that program performance fell within acceptable margins and conformed with
minimum indicators expressed (for that tranche), signaling CEO approval of the next tranche. If
minimum objectives were not met, tranche release could be delayed. If there were significant deviations
from the original agreed targets, Council would be invited to review the relevant PAD to offer its views
on the change in circumstances before CEO endorsement. If the CEO believed that insufficient
information was available, or if significant changes in targets or triggers were required, the CEO could
provide requested advice and/or approval from Council and revert to its guidance.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Without GEF support, local development implemented by CBRDP is likely to improve living conditions
and natural resources management in the protected areas periphery. However, under this scenario, it is also
likely that current degradation trends within protected areas would continue. This would include
degradation of natural habitat and rangeland and further extinction of species. The human/elephant
cohabitation is likely to worsen, eventually leading to drastic actions to eliminate the elephants in the Sahel
and reduce their populations in other Wildlife Conservation Units.
For the conservation of biodiversity in the selected areas, it is likely that short-term successes would be
better achieved with a restrictive-use model, such as strict law enforcement in national parks. However,
Burkina does not have the capacity to implement such model, nor would the population accept it and
- 18 -



respect its rules, thus making it unsustainable.
The team analyzed the possibility of a broad model whereby the Project would provide support for natural
resources and biodiversity conservation on and off protected areas as well as finance social and productive
village investments. This alternative was rejected following a ESSD meeting which concluded that
PAGEN should focus only on protected areas. Other issues would be addressed through coordination with
operations that already address the off-reserve and village-investment issues: the Community-Based Rural
Development Program (CBRDP) and the proposed GEF Sahel Integrated Lowland Ecosystem Management
(SILEM).
With the ongoing decentralization, two scenarios were studied for community management of protected
areas: (1) management by future municipalities, (2) management by inter-village associations set up by the
most relevant villages. The first scenario was rejected because, (I) in most cases not all villages in a
communes are contiguous to a protected area or stakeholders in its resources, (2) protected areas often span
the territory of several communes. The second scenario enables to focus empowerment, training on the
communities which have most to lose from degradation of protected areas or benefit from its preservation
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                 (PSR) Ratings     l
(Bank-flnanced projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Community-based rural development & Community-based Rural           S             S
Natural resources management      Development Program
(CBRDP)
Community-based rural development & Pilot Community-based Natural   S             S
Natural resources management      Resources & Wildlife
Community-based rural development,  Management Project
natural resources management &    (GEPRENAF)
biodiversity
Provision of producer support services; National Agriculture Services  S          S
test of direct support to producer  Development Project (PNDSA)
groups
Community-based Energy & Natural  Wood Energy Management            S             S
Resources                         Project (RPTES)
Natural resources & biodiversity  Sahelian Integrated Lowland       S             S
Ecosystem Management
(SILEM - in preparation)
Other development agencies
EU (European Union)               International Project for W
National Parks with Niger &
Benin (ECOPAS)
FFEM/AFD (French Development      Conservation Units Support
Agency)                           Project (CUSP) & Arly
National Park Support
(implemented)
- 19 -



SCAC (French Cooperation service)  Technical Assistance for
Improved Management of
Wildlife Conservation Units
(implemented)
UNDP/GEF                          Nazinga Game Ranch Support
Project (implemented)
& Support to W National Park
peripheral activities (identified)
FAO                               Support to Forestry, Wildlife
and Fisheries Reforms (needs
additional financing)
AfDB (African Development Bank)   Integrated Ecosystem
Management of Centre-Ouest
Forests (identified)
IFAD (International Fund for       Soil and Water Conservation/
Agriculture Development)           Agro-Forestry I and II
(environmental protection,
capacity building, income
generating activities, credit)
Netherlands Cooperation            Local Development Program /
Burkinabe Sahel Program
(PSB) & Agro-ecology Project
& Local Development Project in
Zoundweogo (LDPZ)
German Cooperation                 Local Development Program /
Burkinabe Sahel Program
(PSB)
UNCDF (UN Capital Development      Local Development Program /
Fund)                              Burkinabe Sahel Program
(PSB)
Danish Cooperation                 Local Development Program /
Burkinabe Sahel Program
(PSB)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
ENV and QAG review of GEF-supported biodiversity projects in Africa
Several reviews have been consulted: 1998 QAG review of the Natural Resources Management Portfolio;
1997 QAG review of biodiversity projects in Africa; and 1998 ENV Bank-wide review of biodiversity
projects. As a general rule, these reviews call for better upstream design, strong commitment and capacity
by Government and other stakeholders, mainstreaming in the country portfolio, setting up realistic and
consensual development objectives, coordination with NGOs and others, as well as more intense than
normal Bank supervision. All of these features were considered in PAGEN's design.
An apparently more recent QAG diagnostic of a sample of GEF-supported projects (quoted from GEF
Tunisia Park PCD) is "that future projects must possess the following features: (1) integrating the
biodiversity conservation agenda into the broader national development agenda is essential; (2) biodiversity
- 20 -



projects need to focus more on methods for dealing with socioeconomic pressure in perimeter zones in
which populations may be dependent on forest utilization; (3) project design should take into account
technical and stakeholders' reviews of the final design; and (4) clearly defined goals and objectives are
essential to focus on project efforts, monitor progress, and demonstrate impact." The project follows all
four operational recommendations.
On a broad level, the QAG recommends inclusion of more environmental expertise in developing the CAS.
In Burkina Faso, the recently completed PRSP and CAS benefited from input from the Environment
Department. The project contributes to the natural resources and rural development agenda of the PRSP
and CAS.
Community-Driven Development
In many countries, limited govermment success in managing natural resources, providing basic
infrastructure, and ensuring primary social services has led to the search for altemative options. One of
these options is participatory community-driven development (CDD). The substantial experience
accumulated to date of what works and does not work has been drawn on in designing the project. In
particular, for the govemment and outsiders to induce community-driven development on a large scale
requires agencies to invest in local organizational capacity and support community control in decision
making. In addition, experience shows that community-driven development does not automatically include
marginalized groups, the poor, women, and ethnic minorities unless their inclusion is specifically
highlighted as a goal at the agency and community level. Finally, successful community-driven
development is characterized by five main factors: local organizational capacity or the existence of viable
community groups, the appropriate fit of technology to community capacity, effective outreach strategies,
client responsive agencies, and enabling higher government policies and commitment. All these factors are
built into PAGEN's design.
The interface with the livestock sector is one of the most important dimensions of the project. The
experience of the West Africa Pilot Pastoral Perimeters Program (WAPPP), particularly in Chad and
Senegal, shows that proper use of rangeland, with rules set up by the community on spatial and temporal
bases, can improve rangeland and the relationship among pastoralists, farmers, and traders. PPPP's holistic
approach will be taught to project teams to ensure that their analysis of the production and conservation
systems focuses on the causes of degradation rather than the symptoms.
Arid land ecologv
Lessons from northern Africa (Morocco, Tunisia) indicate that, within an arid ecosystem, a 100,000-ha
protected area can be adequate for proper conservation of most large arid land mammals. Northem Africa
projects also show that, even with rainfall less than 150 mm/year, significant habitat restoration can be
spectacular and lead to not only habitat recovery but also the reappearance of locally extinct species.
Similar lessons are drawn in the Sudanian domain, where improved protection can lead to spectacular
vegetation and wildlife recovery (Nazinga game ranch in the 1980s).
Results and lessons from the Burkina GEF Pilot (GEPRENAF)
Since May 1996, community-driven development has been tested with its full biodiversity conservation
dimension in the Comoe ecosystem. The Diefoula-Logoniegue area has received financial assistance from
the GEF/Belgium through the Pilot Community-based Natural Resources and Wildlife Management Project
(GEPRENAF). Seventeen villages have created their CVGTs (Comite Villageois de Gestion des Terroirs)
- 21 -



and federated them in an AGEREF (Association Intervillageoise de Gestion des Resources Naturelles et
de la Faune). They have allocated 1 00,000 ha to biodiversity conservation, gazeted it as wildlife reserve
and drafted a management plan. The Government has legally recognized the AGEREF (as an association)
and granted it concession over the new wildlife reserve. Commercial activities (safari hunting) have recently
started on a test basis. All villages have set up their Village Investment Funds (VIF) and the AGEREF
co-manages a Conservation Fund with the project coordination unit. GEPRENAF financed, or leveraged
financing for a number of social infrastructures, wells, rural roads as well as activities ranging from
training, agriculture/livestock conflict management, agricultural research and intensification, soil
conservation, to microcredit and literacy.
An independent evaluation of GEPRENAF recognized the important achievement of GEPRENAF in local
development and empowerment of local communities as well as building the foundations for adequate
community-based conservation (see full summary in Annex 13). The evaluation considers ecological
achievement as limited (in term of wildlife recovery) but stressed that such recovery can result only from
long-term commitment. It recommends (1) pursuing and expanding the scope of GEPRENAF to include
nearby Koflande but maintaining a similar level of technical assistance; (2) focusing future financing on
management of the "protected area"; (3) limiting the institutional responsibility of the AGEREF to
"concessionaire" of the gazetted forest but clarifying the role of the local forestry department; and (4)
diversifying sources of revenues by tackling the full range of wildland potential benefits. The
recommendations of the independent evaluation are worked into the design of PAGEN.
Other lessons learned from GEPRENAF were incorporated into the design on PAGEN. The experience
with the GEPRENAF showed that there were too high expectations of commnunity capacity to manage
protection areas. Therefore, with PAGEN, management by private sector operators is being promoted.
Furthermore, the GEPRENAF was spread across too many activities including wildlife management, local
development, agriculture intensification, etc. PAGEN does not cover local development activities that are
being covered by the CBRDP. The project is concentrating on management of protected areas and on
capacity building for biodiversity conservation. It therefore acts as a sort of add-on to the CBRDP and
thus allows for complementarity of activities.
Other lesson from Burkina
Additional lessons were learned through other donors' implementation of projects under the wildlife reform.
GEPRENAF differentiated the role of "concessionaire" from that of "guide"; it had exceptionally requested
that the concessionaire be an inter-village community association: the AGEREF. The AGEREF, in turn,
was to recruit a private firm/individual to fill the guide's role. France used a Conservation Unit Support
Project (CUSP) to pilot a mainstream interpretation of the reform. The CUSP financed a system in which
private firms are recruited through a competitive bidding process to ensure both roles. Communities are
then mobilized through a parallel local development project and through sharing improved conservation
benefits. Unfortunately, the lack of professional standards and effective control as well as the low
short-term profitability of protected areas provided insufficient incentive for any of the actors to respect the
rules of the reform.
4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership:
Conservation of biodiversity in the proposed sites is a priority registered in national plans (NEAP, draft
Biodiversity Strategy). Burkina has ratified all the relevant conservation conventions: Biodiversity,
Desertification, Migratory Species (Bonn Convention), Wetland (Ramsar Convention), and CITES. The
focal point for the Biodiversity Convention has endorsed PAGEN.
- 22 -



Government has demonstrated its commitment to conservation in other operations in the sector. The
Government launched the courageous reform of the wildlife sector (1995) to encourage private investment
and foster community participation and is willing to revisit that reform as part of PAGEN.
GEF/Belgium-funded GEPRENAF never lacked support from the Government either in term of
co-financing or commitment. Finally, the 100,000-ha Como-Leraba Reserve was conceded for 10 years to
the Comoe AGEREF; this is the first concession of this kind in West Africa.
The Government is committed to decentralizing investment decisions to the municipality and province
levels. The National Assembly has voted the orientation laws on decentralization (TOD), and the creation
of rural municipalities is scheduled to take place progressively over the next five to seven years. The
Government is in the process of adopting the Letter of Policy on Decentralized Rural Development.
5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project:
GEF assistance to PRONAGEN would supplement other donors' efforts in the realm of biodiversity
conservation (ECOPAS, CUSP, ARLY, NAZINGA) and complement the national Community-based
Rural Development Program (CBRDP) financed by the Government as well as by IDA and other donors. It
not only would finance biodiversity conservation activities above and beyond activities targeted by the
CBRDP, but also would help coordinate ongoing activities in the livestock, agriculture, and natural
resources management sectors in relation to WCU management. PAGEN has the potential to leverage
additional funding for biodiversity conservation from other donors (for example, Belgium has already
signified their interest in co-financing PRONAGEN).
The World Bank has acquired much experience, and is at the forefront of the development of new
approaches, with Community-based Natural Resources Management (CBNRM), Community-based Rural
Development (CBRDP), and the new generation of Community Action Programs (CAP). There is no
question that the Bank has a comparative advantage in this realm (for example, with GEPRENAF; the
Environment Management Project (PNGT) in Burkina; Natural Resources Management Project (PGRN) in
Benin, Mali, and Niger; and Land Management and Rural Infrastructure Project (PNGTER) in Cote
d'Ivoire.
Value-added of GEF Support
By financing the incremental costs of improved biodiversity conservation through upgrading management
of priority areas and enhancing natural resources management in the hinterland with more environmentally
sound practices, GEF participation in PRONAGEN will enhance the security of global biodiversity assets.
GEF financing has the potential to improve management in the short term and increase sustainability of
achievements in the longer term by (1) providing alternatives for foregone revenues and financing the
incremental cost of improved management practices, (2) broadening participation of local comrnunities in
stewardship of wildland, (3) ensuring that communities share in the economic benefits of improved
management, and (4) leveraging additional financing from other donors and the private sector. In the
absence of GEF fnancing, the Government could not shoulder the incremental cost of improving
management of WCUs or providing incentives to communities and rural residents to adopt better
stewardship practices.
- 23 -



Value-added of the APL instrument
One of the Bank's comparative advantages is its ability to mobilize long-tern financing when certain
criteria are met. The most important requirement is that the Bank and Government agree on a long-term
vision for a sector. This is clearly the case as demonstrated by the Wildlife Sector Reform, Biological
Diversity and Action Plan, and Letter of Policy for Decentralized Rural Development. The APL instrument
is also justified when an approach defined by a new policy needs to be fine-tuned or "adapted" prior to
national extension. While there is an agreement on the program's long-term development goal, there is also
a need to adjust ways and means based on implementing experience. Through such instruments, the Bank
can also provide leadership for donor coordination under a common strategy developed by the Government
of Burkina. Phase I will be used to enhance donor buy-in in biodiversity conservation and harmonize
approaches. Finally, institutional capacity needs strengthening over time, but investment cannot wait,
because biodiversity degradation is already quite significant in numerous ecosystems. An APL enables
implementation of conservation activities while ensuring that national and local capacities and institutions
are built at a realistic pace.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR= % (see Annex 4)
CD Cost effectiveness
* Incremental Cost
Other (specify)
Incremental cost analysis of GEF-financed activities (Annex 4)
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
At all sites, positive financial retuan will take time to attain (time for ecological recovery, community
capacity building, and organization of commercial activities). From comparison with other experiences in
Burkina and in the region (Benin), protected areas in the Sudanian domain could reach net financial benefit
faster than those in the Sahel because of better wildlife potential and proximity to urban centers generating
tourism. Nevertheless, the time required at all sites is likely to exceed 10 years.
In Cornoe-Lraba, a business plan indicates that, by 2006, the revenues from utilization of wildlife,
tourism, and valorization of other savanna products will balance the costs of maintaining infrastructures
and carrying out field activities. In the Sahel, financial return will depend primarily on international
tourism. Already, thousands of tourists and waterfowl hunters visit the area. However, little of this income
is captured locally, and its magnitude is not yet sufficient to balance other forms of land use such as cattle
production. It is too early to calculate when financial benefits will be reached in the Sahel, but it is likely to
take all three phases of the APL. For protected areas that do not prove financially viable, a long-term
financial mechanism will be explored during the APL.
Fiscal Impact:
A study of the eastern wildlife areas of Burkina, which are the most commercially active, estimated their
1999 fiscal return at approximately $300,000, or 0.07% of the national fiscal base. These taxes originate
fom concession, trophy, and tourism entrance fees. Clearly, even with improved used of wildland, the
potential net national fiscal return from improved protected area management is marginal at best. This does
not imply that national benefits are marginal, only that they are of another nature. National benefits of
- 24 -



improved conservation are not direct. They are indirect in the form of economic (tourists bringing foreign
currency) and environmental benefits (ecosystems being preserved).
Because the sector fiscal return is marginal and because communities need resources to manage protected
areas, PAGEN will contribute to reforms that (1) enable AGEREFs to capture current taxes as part as
commercial use of protected areas, while they (2) create an environment whereby tourism improves and
safari products bring more economic benefit to Burkina.
A national study will be financed in Phase I to assess this potential with more accuracy and guide the
Government through the decentralization of fiscal resources.
3. Technical:
Implementation will benefit from experience elsewhere in Africa, notably from the West Africa Pilot
Pastoral Program (WAPPP), and particularly from GEPRENAF, on whose design the proposed Program is
based. However, there is no specific technical issue other than those related to ecosystem monitoring and
information management. The conservation techniques that may be introduced will be simple and easy to
master by cornmunity members.
4. Institutional:
The Burkina Government has long experience in wildlife management and conservation. Undoubtedly, it
has the capacity to carry out or supervise the proposed operation. Still, institutional improvement and
reform are needed. They are being explored with both FAO and French financing, and during
implementation with GEF funds, to optimize the use of sparse public resources while providing adequate
incentive to staff (see also C2).
4.1 Executing agencies:
PAGEN would be under the responsibility of the Forestry Department (General Directorate for Water and
Forest, or DGEF) within the Ministry of Environment and Hydraulics.
4.2 Project management:
The project will be managed by a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) staffed with a coordinator, a financial
management specialist and a procurement specialist assisted with support staff. Management at the site
level will be entrusted to conservators and concessionaires assisted by their staff. Implementation and
procedure manuals will guide implementation.
4.3 Procurement issues:
National procurement will be handled by the PCU Procurement specialist and local procurement by the
conservators or concessionaires assisted by their accountants. Training will be provided. No major
procurement is anticipated; all vehicles and computers will be procured through UN Agencies. Consultants
for technical assistance, audits and studies, except the NGO NATURAMA and IUCN, will be recruited
according to current Bank guidelines on recruitment of consultants. About half of the work will be
procured locally through participatory procurement.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Financial management will be handled by the PCU administrator as well as the accountants recruited by
each conservator or concessionaire. An Administrative and Financial Management Manual is being
finalized. Financial management including accounting and disbursement will be carried out via a
computerized project management system.
- 25 -



5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessmnent)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
PAGEN is a biodiversity conservation project whose benefits on the environment are expected to be largely
positive. Some risks are associated with the implementation of works in and around protected areas (wells,
tracks, firebreaks). Social issues have the potential to appear should a portion of the communities set
conservation rules that exclude another portion from accessing previously used hunting grounds or
agricultural or grazing land.
Two national consultants (an ecologist and a sociologist) carried out the EA which was then consolidated
by an intemational consultant. All traveled throughout the WCUs, visited some of the communities, had
access to all project files and data, and met regularly with the Comine Technique de Suivi de la
Preparation du Projet (CTSP). The assessment proceeded in close parallel with project preparation, so
that findings are incorporated in overall project design, including support for strengthening capacity of the
PAGEN teams to monitor, evaluate, and mitigate environmental impacts of activities.
The final assessment is available at Infoshop. In country, the final EA has been disclosed at all project
sites, through the relevant existing fora, and distributed to CTSP in Ouagadougou and its availability
published in local newspapers.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Since most investments will be decided during implementation, the EMP is limited to providing guidelines
(such as a Framework process) for an inclusive participatory process including negotiation and delineation
of new protected areas, conflict resolution, preparation of management plans, potential public work therein,
and monitoring and evaluation. These guidelines are worked into the overall project design. Site specific,
EAs and mitigation plans will be prepared as part of the design of protected area management plans and
implementation of work. The CONAGESE (COnseil NAtional pour la GEStion de l'Environnement) and
the Bank will clear the management plans and subsequent work before implementation.
To minimize the social risk that a group excludes another from accessing resources, AGEREFs are to be
representative of all the CVGTs that surround protected areas. Negotiation processes, conflict resolution
and grievance mechanisms are built into the approach. Community-compensation and opportunity for
alternative livelihood, in the form of social or productive investments and training, will be provided by the
IDA CBRDP.
As chair of the Scientific and Technical Advisory Committee (STAC), the CONAGESE will be responsible
for monitoring the environmental management plan. CONAGESE's capacity will be reinforced as part of
the EMP.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: December 26, 2001
Cleared by ASPEN and sent to Bank Infoshop on January 11, 2002
- 26 -



5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Prior to the EA, to ensure that the project addresses certain concerns of the local community in the Sahel, a
socio-pastoralist visited the Sahel Reserve. He carried out a preliminary participatory diagnostic in a
samnple of villages and camps and concluded that the proposed Program design was acceptable to the
villagers and nomads. In addition, the preparation team consulted extensively with partners of other
Government services and projects to ensure that the proposed operation would be well integrated into
current development efforts. The EA TORs and draft EA were discussed with the CTSP. Finally, the EA
team traveled through all WCUs and held meetings with the communities and local govemments.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The GEF will finance the establishment of standards for national monitoring of protected areas indicators
(population of indicator species, degrees of encroachment, level of participation of the communities,
capacity of newly established community institutions. See A3 and Annex 1). These are in agreement with
the EA conclusions.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The APL purpose is to target community development outcomes through benefits derived from improved
conservation of protected areas. The APL end-goal is to ensure that a $1 equivalent per person per year is
provided to local development funds or contributed to the communes' fiscal base. For protected areas that
are not financially profitable, a foundation or a trust will finance the gap. AGEREFs, which are the main
program beneficiaries, are associations of CVGTs of villages surrounding protected areas. As such, they
represent the entire community and will ensure that benefits are shared equitably. Peripheral outcomes are
related to the restoration of traditional rights over land areas, maintenance of a natural patrimony, and
preservation of hunting grounds and natural areas to collect medicinal plants, honey, firewood, as well as
numerous wild resources that enter the traditional diet or economy (boabab leaves, shee nuts, nere).
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Community participation in both structured and unstructured formns is an integral part of project
implementation. The PAGEN concept, participatory land management/local development, as already
implemented in GEPRENAF, ensures that all parts of the community are truly associated and ultimately
decide on the use of investment resources (See A3 and C 1 for a description of the participatory process.).
The main beneficiaries are rural farmers and herders, but the participatory process also involves
Government services, NGOs, other project partners, and private guides with stakes in wildlands. Already,
the Governnent has approached preparation through a participatory process. The CTSP--with technicians
and partners from Government, NGOs, private sector, and donors--was set up to oversee and validate the
preparation process. Communities were consulted. Finally, a workshop was organized in the field with the
participation of many of the future partners to design a site-specific project log-frame.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The Scientific and Technical Advisory Council (STAC) will meet regularly to advise on major
implementation decisions. The STAC is made up of not only Goverment services and universities but also
representatives of international and local NGOs and the private sector. It is expected that a Foundation will
- 27 -



be created in Phase 2 through a participatory process. Such foundation will have to embrace lessons from
other such foundations including the fact that they are to be independent from the Government and
representative of the national and international civil society. Around all protected areas, all decisions will
be derived from a participatory process involving all the communities and local NGOs and associations.
Concessionaires, the major implementers, are community associations representative of the entire civil
society around protected areas.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The institutional centerpiece is an inter-village community institution, the AGEREF. AGEREFs will be
helped in the recruitment of private guides with beneficial financial arrangements. When a protected area
cannot generate sufficient benefits, the foundation or trust will complement financing to ensure that targeted
benefits are reached. Such provision will depend on the community's behavior for improved conservation
and maintenance of biodiversity conservation indicators.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The ultimate indicators of success of decentralized rural development lie in human development indicators.
These will be measured and analyzed via national household and local statistics and financed by IDA's
CBRDP. However, given the multiplicity of projects in Burkina, it may be difficult to identify the
proportion of improvements that could be attributed to the project since usually both operations will benefit
the same communities. The project teams therefore will work with the CBRDP team to assess whether the
specific impact of GEF financing can be measured by them against the human development indicators they
monitor.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                    Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           * Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   * Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                           0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*        0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
As warranted by OP4.0 1, an Environment Assessment has been carried out with relevant safeguard
flagged. TORs were reviewed by the Bank safeguard unit. The OP4.04 on natural habitat is relevant not
in tern of threat mitigation but in term of conformity with the program global objective which is to
improved the long term standing of biodiversity within priority natural ecosystems. OP4.30 is triggered but
involuntary resettlement of settlement is an option excluded by the approach itself. It is triggered because
collective management of comnmunal resources such as the new protected areas, even though rules are
entirely defined by the communities, could end up restricting resources access from certain users. This has
been analyzed as part of the Social assessment and a Framework Process has been prepared. The limit of
existing protected areas will be redefined as necessary to ensure that no involuntary resettlement occurs and
- 28 -



new protected area will be negotiated with the land users. Rules for their management and utilization will
be designed by the communities and registered in management plans. The future management plans will
include a conflict resolution mechanisms and a grievance process.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability is linked to the ability of the APL to provide incentives at all levels to improve (1) local
communities and Government commitment to reforTns, (2) optimization of revenues to balance conservation
costs; (3) professionalism and ethics of private operators, and (4) cost-effectiveness, quality, and
innovation of proposed activities and investments. Setting the stage for such a combination takes time,
hence the 15-year multi-phase programmatic approach. Additionally, sustainability will also depend on the
capacity of the project not to burden the Government's budget with additional needs. To this effect,
technical assistance and financing of recurrent costs will be phased out gradually.
Government commitment
Government's early commitment to sustain policy reforms and assist community implementation of
management plans as well as to staffing and funding of the project is critical. Government commitment has
been demonstrated through GEPRENAF implementation as well as implementation of similar
projects/programs (see also D4, indication of Borrower's commitment). Nevertheless, to diminish the risk
associated with potential Government changes or appointments, PAGEN's early conditions and subsequent
triggers were designed to ensure that declared commitment is followed up by actions that demonstrate it.
The success of PAGEN to restore degraded habitat and policy changes to improve range, water, and
wildlife resources management efficiency are inextricably linked with the sustainability of biodiversity
protection measures. To this end, Government's commitment to sustainable natural resources use (1)
enabling revenue capture by the rural communities and (2) improving both the knowledge base and field
capacity for effective stewardship of biodiversity resources is encouraging and should contribute
significantly to the sustainability of the project results. To this effect, GEF and other donors' financing will
help the Ministry of Environment improve the national legal and institutional frameworks for protected area
management.
Financial sustainability
By the end of the current implementation period (mid-2002), it is not expected that GEPRENAF results in
Diefoula-Logoniegue will be fully sustainable (see also independent evaluation in Annex 13). This
expectation is despite a successful implementation and a better wildlife potential. A model showed that five
more years of less intense financing should be sufficient to demonstrate the validity of the approach and
reach financial sustainability. By 2006, it is expected that revenues will exceed management costs.
At other sites, income from biodiversity management will originate from ecotourism and small game
hunting. These areas are already registered with tour operators and receive tourists. While these activities
will rapidly provide some return, they are unlikely to balance spending in the short term. All three phases
will be required to come close to financial sustainability.
- 29 -



Additional sources of long-term financing, such as the creation of a trust oT a foundation, will be sought
throughout the APL. The objective is to ensure that negative financial gaps are secured and resources are
channeled to local development funds by the end of the Program.
Private sector involvement
In Phase 1, PAGEN will seek to define a better equilibrium between the private sector and other partners.
To achieve this, it will identify hurdles that, in the past, have led nonprofessional, unethical guides in the
sector while keeping away investors interested in long-term involvement and sustainable use. Identified
constraints range from the lack of an adequate tax system, difficulty in securing investments, lack of
adequate govemance both during selection and operation, to lack of enforcement of contract items, and
political intervention. By the end of Phase 2, it is expected that each protected area will be equipped with
ethical and professional private guides with secured long-term licenses/agreements with the concessionaire
AGEREFs.
Technical assistance
The GEPRENAF independent evaluation pointed out the success of the technical assistance component and
recommended pursuing it for an additional phase while decreasing its costs. The main culprit of the model
is the low initial capacity of rural villagers to take over the complex management of a protected area. To
palliate this, small teams of national experts must provide assistance for project implementation,
innovation, community -approach, and transfer of skills. Also, because the success of PAGEN depends on
such innovation and on the effective adoption by communities of alternative behaviors, it is important that
such assistance be available until all fundamental evolution occurs and until the AGEREFs have the
capacity to fully assume their role of concessionaires. Technical assistants are the builders of a model that
is designed to function without their input. By working with communities, Government services and private
guides are also there to catalyze neutral solutions that best fit the interests of all three partners. At a given
site, their intervention is required for 10 to 15 years depending on complexity. The costs of technical
assistance are kept to a minimum by working exclusively with national staff, by drawing all-inclusive
contracts with firms or NGOs whereby they provide services and operation costs, and, when possible, by
giving preference to direct contracting over contracting of firms.
Financing of recurrent costs
In Phase 1, the project will co-finance part of Government services recurrent costs (5.7% of total costs).
This practice is common in Burkina because Government revenues are not sufficient to allocate adequate
budget to conservation. Nonetheless, the level is below the Government "after-tax" counterpart funding of
10%. Counterpart funding for operation costs is set at 35% to provide adequate incentive for rational use of
operation funds. The project will seek to minimize the role of Government services, secure more stable
budget allocation from the Government, and contractualize some of the services that foresters only can
carry out (for example, antipoaching). Such support will be gradually phased out in Phase 2 and disappear
in Phase 3.
Other incentives
Financial sustainability is only one aspect of sustainability and may not always be the most relevant to the
local communities. In GEPRENAF, it seems that the communities are even more appreciative of other
externalities such as inter-community relationships, restoration of traditional land use rights and values,
community outreach, and maintenance of a natural "patrimony".
- 30 -



Finally, sustainability depends on the perception, by the communities at large, of PAGEN's benefits to their
daily lives, social comfort, and capacity to produce. The CBRDP aims to alleviate these concerns and
decentralized much decision-making and financing of community priorities. In addition, improved
awareness of natural resources degradation and adoption of alternative behaviors, rules, and technologies
may prove sufficient to sustainably diminish pressure on the natural ecosystem. SILEM intervention will be
of additional help to secure such alternative production systems.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
The forestry corporation and private       M        In past years, the community-based approach
guides are not receptive to messages and            has penetrated the world of foresters with
training geared at defining new behaviors           involvement in the forestry components of
with the communities and abandoning                 CBNRM projects. Assistance is geared toward
long-standing habits and privileges.                building more awareness and stimulating further
behavioral changes. Many safari and tourism
guides in Burkina have the reputation of low
ethics. For them also, assistance is geared
toward building awareness and stimulating
behavioral changes. In addition, the project will
finance a study on improvement of private
operations and audits to set professional
standards on guide recruitment.
Mali does not launch a simnilar project in  M       Bank and French Cooperation joined efforts to
the Gourma, and both countries are                  prepare the Malian project. Should the Mali
willing to cooperate. Cote d'Ivoire's               project not go ahead, the targeted pastoral
GEPRENAF (in Warigue) does not                      community will find it difficult to respect rules
strengthen its results, and the Ghana               on one side of the border and not on the other
Wildlife Service does not work with the             side. To minimize such impact, project teams
Nazinga Ranch/Kabore Park complex on                will provide information on the benefit of
poaching and elephant management                    conservation to all stakeholders, including
issues.                                             Malians who cross into Burkina. Added
protection in Burkina and increased pressure in
Mali could send the elephants further south into
agricultural land. According to experts
consulted, because elephants' migratory pattern
is ancestral, this is unlikely.
GEPRENAF Cote d'Ivoire will continue to be
supervised; because of disbursement delays,
funds are available until 2003. After
GEPRENAF, PCGAP (a national park
management program) will provide additional
support as part of the greater Comoe National
Park management.
Ghana Wildlife Service and northem Ghana
- 31 -



traditional chiefs established a dialogue with the
managers of Nazinga Game Ranch. This
dialogue will be strengthened under PAGEN. In
Ghana, the GEF Northem Savanna Project is
about to be implemented. PAGEN will establish
ties with this operation.
Early benefits are insufficient incentive  S        PAGEN will work with CBRDP to ensure that
for communities to improve behavior                 the communities' most pressing needs are
toward conservation behavior or engage in           addressed as part of the baseline program.
activities.                                         Awareness-building programns will be ongoing to
help communities perceive the earlier
non-financial benefits of conservation. Most
work will be contracted out to community
enterprises with training available to build their
capacity. Finally, commercial use of protected
areas will be attempted as early as ecologically
and ethically possible to demonstrate the
potential return of conservation.
The Community-based Rural                  M        CBRDP is to be implemented in all villages
Development Program is not satisfactorily           adjacent to protected areas. Signed agreements
implemented in rural areas adjacent to              will bind CBRDP to PAGEN. In addition, since
GEF-targeted protected areas and does not           the Bank funds both activities, both teams will
help induce change of community                     make special efforts to ensure coordination.
behavior for conservation.
From Components to Outputs
Non-availability of high profile audit     N        International procurement will reach out to
firms with strong capacity in wildlife              firms traditionally working in eastern or
management analysis and innovations.                 southern Africa.
Low capacity and commitment of partner     S        Civil servants may not endorse the burden and
Government services to provide timely               rhythms of project implementation. Incentives
and quality services to the project.                will be provided in the form of empowerment
over implementation, availability of equipment
and funds for operations, better working
conditions, and training. The sector reform is
geared at improving the incentive framework.
Protocols with Government services will be
results-based.
Appointment of a coordinator and           M        Burkina laws require that project coordinators
conservators with weak leadership,                  be appointed and set the salary scale; that salary
integrity, commitment, and planning                 will be assumed by counterpart funding. Bank
capacity                                            will require approval of coordinator and
conservators and monitor performance.
- 32 -



Overall Risk Rating                         S         Biodiversity is in a downward spiral. The only
viable approach is that of community
participation and multiplicity of options. In
Como&Leraba, GEPRENAF demonstrated
feasibility of the approach. PAGEN will
reinforce past results. but this takes time and
will be difficult given the complexity of the
issues. However, the risks to biodiversity of not
implementing the project, are far greater and
irreversible.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
NA
G. Main Negotiation and Effectiveness Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(a)    the Recipient has adopted a Project Implementation Manual (including a procurement plan for the
first year of the Project), an Administrative and Financial Manual and a Monitoring and Evaluation
Manual in a form and substance satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)    the Recipient has opened a Project account and paid therein an initial deposit of CFCA 75,000,000
equivalent;
(c)    the Recipient has concluded the Memorandum of Understanding with: (i) the Conservators; and
(ii) NGO - NATURAMA and Comoe AGEREF for implementation of Part B of the Project;
(d)    the Recipient has concluded contracts of employment with: (A) the Project auditors; and (B) other
permanent staff, including (i) at the PCU: a financial management specialist; a procurement specialist; an
accountant; a monitoring and evaluation specialist; and a capacity building specialist; (ii) at the Sahel
WCU: an ecologist; a sociologist; a livestock specialist; an accountant; and six field facilitators; (iii) at the
Comoe WCU: an ecologist; a sociologist; a local development specialist; and an accountant; (iv) at the
Hauts Bassins WCU: an ecologist; an accountant; and one field facilitator; and (v) at the Ponasi WCU: an
accountant and two field facilitators), all under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank;
(e)    the Recipient has concluded a contract for service in respect of the management of the
Kabore-Tambi National Park with the NGO-NATURAMA and with the Comoe AGEREF for the
management of the Comoe-Leraba Reserve, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; and
(f)    the Recipient has caused the project coordination unit of the CBRDP to conclude a memorandum
of understanding with the PCU for coordination of activities related to the Project, in a form satisfactory to
the Bank.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
- 33 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
OI 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
M 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
A year-one procurement plan is being prepared; it will be assessed along with procurement capacity prior
to effectiveness. A computerized financial management system is being procured, its capacity will be
appraised prior to effectiveness.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
1] 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
_    _    _     _ _    _     _       .A      c                          _  _    _  _    _  _    _
Iean-Michel G. Pavy                   Richard G. S  ey       U           A. David CraigC      W
Team Leader                        Sector Manager/Director            Country Manager/Director
- 34 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
BURKINA FASO: PARTNERSHIP FOR NATURAL ECOSYSTEM MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators                                      Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Poverty is reduced and living  Incidence of rural poverty  Poverty profile; annual UNDP Political stability; Successful
conditions and productive                             report; PRSP monitoring    development and
potential of the rural     Human development          system                     implementation of requisite
population has improved    indicators                                            sector strategies
Program Purpose:           End-of-Program Indicators:  Program reports:          (from Purpose to Goal)
Biodiversity of priority   Revenues from operation of  Consolidated Audit Report  Peripheral populations equally
protected areas sustainably  the protected area cover % of undertaken by audit firmn of  share benefits of biodiversity.
benefit peripheral community  conservation expenses   the operations of all partners
local development                      Y5  Y10 Y15    involved in GEF targeted   Other Bank programs targeted
Comoe       75  100   100  protected areas:           at reducing poverty are
Koflande    25   75   100  concessionaires, guides,   successful.
Mare Hippos 0    50   100  CVGTs, trust fund (once
Kabor6 Mni   0   50   75   designed and set up).
S6no Mango   0   50   75
Oursi       0    50   75
Other Sahel  0    0    50
Benefits to communities:
Protected areas contribute
$x/person/year to surrounding
community development fund
Y5 YIO Y15
Comoe       0.5   1   1
Koflande    0    0.5  1
Mare Hippos 0    0.5  1
Kabore Thi  0    0.5  1
Seno Mango  0    0.5  1
Oursi       0    0.5  1
Other Sahel  0   0    1
Program Phasing:
Phase 1: Reverse biodiversity
trends in priority protected
areas
Phase 2: Improve
substantially biodiversity in
priority protected areas
Phase 3: Secure biodiversity
in priority protected areas
-35 -



GEF Operational Program:
OP 1 - Arid and semi-arid
ecosystems
Global purpose: Biodiversity  % encroachment            * GIS system
has recovered in all targeted           Y5   YIO Y15      (remote-sensing based on
protected areas            Como&eLraba   0    0   0       satellite imagery)
Koflande     10    0    0      managed by Forestry
Mare Hippos   0   0    0       Department (built by
Kabore Tambi  0    0    0      consulting firm.)
All Sahel PA  20  10    0
% improvement of bio-indicators  * National annual aerial
Y5 Y10 Y15       wildlife survey carried
Como&eLraba 20    35 50        out by consulting firm
Koflande      5    25 50    * Participatory monitoring
Mare Hippos   5   25  80       carried out by
Kabore Tambi  5    25 80
All Sahel PA  0    10 30       concessionaires or
conservators
Global Objective:          Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Purpose)
Indicators:
Project Development        % encroachment (also trigger)  * GIS system           Communities surrounding
Objective : Reversal of                                   (remote-sensing based on protected areas benefit from
biodiversity trends in priority  Como&eLraba  0           satellite imagery)     other supports to stabilize
protected areas            Koflande       10              managed by Forestry    agriculture, foster
Mare Hippo      0              Department (built by   non-agriculture income,
All Sahel P. Areas     20      consulting firm.)      address priority needs and
build local Government.
% improvement of bio-indicators  * National annual aerial  No long-lasting drought
wildlife survey carried  occurs before protected area
Comoe-Leraba   20              out by consulting firm  management systems are
Koflande                     * Participatory monitoring  seasoned
Mare Hippos     5              carried out by
Kabore Tambi    5
All Sahel P. Area Stable       concessionaires or
conservators
- 36 -



1    Key Performance       Data Collection Strategy 1
Hierarchy of Objectives         Indicators                                     Critical Assumptions
Output from each          Output Indicators:        Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
(1) Improved Forestry     1.1. A new Forestry Code and  * Official journal    Forestry corporation and
department capacity to    its implementation decrees                          private operators are receptive
coordinate and support    take into account the                               to incentives, messages, and
decentralized management of orientations of the Letter of                     training geared at defining
protected areas.          Policy on Decentralized Rural                       new behaviors with the
Development (this is also a                         communities and abandoning
trigger for the next phase of                       long-standing habits and
APL; see B4)                                        privileges
1.2. Applicable taxes due to  * Audit report of
the Government in the         concessionaires prepared
protected Areas sector (trophy  by audit firms; Forestry
fee, tourism, concession fee)  Department Annual
are recovered at 80 % in Y5   Report on wildlife
(also a trigger)              campaign
1.3. Donors are committing  * Donors' Letter, Aide
$5 million to the adopted     memoire
long-term financial
mechanism
* Follow-up report of
1.4. 50% of conservators      trainers (method tbd in
trained used their new        TORs of trainers)
planning and community
skills in the management of
protected areas
* Cross reference of aerial
1.5. Results of the           inventory report and
standardized national wildlife  annual hunting arrete
survey are used to set-up     signed by Minister of
safari quota                  Environment
(2) Improved peripheral   2.1. 50% of 1000 villagers  * Report on training    Mali launches a similar
communities' capacity and  who have participated in     follow-up (method tbd);  project in the Gourma, and
behavior for conservation of  training or awareness modules  comparison w/    both countries are willing to
protected areas           are involved in protected area  concessionaire staffing  cooperate. Cote d'Ivoire's
management by Y5              and list of villagers  GEPRENAF (in Warigue)
involved in conservation. strengthens its results, and the
2.2. New protected areas                            Ghana Wildlife Service works
which have acquired legal   * Signed arretes or decrees with the Nazinga
status:                                             Ranch/Kabore Park complex
Koflande      60 000 ha                             on poaching and elephant
Nassoumbou    70 000 ha                             management issues
Seno-Mango    70,000 ha                             Early benefits are sufficient
Oursi        20 000 ha                              incentive for communities to
Be1i          20,000 ha                             improve behavior toward
conservation behavior or
2.3. % achievement of work  * Annual reports of     engage in activities
- 37 -



or level of organization in    concessionaires and
protected area:                conservators; Bank     The Community-based Rural
Com Kof Kab Hippo        supervision            Development Program is
Limits  100 100 100  100                              satisfactorily implemented in
Access 100 100  20   50
Surv.  100 75   50   70                               rural areas adjacent to
Monitor 100 75  50  100                               GEF-targeted protected areas
Exploit  75 25  25    25                              and helps induce community
Seno Oursi Oth.Sahel                            behavioral change toward
Limits 100    100     50                              conservation
Access  50    na     25
Surv.   50    50     25
Monitor 75    75      50
Exploit 25    25      0
2.4. Poaching indexes        * Reports from
decrease by 50% between year   participatory monitoring
2 & 5 in all protected areas
2.5. Participatory ecological  * Cross reference of
monitoring reports are used as  monitoring report,
management tool in year 4 for  management plans and
all targeted protected areas   annual work programs
except Sahel.
(3) Effective program      3.1 Funds are timely made    * Consolidated Annual
administration, monitoring  available to conservators and  Reports
and coordination has enabled  concessionaires' accounts
timely and efficient
implementation of project  3.2 Goods and works are      * Annual Work Program
activities                 timely procured
3.3 Financial accounting and  * Annual and quarterly
budget control is adequate     reports
3.4 Annual reports and       * Bank statements
annual work programs meet
agreed standards by year 3.  * Supervision aide
memoire
-   Audits
- 38 -



l                 l    ~~~~~~~Key PerFormance  Data Collection Strategy 
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                               .     Critical Assumptions
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
(1) National capacity     $1.20 million               * Annual work program    Availability of high-profile
building for support to   (GEF $ 1.14 million)          and reports            audit firms with strong
decentralized management                              * Annual and quarterly   capacity in wildlife
of protected areas                                      financial reports      management analysis and
* TOR                    innovations
1.1 Provide incremental                               * Contract monitoring
support to NSC and STAC                               * Audit report
1.2 Establish anti-poaching                           * Study reports
unit in DGEF                                          * Workshop proceedings
1.3 Provide training and build                        * International protocols
awareness to DGEF staff,
conservators and key partners
1.4 Contribute to studies and
workshops for national legal
and institutional reforms
1.5. Conduct studies on (1)
trust funds & fund transfer,
(2) economic return of WCUs,
(3) private sectors'
optimization and labeling of
ecotourism/safari product
1.6 Conduct audit of
concessionaires.
1.7 Contribute to a national
information system on
conservation (including a
GIS, web gateway)
1.8. Contribute to the
standard annual wildlife
census
1.9. Coordinate activities at
the transfrontier level
t2) Local capacity building  $ 11.54 million          * Annual work programs   Capacity and commitment of
to manage protected areas  (GEF: $5.83 million)          and reports           partner Govemment services
* Training reports       to provide timely and quality
Sub components:                                       * Study reports          services to the project.
- WCU Sahel                                           * Management plans
- WCU ComoN  L&aba                                    * Field visit
- WCU PONASI                                          * Guide Contract
- WCU Bobo                                            * Proces Verbal reception
work
Activities in all                                     * Monitoring reports
sub-components:
2.1 Provide technical
assistance to conservators and
concessionaires
2.2. Train project staff and
staff of partner services
- 39 -



2.3 Provide training to
viTiagers in functional literacy
2.4. Provide training to
vi llagers and AGEREF
m embers in
cc nservation-related
| techniques
12.5. Carry out complementary
perticipatory diagnostics.
2 i Conduct conservation
awareness campaign in
protected area periphery
2.7. Induce the creation and
i iegal recognition of
|A iEREFs.
12. i. Conduct ecological
I di ignostic and basic studies
for each GEF-targeted
protected area
2. i. Negotiate and materialize
I lirnits of protected areas
2. 10. Prepare management
pla ns for each protected area
2.11 Initiate implementation
I 3t management plans
(sarveillance: habitat
management; fire control;
trails, etc.)
12.12 Initiate tourism and
safari activities
2.13 Conduct participatory
ecological monitoring
(3) Project administration  $ 0.73 million             * Updated Strategic Plan  Appointment of coordinator
and monitoring             (GEF $ 0.53)                * Consolidated annual    with strong leadership skills,
3.1 Coordinate project                                   work program and       integrity, commitment, and
activities (planning,                                    reports                planning capacity
supervision)                                           * Consolidated annual and
3.2. Ensure availability of                              quarterly financial reports
funds at the WCU level                                 * Audits
3.3. Procure timely goods,
wD.rk and services
3.4 Ensure adequate financial
management of project funds
3.5 Carry out project
performance monitoring and
es aluation
3.6 Coordinate activities with
PCIU of other projects under
PRONAGEN
-40 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
BURKINA FASO: PARTNERSHIP FOR NATURAL ECOSYSTEM MANAGEMENT PROJECT
The Purpose of the APL is to ensure that by year 15 biodiversity in priority protected areas sustainably
benefits peripheral communities' local development.
Its 15-year Global Objective is to have secured biodiversity in priority protected areas.
At the end of the 5-year Phase 1, achievement of the Project Development Objective (PDO) implies that
improved Forestry Department and communities' capacity and awareness lead to reversal of biodiversity
trends in priority protected areas.
Success in achieving the PDO implies achievement of two major Outputs:
*   Improved DGEF capacity to coordinate and support decentralized management of protected
areas
* Improved peripheral communities' capacity and behavior for conservation of protected areas
Phase 1 is implemented through 3 components:
*   Component 1: National capacity buildingfor support to decentralized management ofprotected
areas
* Component 2: Local capacity building to manage protected areas
* Component 3: Project administration and monitoring
By Component:
Project Component I - US$1.20 million
National capacity buildiny for support to decentralized management of protected areas
Incremental support to Forestry Department
To disseminate the approach and leverage interest from other donors, DGEF needs to be able to adequately
supervise PAGEN and capitalize on the experience of GEPRENAF and other similar projects. GEF will
fund operating costs for DGEF to carry out the above mission. In addition, vehicle poaching of large
mammals and game birds is so common that DGEF plans to set up a small unit to control it. The project
will finance two vehicles for this small unit. WCUs will mobilize the anti-poaching unit when needed and
provide operating costs for its missions. The efficiency of this unit, and rationale for continuation of GEF
funding for its services, will be assessed at the mid-term review.
Awareness building' and training
Awareness building offorestry staff, concessionaires, and private operators
PAGEN will finance conservation awareness activities geared at improving conservation-oriented behavior
of DGEF staff and staff of all WCUs as well as other partners of the sector such as existing
concessionaires and guides. This would include development and diffusion of information material
concerning the activities of PAGEN, its approaches, and results as well as the organization of meetings,
- 41 -



awareness days, and workshops. Consultants or professional service providers contracted by the PCU will
handle awareness building modules.
Training of DGEF staff
DGEF staff and all WCU staff need to improve their overall capacity to implement their core mission and
strengthen their capacity to enforce regulations and carry out conservation planning and services. GEF will
cover some training costs for DGEF staff (in strategic planning, antipoaching, community-based
development, wildlife surveys). Training will be contracted by the PCU either to the National Forestry
School of Dindereso, consulting firms, or NGOs.
Training and awareness raising of private operators
Private guides will benefit, case by case, from the experience of conservators and PCU staff to improve
management and operating practices. In limited cases, specific training or awareness raising activities will
be organized (for example, in the form of national or local workshop) by the PCU and contracted out to
consultant, NGOs, or specialized institutes.
Documentation center
PAGEN will finance a short consultation to design and set up a documentation center at DGEF/DFC
(Wildlife and Hunting Directorate) including bibliographical research. It will also fund purchase of
furniture, books, and cost of duplicating and referencing documents and reports. The documentation center
will be maintained by DFC until a more appropriate institution is set up in Phase 2.
Studies and workshops in support to sector reforms
DGEF needs assistance in improving and promoting the current policy and legal and institutional
framework for protected area management. Several experiments are ongoing in Burkina on the natural
ecosystem conservation front: Nazinon Forest (with FAO), Nazinga Game Ranch (with UNDP/FEM),
Nabere GazeKted Forest (with IDA PNGT), the Como&1,Lraba area (GEPRENAF), Conservation Unit
Support Project (AFD/FFEM), Arly and W National Parks conservation (with France's AFD/FFEM and
the European Union). It is justified for the GEF to help DGEF compare the results and draw lessons from
all these experiences.
PAGEN will contribute to finance a series of studies, consultations, study tours, and workshops to ensure
consultation of all partners and projects and truly capitalize national experiences and benefit from
intemational experiences. An analysis of results will be carried out during the mid-term review of Phase 1.
At that tirne, Government and donors will agree on a package of reforms necessary to trigger Phase 2. The
following studies are planned:
Legal and institutional reforms
GEF financing will supplement FAO, EU, and SCAC financing to finalize reforms of the legal and
institutional framework of decentralized protected area management. This implies the financing of
consultants and workshops. The conclusion of these exercises will be key for the subsequent phases of the
APL. It will be the opportunity for Burkina to assess the financial sustainability of the model, the incentive
framework for more conservation-oriented behavior, as well as the role and responsibility best played by
the communities, Government services, or private operators. The objective would be to come up with an
-42 -



organizational and institutional model that is realistic, efficient, transparent, sustainable, and profitable for
all partners. It is expected that the 1995 wildlife sector reform and the 1997 Forestry Code will be
revamped.
National economic and financial analysis ofprotected areas
The potential economic return of protected areas remains unknown. Thus, the Govermment has difficulty
setting and positioning this sector's tax system. This analysis will start by the creation of a national model
for all protected areas and evaluate the potential financial return or gap, of each (1) for the communities,
(2) for the private operators and (3) for the Government. It will also carry out an economic analysis to
assess the national economic impact of improved tourism and safari product. This analysis will identify
those protected areas which have a potential for self-financing and those which will need permanent
extemal assistance and the annual amount needed to achieve the goal of a provision of $ 1/person per year
to local development funds. It will determine the level of such assistance. It will also propose a fiscal
scenario that optirnizes the financial return to each stakeholder.
Long-term financing mechanisms
To achieve protected area auto-financing as well as provide one-dollar per person per year by program end,
a sustainable source of external financing needs to be set up. The economic study will determine the
financing gap. This study will analyze the Burkina-based or intemational alternative to set up such a
perennial source of funds. In other countries, this has taken the form of a trust fund or a foundation. The
study will also identify altemative disbursement mechanisms to channel GEF funds in Phases 2 and 3. This
can take the form of direct support to the national budget, local budget, or capital to a trust fund. The
objective is also to design a mechanism that rewards conservation-oriented behavior and ecological results
and therefore induces sustainable incentives for better conservation. The study will also assess the donors'
willingness to contribute to such funds and their conditions for such support. A proposal, including the
detailed steps to set up such mechanisms, will be discussed at a national workshop and adopted by the
Government prior to the mid-term review.
Professionalization of private guide and creation of labelfor protected area products
To maximize returns to the national and local economy, the private sector needs to capture high-paying
customers and optimize commercial use of the protected area potential. It also needs to contribute to
maintaining wildlife quality and comfortable infrastructures in protected areas. This will be possible only
with operators with high ethics and professional experience. This study will enable (I) the Government to
set and enforce standards for the private guide corporation as well as (2) the design and adoption of a
Burkina label for ecotourism and safari based on sound ecological management and quality of product (for
example, similar to International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14,000 or to the logging industry
certification). The conclusion of this study will be discussed at the mid-term review and included in the
package of reforms to trigger Phase 2.
National Audits of concessionaires
PAGEN will finance audits of concessionaires and guides: one prior to the mid-term review and one prior
to Phase 1 end. Their purpose is to verify that governance violations are flushed out and that current
concessionaires and private guides are managing protected areas according to the contracts they established
with the Government. The audit will not only focus on financial records but also verify ecological data and
conformity of physical investments. Each audit will make recommendations for improvement which will be
- 43 -



used by the above-mentioned studies and feed the sector reforms.
Monitorinz information system. and communication
The objectives of the ecosystem monitoring system are to (1) provide decisionmakers with a tool to plan
development and conservation, (2) promote ecology as one of the important dimensions of amenagement
du territoire, (3) monitor the ecosystem evolution and, (4) if possible over 5 years, assess the project early
ecological impact. The system is also geared to provide independent and standard information of
biodiversity outcome on which to base a results-based financing mechanism to be designed and adopted in
Phase 1.
The system will provide information at three different levels. At the local level, GIS stations will produce
maps to serve as tools to plan conservators' and concessionaires' interventions and to communicate results
of surveys to villagers. At the national level, the consolidation of information from the various sites will
facilitate making decisions on conservation activities. At the international level, a web gateway will
communicate information to stakeholders on the status and evolution of ecosystems in Burkina Faso.
Data will be collected both through remote-sensing techniques, aerial wildlife surveys, and ground wildlife
and vegetation surveys undertaken by the conservator or concessionaires. Processing these data will be
performed at the site level or outsourced when sophisticated techniques are involved. Information from the
three sites will be consolidated and disseminated at the national level.
National monitoring of bioindicators
PAGEN will finance annual aerial wildlife surveys of all targeted protected areas. Such surveys will seek
to measure a set of bioindicators ranging from populations of large mammals and birds to land use
patterns. Surveys will be carried out according to national norms as part of national inventories. The same
contractor will survey all protected areas with each donor paying for the work concerning the protected
areas it targets.
National monitoring ofprotected area encroachment
PAGEN will finance acquisition of equipment, acquisition of images for remote sensing and processing of
data from aerial and ground surveys and satellite images, and consultants to build an integrated system and
harmonize standards and techniques and optimize costs. Design, set-up, data analysis, and training are to
be outsourced and networked with existing national GIS. At the level of each WCU, the system will build
on existing experiences. In particular, it will build on the (1) GEPRENAF system for the Comoe zone and
ensure its sustainability in the long run by transferring it from its existing temporary location in Banfora to
an existing sustainable institution such as Regional Directorates of Environment (DREP) in
Bobo-Dioulaso; (2) existing GIS capacities established in DREP in Dori for the Sahel zone; and (3)
research-oriented ecosystem monitoring facilities in Nazinga for the Kabore-Tambi zone.
Web gateway
PAGEN will finance consultants to build a website and link it to the project monitoring system and to other
relevant sites in-country. The contract will include training of DGEF staff for subsequent maintenance and
use as well as yearly updating and upgrading. The objective is to enable the general public and potential
clients to have transparent access to conservation strategies, activities, results, audits, studies, as well as
protected areas whose commercial operations have received a quality label (for example, ISO 9000 or
-44 -



14000). The website can also be useful as an international marketing link for tour operators,
concessionaires, and guides.
International coordination
Both the Comoe and Sahel sites border other countries (Cote d'Ivoire and Mali). To a lesser extent, the
Kabor&-Tambi is linked with Ghana through a corridor across the Nazinga Game Ranch. All of these sites
are adjacent to other sites that also receive, or will receive, GEF support in these countries. PAGEN will
therefore allocate funds to enable regular exchange with other countries' teams, both at the national and
site levels, to provide cross-support locally and ensure that border issues become assets rather than
constraints. Ghana and Mali already have signed a protocol for cross-border antipoaching and fire
management. Another protocol is ready for Cote d'Ivoire (where current politics have delayed its
signature).
PAGEN will finance the services of a partner (an international NGO such as IUCN) contracted to provide
technical support to the PCU, primarily to promote and ensure adequate coordination with other countries
(Cote d'Ivoire, Ghana, Mali) and their projects on the other side of the borders. The role of such partners
would be to organize meetings with the teams of all countries, promote exchange of information and
experience, and ensure that management and zoning decisions on each side of the borders are mutually
beneficial. They will also verify that zoning and rules that pertain to pastoralism and movement of animals,
including wildlife, especially elephants, from one country to the other are compatible.
Project Component 2 - US$11.54 million
Local capacity building for protected area management
Incremental support
To local advisoryfora
For each protected area, PAGEN will finance the costs of the annual meetings of a local forum most
pertinent to a given protected area. For protected areas entirely contained within a province (for example,
Mares aux Hippos or Como-Ulraba), the forum will be the existing official Cadre de Concertation
Technique Provincial (CCTP). For protected areas that overlap several provinces (for example, Kabore
Tambi National Park), a specific forum will be organized with representative of the CCTP of each
province.
To Wildlife Conservation Units
PAGEN would finance rehabilitation of field offices as well as some equipment and operating costs of
WCUs and their conservators. Relevant WCUs are located in Banfora, Bobo Dioulaso, Po, and Gorom
Gorom. They would operate under a protocol with the Project Coordination Unit (PCU). The services
financed would pertain only to activities that they carry out according to an agreed annual work program
and on the basis of targeted results. They will coordinate local implementation of PAGEN and contribute to
all project activities with a focus on the ecological and participatory diagnostics, preparation, and
implementation of management plan; training of communities in forestry, ecological monitoring, and
antipoaching; and law enforcement of vehicle poaching.
-45 -



To other provincial services
Because they will work closely with WCU staff, PAGEN will also finance part of the operating costs of the
Forestry, Agriculture and Livestock Services agents posted in the departments concerned by PAGEN. They
would operate under protocols with the Wildlife Conservation Unit and an agreed work program which
would pertain only to activities that alleviate the threat to protected areas, such as helping freeze the
agriculture front or find solutions for livestock-wildlife conflicts.
Technical assistance
At each site, PAGEN will finance limited technical assistance to each conservator and to concessionaires
(AGEREF for Comoe-Leraba and NATURAMA for Kabore Tambi). Technical assistance will be
contracted to national experts. The project will also finance the purchase of vehicles and other equipment
as well as the technical assistance operating costs.
The role and make-up of TA teams will be different from one WCU to another depending on the maturity
of the local system. The TA staff will among other things (1) coordinate the participatory and ecological
diagnostics, (2) ensure PAGEN planning and reporting at the site level, (3) carry out information and
awareness raising campaign toward communities, (4) identify training requirements and organize such
training, (5) facilitate the establishment of AGEREFs, (6) assist the AGEREFs in preparing management
plans for their protected areas, (7) assist conservators in planning and implementing surveillance strategies,
(8) liaise with the national coordination unit for all procurement and disbursement, and (9) assist
AGEREFs in their relations with private guides.
Training and awareness raising
Training for PA GENfield staff and partners
The Project will finance training cost for conservators and concessionaire staff and TA to improve their
skills in communication, participatory methods, ecological monitoring, activity planning, and reporting. In
addition, and on a case-by-case basis, agriculture and livestock services staff posted in the field will receive
training in skills relevant to PAGEN objectives (participatory diagnostic, use of Global Positioning System
(GPS), participatory monitoring). This training will be contracted out directly by the PCU to the National
Forestry School, training institutes, consulting firms, or NGOs.
Community awareness building
Conservation education is necessary to increase general awareness of conservation and to mobilize the
interests and participation of villagers and their traditional authorities. The Project will finance awareness
raising of the community members with a special focus on the AGEREF and resource users. The
GEPRENAF experience has shown that community sensitivity about natural resources issues are best
increased through regular discussions, demonstrations, and visits to other locations, where they can witness
and leam from others' successes and mistakes. As a first step, conservators or concessionaires' staff and
TA will initiate contact with villagers through discussions and meetings. As second step, awareness
building will be coupled with the participatory and ecological diagnostics. Thereafter, a more ambitious
program will be designed according to the result of the diagnostics. It is expected that the following
awareness raising tools will be used: teacher training, posters, theater presentations, field visits, local radio
programs, and contests.
- 46 -



Community training
The Project will finance training modules for the community members with special focus on the AGEREF,
CVGT members, and community enterprises. A training strategy and action plan will be prepared and
registered in the protected area management plan. They are expected to include adult literacy training;
structured training in keeping records, accessing financial resources, and mobilizing community
contributions; executing activities (contracting, cash management, record keeping, monitoring); and
providing technical skills training (wildlife surveys, antipoaching, fire management, tourist guiding, trophy
preparation, building and maintaining temporary roads). Training will be contracted out by the conservator
or concessionaires to the Training Institute of Nabilpaga-Yargo, consulting firms, or NGOs.
Local institution building
The creation of AGEREFs requires specific assistance to the communities in the form of advice,
workshops, and legal assistance. PAGEN will finance short consultations to assist communities through the
process of creating associations, organizing assemblies, drafting bylaws, and registration. Once an
AGEREF is officially created, it will need assistance for its internal organization to recruit minimal staff,
negotiate "concession agreements" with the Government, contract out work and services, and recruit private
guides. PAGEN will finance such assistance case by case. In Phase 1, it is expected that 6 to 10 AGEREFs
will be created, and 3 will become concessionaires of protected areas.
Local development
Participatory diagnostics and establishment of Local Development Plans
As a gap-closing measure to ensure coverage of all relevant villages, that is, for villages in the Sahel
Reserve and around the Kabore Tambi National Park, PAGEN will finance the participatory diagnostic,
the design of Local Development Plans, and assistance for conimunities to open Village Investment Funds
(VIF) in local banks. Elsewhere, IDA (CBRDP) or other donors will finance these activities. The list of
villages will be flexible enough to enable modification. The basic unit will be the village, or if communities
so wish, the group of villages, according to the transitory model toward decentralization proposed with the
Community-based Rural Development Program (CBRDP). Conservators or concessionaires and their
technical assistance and national consultants will carry out the diagnostics.
*   In the Sahel Reserve, it is estimated that 58 villages in the Departments of Tongomayel, Nassoumbou,
Koutougou, Oursi, and Tin Akoff, or about 69,900 inhabitants, will need such support. The
diagnostics and design of Local Development Plans (LDP) of the Doe Department villages (16,900
inhabitants) and Markoye (21,800 inhabitants) will be financed by the Netherlands and Germany
through the Program Sahel Burkinabe (PSB).
*   Around Kabore Tambi, it is estimated that, of the 90 villages (or 50,000 people), only 25 villages (or
11,000 inhabitants) in the Bazega and Ziro Provinces will need project assistance for participatory
diagnostics.
Implementation of Local Development Plans (tallied as baseline but not financed by GEF)
In villages relevant to PAGEN, CBRDP or one of the partner projects will finance implementation of the
villages' Local Development Plans (see CBRDP PAD or baseline description in Annex 4). Micro-project
execution will be done by the village communities (Comite Villageois de Gestion des Terroirs, or CVGT)
-47 -



or their contractors. Eligible micro-projects fall under the following categories: soil fertility and erosion
control; tree plantings; support to livestock production; support to agricultural production; support to fish
production; water and sanitation; and other small socioeconomic infrastructure.
Initial steps of protected area management
Identification of protected areas
Where necessary, the conservator and its technical assistant will first negotiate with villagers and
subsequently help them delineate protected areas (completed for the Comoe-L6raba protected area; not
necessary for the Park and the Biosphere Reserve). In the Sahel, the goal is to set aside for conservation
several areas of sufficient size to enable natural ecological recovery. Some areas are already targeted:
"Tigered bush in Soum"; Seno Mango; Oursi Lake; Darkoye Ponds; and the area around the Beli River.
PAGEN will finance the operating costs associated with this work: village meetings, identifying and simple
marking of limits in the field.
Pastoral tenure and users' diagnostic in Sahel
In the Sahel, beyond the participatory diagnostic, which even if it includes pastoralism is done on a limited
scale, it is necessary to carry out a diagnostic on a much larger scale. Indeed, the resource-user community
exploits an extremely vast domain that goes beyond the selected site in Burkina and extends far into Mali.
A pastoral tenure and users' study will be carried out. Research teams will work closely with the PAGEN
field teams. The objective, at the scale of the two countries, is to understand better the current rules for
occupying and exploiting the spatially distributed resources by herders and farmer-herders. The study will
attempt to reach out to the user community (primarily Peul, Bela, and Tuareg) to establish trust and
identify the constraints that the current management mode implies. This study would target the following
outcome: (I) spatio-temporal maps of the use of space by herders, (2) spatio-temporal map of resources
(forests, rangeland, and water); (3) identification of, and establishment of a dialog with, the current
primary users, those who possess traditional rights to resources or land, or those who either are traditional
decisionmakers or have appeared as decisionmakers (if any); (4) identification of local or tribal hierarchy
and of the decisionmaking process that regulates use of the range and water (if any); (5) evaluation of the
herders' perception of qualitative and quantitative trends in natural resources ; (6) identification of possible
zoning, and/or improved rules for using the land and its resources, in agreement with the current
demographic trends, herders' vision of their future, and biodiversity conservation.
Conservation dynamics in Kabore-Nazinga-Sissili Complex
The Kabore-Tambi National Park runs along the Nazinon River, which continues into Burkina and is used
as a corridor by elephants going in and out of Ghana. Nearby Nazinga Game Ranch and Sissili hunting
area, which are adjacent to each other, have had an increase in elephant population because of improved
protection in the ranch and because the corridor between Kabore-Tambi and Nazinga was severed and
prevented elephant passage back to the park. This study will carry out the diagnostic of the overall
conservation system by assessing its ecological viability, as well as the possibility of corridors between all
Wildlife Conservation Units and to Ghana and overall monitoring of simple ecological indicators. It will
also assess whether there is a potential threat from the agricultural front (such as cotton) or livestock (for
example, from movement of livestock within the area and between the two countries) and propose a
strategy to improve work with both sectors. The diagnostic will be discussed with Ghana Department of
-48 -



Wildlife for the possibility of an international protocol concerning management of adjacent (or connected)
Wildlife Conservation Units in both countries.
Water resource diagnostic of Mares aux Hippos Biosphere Reserve
The study will concentrate on the management of water quantity and quality of the Mares aux Hippos. The
lake's and adjacent wetland's water comes from a single stream that runs into the agricultural area. The
lake's level is artificially maintained by a fixed-level weir, which prevents much variation. Finally,
eutrophication of the lake (from unknown sources of pollution) and appearance of exotic floating plants
may impact the local vegetation and fish community. A study will assess the threat in detail and explore
options to sustainably resolve the constraint. These options will be discussed with all local partners and
Government services to reach a consensus on upstream and downstream management strategies.
Preparation of protected area management plans
Within two to three years, conservators or concessionaires and their TA will prepare a management plan
for each protected area. A management plan establishes the long-term vision of a specific protected area,
records its biological and physical assets, and defines its conservation and development goals. It also
identifies investments and the implementation schedule. The management plan is built from (1) information
and data gathered from the ecological diagnostics, (2) studies, (3) early results of ecological monitoring, (4)
maps, (5) field investigations, and (6) rules defined by the community. A management plan is already
available for the Como&Leraba protected area. Investments and activities to be recorded in management
plans and eligible for GEF financing could range from tracing protected area limits, building rural roads
and trails for surveillance and tourism, water management schemes such as small dams, mitigation of
crop-raiding elephants, anti-poaching, and participatory ecological monitoring to construction of small
tourism infrastructure such as miradors or camps. Activities registered in a management plan are not
restricted to the protected area itself. The plan can also include activities outside the area whose objective
is to alleviate external pressure. Examples of such activities are establishment of livestock corridors,
intensification of particularly land-voracious crops, and awareness raising in primary school.
Implementation of protected areas management plans
Construction and maintenance of infrastructure
In Phase 1, conservators, or concessionaires, will initiate implementation of management plans. To
implement a management plan, each conservator or concessionaire will hire community enterprises, or
intermediaries, for related services or works and collaborate with relevant Government services and private
operators. The most ambitious work (small dams, roads, and tourism infrastructure) will be contracted out
to entrepreneurs, but most of the work will be carried out by community enterprises. In Phase 1, it is
expected that investments planned in the management plans will be only partially implemented, but this will
vary from one protected area to another.
Surveillance ofprotected areas
The management plan will define the surveillance strategy. Most likely, it will be carried out by joint teams
of the WCU foresters and villagers. PAGEN will finance equipment (bicycles, camels, minor camping
gear) and operating costs for such teams. Continuation of financing or maintenance of surveillance contract
will be based on performance defined in the contractual agreements or protocols.
- 49 -



Use of protected areas
Traditional and local markets will be brought into the process through the sustainable use and
commercialization of renewable resources such as wood for timber or firewood, honey, medicinal plants,
fish, and pasturage. The concessionaire will organize such utilization directly with local merchants,
community associations, or members of the community. If registered in the management plan, this may
iavolve open or regulated access by community members to certain resources that are important to the
conmmunity's traditional diet. The project will help AGEREFs identify, organize, and monitor such
commercial contracts.
The AGEREFs will attempt to attract foreign tourists interested in wildlife viewing, adventure tours, and
safari hunting. They will contract out intemationally marketable commercial activity to private guides.
These guides will be expected to invest in tourism facilities (camps and small infrastructure), participate in
recurrent costs of maintaining investments, as well as attract and take care of international clients. The
types and lengths of contracts as well as the responsibilities of private guides will be fine-tuned during
Phase 1. To attract suitable professionals and curtail the investment risks, PAGEN may partially subsidize
private businesses by matching their investments (for example, financing tourism trails if guides finance the
construction of a camp). In Phase 1, it is expected that no more than three protected areas will have
launched such cash-earning ventures.
A substantial portion of wildlife income comes from the trophy fee paid by safari hunters. Under current
regulation, it is captured by the central Government. Under a special agreement and until new regulations
permit decentralization of such taxes, the Government will return all trophy fees to the concessionaire. A
portion of counterpart funding will be used for such purpose.
Local ecosystem monitoring
Data will be collected both through ground wildlife and vegetation surveys undertaken by villagers
contracted out by conservators or concessionaires. Processing these data will be performed at the site or
outsourced when involving sophisticated techniques. Information from the four WCUs will be consolidated
and disseminated at the national level. PAGEN will finance acquisition of minor equipment (such as
compasses), operating costs for monthly and annual data collection, and data processing. On each site, a
GIS station will produce maps that will serve as a tool to plan conservators' and concessionaires'
interventions and to communicate results of surveys to villagers.
Administration of component
This component entails management by four conservators and the concessionaire NATURAMA of local
"90-day accounts" for part of their daily operating costs as well as for implementation of management
plans. All procedures are recorded in a Local Administrative and Financial Management Manual.
Conservators and concessionaires' accountants will carry out transactions, replenish accounts, ensure data
collection, and keep financial records for monitoring and evaluation purposes.
- 50 -



Project Component 3 - US$ 0.73 million
Proiect administration and monitoring
Incremental support
National Steering Committee and Scientific and Technical Advisory Council
The project will finance the costs of the annual meetings of the National Steering Committee (NSC) and
Scientific and Technical Advisory Council (STAC).
CONAGESE
The project will allocate operation costs of CONAGESE. CONAGESE is responsible to oversee adequate
implementation of the environmental management plan. This implies screening all management plans prior
to official adoption and implementation, review of Environment and Social Assessment (ESA) of each
infrastructure with potential impact on the environment, as well as regular field missions to verify that the
project is implemented according to ESA provisions.
Proiect administration
The PAGEN Coordinator, an experienced financial administrator and procurement officer will be posted at
the office of the General Forestry Directorate (DGEF) in Ouagadougou. The Coordinator will be appointed
according to rules for Project Coordinators prevailing in Burkina Faso. The administrator and procurement
officer will be recruited. Responsibilities include overall administrative and financial management of GEF
and counterpart funds; consolidation of operational planning and monitoring of the physical and financial
implementation; national and provincial procurement; accounting; internal audit; personnel management;
staff personnel training; and review of administrative procedures. The coordinator will carry out regular
field supervision and supervise extemal evaluation. The GEF would finance the equipment and operating
costs of the Coordination Unit.
Audits
The project will also finance annual audits of accounts, performance, and physical implementation.
- 51 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
BURKINA FASO: PARTNERSHIP FOR NATURAL ECOSYSTEM MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                  US $million   US $million   US $million
National capacity building for support to decentralized      1.03          0.04          1.07
management of protected areas
Local capacity building for management of protected areas   10.53          0.21         10.74
Project administration & monitoring                          0.59          0.07          0.66
Total Baseline Cost                                         12.15          0.32         12.47
Physical Contingencies                                      0.40          0.02          0.42
Price Contingencies                                         0.56          0.01          0.57
Total Project Costs'               13.11          0.35         13.46
Total Financing Required                13.11          0.35         13.46
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                  US $million   US $million   US $million
Works                                                          1.39           0.00          1.39
Equipment                                                      0.31           0.35          0.66
Services                                                       3.84           0.00          3.84
Training                                                       1.49           0.00          1.49
Micro-projects                                                 4.21           0.00          4.21
Operating costs (work & equipment O&M)                         0.69           0.00          0.69
Operating costs (salaries & services in protocol)              1.01           0.00          1.01
Other (Government-refunded wildlife taxes)                     0.17           0.00          0.17
Total Project Costs       13.11           0.35         13.46
Total Financing Required       13.11           0.35         13.46
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0.66 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 12.8 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 58.59% of
total project cost net oftaxes.
- 52 -



Annex 4: Incremental Cost Analysis
PHASE 1 OF APL
BURKINA FASO: PARTNERSHIP FOR NATURAL ECOSYSTEM MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Broad Development Goal
The GEF-financed PAGEN, along with other donors' projects, seeks to implement PRONAGEN, a national
program for improved management of natural ecosystems. PRONAGEN is also complementary to a
national Community-based Rural Development Program (CBRDP) whose objective is "to alleviate poverty
in rural areas, by building local capacity to implement small investments of a natural resources
protection, productive or social nature, and by accelerating the pace ofpublic transfers to these areas."
The CBRDP whose main financing instruments is an IDA $160 million APL (as well as other donor's
projects and programs) aims to implement the Government decentralized rural development strategy. It
will do so by delivering to village communities a package of public sector interventions (including skills
development and project investments) which respond to the expressed needs of the rural population. It will
address sustainable agriculture and livestock production constraints (through interventions that are of value
to the community at large) and also fund investments to support agricultural production or improve rural
living conditions (economic and social infrastructure).
The proposed PAGEN's development objective for its first phase is to have achieved "reversal of
biodiversity trends in priority protected areas". The conservation (and regeneration) of biodiversity
through sound management of natural resources will be seek via several fronts: (1) improve conservation
to restore the natural habitat and wildlife, (2) assist communities and its partners in the preparation and
implementation of Participatory Management Plans (3) manage more efficiently natural resources in the
hinterland as part of rural development efforts, and (4) support and reinforce local and national capacity.
Phasing and processing of APL
This 15-year APL program is divided into three phases (see section Al). During project preparation, Phase
I is being designed in detail along with more general designs and triggers for release of the second and third
phases. In keeping with the Bank's APL procedures, this document describes Phase I of the program,
including triggers for moving to subsequent phases (see Section B4), and provides indicative cost estimates
for Phases II and III. Detailed design of subsequent phases, including detailed incremental cost analyses,
will be completed prior to their implementation for review and approval by Bank and GEF management.
It is proposed that the processing of this project be based on parallel GEF/Bank approval of an initial
tranche within a defined funding envelope. The overall cost, implementation period, cost-benefit
justification, financing plan, and general description of program activities will be developed and agreed
up-front with the Government of Burkina Faso, and approved during Bank Board consideration of the first
phase loan, which is well defined. Subsequent tranche releases would be approved by the relevant World
Bank Regional Vice President within the funding and timing parameters defined in the program and are
based on performance and progress toward agreed program goals. It is proposed that corresponding GEF
tranches be released according to similar, pre-established criteria.
- 53 -



Baseline
The CBRDP has adopted a decentralized approach for the delivery of the technical assistance and
investment package consistent with the subsidiary principle of the decentralization law, which calls for the
transfer of State responsibilities to the level most apt to effectively carry them out. Accordingly, small
socio-economic infrastructure (e.g. plantings, erosion bunds, wells, and tracks) will be executed and
managed by village level organizations. Larger, multivillage investment projects (e.g. schools, dams,
connecting roads) will often be executed by private or NGOs intermediaries. Consistent with the
production and income growth objective of the Government strategy for the rural areas, the proposed
Program will also fund productive activities run by men and women farmer groups, provided such activities
have been endorsed by the whole community (e.g. input stores, cereal banks, labor saving equipment of
collective value, group purchase of animals for fattening etc.).
The baseline Program is considered to be the sum of all activities pertaining to Community-based rural
development and natural resources management ongoing or planned in the villages stakeholders in PAGEN
focal areas. In Phase 1 these activities are supported mainly by the IDA project in support of CBRDP
(also called CBRDP). Other initiatives have been identified in the Sahel: PSBs (Program Sahel Burkinabe
cofinanced by UTNDP, Denmark, Holland, Germany); PDSE (Program for the Development of the
Livestock Sector - AfDB) and around Kabore Tambi national Park: LDPZ (Local Development Program
in Zoundweogo). CBRDP and alike are tallied as baseline because they are the necessary foundation on
which to develop the community capacity & commitment for wildland management & conservation.
Costs
The total amount channeled by CBRDP will depend on the capacity and speed at which villagers and their
partners are capable to carry out the participatory diagnostics & Local Development Plans. The IDA
CBRDP will operate in all of the Provinces where PAGEN is implemented. It is estimated that their
contribution to social & productive micro-projects could be in the order of $2.53 million (this includes
overheads). The communities are expected to contribute $0.59 million. Since other projects already
operate in the Sahel, not all villages will be approached by IDA CBRDP teams. In addition to the IDA
CBRDP, it is estimated that the PSBs, PDSE & LDPZ will mobilize about $1.10 million for operations in
the GEF project Concentration areas and private operators $0.06 million
Govenmnent cofinancing would be in the order of $1.68 million including $0.66 in custom and taxes. This
is a 7.5% real contribution to the proposed project which is significant for Burkina (one of the poorest
country in the world). In comparison, the Government real contribution to the IDA CBRDP is in the order
of 5%.
For the purpose of the Incremental cost matrix, the "direct" baseline costs includes cofinancing
(Government & communities) and "associated" financing (IDA CBRDP, PSBs, PDSE, LDPZ &
Communities). This amounts to $5.96 million or 44% of total project costs in phase I (see table below). It
should be noted that the contribution of other donors to PRONAGEN for management of other protected
areas in Burkina, is not tallied as baseline. It is estimated to amount to more than $10 million over the next
five years.
- 54 -



Benefits
In the absence of GEF support, the focus of the CBRDP would enable the following results to be reached in
the villages covered by the baseline Program. Based on the results of the evaluation impact assessment of
the experimental phase of the CBRDP carried out in 1998, it is possible to predict four broad categories of
benefits:
(i) Impact on living conditions. Increased income can be expected from a broad range of
activities (irrigation, gardening, cattle and sheep fattening, processing of food products, fuelwood, seedling
production, wildlife, fishing etc.). Less direct income impact would come from yield increases resulting
from soil fertility interventions, and from better access to markets due to roads and tracks. Food security
would be enhanced as a result of income increases, and also due to the construction of foodgrain banks.
Clean water would lessen the impact of water borne diseases. Village health interventions would extend the
outreach of the district level health centers, in all aspects of preventive health, including aids (the
prevalence of aids is between 6 and 10 percent among pregnant women). Village schools built in response
to public demand would lead to increased children enrollment. Contracting local artisans and small-scale
entrepreneurs would generate local employment opportunities. An income-generating component
exclusively aimed at women, successfully executed and evaluated in the context of the Food Security
project, would be replicated with the explicit objective of improving women and family welfare.
(ii) Impact on Natural Resources. Better management for long-terrn sustainable use of the natural
resources is a fundamental pilar of the Program. Efforts would be made to monitor the impact of the
program on the environment, and beneficiary villages would be especially trained to gather key indicators
(e.g. yields, water level).
(iii) Impact on Local Capacities. Strengthened capacity of broadly representative village
organizations is a prerequisite to the efficient execution of the "baseline Program", the equitable
distribution of its benefits and the sustainability of its results. The creation of CVGT and support to their
internal organizations and procedures would be of great benefit to the long-term success of the Program
and would be a key step in the emergence of capable rural municipalities. Alphabetization programs would
be an essential ingredient in the capacity-building effort. Additionally, improved technical knowledge
would result from corresponding training programs, thereby supporting the introduction of new productive
activities and the diversification of revenues. Additional training would be directed to the technical and
organizational skills required to ensure the maintenance of project-funded investments (e.g. maintenance of
pumps and mills, bushfire control).
(iv) Impact on the Institutional Environment. CBRDP would play an essential coordination role
at the village, province and national levels, and integrate the intervention of a large number of actors across
a broad range of sectors and subsectors. Very significant results in that direction have been obtained under
the experimental phase of CBRDP; eliminating duplication of action and reducing intervention costs. This
has been made possible by actors from a broad range of field organizations tearning up to support the
promotion of the PNGT approach.
Global Environment obiective
The Partial Sahel Reserve covers 1.6 million ha entirely in the arid West African Sahel where rainfall
ranges between 450 and 150 mm. While the description of the Program areas' biodiversity (ILCA reports
824 plant species, endemisms, etc.) is not accessible in a comprehensive report, it is expected to include
wide ranging species that do exist in other parts of the Sahel. However, nowhere is the Sahel unique
- 55 -



ecosystem protected on the scale that its arid ecology warrants. That ecosystem is threatened to the point
that several species have already disappeared from the wild (e.g. oryx). The Sahel Reserve presents a
number of interesting features: a Ramsar Site (Oursi), a bird sanctuary (Beli), a waterfowl hunting
concession (Darkoye), a proposed wildlife ranch (Markoye) and harbors large portions of uninhabited land,
such as the Seno Mango, which can provide suitable habitat at the scale needed by the arid ecosystem. Its
wetlands are on important European and Ethiopian bird flyways. Seno Mango comprises a large dunal
system covered with grass land which is mostly located in Mali, and a system of complex woodland and
bowe called "tigered bush" located on the Burkina side of the border. The tigered-Bush with its dense
thickets provides excellent shelter to ungulates (e.g. dama, dorcas & red-fronted gazelles). It is also the
summer ground for a 700-rich elephant herd migrating from Mali.
In Comoe, the Diefoula-Logoniegue Conservation area set up by the rural community covers about
100,000 ha of savanna woodland and gallery forests. The galleries are the northern spur of the Guinean
forest; of 301 species of plants inventoried 37 characterize dense humid forest. It harbors animal species
unique in Burkina: 2 families, 4 genders & 7 species (e.g. the chimpanzee and black-and-white colobus).
The global value of that ecosystem is similar to the internationally recognized nearby Comoe National
Park, to which this site is linked via a corridor along the Comoe river. Conservation there is addressed at
the landscape, and even watershed, level in coordination with other GEF funded initiatives in C6te d'Ivoire
(GEPRENAF CI & CI National Park Protection) and a private operator in the Boulon-Koflande game
ranch (Oust north of the site).
The Kabore-Tambi National Park: This park, formerly known as P6 national park, covers 155,000 ha of
alluvial floodplain along both banks of the Volta Rouge River, which is reduced to isolated water holes
during the dry season. There is a number of small marches and lakes within the park, and wooded savanna
predominates. Mammals include lion, elephant, buffalo and a number of antelope species. Poaching,
illegal wood collection and grazing have been a problem and animal numbers have been significantly
reduced. The park possesses several interesting opportunities in term of conservation and economic
development. It is located at a short distance from The Nazinga Game Ranch (which received GEF/UNDP
support) & the Sissili conservation area. Both are managed for wildlife utilization. Wildlife populations
are high because of increased security and the creation of waterholes. Both have attracted large numbers of
elephants (in the order of 600). Habitat degradation is now a problem which can only be solved by
restoring some of the elephant traditional range. Kabore-Tambi is along that range.
The Biosphere Reserve of Mare aux Hippos: An area of 19,200 ha is gazetted. The whole site was
established as a Ramsar site in 1990. The reserve lies in a flat floodplain with marshie areas in the north
and a 660 ha perennial lake (the "Mare au Hippos") in the south. Open forest dominates, with gallery
forest along the watercourse, and thickets on leterite pans. Large mammals densities within the reserve are
low due to poaching and hippopotami are the most important species. The reserve is classified as one of
several ZICO (Zone d'Importance pour la Conservation des Oiseaux) in Burkina by the NGO
NATURAMAlBirdlife Int. Overgrazing and fire are of particular concems as well as the management of
water both upstream and down stream from the lake.
Expected benefits for global biodiversity include: (i) increasing the ecological security of flora and fauna
that are rare or threatened on a regional and global scale including the northermmost population of African
elephants; (ii) restoration and preservation of a representative area of the West Africa Sahelian ecosystem
which is exceptional on a national, regional and global scale; (iii) preservation of genetic diversity within
ecologically, economically and culturally important species in natural population within their historical
range; and (iv) integration of sound ecological management principles of water resources, livestock and
agriculture practices in the framework of wildland conservation.
- 56 -



GEF Alternative
The PAGEN adopts the approach described above, builds on GEPRENAF results (see D3) and expands its
vision to the ecosystem or landscape and "pastoral space" level. It will encourage local initiative on
biodiversity while maintaining some form of planning and prioritization at these levels. As a consequence,
in the focus areas, PAGEN will support part of incremental operating costs, capacity building and
ecosystem monitoring. Effective adoption of biodiversity concerns by rural community groups and other
operators will depend upon the success of awareness and capacity-building efforts. Hence, IEC & training
will be fundamental components of PAGEN.
In all of its Phases, PAGEN will be implemented through its three components (see C1):
Component 1: National capacity building for support to decentralized management of protected areas
Component 2: Local capacity building for management of protected areas
Component 3: Project administration & monitoring
Because, dryland management needs to be carried out also at a larger scale, the northern strip of the
Reserve ("concentration area") will receive specific focus from PAGEN. It will ensure that the entire
participatory planning is carried out with the estimated 45 to 60 villages & camps (about 55,000 people).
The objective is to set aside for conservation several areas of at least 100,000 ha and others around
permanent lakes (Oursi, Darkoye, Beli, etc.). The communities will be encouraged to federate into
intervillage associations/groupments (or AGEREF) in order to manage biodiversity areas and initiate
sustainable commercial activities.
The Diefoula-Logoniegue lies at the opposite end of the country in the Sudanian savanna of the Comoe
ecosystem. For the past few years, the site has received financial assistance from the GEF/Belgiurn
through the Pilot Community-based Natural Resources & Wildlife Management Project (GEPRENAF). At
the end of 2001, the GEPRENAF will end but, it is expected that (i) the wildlife population will not have
sufficiently recovered to be cropped at a high enough rate to finance conservation and contribute to local
development, (ii) the AGEREF position as Concessionaire and capacity will be to recent to optimize its
management of the area, (iii) the private Guide will have just been selected and may not have found a
suitable "business" equilibrium with the community. PAGEN will therefore accompany the
Diefoula-Logoniegue community, for five more years, with incremental financing of biodiversity
conservation; the baseline being provided by villagers themselves and revenues from exploitation of the
Conservation area.
Kabore-Tambi National Park & in the Biosphere Reserve of Mare aux Hippos occupy special positions
within the spectrum of Burkina ecosystems. The first task will be to carry out, with the communities, an
ecological diagnostic and baseline inventories. The preparation of Participatory Management Plans will be
carry out conjointly with capacity building efforts targeting both the Forests service employees officially
entrusted to the management of the reserve/park and communities. By the end of PAGEN phase 1, it is
expected that both protected areas will possess a management plan and that an AGEREF will be ready to
work with reserve/park management officials. It is also expected that wildlife & habitat degradation will
have been reversed. However, substantial recovery is not expected before Phase 2
- 57 -



Costs
The Phase I GEF Alternative estimated to costs $13.46 million.
GEF                         $7.50 million
PNGT2 (IDA)                 $2.53 million
Other donors                $1 .10 million
Communities                 $0.59 million
Governnent of Burkina       $1.68 million
(custom/taxes $0.66 million & counterpart financing $1.02 million)
Private sources             $ 0.06 million
Benefits
With GEF support, the CBRDP would be locally reinforced and enable total coverage of PAGEN focal
areas. Based on the results of the GEPRENAF, it is possible to identify the benefits that are additional to
the "baseline Program":
Additional impact on living conditions. A marginal increase in income can be expected from new
or alternative activities (tourism, safari hunting, pharmacopoeia, optimization of natural resources use,
wildlife farming, etc.). Overall, the GEF additional impact on living condition will not be direct, but related
to the security provided by a healthy and functioning ecosystem. Additional benefit includes diversification
of income to the communities and to the national economy through more efficient tourism. Targeted
provision by APL end, of a one-dollar equivalent per person per year to local development funds, will
undoubtedly improve the community capacity to finance local development.
Additional Impact on natural resources. Under PAGEN, already improved sustainable use of
natural resources under CBRDP and SILEM, will be widened to large wildland areas as well as to fauna
and flora. A special effort will be made to monitor the impact of PAGEN on the ecosystem, and
beneficiary villages will be especially trained to gather key bioindicators. PAGEN diminishes uncertainties
by ensuring natural resource abundance/quality within protected areas, contributes to food security in
drought years. A better managed ecosystem would have far reaching consequences on rangeland quality
(with long term effects on livestock production), wildlife populations (with long term effect of food security
and tourism income), forest cover (with long term effect on woodfuel security and access to potable water
through aquifer replenishment), etc.
Additional Impact on local capacities, awareness and rights. Strengthened capacity and
conservation awareness of all partners as well as village, and intervillage organizations is a prerequisite to
the efficient execution of PAGEN. The creation and strengthening of Concessionaire AGEREFs, and
support to their internal organizations and procedures, will be key for the long-tern sustainability of
protected areas. When necessary, alphabetization will be an essential ingredient in capacity building.
Additionally, improved technical knowledge will result from corresponding training prograrns, thereby
supporting the introduction of additional activities and the diversification of revenues.
- 58 -



Additional Impact on the policy, legal and institutional environment. GEF support will also
reinforce coordination at the village, province and national levels, and integrates the intervention of a large
number of actors across a broad range of sectors and subsectors. By focusing awareness and capacity
building on Foresters, who traditionally resist decentralization and community empowerment, the GEF may
have a far-reaching impact on the way conservation, as a whole, is approached in Burkina. PAGEN will
reinforce current decentralization trends by ensuring that the long-term vision expressed in the Letters of
Policies leads to adequate new legislation and institutions. GEF financing will also ensure better
coordination and harmonization of current biodiversity conservation efforts by the Government and other
donors at the international, national and local levels.
Additional Impact on biodiversity conservation. It is expected that, over its initial five year,
PAGEN will help secure natural habitat and wildlife in about 400,000 ha of the Sudanian savanna,
200,000 ha in the Sahel as well as several hundreds ha of wetlands in the Sahel. Significant restoration is
expected in the 100,000 ha Diefoula-Logoniegue Gazetted Forests. PAGEN will also rip global benefit
linked to wider ecosystem conservation and lesser desertification.
Incremental Costs
The direct cost of the baseline scenario is calculated to be $5.96 million. The GEF alternative is estimated
to cost $13.46 million, resulting in an incremental cost of $7.50 million. The GEF is therefore asked to
fund $7.50 million of the incremental cost.
Component Sector       Cost category  m US$         Domestic Benefit          Global Benefit
National dimensions    Baseline:      0.25          Day to day continuation of  None or marginal.
forester's activities at
Gov. (0.25)                  national level. Foresters
may have positive impact
on wildlife & ecosystem
conservation locally.
With GEF        1.93         Improving the vision &    Same but global benefits are
Alternative                  capacity of the Forestry  ripped when (a) legal and
department and staff for  institutional reform for better
biodiversity conservation at  support to protected areas; (b)
national level.           forester's vision, incentive &
Improvement of the way the  capacity are supporting protected
existing protected area   area conservation, (d)
conservation strategy is  improvement of long term
implemented, sets the     financing prospect through trust to
course for biodiversity   foundation, (d) international
projects more likely to be  coordination functions well and
sustainable & attract     lead to conservation of globally
private, donor &          important sites & ecosystems (e.g.
community financing.      W & Pendjari system in the east of
International coordination  Burkina; other countries sites in
& experience sharing,     Mali; Cote d'Ivoire & Ghana)
improves decision making,
with attendant conservation
- 59 -



of more habitat and
wildlife.
Incremental     1.68
Northern Sahel Partial  baseline:      2.20         Villagers benefit from a   Current rural development
Reserve                                             participatory diagnostics,  Programs have local benefits on
Gov. (0.45);                 Local Development Plan     biodiversity (through soil
PNGT2 (1.16)                 and some of their most     conservation, bottom land
PSBs (0.43)                  pressing priorities would be  management, or reforestation)
Communities                  financed.
(0.15)                                                  Baseline Programs are
Rural development project  environmentally friendly. They
target environment         are likely to have local positive
awareness, agriculture,    impact on biodiversity. However,
livestock, soil conservation  the main focus of the PNGT &
and social infrastructures.  PSB is not biodiversity, therefore
the negative trend is unlikely to be
Ecosystem monitoring with  reversed
PSBs but limited to human
development indicators.
Conservation law
enforcement in the Reserve
carried out with very low
intensity on a low-budget
basis.
With GEF        4.29         Partners who consider the  The Sahel Reserve's management
alternative                  health of the ecosystem    is approached at the
important for land         ecosystem/landscape level.
productivity influence
development in the entire  Biodiversity conservation,
reserve.                   becomes a more important
dimension of the region's
Participatory diagnostic   development.
carried out at the ecosystem
level.                     Creation of several biodiversity
areas in globally important sites
Pastoralism receives      (Seno Mango; Oursi; Beli; Etc.)
particular attention, in term
of conflict resolution but  User rules are defined and
also in term of rangeland  Participatory Management Plans
and water resources        drafted for the globally important
management.                biodiversity areas created by the
communities.
Forestry units are better
aware of the potential of  Habitat restoration, wildlife
community conservation     recovery, security of elephant herd
and are trained to deliver  initiated in Phase I
services and law
enforcement throughout the
Reserve.
- 60 -



Communities are organized
and their capacity for
management of biodiversity
areas is created.
Incremental    2.09
Comoe Wildlife        Baseline:      1.23         Because of lack of capacity  Diefoula-Logoniegue biodiversity
Conservation Unit                                 & insufficient wildlife   area is stabilization depend on the
Gov. (0.51)                 recovery, the             commitment external partners.
PNGT2 (0.53)                Diefoula-Logoniegue
Communities                 AGEREF remains            User rules are defined in
(0.12)                      dependent on Government   participatory. Management Plans
Private Guide               and private operator      for globally important
(0.06)                      willingness to invest.    conservation areas.
Local development is      Local improvement of biodiversity
financed in all villages  related to better Natural resources
around both Conservation  management techniques.
areas.
Natural resources & forest
management improve
locally within the village's
terroir.
With GEF       2.60         Community capacity        Improved conservation,
Alternative                 building for the          management and monitoring of
management of biodiversity  biodiversity areas in
areas improved.           Diefoula-Logoniegue (100,000
ha).
Wildlife revenues are
optimized and reinjected  Creation of a new biodiversity area
into local development and  in Boulon-Koflande (50,000 ha)
agriculture stabilization.  which enables better migratory
movement of wildlife along the
Exploitation of non-wildlife  Comoe River.
biodiversity (honey,
pharmacopoeia, timber,    Recovery of wildlife population
etc.) strengthens the     and habitat restoration within both
importance of natural     biodiversity areas.
resources management
within the community.     Optimization of revenues & better
distribution of roles &
A mutually beneficial    responsibilities improves the
relationship between the  potential for long term
communities, the          conservation of these two
Government & the private  wildlands.
operator is established.
Incremental    1.37
Nazinga Wildlife      Baseline       1.87         Local development is      Marginal improvement of wildlife
Conservation Unit                                 financed in all villages  because of the ongoing efforts of
-61 -



(Kabore-Tambi         Gov. (0.28)                 around both Conservation  the national NGO NATURAMA.
National Park)        PNGT2 (0.66)                areas.
Other donor                                           Local improvement of biodiversity
(0.66)                      Natural resources & forest  in the park periphery related to
Communities                 management improve        better Natural resources
(0.28)                      locally within the village's  management techniques.
terroir.
With GEF       3.55         Community capacity for the  Creation of a corridor between
Alternative                 co management of the park  Nazinga & Kabore-Tambi sets the
and its corridor to Nazinga  stage for migratory movement of
improved.                 wildlife. Elephants return to
Kabore-Tambi.
Exploitation of non-wildlife
biodiversity (honey,      Managers & users rules for park
pharmacopoeia, timber,    conservation are defined in a
etc.) strengthens the     Participatory Management Plan
importance of natural    for the park.
resources management
within the community.     Recovery of wildlife population
and habitat restoration is initiated.
A mutually beneficial
relationship between the  Appearance of tourism revenues &
communities, the          better distribution of roles &
Government & the NGO is  responsibilities improves the
established.              potential for long term
conservation.
A better equilibrium with
Nazinga & Sissili's
management is sought.
Incremental    1.68
Bobo Wildlife         Baseline       0.49         Local development is      Past efforts for conservation of the
Conservation Unit                                 financed in all villages  reserve are pursued.
(Mares aux Hippos     Gov. (0.18)                 around both Conservation
Biosphere Reserve)    PNGT2 (0.18)                areas.                    The lake integrity is kept and the
Communities                                           hippo population is stabilized.
(0.04)                      Natural resources & forest  The lake remains an important site
management improve        for migratory birds.
locally within the village's
terroir.                  Local improvement of biodiversity
related to better Natural resources
management techniques.
With GEF       1.10         Community capacity        Creation of a new core biodiversity
Alternative                 building for the          area within the biosphere reserve.
management of biodiversity
areas improved.           Studies provide a technical
solution for the management of
Wildlife revenues from   the lake water including
tourism are reinjected into  eutrophication, floating plant
local development.        encroachment, etc.
- 62 -



Exploitation of non-wildlife  Managers & users rules are
biodiversity (honey,      defined in Participatory
pharmacopoeia, timber,    Management Plans for the entire
etc.) strengthens the     Biosphere reserve.
importance of natural
resources management      Recovery of wildlife population
within the community.     and habitat restoration within &
outside the biodiversity areas.
A mutually beneficial
relationship between the  First tourism revenues & better
communities, the          distribution of roles &
Government & the private  responsibilities improves the
operator is established.  potential for long term
conservation of the reserve.
Incremental     0.69
TOTAL                  Baseline       5.96
With GEF
Alternative     13.46
Incremental
Costs           7.50
- 63 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
BURKINA FASO: PARTNERSHIP FOR NATURAL ECOSYSTEM MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Years Ending
2007
Qgj .p, s-i- 3t   .' -   1 lMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
Year I     Year 2    Year 3     Year 4    Year5      Year 6    Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           1.6        2.3        2.7        2.8       2.3        O.C      0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.3        0.4       0.4        0.5       0.5        0.0       0.0
Total ProjectCosts           1.9        2.7        3.1        3.3       2.8        0.0       0.0
Total Financing              1.9        2.7        3.1        3.3       2.8        0.C       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                   1.0        1.6        1.6       1.7        1.6      0.0        0.0
Government                 0.2        0.3        0.4       0.4       0.3       0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.6        0.7        0.9       1.0       0.8       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries      0.1        0.1        0.2        0.2       0.1       0.0       0.0
Other                        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      1.9       2.7        3.1        3.3       2.8       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
Note: IBRD/IDA in the above table is assimilated to GEF. IDA funds for PNGT2 is consolidated with that
of Co-financiers as it pertains to another credit.
- 64 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
BURKINA FASO: PARTNERSHIP FOR NATURAL ECOSYSTEM MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Procurement
A Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) for Burkina Faso was carried out in November 1999
showing that procurement procedures do not conflict with Bank's guidelines. No special exceptions need to
be specified in the Grant Agreement as, in any case, IDA's guidelines take precedence over any contrary
local regulations. However, since there are practices that are in conflict with the Bank's guidelines, the
Grant Agreement should specify the conditions listed below that have to be met under National Competitive
Bidding.
All GEF financed contracts for Works and Goods or contracts financed by other donors, but for whom the
Bank serves as Administrator, will be procured in accordance with the World Bank guidelines on
procurement of goods, works and services: "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits, January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999," hereafter
called the Goods and Works Guidelines, for goods and works, and "Guidelines for the Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997 and revised September 1997, and
January 1999," hereafter called the Consultant Guidelines. No Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedure is planned.
National Competitive Bidding (NCB), advertised locally, would be carried out in accordance with Burkina
procurement laws and regulations acceptable to IDA, provided that: (i) all bidders are given sufficient time
to submit bids (four weeks); (ii) bid evaluation and bidder qualification are clearly specified in bidding
documents; (iii) no margin of preference is granted to domestic contractors and manufacturers; (iv) no bid
is rejected during bid opening; (v) eligible firms are not precluded from participation; and (vi) award is
made to the lowest evaluated bid to the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of capability and
resources in accordance with predetermined criteria specified in the bidding documents. Standard bidding
documents for the procurement of goods and works prepared by the project and found acceptable to the
Bank will be used during project implementation for NCB.
The Bank's standard bid documents would be used for the procurement of all goods and works, except for
local works or services implemented by communities associations or committees. In the latter case, the
Bank's standard documents have been simplified and are included in the Project Implementation Manual.
For all consulting assignments, the Bank's standard Request for Proposals would be used for the
recruitment of consulting firms. Simplified contracts will be used for short-term time-based or simple
assignments not exceeding six months and carried out by individual consultants or firms. Project staff was
briefed on the revised consultant's guidelines during the appraisal mission. Additional information was
provided during negotiations.
Goods, works and consulting and non-consulting services to be financed under this Grant may not be
supplied from nationals of the following countries: The Bahamas, Bahrain, Barbados, Brunei, Darussalam,
Cyprus Oman, Qatar, Singapore and the United Arab Emirates. In all other respects, procurement
eligibility will follow the current version of the Guidelines.
Advertising: No ICB for goods or major consulting is expected. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) is
mandatory and is normally prepared before negotiations and issued in the United Nations Development
Business (UNDB), as well as in the local newspapers to advertise for any ICB for goods and for major
consulting assignments to obtain expressions of interest. The GPN is also normally issued in the national
press for contracts to be let under NCB. If ICB are envisioned at a later stage, a detailed GPN for the
- 65 -



subsequent years will be prepared for the project and published in UNDB. It will be updated annually for
all outstanding procurement. Specific Procurement Notices (SPN) and Expressions of Interest (EOI) for
large contracts for consultants services (above US$ 100,000 equivalent) will also be advertised in
Development Business and sufficient time will be allowed for responses to such specific notices (minimum
30 days) before preparing the short list.
Procurement Implementation Arrangements. The CPAR has outlined a number of weaknesses in the
national procurement legislation. With regard to project level, they are: a) insufficient monitoring of
contracts; b) delays in payment for counterpart funds; c) insufficient in planning in procurement of goods,
works and services; d) delays in submitting required documentation for IDA review; and e) lack of training
in procurement for project staff. Procurement of all goods, works and services, other than those executed
by the conservators or concessionaires would be the responsibility of the PCU. This unit will recruit a
procurement specialist familiar with the Bank's procurement procedures. The situation will be closely
monitored during project implementation to ensure that sufficient safeguards are in place to ensure
transparency and efficiency, filing and tracking is adequate and to aggregate procurement by procedure or
to monitor unit prices. Such a system will be put in place before effectiveness.
Monitoring and Filing. The PCU will set up monitoring and filing procedures in preparation of the
Project. In order to achieve compliance, procurement planning and monitoring (procurement progress, unit
costs, etc.) would become an integral part of the annual work program and reporting cycle. The annual
work programs and progress reports would include, the updated procurement plan, an overview of all
procurement to date and by procurement method, and an evaluation of procurement problems encountered
during the year under review.
Procurement Capacity and Procurement Plan. Since the Project staff is not yet recruited, it was not
possible to carry out a procurement capacity assessment of the PCU before appraisal. This assessment will
be done before Grant effectiveness and will verify whether the PCU will be able to handle the procurement
workload under the project, and agree on an action plan to correct any management deficiency in the
implementation agency's capacity to administer procurement in an efficient and transparent way. As part of
this action plan, a qualified procurement specialist will be recruited as a condition of effectiveness. The
assessment will also help review parameters for prior review limits and the frequency of procurement
supervision. A computerized procurement system will be developed, and all project-related procurement
documents will be kept accordingly.
The procurement plan for the first year was reviewed by the Bank and finalized prior to Board presentation.
It is based on the initial needs of the project and the work-programs submitted in January 2002. The exact
mix of procurement will be determined on an annual basis during the annual joint reviews between the
DGEF and the Bank, where a draft procurement plan for the following financial year will be presented and
agreed upon. During the first 12 months of Project operations, the detailed procurement plans for the
following years will be developed and submitted to the Bank for review and approval. The plan will include
relevant information on works, goods, and consulting services under the project as well as the timing of
each milestone in the procurement process. The procurement schedule will be updated every quarter and
reviewed by the Bank during each supervision mission. The procurement plan will be part of the Project
Implementation Manual (PIM). The PIM should solicit, among other things, the participation of all
stakeholders, set out the procurement plans, assess the local counterpart fund requirements, specify
responsibilities for commitment and implementations, and identify the risks that need to be controlled.
- 66 -



Manuals. A Project Implementation Manual has been prepared and reviewed during preparation and
appraisal. It consists of a main manual with reference to manuals for specific procedures (e.g.,
Administrative and Financial Procedures, Monitoring and Evaluation). The manuals clearly detail: (i)
eligibility criteria; (ii) procedures for calling for bids, selection of contractors, service providers and
vendors, and contract award; (iii) supervision procedures; (iv) financial management and disbursement
procedures; and (v) procedures for reception and handing over of completed works.
Assurances sought at negotiations. The following assurance were sought during negotiations: (a) the use
of the standard bidding documents and standard evaluation reports approved by the Bank; (b) application
of the procurement procedures as outlined above and detailed in the Project Implementation Manual; (c)
adherence to a target processing schedule as outlined in the table below; (d) annual review of the
procurement plan and procurement arrangements as part of the annual reports; (e) the procurement plan
will be updated quarterly and submitted to the Bank; and (f) procurement information will be collected as
follows: (i) prompt recording of contract information by the Borrower; and (ii) annual and semi-annual
progress reports to the Bank by the Borrower showing revised cost estimates for individual contracts and
the program as a whole, updated procurement time table, compliance with aggregate limits on specified
methods of procurement, and review of procurement issues during the preceding year with proposals on
how to address these. In addition, at negotiations, the Govemment will give assurances that the action
plan developed by the Bank to correct any deficiency in the implementing agency's capacity to administer
procurement in an efficient and transparent way, will be implemented according to the timetable indicated
in the action plan.
Procurement Phase              Time delay (in weeks)
Preparation of bidding documents  4 (6 weeks for large contracts)
Preparation of bids by bidders  4 (6-10 for ICB)
Bid Evaluation                 2 (3 for large contracts)
Signature of contracts         2
Payment                        3
Procurement methods (Table A)
The project elements by disbursement category and procurement methods are summarized in Table A
below. Consultant selection methods and thresholds for procurement methods are summarized in Table B
below.
- 67 -



Civil Works (US$1.55 million). Project financed works related to the construction of small infrastructures
in conservation areas (water holes, tracks, watch tower, dirt roads, fence, etc.) and to the rehabilitation of
Government owned buildings that will be made available to the Project. The cost for about half of the
contracts is expected to be less than US$30,000 each and the other half expected to exceed US$30,000.
It is very unlikely that any contract for civil works would exceed US$500,000. Should this event occur,
however, it would be subject to ICB procedures. Works exceeding US$30,000 and less than US$500,000
will be procured in accordance with NCB procedures up to an aggregate amount of US$720,000. About
half of the work concems small infrastructure costing less than US$30,000 each, up to an aggregate
amount of US$710,000, which will be procured under lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the
basis of quotations obtained from at least three qualified domestic contractors on the basis of specifications
prepared by the PCU, conservators or concessionaires. The PCU, conservators and concessionaires will use
the list maintained by the CBRDP of qualified construction companies and engineers with agreed upon
rates that can be accessed by Project beneficiaries. This list will be updated at least once a year. Works
with high labor and low technical input such as maintenance of tracks and fire breaks, costing less than
$10,000 up to an aggregate of $120,000 will be sole sourced to community members, informal groupments,
village enterprises or local associations.
Goods (US$0.70 million). The grant will finance the procurement of vehicles, motorcycles, office
equipment (including computers), and field equipment. To the extent practicable, goods would be lumped
into lots. Goods that are expected to cost no less than US$ 20,000 and are available locally can be
procured using NCB procedures up to an aggregate amount of US$130,000. Procurement for readily
available off-the-shelf goods and/or standard commodities that cannot be grouped in lots of sufficient size,
and not exceeding an aggregate amount of US$80,000 over the life of the Project, would be procured
through prudent local shopping, on the basis of a comparison of quotations from at least three reputable
suppliers. In the event that these goods would not be available in the country, international shopping
procedures would be followed. Ninety percent of the vehicles, motorcycles and computer equipment will be
procured from UN agencies (UNIPAC or IAPSO) up to the aggregate amount of US$490,000 over the life
of the Project.
Community-Based Procurement. The Africa Guidelines for Simplified Procurement and Disbursement for
Community-Based Investments (February 1998) will be used in the design of procurement under this aspect
of the project but cognizance of local practices and the capacity of communities to manage the process will
be an important consideration. The PCU will be responsible for ensuring compliance with these guidelines,
and ex-post reviews of random sub-projects will be conducted periodically by the Bank and independent
consultants appointed by the PCU. Simplified procurement and disbursement procedures for
conmmunity-based programs, including the positive list of items qualifying under this component, will be
developed and included in the Project Implementation Manual for approval by IDA.
- 68 -



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category             ICB             NCB           Other2       N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                             0.00             0.72          0.83          0.00        1.55
(0.00)          (0.48)         (0.50)       (0.00)       (0.98)
2. Goods                             0.00             0.13          0.57          0.00        0.70
(0.00)           (0.09)        (0.51)       (0.00)       (0.60)
3. Services                          0.00             0.00          5.02          0.28        5.30
Consultant, training and             (0.00)          (0.00)        (4.99)        (0.00)      (4.99)
audits
4. Operating costs                   0.00             0.43          1.00          0.17        1.60
(0.00)          (0.28)         (0.65)       (0.00)       (0.93)
Total                             0.00             1.28          7.42          0.45        9.15
(0.00)           (0.85)        (6.65)        (0.00)      (7.50)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include contingencies.
vIncludes civil works and goods to be procured through community participation, national shopping,
consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical
assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (I) managing the project, (2)
implementation of protocols with deconcentrated Government services
- 69 -



Consultant Services, Training and Audits (US$ 5.30 million). Consulting services financed by the GEF
would be for: (i) technical assistance, studies, aerial survey of protected areas, GIS establishment and
management including purchase of satellite images, architectural design, civil works supervision,
preparation of bidding documents, financial management support, financial and technical audits; and (ii)
technical matters (monitoring and evaluation, environmental impact, technical assistance to communities,
etc.) and training (skills gap analysis, skills development and training of staff and local communities).
Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS). Consultant services will normally be procured through the
selection of short-listed firms on the basis of Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS), except where
noted below. All consultant assignments estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more would
seek an expression of interest through an advertisement in at least one national newspaper with wide
circulation, in Development Business (UNDB), and/or in an international newspaper or technical magazine.
In addition, all such consulting assignments will be listed in the annual GPN.
The following other methods will also apply.
Least Cost Selection (LCS). For audits and other services of a standard nature estimated to cost less than
US$50.000, the LCS method would be used up to an aggregate amount of US$140,000. The firm with the
lowest price would be selected, provided its technical proposal would receive at least the minimum
qualifying score.
Consultant's Qualifications (CQ). Consulting services for architectural design, civil works supervision
and training (estimated to cost less than US$50,000 per contract, and up to an aggregate amount of
US$950,000, would be based on the consultant's qualifications (CQ), i.e. based on work experience and
competence relevant to the assignment.
Single Source Selection (SSS). SSS will be used for (I) the NGO NATURAMA which is already
concessionaire of the Kabore Tarnbi National Park for a maximum amount of US$500,000 over the life of
the Project (result-based 2.5-year contract renewable for 2.5 years, to include technical assistance and
support staff salaries, equipment including vehicles and computers, lodging for staff and operation and
maintenance costs), (2) the Comoe AGEREF which is already concessionaire of the Comoe-Leraba Partial
Reserve for a maximum amount of US$150,000 over the life of the Project (result-based 2.5-year contract
renewable for 2.5 years, to include technical assistance and support staff salaries, lodging for staff and
operation and maintenance costs), (3) the NGO IUCN which is positioned internationally for assistance to
transfrontier coordination and activities for a maximum amount of US$130,000 over the life of the Project
(result-based 2.5-year contract renewable for 2.5 years, to include staff and consultant salaries, travel,
subsistence and operation and maintenance costs related to the service).
Individual Consultants. Services for tasks, such as project staffing, the organization of training or
seminars and small studies, that are generally of low-cost (generally less than US$20,000) and can be
delivered by individuals and do not need teamwork or back-up support services, will be selected through
comparison of qualifications among individual consultants expressing interest in the assignment or
approached directly shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants up to an aggregate
amount of US$1,020,000.
Short-lists of consultants for contracts estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 each may be comprised
entirely of national consultants, provided at least three qualified firms are locally available at competitive
costs. However, if foreign firms have expressed an interest for those contracts, they will not be excluded
from consideration.
- 70 -



The training program is geared towards the strengthening of the managerial and technical capacities of the
DGEF, PCU, its partners, AGEREF and CVGTs. The Project's training program would be reviewed
annually and would be subject to the Bank's prior review and approval, as would be all participation in
workshops and seminars.
To establish a roster of consultants for carrying out studies, provide technical assistance to communities,
preparation of bidding documents and construction supervision, the PCU would publicize each year
procurement notices in the local press to get expressions of interest from consultants. Based on the criteria
detailed in the Project Implementation Manual, the PCU will maintain and update the roster of consultants,
which will be used to establish short-lists or select firms with the required qualifications.
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category  QCBS    QBS      SFB     LCS      cQ     Other   N.B.F. Total Cost
A. Firms               1.96    0.00     0.00    0.14     0.95    0.95    0.00      4.00
(1.96)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.14)  (0.95)   (0.92)  (0.00)    (3.97)
B. Individuals         0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    1.02    0.28      1.30
(0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (1.02)  (0.00)    (1.02)
Total   1.96    0.00    0.00    0.14     0.95     1.97    0.28     5.30
(1.96)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0. 14)  (0.95)  (1.94)  (0.00)    (4.99)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.
- 71 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Prior Review. All goods and works contracts estimated to cost US$100,000 or more will be subject to the
Bank's prior review procedures. Prior Bank review will also be required for contracts for consulting
services valued at US$50,000 or more for firms and US$25,000 or more for individuals. In these cases, the
draft Request for Proposals and the shortlist of consultants must be cleared with the Bank prior to inviting
proposals from the shortlisted consultants. With respect to each contract for the employment of individual
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of US$25,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be fumished to the Association for its prior
review and approval. The terms of reference for consulting assignments and training, single source
recruitment, and assignments of a critical nature as determined by the Bank, as well as amendments to
contracts raising them above the above mentioned prior review thresholds, will be subject to the Bank prior
review regardless of contract amount. All the procedures in Appendix 1 of the Consultant Guidelines would
apply. The review process will cover about 43% of the contract amounts for works, goods and consultants.
Modification or waiver of the scope and conditions of contracts. Before agreeing to any material
extension, or any modification or waiver of the conditions of contracts that would increase the aggregate
cost by more than 15 percent of the original price, PCU needs to specify the reasons thereof and seek the
Bank's prior no-objection for the proposed modification.
Post Review. All contracts not subject to the thresholds listed in the preceeding paragraph will be subject
to a post review. Once a year a procurement specialist or procurement accredited staff would accompany a
supervision mission and conduct a post review of a sample of contracts not subject to prior review. All
documents related to procurement below the prior review threshold will be maintained by the Borrower for
such an ex-post review and for a review by project auditors for up to one year after project completion.
The Project will hire engineers to perform technical audits of a random sample of sub-projects. The
technical audit will focus on quality of execution and adequacy of procurement procedures followed. The
results of the technical audit will be included in the annual reports.
- 72 -



Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                              Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement            Prior Review
Expenditure Category     (US$ thousands)            Method               (US$ millions)
1. Works                US$500,000 and above           ICB                    0.00
US$30,000 - US$500,000          NCB                     0.72
Less than US$30,000  Comparison of quotes from        0.00
3 established local
Less than US$10,000         contractors               0.00
Sole source to community
associations, committees,
etc.
2. Goods                US$100,000 or above         ICB/IAPSO                 0.00
US$20,000 - US$ 100,000      NCB/IAPSO                  0.14
Less than US$20,000    Other (local shopping)         0.00
NA                  UN Agency                  0.00
3. Services             US$100,000 and above     QCBS (international          0.55
Firms                                          advertised/shortlist)
US$50,000 - US$100,000    QCBS (international           1.41
Less than US$50,000     /national shortlist)          0.14
CQILCS
SSS (for NGOs
NATURAMA, AGEREF &
Individuals            US$50,000 and above          iUCn)                    0.78
Comparison of 3 CVs
4. Incremental operating  US$100,000 or below  NCB, Direct contracting,        0.43
costs                                            local shopping, etc.
5. Community work        Less than US$10,000    Small works with sole          0.00
source to communities
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  4.18
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 73 -



Disbursement
Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
The amounts to be financed through the GEF Grant are detailed in Table C below. Disbursement
percentages will apply to invoices all taxes included for local expenditures. The GEF grant will be
disbursed over a period of five years from January 2003 to December 31, 2007, which will be followed by
a 4 month grace period for goods delivered, services rendered and works completed before December 31,
2007.
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in USSmillion         Financing Percentage
Goods (Equipment and Vehicles)             0.60           100 % of foreign expenditures and 65%
of local expenditures
Works                                      0.90                         65%
Consultants' Services, Audits, Training    4.95                        100 %
and Workshops
Operating Costs                            1.05                         65%
Total Project Costs                        7.50
Total                                      7.50
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will set-up a financial management system. Finalization of the
administrative manual is a condition of effectiveness. The PCU, the conservators and the concessionaires
will maintain project accounts in accordance with International Accounting Standards (IAS) to reflect their
operations and financial positions and will have all accounts audited in accordance with the IAS, by an
external and independent audit firm with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. An audit firm will be
recruited as a condition of effectiveness. The contract can be renewed up to a maximum of three years
provided performance of the auditor is judged satisfactorily. Assurances will be sought at negotiations that
the auditor's report, including the Management Letter and a statement as to whether or not Bank funds have
been used for their intended purpose, will be submitted to the Bank no later than June 30 of each year. In
addition, the function of internal auditor will be reinforced and an independent accounting firm will be
retained for this purpose. Renewal of the contract with the intemal auditor will be contingent on the
conclusions and recommendations of the external auditors.
No later than September 30 of each year, the PCU will submit to the Steering Committee, with a copy to
the Bank, the proposed Annual Work Programs and Financial Report. The report format will detail
activities, associated unit costs and an implementation timetable. It will also include monitorable progress
indicators for each proposed activity.
In addition, the PCU will produce quarterly Financial Management Reports (FMR) showing budgeted and
actual expenditures, source of funds used, statements of progress achieved on the basis of the agreed upon
indicators and the (revised) objectives and financial reports for the forthcoming six months.
To ensure proper accountability of funds managed by beneficiaries, technical and financial audits will be
carried out on a sample basis. These audits would focus on the technical execution of the works (technical
quality and progress), systems in place to ensure appropriate maintenance, and that basic information is
available to track the use of the funds (receipts, contracts, comparison of prices/bids, etc.). Where funds
- 74 -



are inappropriately utilized, the Project will cease supporting activities until all funds have been accounted
for. In cases where fraud is suspected, local authorities will be notified.
Assurances sought at negotiations. The following assurances were sought during negotiations: (a) the
standard clauses related to appropriate financial management (keeping of separate accounts by source of
funds, maintenance of information, implementation of annual audits); and (b) a detailed statement on the
use of funds at the village level, with an action plan to combat fraud.
Monitoring and Reporting
The World Bank has introduced Financial Management Reporting for World Bank Group financed
projects. This initiative assists projects to put in place sound financial management, procurement and
output monitoring systems. When these systems are in place, the borrower may elect FMR-based
disbursements rather than disbursements on the basis of individual invoices or statements of expenditure.
The establishment of the Program financial management system (Administrative, Accounting and Financial
Manual of Procedures, recruitment of key accounting staff, initial training, system test, etc) is required
prior to grant effectiveness. The action plan below discloses the actions running to July 2002, and the dates
that they are due to be completed by the parties mentioned below:
Action                                             Date due by         Resnonsible
1       Consulting Firm completed Administrative, Accounting &
Financial Management Manuals (UCP, UCFs,
NATURAMA) describing accounting systems and
procedures, internal controls and funds flow processes:
* First draft for IDA comments;                                       GOVT/Project
* Final draft incorporating IDA comments;        Already done         Preparation Team;
* Appointment of Coordinator                     April 15, 2002       Consulting Firm
* Appointment of Administrative, Accounting &    January 31, 2002     IDA/OQKS to review.
Financial Management Staff.                    June 30, 2002
2       Agreement on terms of reference for external audit firm;  March 31, 2002  GOVT/ Project
Preparation Team, &
Agreement on terms of reference for Consulting Firm to  March 31, 2002  IDA
establish a computerized Program Financial Management
System (PFMS).
3       IDA FMS carries out an assessment of the Financial  Already done       IDA/OQKS
Management set-up, and issues recommendations for
compliance with OP/BP 10.02.
4       Recruitment process of Consulting Firm and Auditors:  May 15, 2002     GOVT/PAGEN-FEM-
* Finalize bidding documents;                                         UCP
* Seek IDA no objection;
* Publish bids;
* Receive and evaluate bids and select winners;
* Seek IDA no objection on selected winners.
5       Appointment of External Auditors.                  May 31, 2002        GOVT/PAGEN-FEM-
UCP
6       Appointment of Consulting Firm to design and establish  May 31, 2002   GOVT/PAGEN-FEM-
the computerized Program Financial Management System.                  UCP
- 75 -



7       Installation of the computerized Program Financial  June 30, 2002     GOVT/PAGEN-FEM-
Management system (operationalize the Manual):                        UCP
* Finalization of a Chart of Accounts;
* "Parametrage" of software and agreement on financial
reporting format/content;
* Test of Financial Management System based on PPF
operations and produce opening financial statements;
* Set up all bank accounts (SA, PA, Imprest system,
etc.) and
* Consulting Firm conducts initial training of staff
* Continue test for the first semester and produce
monthly reports.
8       IDA FMS follows-up the installment of the Program  July 15, 2002      IDA/OQKS
Financial Management system for soundness and reliability
and the implementation of recommendations and, carries
out the final Assessment of the Program Financial
Management system.
9       Grant effectiveness                               July 31, 2002       IDA/LEGAL
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Statement of Expenditures (SOEs): Disbursements for all expenditures should be made against full
documentation, except for: (i) consulting firms under contracts in an amount equivalent or inferior to
US$100,000; (ii) goods, works and individual consultants under contracts in an amount equivalent or
inferior to US$ 50,000; (iii) as well as training, studies and operating costs. All supporting documentation
for SOEs will be retained at a suitable location and readily accessible for review by periodic Bank
supervision missions and external auditors.
Special account:
Special Accounts: To facilitate project implementation and reduce the volume of withdrawal applications,
the Government will open a Special Account (SA) in FCFA in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank for GEF's share of eligible expenditures. The authorized allocation will be FCFA
500 million representing about four months of eligible expenditures. Upon effectiveness IDA, GEF will
deposit the amount of FCFA 250 million representing 50 percent of the authorized allocation into the
special account. The remaining balance will be made available, when the aggregate amount of withdrawals
from the credit account shall be equal to or exceed SDR2 million. The special account will be used for all
payments inferior to twenty percent of the deposited amount and replenishment applications will be
submitted at least once a month. Further deposits into the Special Account will be made against withdrawal
applications supported by appropriate documents.
90-day advance accounts: To expedite project implementation and permit disbursements at project sites
as well as facilitate the participation of NGOs and the beneficiary community at large, five 90-day
advance accounts will be authorized in the following sites: Banfora (for the Wildlife Conservation Unit
('WCU) Como&Leraba, Dori (for WCU Sahel), Ouagadougou (one for WCU PONASI and one for the
concessionaire NGO NATURAMA), Bobo-Dioulasso (for WCU Bobo). The PCU (Project Coordination
Unit) will make these advances out of the Special Account to meet eligible expenditures for a period of
- 76 -



90-days based on an average of four months of expenditures. The advance accounts will be opened in local
commercial banks to ensure smooth and timely transfer of funds from the center to these locations.
Advances will be made from the special account, and subsequently replenished. To ensure regular
replenishment of the advances, the beneficiary units (WCU Como&eLraba, WCU Sahel, WCU PONASI,
NATURAMA, WCU Bobo) will present the evidence of payment with all the supporting documents to the
PCU.
Counterpart Funds, Project Account. The PCU will open up a project account in a financial institution
in which Government's counterpart contribution will be deposited. The initial deposit will be in the amount
of CFAF 65 million, which is equivalent to 6 months of expenditures. Replenishments would be done on a
semi-annual basis on the basis of forecasts included in the annual work programs and semi-annual progress
reports. The establishment of this account and the first deposit into it, will be a condition of effectiveness.
- 77 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
BURKINA FASO: PARTNERSHIP FOR NATURAL ECOSYSTEM MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Project Schedule                                  Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      18                           36
First Bank mission (identification)             10/15/1997                   10/15/1997
Appraisal mission departure                     10/15/2001                   10/15/2001
Negotiations                                    11/26/2001                   01/23/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   06/30/2002
Prepared by:
SAWADOGO Bobodo Blaise, Coordinator of preparation; (226) 35 60 34;
Bobodo.Sawadogo@hotmail.com
Preparation assistance:
GEF PDF B $175,000; DANISH CTF $25,000; SWEDISH CTF $3,600.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Jean-Michel Pavy                  Biodiversity Specialist, TTL
Emmanuel Nikiema                  Natural Resources Management Specialist, co-TTL
Ibrahim Nebie                     Agriculture Services Specialist
Luc Lecuit                        Information Management & Monitoring/Evaluation Specialist
Jerome Gauthier                   Livestock & Local Development Specialist
Mohammed Bekhechi                 Environmental Lawyer
Korka Diallo                      Disbursement Specialist
Mamadou Yaro                      Financial Management Analyst
Celestin Bado                     Operations Analyst
Amadou Tidiane Toure              Procurement Officer
Jane Hopkins                      Economist (Cluster Leader for Rural Development)
Pascale Dubois                    Country Lawyer
Luc Lapointe                      Procurement Officer
Edith Mwemba                      Lawyer
- 78 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
BURKINA FASO: PARTNERSHIP FOR NATURAL ECOSYSTEM MANAGEMENT PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Draft Document de Projet (French equivalent to PIP), January 2002
Etude d'Impact Environnementale et Sociale, December 2001
Framework Process for Involuntary Resettlement, December 2001
Draft Manuel de Gestion Administrative et Financiere, January 2001
Draft Manuel de Suivi-evaluation, January 2002
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Rapport, Mission d'information dans le Gourma Malien et Sahel Burkinabe, January 97
Aide memoire Identification mission, October 97
Aide memoires Preparation missions ; January 98; August 98; January 99; October 99; April 00; May 00;
August 00
Aide memoire Pre-appraisal mission: February 2001
Aide memoire appraisal mission: January 2002
Project Information Document (PID)
C. Other
Rapport de mission conjointe Burkina Faso et Mali, Les Elephants du Gourma Malien et du Sahel
Burkinabe ; Une Enigme Ecologique, fevrier 1997
Rapport final, Mission de consultation avec les populations locales et les partenaires, B. Hasane, juin 99
Inventaire de la diversite biologique du Sahel burkinabe, octobre 99
Etude sur l'Identification et la Mise en perspective de la Dynamique de Developpement, octobre 99
Rapport, Atelier de Planification, novembre 99
Rapports d'Evaluation exteme GEPRENAF, juin 00 & septembre 00
*Including electronic files
- 79 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
BURKINA FASO: PARTNERSHIP FOR NATURAL ECOSYSTEM MANAGEMENT PROJECT
02-Apr-2002
Difference oetween expected
and actual
Orginal Amount in US$ Millions                         disbursements
Project ID   FY   Purpose                                   IBRD       IDA        SF      GEF     Cancel.  Undisb.     Orig   Frm Rev'd
P071433       2002 HIVIAIDS Disaster Response Project           0.00     22.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     21 57     0 C       o.00
P000309       2002 BASIC EDUCATION SECTOR PROJECT               0.00     32.60      0.00     0.00      0 00     31 92     0 0C      (100
P035673      2001 COMMUNITY-BASED RURAL DEVELOPMENT             0.00     66.70     0.00      0.00      0.00    60.16     -2         0 o.00
P000306       2001 OUAGADOUGOU WATER SUPPLY PROJECT             0.00     70.00     0.00      0.00      0.00    65.45     -3 e       o 00
P050886       1999 PRIVATE IRRIGATION                           0.00      5.20     0.00      0.00      0.00     2 64      2 DE      o 00
P000296       1998 AG SERVICESII                                0.00     41.30      0.00     0.00      0.00     22.01    22 25     22.08
P000304       1997 POST-PRIMARY EDUC.                           0.00     26.00      0.00     0.00      0 00     10.67    12.20      9.35
P000283       1997 MINING CAPACITY BUIL                         0.00     21.40     0.00      0.00      0.00      894      969       (100
P000297       1995 URBAN ENV                                    0.00     37.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      563      9 90      9.92
Total:       0.00    322.20      0.00   0 o0       0.00     228 99    50 2      41.35
BURKINA FASO
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                               Disbursed
IFC                                     IFC
FY Approval             Company                              Loan     Equity     Quasi     Partic     Loan    Equity     Quasi     Partic
1999                    AEF FasoMine                         0.00       0.39      0.(0      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00     0.00
1997                    Ecobank-Burkina                      0.00       0.25      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.25      0.00      0.00
1998                    SGBB                                 0.00       0.38      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.38       0.00      0.00
Total Portfolio:               0.00      1.02       0.00      0.00      0.00      0.63       0.00      0 00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval            Company                                  Loan       Equity      Quasi       Partic
Total Pending Commitment:                 0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00
- 80 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
BURKINA FASO: PARTNERSHIP FOR NATURAL ECOSYSTEM MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                 Burkina  Saharan      Low-
Faso     Africa   Income      Development dlamond
1999
Populalion. mid-vear (millions)                       11.0       642     2,417                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method. US$)                     230       500       410
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                       2.6       321       988
Average annual growth, 1993.99
Population (%                                          2.4       2.6       1.9                        N-
Labor force (%)                                        2.1       2.6       2.3     GNP           z                  Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available. 1993-99)                              capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of Population below national Dovertv line)
Urban population (% of total Population)                18        34        31
Life expectancy at birth (veers)                        44        50        60
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               104        92        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)              33        32        43                Access to safe water
Access to Improved water source (% of population)                 43        64
Illiteracv (% of population ape 15+)                    77        39        39
Gross Primary enrollment (% of school-aQe population)   40        78        96            -    urkina faso
Male                                                 48         85       102              - - Low-income group
Female                                                31        71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989      1998      1999
Econornic ratloa*
GDP (US$ billions)                            1.5      2.4       2.6       2.6
Gross domestic investment/GDP                                   28.6      27.2                     Trade
Exports of aoods and services/GDP             9.3     10.3      13.8      11.5
Gross domestic savinos/GDP                   -3.1      7.1      12.4      101
Gross national savings/GDP                                      19.2      15.5
Current account balance/GDP                                     -10.1    -12.3      Domestic 
Interest pavments/GDP                         0.3      0.7       0.2                SInvestment
Total debt/GDP                               19.0     30.4      52.6      54.9      Savings
Total debt servicelexPorts                    3.2      9.7      15.6
Present value of debVGDP                                        32.0
Present value of debt/exports                                  175.2
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1998      1999   1999-03
(average annual qrowthJ
GDP                                           3.8      6.2       5.2       6.3             -  Burkina Faso
GNP per capita                                0.9      3.4       2.3       3.4             ------ Low-income group
Exports of coods and services       -2.1      1.5     10 5       5.6       5.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998      1999      Growth of Invstment end GDP(#)
(% of GOP)                                                                         so
Aqricullure                                  34.2     31.8       33.3     321
Industrv                                     22.8     23.9      27.2      27.4     30-
Manufacturino                                 ..
Services                                     43.0     44.3      39.5      40.6      0
9 55           7    a    9
Private consumption                          90.9     78.9      73.0      78.6 6   -3
General government consumption               12.2     14.0      14.7      13.3                    GDI       O  GDP
ImDorts of ooods and services                30.9     24.9      30.0      28.6
(ave rape annual pro wth)                 1979-89  1989-99      1998      1999     Growth of exports and Imports (%)
Aariculture                                   3.6      3.4       5.5       6.2     30
Industrv                                      4.1      3.2      10.9       5.0     15i
Manufacturina                               2.3
Services                                      4.5      3.5       4. 5       6.1     o
Private consumption                           2.9      3.2       6.8       4.7     15    94     s7
General government consumption                7.0      3.1       6.2       4.5
Gross domestic investment                              4.8       0.9       8.6    -30
Imoorts of ooods and services                 2.8      1.9       5.5       4.8            -     Exports    _0  Imports
Gross national product                                 3.8       6.3       5.2
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the country (in bold) compared with Its income-orouD average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 81 -



Burkina Faso
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989      1998      1999     Inflation %)
Domestic prices                                                                    3
(% change)                                                                         30
Consumer prices                                ..     -0.3       1.0       2.3     20
Implicit GDP deflator                           ..      ..       3.1       1.6
10
Government flnance
(% of GOP, includes cuffent grants)                                                       94     95    6     97   9
Current revenue                                 ..    10.0      14.4      16.1    -10
Current budget balance                          .      -1.0      4.0       5 1            -    GDP deflator  C   PI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..        .       -8.5    -10.9
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1979     1989      1998     1999      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                             ..      ..       325       255     750
Cotton                                        ..       ..      206       136
Meat                                          ..       ..       46        48
Manufactures                                  ..S
Total imports (cif)                            ..       ..       639       600
Food                                           .       ..      143        74     250
Fuel and energy                               ..       ..       72       102
Capital goods                                 -.       ..      196       221       r 
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..       ..        98      101           93   94   95   96   97    98
Import price index (1995=100)                  ..       ..       104       105                U Exports     U Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       ..      ..        95        97
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                               1979     1989      1998     1999      Current account balance to GDP I%)
Exports of goods and services                 174      244       364       292      0
Imports of goods and services                 491      587       803      760          *
Resource balance                             -316     -343      -439      -467          *   
Net income                                      ..      ..       -12        13
Net current transfers                          83      140       190       155     1             'l      i    i     i
Current account balance                         ..      ..      -261      -326     -10
Financing items (net)                           .        .       227       310
Changes in net reserves                                  .        33        15     _15
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)          ..     266       373      407
Conversion rate (DEC. locallUS$)            212.7    319.0     589.7     615.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                     Composition of 1998 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          295      717      1,358    1,452
IBRD                                          0        0                   0G-59
IDA                                          65     255        710      753              E: 130       _
Total debt service                              9       39        74        ..
IBRD                                          0        0
IDA                                           0        3        10        11
Composition of net resource flows                                                     D: 347                      B: 710
Official grants                             137      116       214
Official creditors                           49       79
Private creditors                            13        3
Foreign direct investment                     2        0         0
Portfolioequity                               0        0         0                         C: 112
World Bank program
Commitments                                  14      63         15        30     A - IBRD                    E - B3lateral
Disbursements                                19      25         58        63     B -A      0 - Other mulilaterat  F - Private
Principal repayments                          0        1        11         6     c - IMF                     G - Short-term
Netflows                                     19      24         47        57
Interest payments                             0       2          5         5
Net transfers                                19      22         42        52
Development Economics                                                                                               9/13100
- 82 -



Additional
Annex 1 1
Ecological Description of Project Sites
Several sites have been retained for Phase 1 (see also map):
*   Sahel Wildlife Conservation Unit (or Northem strip of the Sahel Partial Reserve)
*   Como&-Leraba reserve and Boulon-Koflande complex of gazetted forest in Comoe-Leraba Wildlife
Conservation Unit
*   Mares aux Hippos Biosphere Reserve in Bobo Wildlife Conservation Unit
*   Kabor&-Tambi National Park in PoNaSi Wildlife Conservation Unit
In the Comoe unit, the Comoe-Leraba Reserve set up by the rural community covers about 100,000 ha of
savanna woodland and gallery forests. The galleries are the northern spur of the Guinean forest; of 301
species of plants inventoried 37 characterize dense humid forest. It harbors animal species unique in
Burkina: 2 families, 4 genders & 7 species (e.g. the chimpanzee and black-and-white colobus). The global
value of that ecosystem is similar to the internationally recognized nearby Comoe National Park, to which
this site is linked via a corridor along the Comoe river. Conservation there is addressed at the landscape,
and even watershed, level in coordination with other GEF funded initiatives in COte d'Ivoire (GEPRENAF
& National Park Protection). With private financing that is being leveraged by the Forestry Department,
management will be extended further north to encompass the Boulon & Koflande Forest Reserves. This
area is important to secure a migration route along the Cornoe river to wildlife now increasing in Diefoula
and to create a second pole for attraction of tourism in the Comoe province.
The Partial Sahel Reserve covers 1.6 million ha entirely in the arid West African Sahel where rainfall
ranges between 450 and 150 mm. It is inhabited by about 250,000 rural people practicing mostly animal
husbandry and farming. The bulk of the population is concentrated in several towns: Dori, Gorom-Gorom,
Djibo, Oursi, Markoye. While the description of PAGEN areas' biodiversity (ILCA reports 824 plant
species, endemisms, etc.) is not accessible in a comprehensive report, it is expected to include wide ranging
species that do exist in other parts of the Sahel. However, nowhere is the Sahel unique ecosystem protected
on the scale that its arid ecology warrants. That ecosystem is threatened to the point that several species
have already disappeared from the wild (e.g. oryx). The Sahel Wildlife Conservation Unit which
encompass the northern strip of the reserve presents a number of interesting features: a Ramsar Site
(Oursi), a bird sanctuary (Beli), a waterfowl hunting concession (Darkoye) and harbors large portions of
uninhabited land, such as the Seno Mango, which can provide suitable habitat at the scale needed by the
arid ecosystem. Its wetlands are on important European and Ethiopian bird flyways. Seno Mango
comprises a large dunal system covered with grass land which is mostly located in Mali, and a system of
complex woodland and bowe called "tigered bush" located on the Burkina side of the border. The two
areas are divided by a system of semi-permanent lakes and temporary streams, which harbor a large
community of migrant birds. The tigered-Bush with its dense thickets provides excellent shelter to the
animals tracked by vehicle hunting (e.g. dama, dorcas & red-fronted gazelles). It is also the summer
ground for a 700-rich elephant herd migrating from Mali; this issue will be approached in collaboration
with Malian partners.
The Kabore-Tambi National Park: This park, formerly known as P6 national park, covers 155,000 ha of
alluvial floodplain along both banks of the Volta Rouge River, which is reduced to isolated water holes
- 83 -



during the dry season. There are a number of small marches and lakes within the park, and wooded
savanna predominates. Mammals include lion, elephant, buffalo and a number of antelope species.
Poaching, illegal wood collection and grazing have been a problem and animal numbers have been
significantly reduced. The park possesses several interesting opportunities in term of conservation and
economic development. It is located within the Nazinga Wildlife Conservation Unit and at a short distance
from The Nazinga Game Ranch (which received GEF/UNDP support) & the Sissili Forest reserve. Both
are managed for wildlife utilization and harbor substantial wildlife populations because of good security
and waterholes. Both have attracted large numbers of elephants (in the order of 600). Habitat degradation
is now a problem which can only be solved by restoring some of the elephant traditional range.
Kabore-Tambi is along that range. NATURAMA (national NGO affiliated to Birdlife International) has
been granted concession of the park. With minimal resources it has focused in the past on community
awareness & organization.
The Biosphere Reserve of Mare aux Hippos: An area of 19,200 ha is gazetted. The whole site was
established as a Ramsar site in 1990. The reserve lies in a flat floodplain with marshie areas in the north
and a 660 ha perennial lake (the "Mare au Hippos") in the south. Open forest dominates, with gallery
forest along the watercourse, and thickets on leterite pans. Large mammals densities within the reserve are
low due to poaching and hippopotami are the most important species. The reserve is classified as one of
several ZICO (Zone d'Importance pour la Conservation des Oiseaux) in Burkina by the NGO
NATURAMA Overgrazing and fire are of particular concerns as well as the management of water both
upstream and down stream from the lake.
- 84 -



Additional
Annex 12
STAP Roster Technical Review
(1st Review Prior To Adoption Of APL Instrument)
Reviewer:     John Newby
Conservation Biologist
15 February 2000
12.A. STAP Roster Technical Review:
Terms of reference
This Independent Technical Review has been commissioned by the World Bank (contact person:
Jean-Michel Pavy). The standard terms of reference for Independent Technical Review of GEF
Investment Projects have been followed.
Scientific and technical soundness of the project
The Project Concept Document reviewed is sound and reflects a high degree of awareness of both the
advantages and constraints to efforts to conserve the biodiversity of Sahelian arid lands The paper
presented has drawn well on ongoing work and lessons learned from the region to highlight both
opportunities and threats.
The document carefully weighs the advantages of improved ecosystem and natural resource management
in terms of improved livelihoods and environmental security (notably as part of desertification strategies)
against the overwhelming constraints of generic and widespread under-development.
Under the circumstances, it represents a realistic scenario for addressing biodiversity loss in the
ecosystems under consideration.
Global environmental benefits and/or drawbacks of the project
The project focuses on key environmental issues, affecting not only a large part of Africa but also many
other parts of the world, that of desertification and the insidious loss of biodiversity due to root causes
such as poverty, inappropriate land-use, and limited viable socio-economic alternatives. A successful
outcome to this project will not only be of benefit locally but will provide leadership and experience for
further application throughout the Sahelian zone and further afield.
Project fit within the goals of the GEF
Good.
Regional context
The project's thrust is highly relevant regionally. The issues under consideration are region-wide in nature
and any useful experiences are likely to be relevant and applicable in other countries throughout the Sahel
and possibly further afield. Community-based approaches to conservation and natural resource
- 85 -



management (CBNRM) are becoming increasingly popular. Their successful application will depend not
so much on the experiences in one area but on the experiences and lessons leamed from many areas and in
many socio-ecological situations. Extension into the Sahel of an approach that has to date been mainly
centered on Southem Africa (Zimbabwe and CAMPFIRE, Zambia and ADMADE, Namibia and LIFE,
etc.) is highly laudable and highly relevant to GEF's role in global conservation efforts.
Replicability of the project
The approach and intervention strategies proposed in the project concept are not only replicable but are in
fact based on similar regional efforts targeting similar goals. There is every reason to expect the project
.o further develop the methodology and process of community-based natural resource management in the
Sahel. Whilst there are no magic formulas or blueprints for success, good examples are likely to be
tailored to local situations and replicated elsewhere. The problem is one that is widely shared and
examples of successful projects and approaches are being actively sought.
Sustainability of the project
Assessment of the project's sustainability must be considered at the appropriate scale and against a
relevant time-frame. In general terms, the project's emphasis on community-based initiatives is good and
is unlikely to create the sort of funds and/or technology based hurdles that often prevent governments,
technical agencies or communities from carrying on project-induced activities after external funding and
support is withdrawn.
The concept correctly recognizes that capacity-building will be needed as an investment in the project's
implementation and future work. It also correctly recognizes the need to accompany communities in their
CBNRM initiatives over long periods of time. Whilst some activities may find mechanisms for
sustainable support relatively quickly (eco-tourism, hunting), others are less likely to do so (controlled
grazing areas, mises en defens, municipal nature reserves, critical habitat protection).
Where ephemeral, external expert assistance is provided, and this should include funding inputs as well,
care must be taken to ensure that the transition between project-based implementation and
community-based, post-project implementation is smooth. This will probably entail a relatively long
period of handover to avoid the type of unacceptably abrupt cut-off situation that marks many assistance
projects. It will also necessitate the establishment, where appropriate of viable, self-sustaining funding
mechanisms such as the described Village Investment Funds.
One key to the project's successful implementation and sustainability will be in defining realistic land-use
plans and land zonation on the basis of agreed management, development and conservation objectives.
The 'one-size fits all' approach is unrealistic and simply will not work. The secret will be in finding the
right management regime for the various sites and landscapes. Some areas will require strict protection
and should probably be put under the responsibility of the highest authorities (e.g. national parks, gazetted
strict reserves, etc.). In others, more flexible management regimes should be considered. It should be
recognized that compromise between human practices and biodiversity conservation is rarely mutually
beneficial and that there will invariably be a price to pay on the biodiversity side. Whilst adequate
support to gazetted national parks and reserves is often lacking, it does not mean that more open-access
regimes will succeed either.
- 86 -



In this respect, the role of economic operators requires careful and realistic definition, both in terms of
what they can honestly expect and just how much their interests are income rather than conservation
driven. Be realistic and bear in mind that the potential for incentives and income generation in the Comoe
site are probably superior to the more northem and more arid Sahel site.
Whilst remaining ambitious, be realistic also in defining acceptable rather than ideal outcomes. There is
little or no chance that pre-drought let alone pre-colonial situations can be achieved. The paradigm has
changed in many ways and as a result target-setting needs to reflect this. By taking the zonation approach
one has the opportunity of breaking down the problem into smaller and more readily conceived entities
based on the desired land-use and conservation goals.
Finally, and as correctly identified by the concept (page 15), community-based natural resource
management will only function correctly if the process is fully enabled and actively supported by higher
level institutional reform in terms of land and natural resource tenure, together with the ability of
communities to fully benefit from the fruits of their conservation efforts and practices. See also comments
on stakeholders and capacity-building.
Linkages to other focal areas
The document comprehensively and convincingly lists the linkages to other focal areas. This is key
because significant and sustainable improvements in environmental care and biodiversity conservation are
unlikely to happen unless efforts are increased to address the root causes of land and resource
degradation: poverty, demography, security, ignorance, lack of altematives. Conservation is a
multi-sectoral issue and not something purely of interest to a limited group of animal lovers!
Linkage to other programmes and action plans
The project concept clearly relates linkages between the proposed initiative and those both within Burkina
and in neighbouring countries. Linkages go beyond simple recognition but also look at the possibilities for
the application of lessons learned from similar initiatives.
Other beneficial or damaging environmental effects
The proposal outlines a suite of environmentally beneficial effects and impacts. Any damaging impacts
are likely to be relative to the ability of the project to define and implement the 'correct' management
strategies and regimes for the component areas and sites within the project's geographic scope.
Degree of involvement of stakeholders
The proposal outlines a solid approach to stakeholder involvement and role in project implementation.
Care will be needed to ensure that the allocation of roles and responsibilities is realistic (socially,
politically) and that they are matched with the appropriate sort of support (technical, legislative, financial,
skills) and investment.
More care must be given in defining the sort of functional partnerships needed to implement the project,
together with the mechanisms needed to ensure that planning and implementation is a shared process.
CBNRM should not be about shifling all responsibilities to communities but to target those that are best
situated at this level. However empowered a community is, it is not realistic that they be expected to
carry arms and enforce the law for example. Unless handled carefully, empowerment of one group can
functionally or psychologically disempower another. What we are looking for is a win-win situation in
which all parties find their roles and responsibilities clarified and enhanced.
- 87 -



Capacity-building aspects
Capacity-building and skills development aspects are a major key to the project's longer-term
sustainability and as such require further and better definition. Clarity in this area will derive from a
better understanding of specific roles and responsibilities of the key stakeholders, including those that will
need to be in place when the project ends.
Innovativeness of the project
Whilst CBNRM is no longer new, it is still in its infancy. Application of the principles in many different
situations is highly desirable from a learning perspective. Extension of the approach into the Sahel is,
however, both novel and promising given the failure in general to achieve biodiversity conservation
through more traditional methods. Success in the few sites where CBNRM is functional will have a
disproportionately positive impact given the large size of the area concemed - the Sahel -- and the general
similarity of the conservation problems being faced.
12.B. Indications that the reviewers comments have been addressed
Sustainability: The realistic vision expressed by the reviewer on sustainability must be emphasized. As
indicated in the PCD, and recognized by the reviewer, this project cannot be expected to set up a
sustainable conservation system, or achieve sustainable ecological restoration, within its five-year horizon.
The team has recognized that further funds, from GEF or other donors was needed for a subsequent
phases. The PRONAGEN will therefore use the APL instrument. The Sahel does not lack donor
interests. If it demonstrates commitment and shows positive results, the Government will have no
difficulties mobilizing additional support for other sites in the country. See also Fl on Sustainability.
Risk that private interests prime over conservation interests: The Project will help the Government
prepare a set of interim criteria and procedure for private operator selection. They will be included in the
Implementation Manual and approved by the Bank prior to negotiations. In addition, during the course of
the project, the Bank will closely supervise the private operator/community relationship. In addition, the
PRONAGEN will finance a study to determine the most optimal way to implement the wildlife reform in
order to optimize the role and benefit of private operators, comnmunities and the country at large.
Adoption, & implementation of the results of this study (as agreed at the mid-term review) will be a
trigger from Phase I to 2.
Ability to define and implement adequate implementation plans: The plans will be defined by the
communities with assistance from a local team of experts. They will be based as much as possible on
traditional knowledge and, if applicable, ancestral rules. Because the rules that define access to pastoral
land are so complicated the PRONAGEN will begin with a two-level approach to participatory diagnostic
: o terroir >> and landscape. Because the diagnostic and the solution will be defined & carried out by the
community at large, it is expected that the management plans subsequently drawn by the AGEREF will be
realistic and rules will have more chances to be respected.
Functional partnership between the community and Government services: The PRONAGEN will help
both partners define and meet its own responsibilities. The "proximity team" will be mostly comprised of
civil servants (foresters, agriculture & livestock services agents). Training will focus on both the Forestry
services and the rural community. What the project seek is to empower the community over the
management of biodiversity areas and place the forestry and other services in a position to help the
community achieve its conservation goal. For areas with a more restrictive use status (e.g. PN Kabore
- 88 -



Tambi), the level of empowernent of the community may be less prominent than in other conservation
areas. Still, it will be the outcome of negotiated arrangement between them and the Forestry services.
Capacity building was poorly described in the early version of the PCD. The Bank team worked with the
Government preparation team over this issue. Capacity building is a central objective of the Program.
Training will be delivered as (<modules>) to the project teams, to their Government partners, to the
community members (particularly the members and employees of the AGEREFs). Functional
alphabetization in national languages is going to be a major aspect of capacity building within the
community. Most of the modules are already available and the expertise to deliver them exist in Burkina.
STAP Roster Technical Review
2nd Review: Social Dimensions
Reviewer:     Prof. Dr. Michael M Horowitz
Director
Institute for Development Anthropology
Date: 2 September 2000
12.C. STAP Roster Technical Review:
This Independent Technical Review, focusing on the social dimensions of the proposed project, has been
commissioned by the World Bank (contact person Jean-Michel Pavy). In addition to the Project Paper,
documentation reviewed included the draft final rapport, Mission de Consultations avec les Populations
Locales et les Partenaires, by Boubacar Hassane, which reports on two three-week missions, to Burkina
Faso in December 1998 and to Mali in January 1999. This report was requested by the reviewer to
supplement the discussion of social dimensions in the project paper, dated March 3, 2000. The reviewer
is grateful to Messieurs Pavy and Crepin for their having made this additional documentation available on
very short notice.
Social Scientific and Technical Soundness of the Project: Any review of proposed interventions involving
pastoral and agropastoral peoples in subSaharan Africa will be informed by two propositions:
1.     Most development interventions on African drylands have been imposed with little or
impoverished understanding and appreciation of the pertinence of the indigenous knowledge, values, and
cultural experiences of the peoples whose lives will be directly affected by them.
2.     Most development interventions of African drylands fail to achieve their objectives and
their anticipated cost-benefit ratios despite the massive investments they received and despite the
involvement of well-respected development professionals and organizations in their identification, design,
and implementation.
These two propositions are intimately linked: development projects on African drylands generally fail to
increase productivity of the range and the livestock, improve producer income and quality-of-life, and
retard or reverse environmental degradation precisely because they are poorly informed about the social,
cultural, and often ecological realities of their target populations.
- 89 -



It is therefore important that the design of the PRONAGEN project show itself to be well-informed about
the political ecology (social organization, values, and productive activities) of the affected peoples. This is
especially critical for this kind of project, which simultaneously seeks sustainably to improve the
environment (with a focus on wildlife) and reduce rural poverty. The project's stated purpose is: "to set
up a national decentralized system for participatory management of natural ecosystems that is profitable
for the communities, the private operators and the state."
This reviewer is concemed uniquely with the "communities".
Most of the interventions proposed in the project paper have to do with wildland ecosystems from which
customary productive activities-- farming, herding, gathering -- will be discouraged. Boubacar Hassane
underscores this point: "La possibilite que ce projet puisse avoir des impacts negatifs sur les populations
locales part l'eventualit& de leur marginalisation, necessiterait qu'une attention toute particuliere soit faite
dan son elaboration et dans sa mise en oeuvre" (Para. 49). Boubacar Hassane concludes that in several
important arenas -- health, impacts of tourism, involuntary sedentarization, and effects on ethnic/cultural
minorities -- negative impacts are unlikely to be significant. He acknowledges, however, that during the
two three-week field sessions that informed his report, discussions were held primarily with "les autorites
et les responsables administratifs et techniques tels que les Hauts Commissaires ou Gouvemeurs, les
Prefets ou Chefs de Cercles, les Sous-Prefets ou Chefs d'Arrondissements, les responsables administratifs
villageois ou Chefs de Canton ou de Faction... C'est ainsi qu'au niveau des villages et des campements les
communautes sont recontrees et reunies autour des responsables administratifs ou coutumiers" (Para. 24).
Especially telling is the underrepresentation of women in the samples: "Au Burkina Faso, la mission a pu
rencontrer 774 participants dont 50 femmes [ca. 6%]... Au Mali, la mission a rencontre 767 participants
dont 36 femmes [ca. 5%]..." (Para. 29).
In addition to establishing and maintaining wildlife areas for biodiversity conservation and tourism, the
project seeks efficient management of productive natural resources, with a focus on rangeland. The
assumption which might be more clearly stated in the paper and, indeed, demonstrated, is that the
rangelands are not being effectively managed at present and that improved management would sustainably
increase their carrying capacity for livestock and/or would increase the productivity -- in milk, meat,
hides, and manure -- of a reduced stocking rate to the net benefit of herders (both pastoral and
agro-pastoral) and herding communities. The paper might state specifically what kinds of changes in
herding practice it would introduce/recommend that are both cost-effective and environmentally
sustainable. These are left implicit in the document.
A second point, picking up on the issue raised by Boubacar Hassane, is that the paper should demonstrate
how the exclusion of domestic livestock, farming, and gathering from the protected areas will not itself
negatively impact on the economic well-being of project-affected communities. And it should demonstrate
why there is an inherent incompatibility between running both domesticated and wild animals on the same
and. (Some ecologists have argued that the exclusion of Maasai cattle from the Serengeti Reserve may
,iave aesthetic value or make the area more attractive to tourists, but in fact has little if any benefit for the
environment and the wildlife).
On this point, the project document states that "biodiversity loss" in the Sudanian zone can be related to
"poor land-use practices and policies." And in the Sahel, it states that "high demography and low
technology input have led to significant increase in livestock numbers with inappropriate use of the
grazing potential and cultivation of marginal lands." These are powerful accusations that the primary
victims of the declining capacity of the environment to sustain life are also the instruments of that
degradation. I suggest that the paper provide clear documentation in support of these accusations. They
- 90 -



are at least debatable, and there is also a body of literature that argues that Sudano-Sahelian herders are in
fact skilled stewards of both land and stock. Some of their adaptive mechanisms are under assault by the
alienation of traditional rangelands for other purposes, mainly the expansion of agriculture -- both
irrigated and rainfed (the latter, across the traditional agronomic dry boundary), but also urban
settlements and parks and reserves.
Under the project, a potentially useful "Pastoral Tenure and Users Study" is to be carried out in the Sahel,
with focus on Peul (ie FulBe), Bela, and Tuareg. We suggest that such a study might most usefully be
undertaken prior to project implementation so that its finding might be taken into account in a timely way.
Note, too, that ethnic labels themselves are not unproblematic in the project's zones:
Not all FulBe were pastoral, in fact many were not. They defined themselves as Muslim teachers, traders,
and farmers, as well as herders. Nor were all pastoralists FulBe. Nor were Gourmantchie peoples a
united conmmunity of sedentary farmers. People calling themselves Gourmantchie and FulBe today
descend from peoples who did not always define themselves as such at the beginning of this century (Mary
Ellen Zuppan, "The Historical Imagining of FulBe and Gourmantchie Identities," 2000, unpublished
manuscript).
Project management might consider awaiting the findings of the "Pastoral Tenure and Users Study" before
concluding that "the pastoral community is sometimes adverse to land-use rules." It may well be that the
experience that they have had with such rules imnposed by government indeed leaves them unpersuaded of
their benefits. Governments and development organizations have been known to embrace an anti-nomad
ethic, and that embrace leads to actions--such as forced increases in offtake rates, severe constraints on
pastoral mobility, forced sedentarization, and shifts from a dairy-based to a meat-based economy. These
actions fundamentally threaten herders' and their animals' abilities to survive on arid and semiarid
rangelands, and herders may well be advised to view them adversely.
A third point is that the paper should demonstrate an understanding of the socioeconomic complexity of
local communities. They are not homogeneous, undifferentiated groupings, but rather they are segmented
into sometimes competing or opposed units by ethnicity (which itself is not necessarily fixed or
self-evident), class, education, caste, religion, age, and gender. The complex nature of local
"communities" implies that project benefits are likely to be disproportionately captured by already
privileged persons and not necessarily benefit the community as a whole. The project paper refers to the
importance of "decentralization to the lowest level possible" so that "key decisions and funds [are placed]
in the hands of those who stand to win or lose." Yet without clear understandings of the social complexity
of seemingly homogeneous communities, it is not at all assured that the most likely losers will be accorded
decision-making authority. For example, livestock ownership has become increasingly concentrated. Many
herders do not own the livestock they manage, but function either as hired shepherds or as potential
owners of some fraction of the offspring. Since the prolonged drought of the late 1960s and early 1970s,
persons who do not come from pastoral communities, including government officials and merchants, have
invested in cattle and confide daily management to a hired shepherd. Thus, the statement, "to empower
the community over the management of wildland," needs to be nuanced to assure that the rewards of such
empowerment do not exacerbate already existing social segmentations and worsen the conditions of poorer
and less powerful persons.
-91-



To accomplish this, the project paper might more persuasively demonstrate how the "gestion des terroirs"
approach involves all groups, "however marginalized in society." Further on this point, the paragraph
about "Rationale for GEF support" states that there are economic benefits of improved management of
natural ecosystems, but doesn't clearly indicate what these benefits might be or how the poor of rural
communities will receive them.
None of this necessarily challenges the overall thrust of the project. These suggestions are offered to
strengthen its credibility and to anticipate issues that are likely to emerge prominently during its
implementation.
Beyond these concerns, I endorse much of the favorable assessment of the project given by the other
STAP Roster Technical Reviewer.
12.D. Indications that the reviewers' comments have been addressed
The concerns expressed by the STAP reviewer are relevant for the proposed operation. It is true that few
(if any) projects in the Sahel have successfully targeted more than one of the dimensions of pastoral life &
development. Livestock projects have been many but have focused on animal health, trade, stocking rate
& water development without taking enough into account the traditional knowledge of pastoral
communities and the ecological health of the range.
Nonetheless, it is obvious, that traditional pastoralism rules developed at a time when much less cattle,
sheep & goats existed. Under such condition, plants could rest in between grazing time (see literature on
Pastoral Perimeters). Some pastors we talked to were the first to diagnose the disappearance of perennial
andropogon as a result of high stocking rates and competitive use of the range between herders.
As the reviewer recognizes, livestock ownership has to a significant extent moved from the rural people to
absentee-owners that have no immediate stake in the quality of the range. Under such condition herders
are accountable first for the health of the animals in stewardship; they are likely to make choices on an
immediate-return basis; the PRONAGEN must find ways to approach these owners.
Finally it is true that, as agriculture land becomes scarce, it expends in areas traditionally reserved for
grazing above the "agronomic dry boundary". Like a herder mentioned to us at identification: "c'est la
divagation des champs".
The PRONAGEN will not squarely assume that wildlife & cattle are incompatible users of the same range
but will be cautious. While it is true that in East Africa cohabitation has been possible, there is no such
example in the West Africa Sahel and Sudanian ecosystem. But, as of now, where livestock have moved
in, wildlife has diminished and often disappeared. Under very arid conditions in the Sahara and extremely
low stocking rate this may be different (e.g. successes of the Air Tenere Reserve in the 80's).
Using the "holistic approach", the Pilot Pastoral Perimeter Program (PPPP) is attempting to find ways to
increase stocking rates and perennial plant recovery by inducing land-use-rules more compatible to the
current sizes of the herds and local ecology. One member of the Bank team is also members of the PPPP
and will focus specifically on this dimension. This may be one of the "technical solutions" that the
PRONAGEN may offer the communities.
- 92 -



Finally, involuntary sedentarization is not a solution proposed by PRONAGEN.
In summary, the project team understands the complexity of the pastoral system and recognizes that this
complexity may not transpire enough in the PCD; some statements are perhaps ill informed and debatable.
The PRONAGEN team will take into account the recommendations of the reviewer. Several paragraphs
of the PCD (e.g. Benefits & Risks) have been edited to account for specific comments and ensure that the
document provides a better picture of the intended process.
The reviewer pinpoints the shortcoming of "gestion des terroirs" which has yet to prove it can take into
account the social, cultural & ecological realities. The PRONAGEN team also recognizes the
superficiality of the "basic" gestion des terroirs approach that will be implemented in CAPs. That is the
reason why, it is designed as a process whereby the participatory diagnostic is only the first step toward
understanding the land its constraints & management systems. It starts in year one and ends when results
are achieved, i.e. many years later. All choices and decisions are those of communities. The project field
teams will act as sorts of mediators and information channels within & between communities and share
"outward experiences". The complexity and time-bound dimension of this process is also the reason why
we are requesting to employ national technical assistance and proximity teams and to use the APL
instrument.
The reviewer also suggest to carry out the study of "pastoral tenure and users" before implementation. It
is the opinion of the project team that this study must be carried out in parallel to early implementation. It
is not a desk study or a well-minded research exercise. It is supposed to feed the participatory process
and enable the field teams to be well informed and pilot with more accuracy and more equity the decision
making process. In addition, if the PRONAGEN is not launched in these areas as part of the DRDP, it
may find it difficult to reverse inadequate trends and community decisions induced from the less
ecologically minded DRDP.
- 93 -



Additional
Annex 13
GEPRENAF External Review Summary
13.A. An external evaluation mission of the Burkina Faso component of the GEPRENAF Project
entrusted to Francis Lauginie (ecologist) and Emile Pare (sociologist) was held from 12 to 26 May 2000.
Ten days were spent in the field during which interviews, averaging 3h 45 minutes were conducted with the
representatives of eleven villages out of the seventeen concerned, in addition to three half-day visits to the
Diefoula Forest and two to the Logoniegue Forest.
Comments
It is necessary to have a long-term view of conservation, notably when the objective is to change mentalities
and behaviors in areas as vital as agriculture and the use of natural resources. The Technical Support Unit
(TSU) took time to build solid relationships both within and between villages and the bases of the project
are well established. The TSU undeniably contributed to the local development process and the high quality
of its work must be stressed.
The GEPRENAF contributed in a remarkable way to enhancing the social cohesion of the seventeen
villages (individually and between each other). It helped open them up, facilitate collective decision-making
and initiate the participation of the youth and women. However the latter are still disadvantaged and need to
be empowered since their roles are confined to mere organizers (for example, they account for less than
12% of persons trained in literacy by the Project).
The Project is opening one of the avenues for attaining national conservation goals. Raising of awareness of
farmers about environmental issues is one of the most promising signs. The communities are familiar with
the goals, the process and the major messages of the Project. Government authorities of the Comoe
Province fully support the GEPRENAF. Only collaboration from the Livestock Services remains to be
improved.
The Project has set in motion a local development process and the approach adopted has been successful in
all of its related dimensions. The GEPRENAF is on line with the objectives of the National Biological
Diversity Conservation Strategy and its seven guiding principles. It addresses five of the ten specific
problems identified during the formulation of this strategy. The establishment of a corridor to the Comoe
National Park, stabilization of agriculture, reclaiming of degraded lands in gazetted forests and their rapid
restoration are highly positive results. The issue of agriculture fields maintained in the Diefoula Forest by
the villagers of Ouangolodougou still needs to be resolved. There are also cases of tree felling for
harvesting honey not far from villages.
The restoration of fauna is well under way. Since targeted biological impact indicators were prudent (2%
annual average growth of six indicator species) there is a high likelihood that the objectives will be attained.
However, a lot still remains to be accomplished to ensure the retum to normal conditions, either in terms of
population densities or animal behavior towards humans. Corroborating indices show that poaching, both
by outsiders and villagers, persists in the area. While village surveillance committees are necessary, they
cannot bear the entire responsibility for successful anti-poaching. Their conditions of intervention place the
Project in a non-legal situation. One of the missions assigned to the surveillance committees by the
AGEREF/GEPRENAF protocol is to '"participate in active anti-poaching operations ". This protocol is
- 94 -



implemented without social coverage and under the legal responsibility of the administration even though
the latter did not sign the protocol and most of weapons carried by the villagers are illegally held.
The amounts already spent for project management alone from 1996 to 1999 (927 million) is
disproportionate to the investments undertaken for community activities (91 million out of the 163 million
spent for the agro-sylvo-pastoral area), capacity building (98 million) and, to a lesser extent, the
conservation of biological diversity (152 million). For a project of this nature, while it is essential to
earmark significant financing for technical support such as the one provided by the TSU, there is no
justification for constructing over-sized administrative buildings and a series of rangers' posts that do not
fit their purposes. Contrary to the instructions of the technical appendices of the Manual of Procedures,
these posts and the refurbishment of the Folonzo camp were not built with "aesthetically and ecologically
appropriate materials that reflect the culture and traditions of the region". Even if the first basic maps
produced are useful, the design of a complex geographic information system, that does not always fully
work and which management is not tailored to a village association capacity, is equally hard to justify.
The Project had rightly elected to focus first on local development before the management of natural
habitats. Thus, it is too early to ascertain that the high interest shown by the villagers is not excessively
related to the community achievements and to unfortunate promises made prior to the project effectiveness,
such as the construction of the Yendere-Mangodara link. The establishment of this track including the
construction of a bridge over the Comoe river does not in any way constitute a vital activity for the rational
use of natural resources. While it will facilitate relationships between the AGTRENs as well as the work of
the AGEREF, it will work against the conservation objective in the area.
Law No. 006/97/ADP establishing the Forestry Code provides an adequate legal framework for confirming
or complementing the status of Diefoula and Logoniegue as gazetted forests. The role of AGTRENs goes
well beyond production issues and therefore falls more within the Law on freedom of association than on
the Law on cooperatives. However, the recent joint Inter-ministerial "Arrete" No. 010/2000 concerning
Village Land Management Committees appears to fit well, because AGTRENs are already defacto acting
as community councils. On the other hand, ways should be found to give a more suitable status to the
AGEREF, whose objective is not to become a kind of inter-communal union, but quite simply, to play the
role of a "concessionaire" of a conservation area.
The company selected to guide hunting safaris meets the highest professional standards. However, May
2000 seems to have been rather early for organizing a test. One major fear is that the amount of proceeds
from wildlife would, for now, fall short of expectations. It must be noted that the size of the project has
grown considerably with the addition of seven villages to the ten initially identified (the area has doubled in
size and the population has almost tripled). The possibility of using forest by-products should therefore
continue to be explored extensively.
AGEREF does not feel that it will be capable of assuming full responsibility for the management of the
conservation area by January 2002. The issue of volunteer-work by village association leaders must be
reviewed. This is especially true for the AGEREF leaders who can hardly continue to fulfill their duties
without some basic allowance.
Recommendations
The Burkinabe Government and its partners have embarked on an irreversible process of decentralization
and community empowerment. It is therefore essential to officially recognize the AGTRENs once their
statutes have been reexamined in the light of the Inter-Ministerial "Arrete" No. 010/2000 on Village Land
- 95 -



Management Committees. The AGEREF's role, on the other hand, must be clearly limited to that of
"concessionnaire" of a conservation area, be it an association or a cooperative.
On going activities must be pursued, consolidated and new ones initiated. There is definitely a need for a
five-year extension of the project with continued support from the Technical Support Unit. This could be
done by planning for a transfer of responsibilities to AGEREF at the end of the 3rd year of this new phase.
There hardly seems to be any reason for the existence of a locally-based national coordination unit. Its
duties should logically be carried out by the Provincial Director of Environment and Water and Forests.
Except for short-term consultants, the TSU provides sufficient technical assistance; no other long-term
contract appears necessary.
The volume and level of duties entrusted to the AGEREF ought to be reduced by contracting out some
activities to the private sector, simplifying procedures and monitoring methods. As the TSU is not
responsible for coordinating all the activities of the AGTRENs, a cooperation arrangement should be made
with PNGT 2. Given the professional qualities of the selected hunting guide for the year 2000, his role as
an AGEREF partner should be enhanced, affording him the opportunity to participate more actively in the
establishment of the management system for the Diefoula and Logoniegue forests.
The main training requirements are: administrative and financial management, development of natural and
agro-sylvo-pastoral areas, stabilization of production systems (agriculture - particularly yam and livestock
rearing), eco-tourism, search for fund-raising and negotiation with partners. The Project must see to it that
the training received, by women especially, opens the way for new vocational activities. IEC activities
must be sustained through the improvement of communication at all levels, including communication with
government agencies and external partners.
The second phase should focus on biological diversity conservation, maintaining only development
activities directly related to conservation area management. To facilitate this development, in line with the
project's objective, an agreement should be reached with PNGT2 which should in the future finance all
infrastructures and community-based activities in the agro-sylvo-pastoral area.
The granting of allowances to AGEREF and/or AGTREN leaders must be negotiated; likewise a variable
quota system must be established for the distribution of grants or incomes generated by the conservation
area on the basis of the extent of village-involvement in the management of natural habitats.
The priority should be to consolidate the GEPRENAF before extending it on a national scale. The failure
of projects that had adopted, only apparently, a similar approach should serve as an example (cases in
point are FIDES land management projects, Nahouri land management project, the Yako reforestation
project, Burkina Faso or the Okomu Forest of Nigeria). However, in view of its proximity, the
Boulon-Koflande classified forest should be integrated into the PRONAGEN of the second phase, the
complementary nature of this site is both evident and interesting from the biological standpoint. Moreover,
by developing and extending the corridor to the Comoe National Park, the Project will contribute to the
creation of a vast conservation complex in West Africa.
The surveillance strategy must be revisited by clarifying the role of the village surveillance committees and
of the administration. Anti-poaching is a mission at the state level and must therefore not be delegated tO
village squads. The surveillance committees must therefore confine themselves to dealing only with
information activities, and the carrying of weapons during outings by the villagers should be prohibited
forthwith.
- 96 -



Conservation cannot take place without the villagers, some of whom should undergo training as forestry
assistants in order to join the administration. This will enable them to receive the appropriate status to carry
anti-poaching under the responsibility of the rangers. Again, conservation cannot take place without the
sustained participation and support of the forestry services. It is essential that an atmosphere of trust be
established between, on one hand, the national coordination and TSU and, on the other, the Environmental
and Water and Forests Provincial Services. Anti-poaching is a matter for professionals. This can be done
by regrouping rangers into a team of eight and providing them with specific training (e.g. five months at the
Kafolo Center in Cote d'Ivoire).
It is recommended that the pilot safari operations be postponed to 2003, because any negative publicity
could counteract the gains of several years of work. Subject to proper surveillance, this length of time will
indeed be needed to build up the larger mammal populations. This period could also be used to prepare the
tourism development; the Project will stand to gain by integrating some tourist reception facilities into the
planning of medium-term activities (the conservation areas could complement existing tours to the regions
of Banfora and Bobo-Dioulasso).
The possibilities of using other forest by-products such as fruits, medicinal plants, fibre and fodder and
eco-labelling for GEPRENAF products must be explored. Caution must however be exercised with regard
to the collection of dead wood from forest reserves, at least, for as long as surveillance is not up to par.
Based on the success of small dams (a constant need of the villagers) built at Nazinga, priority must be
given to this activity both in the conservation and agro-sylvo-pastoral areas managed by the Project (e.g. to
garden, for livestock and, above all, for fish-farming).
A quick solution must be found to the problem of agriculture fields maintained in the conservation area
around Ouangolodougou. Demarcation of new boundaries of the two gazetted forests can then be made,
with management rights granted to AGEREF. The name Biological diversity area used for the
conservation area has no meaning. Therefore, it must be replaced by a more appropriate name chosen from
the Forestry Code.
Lastly, the project must pay particular attention to the findings of the environmental impact study on the
Yendere-Mangodara link and to the design of a bridge whose accesses should not inhibit the corridor
function of the gallery forest along the Comoe (the possibility of a better location of this bridge north of
Koflande Forest or replacing the current design by a less invasive structure - weir - must be carefully
examined).
13.B. Indications that the evaluation finding have been addressed
The review recommended that activities at the GEPRENAF site be extended for several more years. We
share this conclusion and have registered the GEPRENAF site in PRONAGEN for an additional 5-year
support. This is also in agreement with the financial model's estimation that cost & revenues will balance
within 3 to 7 years.
The review noted that GEPRENAF had tried to empower communities for activities they cannot legally (or
safely) perform such as antipoaching. The first STAP review had made a similar observation. As a general
fact, PRONAGEN will seek to establish a better balance between the roles of the AGEREF, the UCFs &
private operators. It is clear that while the Government role need to be minimized it cannot completely
disappear and in some instances must be strengthen. PRONAGEN takes this into account.
- 97 -



GEPRENAF tackled local development as first priority and achieved substantial results. According to the
reviewer, it is important that subsequent phases differentiate better local development from wildland
management. This conclusion is endorsed and built in PRONAGEN. All local development related
investments will be funded by IDA or other donors through associated financing. The PRONAGEN teams
will concentrate on achieving biodiversity conservation results.
One of GEPRENAF shortcomings was the high "overhead" cost required for project admninistration and
technical assistance (more than 60% of total project cost). This ratio has been significantly reduced for
PRONAGEN: 4% for Program administration & 28% for technical assistance & studies (including
equipment & operation costs). Nonetheless, as recommended by the independent evaluation, a similar (but
less costly) level of technical assistance is maintained at each site.
The evaluation recommended to increase the GEPRENAF scope to include a nearby site
(Boulon-Koflande), but warned that it may be to early to replicate the model on a national basis. This
recommendation was only partially followed. First the Boulon-Koflande site was indeed added to
PRONAGEN. However, the team feels confident that the approach need to be expanded and tested under
different ecosystem (e.g. the Sahel) and different tenure (e.g. national park). This is also requested by the
Government. In addition, the CBRDP is launched now and presents an opportunity to secure wildlands
while the decentralization process occurs. Finally, conservation & development models such as the one
piloted in Burkina is likely to evolve as lessons are drawn. The only way to draw these lessons and bring
the model to maturity is implement it with sufficient flexibility and objectivity while monitoring closely its
implementation. PRONAGEN is built in that frame.
- 98 -



Additional
Annex 14
Matrix of Root Causes of Biodiversity Loss
Table 14.1. - National issues & issues that are valid for all sites
Subject:            Situation          Root cause of existing     Solution proposed by
Conservation of                        situation                  PAGEN
globaUy important
natural ecosystems
Nation (Burkina      * Overall          0 High demography &        0 PAGEN is not a poverty
wide issues) or        diminution of      poverty                    alleviation instrument.
issues that are the    wildlife &       * Burkina is a poor country  Compounded with other
same in all four       natural habitat    which cannot allocate      programs in Burkina
program sites.       * Shifting of         significant budget to     portfolio, it will help
isoyet leading to   natural ecosystem         alleviate long term
desertification     conservation               poverty locally.
* Soil degradation  * Existing conservation    0 Because Burkina can't
(both structural   strategies are not applied  finance adequately
& biochemical)     to their fullest potential  conservation, the GEF &
and need improvement on    other donors are
several fronts             assisting. Project to
(community legal rights    finance studies for the
& responsibilities in      creation of trust or
protected area             Foundation.
management)              * Project finances studies
* Low governance in the      & workshops to
current application of the  capitalize on experiences
wildlife strategy with rent  and improve incentive
seeking by privileged of   framework in Burkina
the private sector &       and accordingly reform
Government                 laws for wildlife,
* Low awareness by the       wildland & rural
general population with    development.
little lobbying by the civil  * Project to work on setting
society                    transparent criteria &
* Low local understanding    procedures to select &
of the human impact on     control private operators
natural resources and      as well as create
possibility to reverse the  incentive for quality &
degradation process        ethic behavior
* Inadequate land use      0 The program seek to
practices in the           assist the community in
agriculture & livestock    organizing themselves,
sectors and associate      collaborating together,
mining behavior of the     define their rights &
communities                responsibilities
- 99 -



* Lack of "conservation    * In Phase 1, the Program
ownership" by the          finances national
communities because of     conservation awareness
unclear rights &           activities geared at
responsibilities.          Forestry agents and
* Marginal commitment        Private guides
from forestry agents     * Program is companion to
because of low income,     CBRDP (Rural
insufficient training,     development CAP), to
support (or example)       SILEM (GEF OP12) and
from their management      develop collaborative
agreement with the
agriculture, livestock
services & research.
* Capacity building of
Forestry staff at the
national & local levels
associated with
equipment & supervision
as well as rule
enforcement by the
communities
Table 14.2. - Northem Sahel Reserve & Comoe Conservation Unit
Subject:             Situation          Root cause of existing     Solution proposed by
Conservation of                         situation                  PAGEN
globally important
natural ecosystems
Sahel Unit: Northem   * Range            0 Non existence of          * Definition &
portion of Sahel        degradation         water-use access rules     implementation of
Reserve               * Wildlife           (Occupation of bird         community rules for land
(Nassoumbou area;       depletion and       nesting and rest areas by  & resource access &
Seno Mango; Oursi;      extinction of       farmers, fishermen &       exploitation
Beli; Darkoye)          several species     pastoralists)            * Program pays a special
* Migratory birds   * Human use of the entire    attention to livestock &
do not finds        space which provides no    pastoralism, initially
suitable            refuge for wildlife (either  through a two-year
traditional rest    plants, manmals or         diagnostic of the current
areas along         birds)                     practices & rules and by
flyways           * Pastoral practices non     placing herders at the
* Permanent &         appropriate given the       center of the decision
irreversible       large increase in herd      making process
modification of     size                     * Major attention paid to
the ecosystem     * Motorized poaching not     diagnostic by
(p.e. glacis &      sufficiently controlled    communities of root
- 100-



extinct species                               causes of specific
would be too                                  degradation particularly
risky to                                      when it comes to the
reintroduce)                                  management of wetlands
(Oursi, Beli, Darkoye)
* Reintroduction as the
red-neck ostrich (farning
by communities)
* Antipoaching by central
brigade upon
Conservator request
Como& Unit:           * Degradation of   * Region freed from        * Definition &
Diefoula Logoniegue    land areas          onchocerchaisis with       implementation of
& Boulon-Koflande       available as       significant rainfall       community rules for land
wild-land          present an opportunity     & resource access &
* Habitat             for migrants coming from   exploitation
qualitative         land-degraded regions of  * Program pays a special
depletion from      Burkina                   attention to livestock &
the advance of   * No access rules to gallery  pastoralism
the yam            forest along the Comoe      (GEPRENAF has
agriculture         & Leraba water courses    already initiated solutions
front, fire, & in  (occupation of corridors,  by helping farmers &
some areas,        riverine flood plains, bird  pastoralists define land
grazing.            nesting and rest areas by  access & seasonal rules)
* Wildlife           farmers, fishermen &     * Major attention also paid
depletion          pastoralists)              to diagnostic by the
* Cultivation of             communities of the root
high-land-demanding        causes of specific
yam accelerate the         degradation
cultivation front and      (GEPRENAF helped
leads to intense forest &  communities identify
soil degradation           their own agricultural
* Pastoral practices not     practices as well as
adapted to the evolution   intervillage conflicts as
of the size of the herds in  root origins of wildland
some part of the area      degradation)
* Motorized poaching is    0 AGEREF to work with
not sufficiently controlled  professional guide with
particularly in            investment capacity.
Boulon/Koflande            Model shows that
Diefoula-Logoni6gue can
provide $0.5/pers-year to
community by end of
Phase 1.
- 101 -



Table 14.3. - Mares aux Hippos Biosphere Reserve & Kabore-Tambi National Park
Subject:             Situation           Root cause of existing     Solution proposed by
Conservation of                          situation                  PAGEN
globally important
natural ecosystems
Bobo Unit: Mare aux   * Habitat           * Hunting rule is          * Definition &
Hippos Biosphere         degradation        "no-hunting" without the   implementation of
Reserve                  (grazing, wood     necessary mean/strategy    community rules for land
cutting, fire.)    to carry out that control.  & resource access &
* Wildlife         * Rules for fishing, range    exploitation
depletion &        & water-use access are   * Special attention to
extension (area    not accepted by the        defining refuge areas
too small for      communities and need to    (even if it is in time) to
large mammals      be renegotiated            ensure safety,
or camivores)      (permanent occupation of   reproduction and rest to
* Migratory birds     lake & bird nesting and    migrant birds
may not find the   rest areas by farmers,   * Program pays a special
reserve a           fishermen & pastoralists)  attention to livestock
suitable rest    0 Human use of the entire    issues on the lake flood
areas along        space which provides       plains.
traditional        little refuge for wildlife  * Major attention also paid
flyway             (either plants, mammals    to diagnostic by the
* Degradation of      or birds)                  communities of the root
marshes &                                      causes of specific
riverine habitat                              degradation (special
along the lake                                 focus on fishing on the
(e.g. Siltation,                              lake, upstream water
minor pollution,                               quality and up-stream
invasion by                                   capture of water for
floating plants,                              irrigation)
lack of water)
Nazinga Unit:         * Habitat           0 Park is close from the   * Definition &
Kabore-Tambi             degradation        capital and its high       implementation of
National Park         * Wildlife            demand for firewood and    community rules for land
depletion          wild-meat                   & resource access &
* Elephants,        * Total lack of              exploitation
which used the      surveillance, and       * Project pays a special
area                availability of water and  attention to livestock &
traditionally,      grass, lead to its illegal  pastoralism by working
moved to            occupation by large herds  with farmers & herders
nearby              of cattle.                to find common solutions
Nazinga/Sissili  0 Lack of surveillance, and  (as in GEPRENAF now)
complex.            proximity of military   * Project will specially
base, leads to intense     target for sensitization of
vehicle poaching and       those whose mining
depletion of wildlife      behavior is particularly
- 102 



populations                negative (e.g. military).
* Communities have been      This was successfully
totally excluded from the  achieved for Nazinga,
management of this park    which used to be poached
so they have adopted a     by outsiders.
mining behavior allowing  * Major attention also paid
and participating in      to diagnostic by the
poaching, grazing, wood    communities of the root
cutting, fire, illegal     causes of specific
fishing.                   degradation.
* Project will work with
CBRDP & communities
to try to reopen the "old"
elephant migration route
from Nazinga to
Kabor&-Tambi.
- 103 -



Additional
Annex 15
Involvement of Other Donors
Other donors' financing under PRONAGEN
Other donors are financing biodiversity conservation in Burkina: AFD/FFEM finance a Conservation Unit
Support Program (CUSP); the EU is starting an ambitious International Project for W National Park and
its periphery (ECOPAS) and UNDP/GEF assists the Nazinga Game Ranch. The French cooperation is
financing a Technical assistant to the Forestry Department with funds to support national reforms of the
sector.
Secured financing:
- France SCAC:       AT to Environment          EURO 0.32 million plus a Technical assistant
- France AFD:        Support to WCU             AFD EURO 1,68 million &
FFEM EURO 0.76 million
WCU Arly                    AFD EURO 0.61 million &
FFEM EURO 0.38 million
- European Union:    Projet ECOPAS              EURO 6.5 million for Burkina over the next
5 years
- World Bank / GEF   Support to PAGEN            $7.5 million
All these operations implement the 1995 national wildlife strategy but are being reformed to meet the policy
-equirement of PRONAGEN. They target biodiversity outcome that are empowering and profiting
communities. These projects focus on Government managed protected areas with high Government
nvolvement (national parks, reserves, hunting concessions) while GEPRENAF focus on a domain where
-he Government has agreed to a lesser role in conservation (partial reserves and gazetted forests). Like
GEPRENAF, they aim to set up a system profitable to the three main stakeholders: Government,
Communities & Private commercial operators.
All these projects embrace community participation as a premise or Decentralized Rural/Local
Development. In fact, they are either coupled with a local development project (e.g. the French project is
coupled with the PADL (Local Development Support Project) which assist the communities in the project
peripheral areas. Like CBRDP, their objective is to secure access to resources by the communities and
assist them in their first priorities. In turn, it is expected that these communities would decrease their need
-:o penetrate protected areas for hunting of grazing.
The main difference between these operations and GEPRENAF pertain to the fact that the protected areas
targeted by other donors are already conceded to private venture "Concessionaires" and not to AGEREFs.
The private Concessionaire act also as guides to commercially exploit wildlife & wildland. The
concessionaire is also responsible to assist the communities through employment, return of wildlife meat.
In addition, normally, half of the taxes paid by the Operator to the Government are redirected to "Collective
Interest Funds" to be used by communities to finance their development. In essence these transactions
rarely occur.
- 104-



The GEPRENAF models attempt to organize the community into a legal associations of CVGTs called
AGEREFs. An AGEREF is eligible to become "Concessionaire" over the management of a protected area.
Once adequately empowered, organized & trained, that legal entity "the AGEREF", recruits a private guide
to contract the exploitation of wildlife & wildland. In this scheme, we believe the Government role and cost
is lessen to that of a controller and is minimal. The bulk of the responsibilities lies within the community.
The Government is requesting all donors to coordinate their operations under the umbrella of a single
program: The PRONAGEN. All donors have agreed (i) to join their project coordination units, (ii) to be
piloted by a single steering committee, (iiii) to be advised by a single Scientific & Technical Advisory Panel
as well as a Technical assistant financed by the French Cooperation, (iv) to harmonize monitoring
techniques such as aerial surveys and GIS to national standards, (v) to finance conjointly studies and
technical assistance leading to the required legal institutional reforms of the sector.
-105 -



Additional
Annex 16
Summary of the Environmental and Social Analysis
1. Reminder of the obiectives of PRONAGEN and PAGEN - the government of Burkina Faso has
obtained funds for the preparation of this program from the Global Environment Facility (GEF),
through the World Bank.
In accordance with the policies and orientations of the state, PRONAGEN is proposed as a
complementary program of the PNDRD (National Program of Decentralized Rural Development). It
implements << ecosystem conservation >> part of the national strategy action plan regarding biodiversity
in conformity with the fundamental principles (responsibility of communities, equal sharing of profits
provided by a better conservation). On the operational level, protected areas must be well managed
(national parks, reserves, game ranches and some classified forests devoted to fauna), to insert them
better in the rural context and integrate them in the local development and to maximize the commercial
aspects of their exploitation.
To achieve these objectives, PRONAGEN will last for 15 years and will be carried out in sequential
phases of 5 years each. Its first phase will enable the reinforcement of the legal and institutional basis
of the Wildlife Conservation Units (WCU). It will enable the financial backers to register their current
operations in this dynamics with a view of its operationalization.
The support of GEF to phase one of PAGEN is organized as a project (the PAGEN).
During the first phase, PAGEN will intervene in four WCUs, which are:
*   The sylvo-pastoral forest reserve and partial sahel fauna Forest and particularly the potential
intervention area of PAGEN is located in the region of Soum and Oudalan in the northern part of
the line going through the following towns: Selba, Nassoumbou, Koutougou, Deou, Oursi and
Markoye.
*   Hippopotamus pond biosphere reserve,
*   The classified forest and partial fauna reserve of Comoe-Leraba as well as the classified forests of
Boulon and Koflande,
* The complex areas are composed of the KABORE Tambi national Park / game ranch of Nazinga /
classified forests of Sissili and Nazinon.
The detailed list of the villages bordering PAGEN is in the appendix.
2. The participative approach and consultation are the key issues for the implementation of this
program, and the PAGEN required a study on the social impact and environmental ex-ante .
The general aspects of this study are based on the recommendations of the World Bank. The objective
of these impact studies is to improve decision making and to make sure that projects are long lasting
and efficient. These evaluations show decision makers to the environmental and social risks, they
examine alternative to the projects, identify ways of improving the program choices, the sites, planning,
- 106-



implementation and particularly the participative approach, in order to prevent, minimize, reduce or
compensate for the negative impacts and to reinforce the positive ones.
3. The report is written out and elaborated according to the Bank's expectations, that is, including the
following safeguarding policies:
*   (OP 4.12): Involuntary moving of population
*   (OP 11.03): cultural Property and (OP 4.04) on the Natural Habitats
*   (OP 4.20): the << Gender >> dimension in development
*   (GP 14.70): consideration and investment of NGOs in the projects
*   (OP 4.01): Evaluation of Environmental Impact
*   (OP 4.30): Evaluation of Social Impact
4. According to the Bank's norms, the PAGEN is classified in Category B because of its potentially
negative effects on human population or on particularly large environmental zones. These impacts
relate to particular sites, and contrary to Category A project, very few of them are likely to be
irreversible and in all cases, it is possible to propose measures to reduce these impacts. This ESIA
(Environmental and social impact analysis) helps to prepare the participative and institutional setting in
order to know the beneficiaries better. The follow up of social impact ensures that the benefits are
effectively allocated.
5. The legislative and regulatorv context that rules the management of protected areas in Burkina
Faso is apprehended through laws relating to land reorganization (RAF), the Environment and Forest
Codes.
The land issue for protected areas is very sensitive and cannot be treated on the legislative level only. It
is important to analyze the current land practices and dynamics in the protected areas and in
agro-sylvo-pastoral zones that surround them. This section presents laws and codes and the social
customs of the land.
6. During the colonial days, the rural land of French West Africa was declared «No man's land» and
as the reforestation perimeter, they belonged to the State.
With modem law, the land rights of local population are not mentioned either. The three successive
laws relating to land reorganization in Burkina Faso (1985, 1991 and 1996) have made progress
regarding private property; the State can grant some of the land of the "Domaine National et Foncier"
to private individuals or communities.
The legislative arsenal ignores the rights of most of the rural population, that is the population which
exploits land that is not delimited or registered (which is neither private nor granted by the State).
Nevertheless, the management of rural land remains strict and very well regulated locally. Regarding
classified land, its legal status is one thing: it belongs to the State since its creation. But their
«traditional» status varies from one region to another and it is different from the management system of
«village land management>. There are <<masters of the bush>> and «rmasters of ponds)> different from the
land chiefs and village chiefs.
Recommendation: the PAGEN teams must know the existence of traditional fishing and hunting
territories, because the owners of land rights that relate to them may be far from the protected area.
The neighboring villages of the protected area having been settled afterwards, on land of villages that
formerly had hunting rights or land chieftancy. In cases where these rights exist, one must not only
- 107-



consider the surrounding villages of the protected area as being the sole beneficiaries or those
<<concerned» by the program; the villages that have an authority on the territory must be integrated as
well. These rights are particularly found around the National Park of P6 and they can be found
elsewhere.
7. The PAGEN will take the existence of claims on protected areas into account: the villages around
Voko near the National Park of P6 claim their rights on this forest; in the same way, the villagers of
Sokourani and Tirako around the Biosphere Reserve of Hippopotamus Pond have been claiming the
declassification of the forest for more than 10 years). That is why, dialogue and clear responses and
public Consultation are important at the start of PAGEN.
Recommendations:
When the project teams will carry out the surveys with the local population during the Joint Diagnosis,
they must be careful with land customs defacto. One must not take the risk of worsening a given
situation; on the contrary, these rights must be clarified through dialogue. For the delimiting of the
protected areas and their management to last long, one must note land acquisition and those in charge,
and will also rely on these major actors to organize land police and set land use regulations (land here
has a broad meaning: it includes water, fauna, trees and their products) and access restrictions.
The message to villagers on land rights is also important at the first contacts : it must be clearly
mentioned that the protected areas belong legally to the State and that the State may transfer its
management to village organizations.
8. All these protected areas belong to the State, but it does not have the means to impose itself
everywhere: these forests are damaged, agriculture and housing invade all buffer zones, woodmen cut
firewood and make charcoal, wild animals are poached and their natural habitat is being reduced,
husbandry cows graze in the forests and go through them repeatedly, cowherds and shepherds trim the
trees to feed their animals etc.
The forest agents are very few and cannot move due to lack of appropriate means of transportation (a
single agent for the entire P6 department). Consequently, desertification is increasing, humus is
reducing, and migration of human beings and cattle is increasing from North to South whereas the stay
of migrants in the sahelian zones of Burkina is becoming shorter. The state of Burkina has adopted a
national strategy of progressive withdrawal from some of its functions to the benefits of local
communities and private individuals, as indicated in the Letter of Decentralized Rural Development
Policy.
9. Concessions - the forest Code specifies the principles of forest management (chapterl title II) and
articles 38 and 39 allow management by individuals and legal entities of «public or private law)>. The
forest services can <«on contract, entrust the exploitation of part of the State forest domain>> to private
institutions or to village associations as planned by the PAGEN which allows the concessions of
domains, with <<specifications on exploitation and products assessment conditions>>.
10. Decentralization: for ages, natural resources (forest, faunal and halieutic) have been managed de
facto at the local level by a set of «traditional> rules. The protected areas have a particular aspect in
the rural areas, because their classification has dispossessed traditional leaders of their rights vis a vis
the external exploiters (and sometimes the villagers) leaving these areas to free access, under the
supervision of forest agents who are often absent. The reinforcement of local institutions in these zones
- 108 -



will reduce free access, which is essential to mitigate the weakness of State actions.
Burkina Faso's legislation regarding decentralization has rapidly improved for 10 years (the TOD and
Laws of 1998), acknowledging the levels of provinces and communities for the political
decentralization. A year ago, a ministerial decree recognized the existence of local entity that would
correspond to that of the <<8000 villages>» of Burkina. The decree specifies that «the CVGT are
responsible for the elaboration of local development plans, they jointly finance investments, by ensuring
the master works and management>. The recognition of the Village Commissions for Land
Management, at this level as at the inter-village level is an outstanding progress.
This legislative framework offers a formal basis for the implementation of PAGEN.
11. Faunal Sector and participation - like decentralization, the national strategy of the fauna sector is
fully developing : the exploitation of 25 zones has been granted to projects or private institutions. The
prevailing dynamics in progress is favorable for the implementation of PAGEN, and this will contribute
to its progressive development towards a decentralized management of protected areas. PAGEN as
GEPRENAF, is committed to implement a participative approach that reinforces the population's
responsibility in the management of protected area (supervision committees, choice and follow up of
local development action, the responsibility of valorization). This type of participative approach raises
organizational and legal problems: experiences such as GEPRENAF state the question of legal status
of the fauna and protected areas, because the approach is based on implicit and false idea according to
which local population have retrieved their traditional rights on these fauna and protected areas,
whereas the protected area and its content remain a State property.
12. Duration of management concession - any doubt on the perspectives of management rights of
protected areas, will be affected by PAGEN results. The population must be convinced of the effective
transfer of management and its automatic renewal. If they fear that after 10 years, the State will take
over the management of these areas, the population will not fully participate. In addition, a ten-year
concession is enough for long lasting development actions, and the current joint partners (state,
projects, local population etc.) must think of a longer concession period, adapted to natural resources
management needs of local population (20 years, 30 years, emphyteotic leases). The current form does
not prevent from thinking about a possible decentralized property of the fauna and some protected
areas as well.
13. To measure potential impacts of PAGEN, negative or positive impacts, environmental and social
impacts, it is essential to generally consider classified zones and agro-sylvo-pastoral zones that border
them. In the same way, analysis of safeguarding policies and moderating plan are based on this double
action plan. It is evident from this analysis that PAGEN will generally have a positive impact on
natural resources in general as well as biodiversity, which is its main objectives. But, the
socio-economic aspects do not offer similar attraction, at least on the short and medium term, and
preservation is likely to be harmful to the daily life of many human actors who are already struggling to
survive, if the participative approach is not well managed. The participative approach will use dialogue
to reach the implementation of Management Plan of protected areas, access restriction to the resources
will be laid down through consultation, and it will be accompanied by a Mitigation Plan: see the
Framework process.
14. The impacts analyzed below relate to life in time of peace. One must take into account political
uncertainties, because any crisis that may arise beyond these borders would have a negative
environmental impact on these protected areas.
- 109-



15. Major positive and sustainable changes are expected through restoration of the ecosystems of these
protected areas, provided the living conditions of the concerned population do not suffer from the
preservation on the short or medium tern (in order to avoid negative social impacts see the context of
procedure). On the long term, PAGEN is expected to improve the humus, soil fertility; surface and
underground water resources in agro-sylvo-pastoral zones where the population live outside managed
or intervention zones and in classified zones as well.
16. The lack of maintenance of these protected areas resulted in a severe degradation of some of them
(particularly the National Park of P6), cattle migration has led to an enormous destruction of the humus
and the soil, which speeds up erosion.
Positive environmental effects are expected from the following elements:
-   Participative surveillance system
-   Fight against poaching
-   Action against bush fire
-   Interventions against degradation of water banks and forest galleries
-   Surveillance of watershed basins above the protected areas
-   Support teaching information actions on environment
17. On the other hand Negative environmental impacts are expected in the following domains and need
a mitigation plan:
- Small impacts caused by forest management (risk of soil erosion around roads, destruction of
plant species, opening for wood cutting or coal fabrication, risk of diseases in managed water
sources if water stagnates etc.);
- Increased pressure on neighboring agro-sylvo-pastoral zones, in particular return of herds (on
the borders of the Mouhoun river for the biosphere Reserve and around the National Park of
P6);
- Minor risk relating to the increase of elephant population in the Sahel region.
18. Recommendations:
* About the participative surveillance system, the project will integrate Hunters Associations and
fishermen groups into the surveillance, and ensure that the hunters find interest in this activity to
substitute their former one in the Park. Other actors using natural resources (traditional chiefs,
forest groups, cattle breeders groups, women association etc.) will be associated with the definition
of rules and their application mode, control and penalties to be paid. Such institutions already exist
in many zones of Burkina; one must clarify the respective roles of everyone from the beginning, in
accordance with the forest services and their base agents.
*   PAGEN must ensure, in collaboration with its Agricultural partners, that a follow up of water
quality is guaranteed in all drainage basins above the protected areas where there is kitchen
gardening, cotton growing as well as public and private irrigated perimeters (particularly Houet
and Mouhoun). Water purification measures must be taken once the rejection dosages exceed the
limits tolerated by wild animals.
- 110-



*   All management plans that will be made in the protected areas must integrate an Environmental
Evaluation that will be ensured by a national independent consultant, according to the provisions of
article 17 of the environment code.
*   Measures must be taken to help livestock breeders depart from these protected areas or modify the
range use pattems: see Infra for details about the pastoral sector.
*   PAGEN must ensure, with its technical partners and existing projects that this reinforcement of
village zones exploitation is accompanied by adequate measures: help recover damaged soils,
rational intensification and supervised agricultural activities etc.
*   Elephants use a lot of water for their bath and drinking. On the long term, if their number and the
duration of their stay is prolonged, one should think about the viability of underground water and
control sahelian elephants population, in accordance with Malian category govermment who share
this patrimony.
19. Public consultation - for category B projects, public consultation must be carried out as early as
possible, in a form and language accepted by all categories concemed by the project, including all
affected social groups and NGOs. For transparency and good broadcasting of the information reasons,
a report must be provided to all social groups affected by the project and local NGOs; the report must
be also available on Intemet. Public consultation must be decentralized at Departments chief towns
levels and in current public meeting areas in those places. PAGEN agents will write down questions
and their answers in order to ensure a follow up - evaluation of the impacts expected by local
population.
20. One effect of the action of PAGEN will be the re-establishment of these protected areas. Whereas
currently these Zones are the object of more or less intensive exploitation and more or less compatible
with the preservation. The choices of access restrictions will be made in line with participative and
interactive procedure which will end up in Management Plans and the implementation of moderating
plans. From a social point view, the vulnerability relating to the concemed actors will intervene in this
choice of restrictions of activities in these protected areas (see the context of procedure).
21. On the sociological level, key issues can be summarized in five points:
*   1. Transfer of activities: the participative and interactive approach will lead to the definition of
activities in the protected areas with all the existing actors to elaborate Management Plans and the
moderating Plans will reduce the risk of losing revenues related to these activities.
*   2. Partnership: PAGEN does not have its own fund to ensure the development of neighboring zones
of the protected areas. This issue is resolved in a form of partnership. See institutional issues 29 to
32.
*   3. Removing of PAGEN incompatibility Risk with poverty fighting programs: the forest and its
resources are the main sources for vulnerable population; oie cannot forbid access to the forest.
*   4. Solving pastoral issue of migrating livestock breeders: Serious measures will be taken so that
cattle breeders and especially those who migrate are not the great losers of PAGEN (see the
Framework process).



*   5. The status of fauna and protected areas: this question has been already raised in the section I on
laws and practices (see I I and 12). It will be difficult to mobilize population for durable actions in
protected areas if they are not sure that these zones will be effectively granted to them.
22. The attached Framework process elaborates the methods and resources which will allow the
population who are exercising activities in the protected areas to maintain their current standard of
living. The activities which have already been exercised in the areas of full preservation will be
transferred to other classified Zones, through a consultative approach. The Management Plans are the
tools of this new sharing of activities. PAGEN will accompanied these activity transfers by
micro-projects, income generating activities and training programs.
Revenues from the community-based management of wild fauna are to be expected after 10 to 15
years, with a minimum of 1$ per capita and per annum.
For the management, exploitation and maintenance of the zone, individual and collective revenues can
be earned by high intensive labor (for the GEPRENAF, 50% goes back to ridge tile association
AGEREF), for 400,000 CFA contracts for each base association AGETREN. Trackers and tour
guides must receive individual and collective revenues (for GEPRENAF, 50% AGEREF).
Revenue generating activities will be guaranteed by a form of micro-projects right at the start of the
project not only to guarantee the population with revenue but also with the aim of structuring groups
necessary for the consultative approach collective actions generate the habits of team work at the base.
The implementation of fund raising is planned (foundation/trust fund) whose role will be the financing
of the balance between generated income by the zones and the amount required to supply the
development funds of the equivalent of $1 per capita per annum.
23. During the Joint Diagnosis, the teams of the PAGEN will point out which activities are exercised
in the protected areas, at which periods in order to establish a specific calendar, who are the actors,
how to get in touch with them, and how to integrate them to the actions of PAGEN. The preparation of
the implementation of the PAGEN will rely on these actors right from the start in a participative
approach as well as the information from all the concemed village population. The teams of PAGEN
will learn how to use tools such as MARP well spread in the Burkina Faso, in order to know the rate of
permanent and seasonal occupation in any of these protected areas and to appreciate the compatibility
(from a technical point) activities with the faunal sector and the restoration of the biodiversity. The
joint diagnosis for the elaboration of local or village development plans will be contracted with NGOs
or research department experienced in MARP and GT methods.
24. The GEPRENAF experience shows that the organizational capacity of the population is limited as
well as their ability to face constraints related to specific activities such as "sightseeing safari",
"ecotourism" and "hunting as a sport". These activities require a high degree of professionalism and
absolute strictness because hunters as well as tourists are very demanding and one is involved in a field
of very harsh international competition. After 5 years of implementing GEPRENAF, AGEREF
(umbrella organization of village associations) cannot handle research and attend to this type of clients.
Benefits from "sightseeing" and hunting can hardly be considered as acquired, even on the medium
term.
The GEPRENAF, with the support of PAGEN and the Board of Tourism must reconsider a means of
valorization of the biodiversity zone that is adapted to the local population capacities. The" safari ",
"ecotourism" and "hunting as a sport" require the presence of a private operator. If such a choice is
- 112-



made, the project will reinforce the consultation capacity of AGEREF with this partner and it should
learn to control its activities by respecting the prescriptions (see the training program in the context of
procedure).
25. Villages near the protected areas are most of the time located in secluded areas and are enclaved in
places where the population have a low standard of education and below the national average. PAGEN
is planning to participate in the promotion of basic education by supporting education programs
(literacy and schooling) in its intervening areas. It is essential to ensure continuity by training the young
generation which will be more adaptable than their parents to meet the requirements of modem life.
26. Every year, forests and common parts constitute an available reserve for the poor during the
difficult period (July to August) in case of dearth and famine. Plucking fruits, leaves, gathering stones,
sand or collecting firewood in order to sell part of it is a possibility that can be allowed to the poor. The
Management Planning of protected areas takes into account the calendar related to vulnerability and
plucking rights during the harsh period, by zone and the implementation of customs consultative
calendar.
The Mitigation Planning expects to identify the vulnerable actors right at the Joint Diagnosis and how
to include them to generating income activities (see the context of Procedure, particularly the
identifying criteria of vulnerable groups and methods of making a census of Involved people and
vulnerable element).
27. Resolve pastoral issue of migrant cattle breeders - according to fauna and pastoral sectors experts,
these two activities are incompatible (risk of exchanging diseases, wild animals need of quietude etc).
After successive droughts and desertification of the northern part which was the privileged area of
cattle breeders, the cattle breeders moved to the south and herds stay in the South and in the West the
whole year. During the farming period, cattle tracks and corridors are obstructed by farms. Disputes
between cattle breeders and farmers are frequent and violent; such matters are settled daily in courts.
The PAGEN proposes a moderating Plan, conflicts management Systems and territory management.
Recommendations:
*   PAGEN teams will identify all categories of livestock breeders, exploiting the protected areas, even
seasonally, and integrate them in the approach from the beginning; they will participate in the
elaborating of Management Plans of the protected areas including transhumans who will be
contacted by their "hosts".
*   PAGEN should make sure that the partners (technical services and projects) can rapidly meet the
needs of the cattle breeders before appealing to them to move from the protected areas: solutions
will come up during dialogues and consultative meetings (for example: water points out of the
zone, improvement of grazing and fodder plants growing doliques etc.);
*   Mowing will be authorized in protected areas and areas included in the Management Plans; training
in mowing, fodder preservation, study trips to the Sahel; (see the procedure context); other
activities could be negotiated during the consultative meetings.
*   If it is necessary to transfer pastoral activities to adjacent villages the PAGEN will prioritize
endogenous initiatives negotiation with the land managers to be granted land reserves on which
they have grazing rights;
- 113-



*   Disputes will increase in agro-sylvo-pastoral zones near the protected areas: when the pastoral
activities are transferred there: PAGEN will look for solutions by the alternative management of
conflicts. Conflict Resolution methods are governed in two ways: preventive, and curative. At the
preventive level by identifying potential conflicts and by integrating the potential actors. The
implementation of communication channels promoting existing networks is necessary, as well as
the establishment of specific management rules of resources accepted by all. At the curative level,
it concems the implementation of institutions recognized by the actors in order to settle the
conflicts by reaching a consensus regarding their issue.
*   At a provincial and regional level, the PAGEN will ensure with the service of CPAT and CRAT
that cattle corridors exist and that they are adjacent and sufficient to guarantee new trips passages
outside the protected areas. If they are not sufficient, the Management Plans will be made by
making new passages for cattle for example for the PNKT in order to reduce tension and conflicts
in the neighboring areas.
*   The projects will associate provincial services of cattle breeding right from the start and will
establish specific rules of working in a forrn of an agreement in which the objectives to be reached
are fixed.
28. Identify the actors - the participative management requires another vision of the protected area.
Instead of considering that actors must be expelled from these areas by their legal status, one has to
know the current activities that are carried out and identify the actors. As recommended in points 22.
and 23., one of the first actions of the PAGEN teams should be the identification of the activities that
are carried out in the protected areas, how to contact the actors and how to associate them with the
activities (diagnosis).
29. Two alternatives may help improve the programs results from a mechanism of financing point of
view of the local development.
* Alternative 1 - PAGEN receives funds from PNGT II to support local development of villages
bordering protected areas.
* Alternative 2 - The PAGEN Reinforcing capacity: a local development specialist in the training of
rural organizations will come to assist the teams of the PAGEN on the 4 sites (which means 4
specialists will be needed).
30. Institutional issues - institutional organization of PAGEN requires a well prepared partnership and
concerted actions. The preparation phase is essential and the success of PAGEN will depend on its
capacity to lead partnership and consultation.
*   Partnership and consultation will be carried out at many levels:
*   Transnational: wild animals move and as such, they constitute a patrirnony that belongs to two or
several countries. Cooperation and coordination regarding PAGEN activities are organized with
Mali, Ghana and C6te d'Lvoire.
*   Administrative, national, regional and provincial: separating preservation services from services
aiming at improving the ZASP is a difficult perspective to manage but institutional setting of
concerted actions planning for local development exist in Burkina Faso (Province Technical
concertation committees and territory management commissions).
*   With projects, financial backers and executants: PAGEN intervention zones lack basic
infrastructures (schools, bore-holes, health centers etc.) all these urgent needs could come up
during Joint Diagnosis and will be solved during the local or village development Plans.
- 114-



3 1. Agreements will be effectively signed with the projects in charge of implementing local
development works especially with the PNGT before the launching of the PAGEN.
The PAGEN execution manual will be revised to integrate institutional and organizational mechanisms
to be implemented with PNGT2. The agreement between the two programs will elaborate the financial
contribution that the PNGT2 can make to the development activities in the concerned
agro-sylvo-pastoral zones.
32. The Follow up Evaluation - procedures of social and environmental impacts follow the approach
of the executive manual. The system includes the follow up of execution of activities and the follow up
of impact; both types of follow up apply to both types of activities: village management activities and
the other activities of the program. Key indicators are proposed for each phase.
*   Evaluation ex-ante: site by site visit. For the follow up of environmental and social impacts,
primary database should be constituted early, during public consultation and Joint Diagnosis. The
list of all activities undertaken in each of the protected areas will be made by identifying concerned
actors, means of getting in touch with them and adapted compensatory measures, not forgetting
vulnerable people.
*   Activities follow up: PAGEN teams should act and decide on a participative basis;
*   Mid-tern evaluation: it will be made by an independent consultant. This step will be essential to
correct the implementation of the program if the participative approach is not well undertaken;
*   Final evaluation: it will give a report on all environmental and social impacts.
33. An environmental and participative project like PAGEN aims at a positive impact on the
environment and on human development as well. In order to propose a moderating plan that includes
recommendations and operational guidelines of the World Bank, these are presented in relation to
PAGEN general objectives, and relative to each site.
34. Moving of the population - the PAGEN will work for the preservation of protected areas, and
access restriction to certain zones will lead to the reduction of anthropic activities; no moving of the
population is planned.
Within the borders of the current protected areas: classified forests/partial fauna reserve of
Como&eLraba, the national park of P6 known as PNKT, the hippo ponds biosphere reserve, there is no
known settlement. As the classified forest of Boulon and Koflande, the above mentioned areas are
subjected to anthropic activities.
Regarding the case of Sahel which is an open site, in the framework of the PAGEN implementation,
things will be orientated towards the local population in a long-term negotiation process with a view of
establishing potential sites of preservation. Some have already been identified like the Ramsar site of
the Oursi pond, the sanctuary project of omithologic of the Beli, the Seno-Mango including the tiger
forest, Gourma elephant transit area. No moving of the population is planned.
The Burkina Faso already has experience in terms of policies of the Bank on the move of population
and that projects such as the PNGT 1 have adopted direct policies for the "concerned move". The new
Operational Policy OP 4.12 focusing on the move of the population cause by development projects
requires a new type of instrument when it comes to restricting access to the resources because of a
protected area. Access restrictions lead to negative impacts on revenues and the lifestyle of the people
who are affected by the restriction. Concerning the protected areas of the PAGEN no move of the
population is planned, this degree of impact comes within paragraph 3 (b) of the OP 4.12 and the type
of instrument required is a "framework process" which is attached to this ESIA.
- 115-



The recommendations for the PAGEN are as follows:
*   The management plans of protected areas will be elaborated in a way to reduce the move of
population to a rate of zero; the PAGEN with the local population will decide on the natural
resources restrictions modes;
*   When they can not be transferred to other zones, the suppressed activities will be compensated for
by the implementation of revenue generating activities, individually or collectively in a form of
micro-projects;
*   Identify all types of actors having activities in the protected areas, even seasonally activities, during
the Joint Diagnostic in order to ensure the follow up of modes of mitigation of the exploitation of
the zone;
*   Make a list of all activities exercised in the protected area and actors before the start of the actions
of PAGEN in order to have database available for the follow up of evaluation;
*   Particularly identify the vulnerable population having activities in the protected areas and plan to
integrate them in the micro-projects in priority;
* When activities (cattle breeding, Agriculture, fruit picking) are exercised in the preservation zone
which requires the prohibition of the zone through acceptation of the population, the activities will
be transferred to other zones. Therefore the projects will prioritize endogenous initiatives of
negotiation with the land managers instead of trying to interfere from outside;
*   The PAGEN will take the technical capacity of the chosen host places into account estimate of the
endogenous choices are feasible, otherwise improvement actions must be planned (e.g improvement
of grazing as well as water sources);
*   Situations may arise where farmers exercising in the protected areas can not find areas of
replacement, because their land is reduced and totally exploited and because other land does not
allow to reserve areas. In this case, the PAGEN will consider this land as confined to the protected
areas;
*   To transfer pastoral activities (grazing in the classified forest) to adjacent villages, it is
recommended to prioritize endogenous initiatives of negotiation with the land managers instead of
interference from outside;
*   At a provincial and regional level, the PAGEN in collaboration with the services of CPAT and
CRAT will ensure that cattle tracks exist that they are adjacent and sufficient to ensure new
passage way outside the protected areas. If they are sufficient, the management plan will be made
by planning new passage for the cattle, for instance for the PNKT, in order to reduce tension and
conflicts in the neighboring land.
Conclusion: Agro-sylvo-pastoral zones near the protected areas must be integrated by PAGEN and
dialogue will be encouraged as well as endogenous negotiations. Actors and leaders ruling the different
groups must be identified in order to ensure a follow up of relocations when necessary. All exploitation
restrictions should be accompanied by compensatory measures (micro-projects). For further
information regarding actions related OP 4.12 refer to the <<PAGEN Procedure context to reduce
potential negative social impacts about access restriction to the Protected Areas>) particularly the
following points: eligible criteria of People Involved in the project (PAPs). Method of population
census of the Affected People and Vulnerable elements, identification criteria of vulnerable group,
compensatory measures for livestock visa a visa the restriction of access to the AC, and the conflicts
mechanism solutions.
35. Cultural Property and Natural Habitats - PAGEN has a positive impact on cultural heritage and
the restoration of natural habitats as well; interaction between these two domains is obvious in Burkina:
the native population rely on a mythology of the natural ecosystem in which there is room for the
- 116-



ancestors of every group.
Rarefaction of animals is generally recent and their return will help respect interzeneration equity,
which establishes that a given generation must leave its patrimony to the next generations. PAGEN
will reinforce Hunters associations and they will be better structured. Their participation in the forest
police as village surveillance Committees is of prime importance. One can expect the reinforcement of
all existing traditional institutions and the prestige of the elders.
Local handicraft will be reinforced when animals, especially vegetal species, will be rehabilitated (the
andropogon for the Sahel women basket trade). In the Biosphere Reserve and neighborhoods, the
regeneration of the raphia and other fibers will contribute to the promotion of the famous bwaba and
bobo masks, because these have been highly requested in handicraft and cultural representations for 10
years.
36. "Gender" dimension in PAGEN - is about reducing the gaps between genders; that is, the
relationship between men and women regarding the project benefits, and to reinforce women's
participation. Women carry out a wide range of forest resources exploitation activities that are useful
for the family: this helps diversify children's nutrition and brings complementary revenues.
Femine forest activities for domestic exploitation (in opposition to commercial exploitation)
particularly concern the poor strata and the poor and the most vulnerable groups of the social
organization. The forest provides survival materials during the lean period (fruits, leaves etc.), and last
substitution resources in case of dearth and famine (roots, insects etc).
Problem relating to cultivation in the swamps and extra-seasonal cultures in the protected areas must
be treated with great caution. These activities are mostly Femine, in particular rice cultivation that is
very hard and left for women.
Recommendation - one cannot, under no circumstances, prevent women from cultivating rice in the
swamps of the protected areas when they are already doing it. However, measures are to be taken to
rationalize this exploitation:
*   Ensure that these cultures will not be extended;
*   Get exploiters organized in groups;
* Get the exploiters to think about alternate activities outside the protected areas and provide the
means to start if they accept to withdraw from the swamps.
*   Ensure follow up of these exploiters over three years to ensure that their revenues did not decrease;
*   Define rational exploitation rules that reduce impact on environment;
*   Choose access tracks that avoid animal and vegetal habitats restoration micro-zones.
Women are associated with decisions making, micro-projects and they must participate in all PAGEN
activities. It is recommended that a leader be specifically in charge of gender approach. Teams should
encourage women representation in decision-making service from the beginning of the organization etc.
The PAGEN should favor a flexible and rational management system of natural resources exploitation
in the protected areas. The regulation of usage will be laid down with the collaboration of all actors,
taking into account gender differentiation of the activities, to make activities calendar, control modes
and penalties (the village surveillance committees). Management plans of protected areas will specify
the different alternative of using in accordance with the faunal resources preservation.
37. NGOs investment must be taken into account - NGOs and other organizations of the civil society
are important actors of the development process. They can be useful in identification, programming and
implementation of the program and follow up - evaluation elements as well.
The PAGEN included an NGO in the program implementation: national NGO for preservation;
- 117-



NATURAMA is the concessionary of the KABORE Tambi Park. This NGO relies on 12 years of field
experience in 17 villages located in the east of the National Park of P6. The passage has an operation
of the size of the National Park of Po (from 17 to 90 villages) will require reinforcement of leading and
thinking capacities of the NGO in environmental and social domains.
NGOs having solid experience in environmental training can be selected for the training to be carried
out. NGOs having local expertise in micro-projects and income generating activities can be integrated
to the program.
The PAGEN also introduced AGEREF associations; these are base associations of natural resources
management that should be able to take over PAGEN activities later on.
Recommendation: thanks to an appropriate follow up, the PAGEN will reduce the negative aspects that
may result in the participation of NGOs like AGEREF. The risks are as follows:
* Inefficiency in financial and accounting management,
* Poor institutional capacity, concentration of decisions and finances in the hands of the sole
president,
* Fragile duration and dependent on extemal actors, isolation,
* Organizational and coordination difficulties for communication between members and other
institutions,
* Difficulty in changing status because they generally act in small, punctual and local programs,
with a small number of actors;
* Risk of focusing on participation and forgetting to transfer authority and funds to local population
(for NGOs).
The support of NGOs and other civil society organizations in the implementation of PAGEN is a major
aspect of the program. All members of the civil society are important actors of the decentralization
process and they will help achieve the objective of transfer of authority and finances to local
population.
38. Site by site analysis of the situation and the Moderating Plan are shown in a form of tables below:
Table i - Expected impacts in SAHEL WCU & mitigation proposal
Current status                 PAGEN impact                   Mitigation
- Power shortage               - Establish surveillance polices for  - Raise funds to make secludes
- Forest fire                  hunting, fishing and forest   areas accessible
- Poaching                     resources                      - Digging water sources wells
- Lack of water sources and    - Restore wild fauna habitats  - Avoid prohibiting exploited
schools                        - Define preservation zones    zones (grazing, agriculture)
- Enclavement during rainy season  - Restore bourgoutieres    - Any access restriction must be
- Productive fishing but cheating  - Reforestation activities and  decided with the collaboration of
(tightened net etc)           training                        communities
- Dried up water sources and their  - Treatment of river banks  - Mobilize women and other actors
filling                        - Restore elephants habitats   with micro income generating
- Importance of plucking in human  - Prepare elephants' longer stay in  activities
feeding                        Burkina                        - Study a possible cohabitation
- Elephants stay: July - August  - Restore corridors for wild fauna  elephant/human
- Few projects and target actions                             - Anticipate crisis with elephants
(damages, accidents)
-118-



Table ii - Expected impacts around Comoe & mitigation proposal
Current situation              PAGEN impacts                   Consolidation
- Approximate control of forest fire  - Setting up of a surveillance  - Increase the capacity of base
- Approximate control of poaching  police integrating hunters  associations AGETREN
- Improvement of cattle breeders /  associations and other groups  - Re activate AGEREF
farmers relationship           - Restoration of wild fauna habitats  - Ensure transparency in the
- Increase of men/women        - Increase of wild animals number  management and decisions making
capacities (literacy, training)  - Wild flora biodiversity     between AGEREF members and
- Improvement of socio-economic  restoration                   AGEREF/AGETREN
infrastructures (bore holes,   - Current rehabilitation of     - Protected areas belonging to the
schools, health centers)       corridors for the fauna         State which can grant the
- Increase of group members                                    management to AGEREF (reflect
revenues (micro projects)                                      on the mechanism of management)
- Training and making women                                    - Think of means of making
responsible                                                    population responsible in the
- Giving up moving inhabitants                                 valorization of bio diversity
from Ouangolodougou                                            without doing it for them (hunting,
ecotourism)
- Ensure effective transfer of funds
I and authority to AGEREF
Table iii - Expected impacts around the hippo ponds and the mitigation proposal
Current situation                  PAGEN impact                  Mitigation
- Forest fires                     - Establish a surveillance police  - Raise funds for the making
- Poaching                         integrating hunters associations  disenclavement of Satiri-Bala-Mare
- Deforestation of Mouhoun banks   and other groups (forest men,  track accessible
- Satiri-Bala-Mare impracticable tracks  fishermen, cattle breeders etc.)  - Resolve the corridor issues for herds
- Restore wild fauna habitats  going to the Mouhoun
- Productive fishing but fraudulent  - Restore Mouhoun banks and  - Ensure improvement of the pastoral
(tightened net etc) and many individual watch forest-galleries   sector by realizing infrastructures and
fishermen                          - Develop ecotourism          improving access to inputs (SPAI,
- Use of toxic products in fishing  - Restore the corridors for the  veterinary services)
- Cotton crisis and pressure on fishing  fauna                   - Ensure bore holes drilling outside
- Pollution risks of underground water  - Control river's front water  protected area for cattle
by chemical inputs for gardening and  quality because of cotton waste  - Mobilize women including cattle
cotton                             and irrigation                breeders women with micro income
- Agricultural extension difficulties in                         generating activities
overburden neighboring soil                                       - The protected area belongs to the
- Sokourani and Tierako villagers are                             State, which can hand over the later
reclaming the declassification of the                             on management
forest                                                            - Joint action between PNGT 2 and
- Considerable pressure of cattle                                 PDRI / HKM
breeders on the protected area
particularly in the West
- 119-



Table iv - Expected impacts and mitigation proposals protected areas PNKT / for the complex of
Nazinga game reserve classified forest of the Sissili and Nazinon
Current situation                  PAGEN impact                   Mitigation
- Intensive pastoral exploitation in the  - Establish a village surveillance  - Provide for many cattle tracks in
park                               committees integrating hunters  and outside the park
- Forest fire                      associations and other groups  - Mobilize traditional associations of
- Poaching                         (forest men, fishers, cattle   hunters and fishermen
- Deforestation of banks           breeders etc.)                 - Mobilize women including the cattle
- Damaged forest formation         - Restore wild fauna habitats and  breeders women with micro income
- Traditional fishing and group    vegetal bio-diversity          generating activities
hunting                            - Restore the banks            - The protected area belongs to the
- Continuous immigration of farmers  - Restore corridors for fauna  State, which can hand over the
from the north of the plateau      towards other protected areas  management
- Cattle breeders/farmers disputes  - At least 90 villages to manage  - Evaluate possibilities of creating
- Native/ migrants Disputes        using participative approach   pastoral zones in the south and west
- Villagers demand the                                            of the Park
declassification of the forest                                    - Dig wells outside the Park
- Rich varied avifauna                                            - Form the villages in pertinent
- Saturated pastoral zone in the East                             sociological groups
Mitigation Plan Budget
This budget was prepared to account for the moderating plan (see tables i to iv in the summary). Some
items of the Mitigation plan are built into the core design of PAGEN. Thus the Mitigation Plan has
been entirely integrated in the formulation of the PAGEN and its costs tables. It amounts to:
Government                          USD         198,000
GEF                                 USD         815,600
IDA (CBRDP)                         USD       2,534,500
Other financial sources (CBRDP)     USD        1,093,000
Communities (CBRDP)                 USD         580,900
TOTAL                               USD       5,222,000
It is based on the following principles:
The potential negative social impacts are mitigated by project in particular by an upstream
consideration of potential impact and systematic moderation. The goal is to minimize impact to ensure
sustainability of actions. Residual impacts both social and environmental will be mitigated via:
(I) Financing the local development process of CBRDP by IDA, the Netherlands, German training
program to ensure that all neighboring villages are targeted and a quick intervention of this support.
The coordination with PAGEN will be official by a Protocol and monitored by the TTL of both
operations.
(2) A financial contribution made to support some of the state partners as well as management plans
enabling the mitigation of potential impact on agriculture and livestock by finding solution from outside
the protected areas ( intensification of Agriculture support to the pastoral zones around APs, pastoral
investment, etc.)
(3) A full-time recruitment of a socio-pastoral specialist for the technical unit of the Sahel
- 120-



(4) Financing of studies especially on the land dimension of pastoralism in the Sahel, on movement &
conflict with ponds elephants at Kabore Tambi, on water management at Hippo in order to understand
better the constraints and in order to be able to propose technical solutions to the villages communities
and other users.
(5) Environmental education support targeted to the social benefits of a better environmental
management via a support at the service of education and rural radio station.
(6) The financing of the works designed for the implementation of a sustainable financing mechanism
for preservation and possible lost of access to the resources by some of the population
(7) The carrying out of ESIA other than Management Plans as well as the support and training of
CONAGESE in order to ensure the follow up and quality control of these ESIAs.
- 121 -






BURKINA  FASO                                             0                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAURITANIA
BURKINA  FASO           ~    ~~~~0 50    100      150     200M              ALI
PARTNERSHIP FOR NATURAL
ECOSYSTEM MANAGEMENTNIE
PARTENARIAT POUR L'AM EL/ORATION                DE          UCF cdu Sahel           e\OsogodLio
LA GESTION      DES ECOSYSTEMES NATURELS                                   -          ei    n dt, 5SQhel               GUINEAk                 BENI~~ N
yJPROTECTED AREAS TARGETED WITH GEF FUNDS                      ,  <   '  aer254BNI
AIRES DE PROTECTION DE LA FAUNE CIBLEES PAR LE FEM       -c 6 .                                                             (GHANAI0   ,
WILDLIFE CONSERVATION UNITS                                                                                            D'VOR
UNITE DE CONSERVATION DE LA FAUNE
GAZETTED AREAS
-1A         AIRES CLASSEES
NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                       SN
CA P1TALE NATIONALE
RIVERS                                    YATENIGA                                                                        2
-  .PROVINCE BOUNDARIES  ,.
LIMITES DES PROVINCES/'                                                                           YAGH.~ 
__  NTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES     --
FRONTIERES INTER ETAT     N.       SOUROU     .'SNAEG                           z
M  A      LI        ,   KOSSI                       PASSORE                               GNAGN
NAYALA               IKOMRE                 ~KMNIR                       .       N.      r
/  '?. ~~'~>WEOGQ.   K%MNDAR
BAN WA        MOL,rsC.L    SAN-:r JBOULKIE     K'ADIGGOG
-12'                                                                                                                                               12U'_$o
KENEDOtJGOL      5.               tE, &AS   -
(Maresau. -                 tt   --...aig,5..I                                  Bs.UrsGOU) KOULPEL  0/
(Res~OPQ-C      J.-l                             ISL               A~
f  IaMjre,          \-.~~~~~~, f *      -   ~
LERABA  (BtGIiesNati nal Prk 
Gazet1c FKrsbs T- mbiI
For6tCasesd      CO10 
- *K5fI.~~~      U6   dle /a                                                                        N
'    NOUMBIEL                                                                         This mop -on prodssed by she
* Maep Design Unit of rhe Word B.an.
A.                                                            T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~he b--ndaresclor, denoinations
ssComo6-LErol.-.' fc  o                                                                                                           and onyother infor-tion shown o
this msp do n.I imply, on the part of 
Reserve                                                                                                                     rhe World Bank Goop, any jodgrnent 
Reserve partielle dle                            '5                  G       H A     Ar' __t"i
faune cfe to Como646rcbo                                                                               TOGO ~~~~~~~*on the ea tt, f n ertr.o
1  T  ~ ~ ~ ~~n,r~- bo..ndarie,.2



