                                 Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                 Report No.: 55443




              PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                               BURKINA FASO

        PARTNERSHIP FOR NATURAL ECOSYSTEM MANAGEMENT
                (GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY)
                            TF051242

                                 June 29, 2010




Sector Evaluation Division
Independent Evaluation Group
Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit = Communaute Financiere Africaine Franc ­ CFA Franc BCEAO (XOF)

1998            US$1.00          XOF 590                  2003     US$1.00          XOF 581
1999            US$1.00          XOF 616                  2004     US$1.00          XOF 528
2000            US$1.00          XOF 712                  2005     US$1.00          XOF 527
2001            US$1.00          XOF 733                  2006     US$1.00          XOF 523
2002            US$1.00          XOF 697                  2007     US$1.00          XOF 479

Abbreviations and Acronyms
 APL                    Adaptable Program Lending
 CBRD                   Community Based Rural Development Project
 DANIDA
 EMP                    Environmental Management Plan
 GDP                    Gross Domestic Product
 GEF                    Global Environment Facility
 ICR                    Implementation Completion and Results Report
 IDA                    International Development Association
 IEG                    Independent Evaluation Group
 IKA                    l'indice kilométrique d'abondance des populations des mammifères
                        (Kilometrical Abundance Index of mammals' populations)
 M&E                    Monitoring and Evaluation
 MECV                   Ministry of the Environment and Quality of Life
 MOU                    Memorandum of Understanding
 NGO                    Non-Governmental Organization
 OP                     Operational Policies
 PA                     Protected Areas
 PAD                    Project Appraisal Document
 PAGEN                  Partnership for Improved Management of Natural Ecosystems
 PCU                    Project Coordination Unit
 PPAR                   Project Performance Assessment Report
 REDD                   Program for Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest
                        Degradation in Developing Countries
 STAR                   System for Transparent Allocation of Resources
 UNDP                   United Nations Development Program
 WBG                    World Bank Group
 WCU                    Wildlife Conservation Unit
 WWF                    World Wildlife Fund

Fiscal Year
Government:               January 1 to December 31

Director-General, Evaluation                               :   Mr. Vinod Thomas
Director, Independent Evaluation Group (World Bank)        :   Ms. Cheryl Gray
Manager, Sector Evaluation Division                        :   Ms. Monika Huppi
Task Manager                                               :   Ms. Lauren Kelly
                                                           i


IEGWB Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.


About this Report
       The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank's self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank's work is producing the
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the
dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEGWB annually assesses about 25 percent of
the Bank's lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those
that are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for
which Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.
       To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEGWB staff examine project files and other
documents, interview operational staff, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government,
and other in-country stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and
in local offices as appropriate.
     Each PPAR is subject to internal IEGWB peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. IEGWB incorporates the comments as
relevant. The completed PPAR is then sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to
the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to
the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the IEGWB Rating System
     IEGWB's use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEGWB evaluators all apply the same basic method to
arrive at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion
(additional information is available on the IEGWB website: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
     Outcome: The extent to which the operation's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project's
objectives are consistent with the country's current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to which
the project's design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project's objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loan/credit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
                                                                              iii



Contents

PRINCIPAL RATINGS .................................................................................................................... V


KEY STAFF RESPONSIBLE .......................................................................................................... V


PREFACE...................................................................................................................................... VII


SUMMARY ..................................................................................................................................... IX


1.          BACKGROUND ................................................................................................................. 1


2.          OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS ................................................................................. 2

            Objective............................................................................................................................ 2
            Components ...................................................................................................................... 2
            Main Beneficiaries ............................................................................................................ 4


3.          SAFEGUARDS .................................................................................................................. 4


4.          DESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION ................................................................................... 5

            The Design of the Project as an Adjustable Program Loan (APL) .............................. 6
            The Creation of Biological Corridors within the Ponasi Wildlife Conservation Unit
            and Safeguard Implementation ....................................................................................... 6
            Relation with the Community Based Rural Development Project ............................... 9


5.          RATINGS............................................................................................................................ 9

                  Relevance ................................................................................................................................. 9
                  Efficacy .................................................................................................................................... 11
                  Efficiency ................................................................................................................................. 13
                  Overall Outcome...................................................................................................................... 14
            Bank Performance .......................................................................................................... 15
                  Quality at Entry ........................................................................................................................ 15
                  Quality of Supervision .............................................................................................................. 15
            Borrower Performance................................................................................................... 16
                  Government Performance ....................................................................................................... 16
                  Implementing Agency Performance ......................................................................................... 16
            Monitoring and Evaluation ............................................................................................ 17
                  M&E Design............................................................................................................................. 17
                  M&E Implementation ............................................................................................................... 17
                  Use of M&E Data ..................................................................................................................... 17
            Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................................... 18
                                                                 iv


6.         CONCLUSION AND LESSONS ...................................................................................... 18


LIST OF PERSONS MET .............................................................................................................. 23


ANNEX A. BASIC DATA SHEET ................................................................................................. 21


ANNEX B. BORROW COMMENTS.............................................................................................. 23




Boxes

BOX I: RESETTLEMENT OF PROJECT AFFECTED PERSONS IN THE PONASI WILDLIFE
CONSERVATION UNIT .................................................................................................................. 8




This report was prepared by Ms. Lauren Kelly who assessed the project in July 2009. Romayne Pereira
and Marie Charles provided administrative support and Tariq Chfadi assisted with the mission and
stakeholder interviews.
                                                        v


Principal Ratings
Partnership for Natural Ecosystem Management
(P052400)
                                   ICR*                  ICR Review*                          PPAR
                                                            Moderately
Outcome                        Satisfactory                 Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development
Outcome                         Significant                    High                            High
                                                                                          Moderately
Bank Performance               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
Borrower
Performance                    Satisfactory                 Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. The ICR
Review is an intermediate IEGWB product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.




Key Staff Responsible
                                                         Division Chief/
    Project         Task Manager/Leader                 Sector Director                Country Director
Appraisal              Jean-Michel Pavy                 Richard Scobey                   A.David Craig
                                                         Marjory-Anne
Completion               Ibrahim Nebie                    Bromhead                         Ishac Diwan
                                           vii


Preface

This is the Project Performance Assessment Report prepared by the Independent
Evaluation Group (IEG) of the Partnership for Natural Ecosystem Management project.
A grant from the Global Environment Facility in the amount of US$7.50 million to the
Government of Burkina Faso was approved by the World Bank Board of Directors on
May 21, 2002. At appraisal the total project cost was estimated to be US$13.46 million,
with US$1.68 million contributed by the Government of Burkina Faso, US$0.59
contributed by local communities, and US$3.68 million projected co-financing from the
IDA funded Community Based Rural Development project and other parallel donor
funded projects (supported by the Netherlands and the African Development Bank). The
final actual project cost was US$13.20 million. The Global Environment Facility grant
was fully disbursed.

An input into IEG's Review of the World Bank's Safeguard Policies, this report draws
lessons on the design and implementation of safeguards, particularly pertaining to the
environmental and social sustainability of the World Bank's biodiversity conservation
portfolio, in this case in West Africa.

IEG prepared this report based on an examination of the relevant Project Appraisal
Document, Implementation Completion Report, the grant agreement, project files and
archives, as well as other relevant reports, memoranda, and working papers. Discussions
were also held with Bank staff in both Washington D.C. and in Burkina Faso. An IEG
field mission visited Burkina Faso in July 2009, conducted site visits, and discussed both
the project and the effectiveness of Bank assistance with relevant officials and other
stakeholders. The mission appreciates the support and attention given by client officials
well as the Bank's office in Ouagadougou.

The draft report is being sent to the appropriate government entities for comments, which
will be taken into account in finalizing the text and annexed to the report.
                                             ix


Summary

The objective of the $13.46 million Partnership for Natural Ecosystem Management
project (PAGEN) was to reverse biodiversity trends in priority protected areas. Financed
by the Global Environment Facility (GEF) at a level of US$7.5 million and executed by
the World Bank, the project was designed to help implement Burkina Faso's National
Natural Ecosystem Management Program, a part of the country's decentralized rural
development program. The GEF project is associated with the Bank-supported
Community-based Rural Development Project, with which a memorandum of
understanding was signed. The intent of PAGEN was to help extend the benefits derived
from the country's decentralized rural development program to the populations residing
along the peripheries of its protected areas.

Designed as an Adjustable Program Loan, the project would be implemented over three
phases: Phase One ­ Reverse biodiversity trends in priority protected areas; Phase Two ­
Substantially improve biodiversity in priority protected areas; and Phase Three ­ Secure
biodiversity in protected areas. However the second and third phases have not
materialized.

The project had three main components: (1) National Capacity Building for support for
the decentralized management of protected areas; (2) Local Capacity Building for the
management of protected areas; and (3) Program Administration and Monitoring. It
sought to build national capacity by assisting with the updating of legislation that lagged
behind the country's rural and environment policy reforms, such as the 1997 Forestry
Code, its accompanying directives, and institutions. At the local level, it would build
village and inter-village level capacity for the management of the protected area systems
by supporting the development of community associations called Inter-Village Protected
Area Management Associations that could then become entrusted as concessionaires.

Protected area management effectiveness was measured against two key indicators: a
decrease in agricultural encroachment and an increase in selected species in the protected
areas targeted by the project. The project helped strengthen the capacity of local
concessionaires, including local village level associations and NGOs, to better manage
the protected areas. As a result of the project, agricultural encroachment decreased across
all targeted protected areas: there was no crop cultivation within the boundaries of
protected areas at the end of the project in all the Wildlife Conservation Units except for
the Sahel Unit, where cultivation dropped from 20 to 13 percent during the course of the
project. And there was a recorded increase in the number of almost all species monitored
across all Wildlife Conservation Units. Management plans supported by the project were
developed and a number of activities to promote alternative livelihoods in and around the
protected areas were put in place. But due to the nature of the phased approach of this
project, none of the investments that were needed to implement the management plans
and secure the areas financially were made. Although women were specifically targeted
in the design of this project, their role particularly in relation to village-level decision-
making was limited.
                                              x

Overall implementation was challenged by three aspects of the project: the assumption
that a long term program for biodiversity conservation would be supported which dictated
the sequencing of activities and investments; the mid-course decision to resettle persons
to create elephant migration corridors without having worked out a proper resettlement
framework that ensured sufficient funds for compensation; and the lack of effective
coordination between PAGEN and the Community-based Rural Development Project.

Project relevance is rated Substantial. The project objective, to reverse biodiversity loss,
is rated Substantially Relevant. The objective at the time of project design was in line
with the country's Biodiversity Strategy and National Natural Ecosystem Management
Program whose aim is to support biodiversity in priority protected areas to sustainably
benefit peripheral communities' local development. The objective was also in line with
Burkina Faso's 2000 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper that identified sustainable
management of natural resources as one of the major pillars for combating poverty.
Absolute poverty in Burkina Faso is predominantly a rural phenomenon: Eight-four
percent of the population resides in rural areas and persons living around the peripheries
of the country's protected areas are especially vulnerable. Today however, while
PAGEN's objective is still viewed as highly relevant by the Government, financing for
natural resource and protected area management has become more constrained due to the
need to respond to the food crisis and (to a lesser extent) the financial crisis. Therefore,
PAGEN beneficiaries will continue to be somewhat supported by a component lodged in
an IDA funded food security program, although to a more limited extent than through
PAGEN.

The decline in the project's relevance following the food crises is in part due to its
Modest Design ­ a design that lacked a framework to track rural livelihood gains despite
the fact that it was supposed to contribute to peripheral communities' local development.
The design is also rated modest because it was prepared in a manner that over-relied on
subsequent phases of support ­ from the GEF (which would require GEF CEO approval)
and IDA. This severely raised beneficiary expectations who fully participated in the first
phase of the program. It also over-relied on effective cooperation with the Community
Based Rural Development Project. While the original project design was squarely set in
the country's socio-cultural context - the focus on village and inter-village capacity building
for protected area management was in line with the country's decentralized rural development
process underway- the relevance of design was weakened when decisions were taken to
move away from capacity building towards the creation of the corridors. The decision
was made in the face of insufficient resources for compensation and an overall level of
uncertainty as to whether future support to sustain the corridors would be available.

Efficacy is rated Substantial. Designed as a fifteen-year program, PAGEN achieved its
first phase objective by supporting the Government in creating the enabling environment
for community-based protected area management. Although the Forestry Code has not
been fully adopted and put into implementation, the project supported the formulation of
forest related decrees, and helped to raise awareness about the code by disseminating it
through local workshops. The Bank also supported the formulation of a National Program
for the Management of Wildlife and Protected Areas the associated Action Plan. The
project achieved substantial progress against two core biodiversity-related indicators.
                                              xi


Agricultural encroachment in protected areas was substantially reduced and fully eliminated in
some areas and the number of animals targeted in the Wildlife Conservation Units increased.

Project Efficiency is rated Modest. This is a GEF financed World Bank executed project
that was required to conduct an incremental cost assessment at appraisal, rather than an
economic or financial rate of return. While an incremental cost assessment was
conducted at design, there was no calculation of efficiency or cost-effectiveness at
completion. Decisions taken during the latter part of project implementation stretched the
project too thin. Rather than consolidate activities in the face of declining project
resources due to depreciation, the project team expanded them, creating two elephant
migration corridors without allowing for adequate compensation for resettled persons and
with the knowledge that the second and third phases of the project that would ensure
follow-up would not be forthcoming.

The overall outcome of the project was Moderately Satisfactory. A substantially
relevant project at the time of appraisal whose objectives were in line with the country's
biodiversity related frameworks and poverty alleviation strategies, the project lost support
towards completion due to domestic challenges posed by the food crisis. The project was
designed in a relevant manner in line with the country's rural decentralization efforts,
socio-cultural context, and relative capacities. However decisions taken after mid-term
lessened the relevance of project design since the decision strayed from the original
capacity development aims of the project towards the creation of elephant migration
corridors. This decision was taken late in the project cycle, in the face of dollar
depreciation, resulting in the Bank's inability to assure proper mitigation of it social
safeguards. Yet the project achieved its objective of reversing biodiversity trends, by
helping to strengthen the capacity of the village and inter-village committees to promote
enhanced natural resource management and community management of the protected
areas. The project successfully reduced agricultural encroachment and increased
biodiversity in all areas in which it worked. There is however a high risk that these
outcomes will not be sustained.

Bank performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. The project was technically
sound and was firmly rooted in Burkinabe customs and the country's decentralization
strategy although it took twice as long to prepare as planned. The Moderately
Unsatisfactory rating is based on Moderately Satisfactory quality at entry but Moderately
Unsatisfactory supervision. IEG recognizes the day-do-day supervision carried out by the
project team based in Ouagadougou that was instrumental in helping to achieve results on
the ground. However the serious lack of compliance with the Bank's policy on
resettlement and the resulting safeguards violation during supervision calls for the
supervision rating to outweigh the Moderately Satisfactory quality of entry rating,
leading to an overall Moderately Unsatisfactory rating for Bank performance.

The Borrower performance rating is Moderately Satisfactory. The Government
implemented of a number of innovative institutional and legal measures to further the
effective management of the country's protected areas, including a national anti-poaching
strategy and the ongoing updating of the forest code. It also enabled the involvement of
local communities in protected area management and decision-making. Government co-
financing equaled 25-30 percent of the actual GEF contribution and an additional
                                            xii

allocation was provided to partially compensate for financial loss due to the depreciation
of the dollar. While the Government also took on the responsibility of compensating
resettled communities, compensation fell short of standards set by the World Bank's
operational policy. The biological corridors created and demarcated with project
assistance should not have been put in place without the means to properly compensate
the resettled beneficiaries.

Risk to development outcome is rated High. The results of the implementation of
PAGEN's first phase, including some 578,176 ha of newly protected area created by the
project, are unlikely to be sustained without follow-on projects. The decision not to
implement the subsequent phases has resulted in a high risk to the sustainability of the
outcomes achieved.

An input into IEG's Review of the World Bank's Safeguard Policies, this PPAR draws
lessons on the design and implementation of safeguards, particularly pertaining to the
Bank's biodiversity conservation portfolio. These lessons are:

   ·   Protected area projects supported by the World Bank need to ensure that
       other means of finance, apart from the GEF, are woven into the project
       design in case contingency resources are needed to ensure that negative
       impacts on human livelihoods are mitigated. Biodiversity conservation
       projects that seek to enlarge or create protected areas or conservation corridors
       always involve a change in access by rural residents to natural resources and
       sometime involve physical resettlement. Proper valuation of livelihoods and
       sufficient project costing for the restoration of these livelihoods are essential and
       should be firmly figured into project design. GEF stand-alone projects are less
       equipped to finance the costs of restoring livelihoods since GEF is an incremental
       financing instrument designed to provide global environmental benefits.

   ·   The Bank's Safeguard on Indigenous Peoples is not comprehensive enough to
       cover vulnerable groups that may be affected by a project. Biodiversity
       conservation projects that limit access to resources, including water and grazing
       rights of nomadic groups and herders, need to highlight the particular needs of
       these groups in the social assessment and work with the respective client
       governments to formulate appropriate mitigation strategies.          The Bank's
       resettlement policies should be applied on a contextual basis so that, where
       appropriate, seasonal and climatic migration is taken into account in figuring the
       number of project affected persons.

   ·   Projects with small grants programs typically indicate that since the activities will
       be chosen downstream, environmental management plans will need to be
       designed at the time when activities are selected, and that the management plans
       must be designed in consultation with the beneficiaries. The project level
       Environment Management Plan is often modeled as a framework process that
       provides guidelines on how to develop EMPs at the site or activity level.
       Guidelines include information concerning Bank standards on participation and
       inclusion, conflict resolution, monitoring and evaluation. However, for this
       system to be effectively implemented, adequate and upfront assessment is
                                 xiii


needed of EIA capacity at the village and inter-village level, including both
capacity for assessment and capacity to mitigate harm (technical and
financial capacity).




                                                           Vinod Thomas
                                                          Director-General
                                                             Evaluation
                                            1


1. Background

1.1     Burkina Faso is one of the world's poorest countries. At the time when the
Partnership for Natural Ecosystem Management (PAGEN) was designed, per capita
GDP was US$240 and the country ranked 172 out of 175 on the UNDP's Human
Development Index (1997). By project close in 2008, per capita GDP had only risen to
US$440 and the country's human development ranking remained relatively the same:
Burkina Faso was ranked as one of the ten least developed countries in the world in 2009,
or 177 out of a total 182 country rankings. Absolute poverty in Burkina Faso is
predominantly in rural areas, where 84 percent of the population resides. Nearly half the
population lack adequate food and essential goods and services. The poor spend 58
percent of their budget on food, mainly millet and sorghum (World Bank 2002). And to
survive, more than 80 percent of the population relies on subsistence agriculture. They
also rely on internal and regional migration.

1.2     Due to these severe human constraints, Burkina Faso's national policies treat
support for protected area management as an integral part of its overarching decentralized
rural development strategy with an emphasis on local community development through
the rational management and use of natural resources (such as forests and non-timber
forest products, wildlife, and aquatic resources). At the time of project design, the
Government of Burkina Faso had put in place critical policies, such as the Wildlife Sector
Reform (1995), the National Biological Diversity Strategy (2000), and the Letter for
Decentralized Rural Development (2001) that laid the framework for community based
management of protected areas in the context of the country's overall rural development
aims. To implement this vision, of integrating protected area management into the
country's overall rural development strategy, the Government developed the National
Natural Ecosystem Management Program and registered it under the National Policy for
Decentralized Rural Development.

1.3     PAGEN, financed by the Global Environment Facility and executed by the World
Bank, was designed to help implement the National Natural Ecosystem Management
Program. It was designed to help update legislation that lagged behind the country's new
rural and environment policy reforms ­ such as the 1997 Forestry Code (Law
006/97/ADP), its accompanying directives, and institutions. It was also designed to
reinforce the aims of the Community-based Rural Development Project (CBRD), a World
Bank financed project under implementation, by targeting the rural populations that
reside along the peripheries of the country's protected areas.

1.4     As part of the government reforms, a number of innovative institutional and legal
measures had been put in place to enable local communities to become concessionaires of
the country's protected areas. PAGEN was designed to help build village and inter-
village level capacity for the management of the protected area systems by supporting the
development of community associations called Inter-Village Protected Area Management
Associations that could then become entrusted as concessionaires. The members of these
associations are representatives of the Comites Villageois de Gestion du Terroir of all
villages located in the periphery of a protected area. Protected areas within a WCU are
placed under the coordination of a Forestry Department Conservator and daily
                                            2

management of each protected area is entrusted to a concessionaire (private firm, NGO,
or a community based association).

1.5     The ultimate aim of the Bank's engagement was to help the Government put in
place long term sustainable financing mechanisms for the management of the protected
areas targeted by the project. While it was envisioned that some protected areas could
attract revenues through tourism and safari hunting and, to a lesser extent, through the
development of sustainable alternative livelihoods, such as honey making and firewood
production, others would require additional funds set aside in trust or through
foundational support.



2. Objectives and Components

2.1    The overall 15 year objective of the Partnership for Natural Ecosystem
Management project was to secure biodiversity in priority protected areas. The project
had one combined global environment and development objective. The global
environment and development objectives of the three planned phases were also
combined: Phase One: Reverse biodiversity trends in priority protected areas; Phase Two:
Substantially improve biodiversity in priority protected areas; and Phase Three: Secure
biodiversity in priority protected areas. This report assesses the first phase, implemented
between April 2002 and May 2008.

Objective
2.2     The objective of the project's first phase was to reverse biodiversity trends in
priority protected areas. The first phase was designed to lay the foundation for effective
management of protected areas. Its activities included identification of the areas,
preparation of protected area management plans, with some implementation envisioned.
However actual investments were to be provided in the second and third phase. These
investments would include services or small works including tracing protected area
limits, tourism and surveillance infrastructure, building rural roads and trails for
surveillance and tourism, creating water management schemes etc.

Components
2.3     The first phase had three main components: (1) National Capacity Building for
support for the decentralized management of protected areas; (2) Local Capacity Building
for the management of protected areas; (3) Program administration and monitoring.

2.4     National Capacity Building (Estimated cost was US$1.20 million. Planned GEF
financing for this component was US$1.1 4million and actual was US$1.14 million.
Overall actual component costs are not available.) PAGEN was to provide assistance to
the Ministry of Environment to review its legal and institutional framework, in particular
the forestry code, in order to help create an enabling environment for community-based
protected area management. The component was to finance studies to: analyze the
                                            3

country's protected area framework; inform major legal changes that were envisioned,
including the establishment of a long term funding mechanism and a new institution to
centrally direct the decentralized management of protected areas; and provide analysis for
the development of tourism in and around the country's protected areas. The component
was also to finance conservation related training for forestry staff and NGOs and to help
the Government supervise private sector operations, measure conservation results, and
establish a national biodiversity database.

2.5     Local Capacity Building (Estimated cost was US$11.54 million. Planned GEF
financing for this component was US$5.83 million and actual was US$5.15 million.
Actual total component costs are not available).This component provided assistance for
the training of decentralized forest staff, the staff of other Government services, and
communities. As part of the first five year phase, PAGEN would put in place and
capacitate Inter-Village Associations with the aim of consolidating them in subsequent
phases. This component also financed diagnostic studies and protected area management
plans, the implementation of which was to take place for the most part in the second and
third phases of the program. Technical assistance for the management of protected areas
was also planned for the first phase, although this assistance would be gradually phased
out as national and community capacity increased and responsibilities were transferred in
the long term to the Inter-Village Associations.

2.6     Program Administration and Monitoring (Estimated cost was US$0.73. Planned
GEF was US$0.53 million and actual GEF was US$1.21m. Actual total component costs
are not available). PAGEN's administration and monitoring were situated within a small
project implementation unit in the Ministry of Environment, in the National Wildlife
Service, located in the National Forestry Department. Project monitoring was assigned to
a small National Steering Committee that was expected to monitor all project results
associated with the national implementation of the overall National Natural Ecosystem
Management Program.

Project Restructuring

2.7     The allocation across project components was adjusted; the decision to create two
biological corridors after mid-term represented a major change in the national and local
capacity building aims of the project components ­ a change that, given its effect on the
ability of the Bank to properly oversee its safeguards, should have been brought to the
attention of country or sector management.

2.8    This de facto restructuring also included the creation of a micro-project program
not foreseen in the original design. The project moved US$325,000 from component 1,
from the financing of vehicles and equipment, consultant services, trainings, audits and
workshops, to Component 2. In effect, the micro-project program was developed to help
compensate the resettled persons in the face of inadequate compensation from the
Government. Income generating activities developed as part of the micro-project program
included apiculture, aulacodiculture, exploitation of non-timber forest products, etc.
                                             4


Main Beneficiaries
2.9     PAGEN's beneficiaries included about 130,000 people from ten different ethnic
groups, living around the protected areas targeted by the project: 53,700 people in the
Sahel Wildlife Conservation Unit, 50,000 people in the PONASI Unit, 20,000 people in
the Comoe Unit, and 10,000 people in the Hauts-Bassins Unit. As indicated in the project
appraisal document, these groups were mainly intended to benefit from the project
indirectly, through the restoration of ecosystems and wildlife resources. However a
marginal increase in the income of the targeted populations was expected from the
support of the project for new and/or alternative resource generation activities (such as
tourism, safari hunting, pharmacopoeia, and wildlife farming). At design, the project also
indicated that an unknown number of pastoralists were expected to benefit from the
project.

2.10 Women were specifically targeted in project design. They were to be included in
all PAGEN-financed activities from their conception through decision-making stages to
their application and use. Women were to be specifically included in literacy programs
and training. Attention was supposed to be paid to underlying vulnerabilities and risk-
coping activities employed by women, such as exploitation of the forest for domestic
needs, picking and gathering of fruits and leaves during the lean period, cultivation in the
swamps, and extra-seasonal cultures in the protected areas.



3. Safeguards

3.1     PAGEN triggered three safeguard policies: Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01);
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04); and Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12). A first draft of the
Environmental Assessment dated October 2000 was deemed unsatisfactory by the
region's quality assurance team, mainly due to an inadequate social assessment. The
project hired an anthropologist with specific knowledge of Burkina Faso and experience
with environmental assessments to redraft it. The revised Assessment was not delivered
until December 2001.

3.2     The Environmental Assessment identified several risks associated with
strengthening the management of wildlife conservation units targeted by the project. It
cautioned that there would be an impact on the pastoral areas of replacement (for cattle)
particularly in areas already saturated (Parc National de Pô), on the part of the Mouhoun
river along the Biosphere Reserve of Mare aux Hippos and on the agro-sylvo-pastoral
neighbors (destruction of vegetation cover and increased soil degradation).

3.3    Measures were recommended to decrease the likelihood of agricultural
encroachment and pesticide use around the peripheries of the protected areas. In the
Hauts Bassins Wildlife Conservation unit in the Biosphere Reserve of Mare aux Hippos,
the project planted fruit trees to replace cotton production in 52 hectares (belonging to
200 farmers) which also served to create a buffer zone around the reserve. This was a
                                            5

remedial action to mitigate environmental impacts by creating a buffer zone for the
protected area, the width of which is equivalent to 100 meters.

3.4     In regards to the Bank's operational policy on Involuntary Resettlement, project
design indicated that "involuntary resettlement was an option excluded by the approach
itself." It was triggered because the project aimed to work in and around new and
existing protected areas where reforms regarding the collective management of
communal resources could end up restricting resources access from certain users.
However, as indicated in the appraisal document, the project was designed so that "the
limit of existing protected areas would be redefined as necessary to ensure that no
involuntary resettlement occurs and that new protected areas will be negotiated with the
land users. Rules will be designed by the communities and registered in management
plans, and these plans will include a grievance process." (World Bank 2002, p. 2). As
such, the project prepared a Framework Process for Involuntary Resettlement. The
preparation of a Framework Process was a sufficient instrument chosen during design, in
line with the rationale that no new protected areas would be created that required
resettlement. Yet project adjustments that were introduced after mid-term in 2005,
namely the decision to demarcate two conservation corridors, greatly affected the ability
of the Bank and the Government to properly implement OP 4.12 (then OP4.30). A post-
midterm decision to physically resettle persons necessitated the drafting of a resettlement
mitigation plan, in addition to the process framework. The mitigation plan was drafted in
2005 and put in place in 2007.

3.5     The Indigenous Peoples safeguard (Operational Policy 4.10) was not triggered by
this project. However this has more to do with the definition of Indigenous Peoples than
the need to identify vulnerable groups that may be affected. Two vulnerable groups that
were affected by this project were migrants and pastoralists. Harsh natural conditions
(poor and overexploited land, reduced natural resources, and frequent droughts) have
caused large population movements for several decades, from the arid Sahelian provinces
and the over-crowded Mossi Plateau to more prosperous regions (south-western Burkina
Faso and Côte d'Ivoire). In these conditions, a large proportion of Burkinabè migrants
have been characterized as "environmental refugees" (Hugo 1996). Concurrently, parts of
Burkina Faso's population migrate cyclically for pastoral grazing and watering needs.




4. Design and Implementation

4.1     There are three aspects of PAGEN's original and restructured design that most
affected project implementation: the assumption that a long term program for biodiversity
conservation would be supported by the Bank and the Government of Burkina Faso
which determined the sequencing of activities and investments; the mid-course decision
to resettle persons to create biodiversity conservation corridors without sufficient funds
for compensation; and the lack of effective coordination between PAGEN and the
Community Rural Development Project.
                                             6


The Design of the Project as an Adjustable Program Loan (APL)
4.2     A stand-alone World Bank executed GEF financed project, the decision to phase
the project across a fifteen year period as a World Bank APL was risky. GEF finance
would subsequently require the approval of the GEF CEO and IDA funds would have to
be allocated to biodiversity conservation (no IDA funds were used for the first phase). It
assumed therefore that both the Government and the donors would be as willing in the
latter part of the decade to invest in biodiversity conservation as they were in years prior.
The project was staged so that the first phase would lay the foundation for future
investment. It therefore worked closely with communities to help develop community
management plans. The staging of the program as an APL therefore raised the
expectations of the beneficiaries who participated heavily in the preparation of
management plans and engaged in preliminary related decision-making as part of village
level community development committees about the use of their land that buffered the
PAs.

4.3     The second phase of PAGEN did not materialize for several reasons. There was a
lack of realism during design in terms of garnering long term support, particularly from
scarce IDA resources, for protected area management in Burkina Faso. However design
could not have assessed the risk that arose more than mid-way through the project due to
reforms introduced to the GEF resource allocation process. The GEF launched a new
Resource Allocation Framework (RAF) six years into the life of the project that
significantly changed the ways countries were allocated resources for biodiversity
conservation and climate change. Although the system, now referred to as the System for
Transparent Allocation of Resources (STAR), has been somewhat revised, the RAF in
effect diminished the resources that would be available to countries with relatively low
levels of biodiversity, like Burkina Faso based on a biodiversity index score. IDA
resources would subsequently also be harder to come by given the unexpected effects of
the food crisis that peaked in Burkina Faso in 2008 and the subsequent fallout (although
to a lesser extent) of the financial crisis.

The Creation of Biological Corridors within the Ponasi Wildlife
Conservation Unit and Safeguard Implementation
4.4     The decision to create two biodiversity corridors within the Ponasi Wildlife
Conservation Unit (the Kabore-Tambi ­ Nazinga and the Kabore-Tambi-Red Volta
valley in Ghana) necessitated the resettlement of some 2,700 persons. This greatly
affected the ability of the Bank and the Government of Burkina Faso to properly
implement OP 4.12.

4.5     The original project design foresaw that Bank assistance for the enhanced
management of Burkina's protected areas would alter the affected population's access to
resources, so the project prepared a Framework Process for Involuntary Resettlement in
December 2001, prior to project approval. The preparation of a Framework Process was a
sufficient option at the time of design, since involuntary resettlement was not
                                                    7

envisioned.1 However changes were introduced at mid-term that significantly altered the
underlying assumption related to protected area management and the issue of
resettlement.

4.6     The timing and staging of activities in this project greatly affected its
effectiveness. Following the 2005 decision to create the conservation corridors, the
project financed a mitigation plan for the projected-affected beneficiaries. However the
mitigation plan was not finalized until May 2007 whereas activities related to the
demarcation of the corridors and the movement of affected persons began two years
prior. The government assumed responsibility for compensation of project- affected
persons however compensation provided was significantly lower than that indicated in
the draft Mitigation Plan (See Box 1).

4.7     The affected population surrounding the Kaboré Tambi national park managed by
the NGO NATURAMA included around 500 cattle breeders that graze in a demarcated
silvopastoral zone (Soulougré). Interviews with pastoral groups by the IEG mission in
and around Zoundweogo just north of the Park revealed a great deal of frustration on the
part of the pastoralists in relation to the lack of rangeland and water access needed to
maintain a healthy stock. Effective enforcement of the park system to the south and
agricultural expansion to the north of this zone has left the pastoral groups in a vulnerable
position. Although the reserve features a rangeland, water points, and cattle tracks, the
Bank's and other donor projects have changed the traditional rotational grazing patterns
of the group.

4.8     Similarly, many of the resettled persons affected by this project were migrants
that were previously apportioned agricultural land in the areas targeted for conservation.
Referred to as "squatters" in the Bank project documentation, this vulnerable group was
negatively affected by the project. In Burkina Faso, the customary land system is based
on the collective ownership of land, which is exercised by a land custodian who has
inherited this title by virtue of being the closest descendant of the first settler of the village.
As land custodian, he is authorized to distribute lands based on a system of rites and in
accordance to needs. Migrants are awarded land use, but only provisionally and hence
must contend with a high level of land and livelihood instability. However, according to
customary law, land cannot be refused to an applicant ­ except in rare cases. Although
the project at design was situated clearly within the existing village level structures and
supported customary practice, the resettlement that occurred after mid-term was not
defined or carried out in customary terms. Land allocation is a complex customary
practice in Burkina Faso. Project teams should work to assure that the Bank's safeguards
are being adequately but also appropriately and sensitively applied.




1. "The limit of existing protected areas will be defined as necessary to ensure that no involuntary
resettlement occurs and new protected areas will be negotiated with the land users." (Environmental and
Social data Sheet August, 2001).
                                                      8




Box I: Resettlement of Project Affected Persons in the PONASI Wildlife Conservation
Unit

In the WCU PONASI, the demarcation of the two corridors required the resettlement of 52 villages. The
mitigation plan included the following measures:

    ·   obtain arable lands for PAPs
    ·   support agricultural inputs (fertilizer for the first year, agricultural equipment)
    ·   Strengthening PAPs capacity in new farming techniques
    ·   Support for socio-economic infrastructure
    ·   Support the performance of customary rites relating to the cession of the corridors area (prior to any
        investment).

As identified by the Environmental Impact Study commissioned by the project towards project end,
resettlement of the villages located in the WCU Ponasi was not in compliance with the Bank's safeguards for
the following reasons:

    ·   The obtained lands were less fertile than those in the corridors which have not yet been affected by
        agricultural pressure.
    ·   While the compensation allowed for an initial clearing of the newly allocated, less fertile land,
        compensation was not provided for the loss of productivity that occurred between the resettlement
        and reestablishment of the new farms;
    ·   Access to schools and health facilities were altered;
    ·   Although additional watering points were supplied, the amount of water required as an input into the
        new land provided exceeded the water supply provided;
    ·   Some vulnerable groups, such as widows, were adversely affected since PAPs were expected to
        build new residences.
                                             9


Relation with the Community Based Rural Development Project
4.9    The CBRD project was considered the baseline program for the GEF grant since,
as described in PAGEN's PAD, it (a) implemented the long term vision of the
Government for decentralized rural development and (b) provided the necessary
conditions for successful implementation of PAGEN by ensuring that the primary needs
of communities adjacent to protected areas would be fulfilled and that their planning and
organizational capacity would be improved. It was envisioned that village level
investments provided through CBRD's micro-grant program would include natural
resource as well as socio-economic investments, mainly through rural infrastructure and
services. Natural resource management micro-projects would include inter alia tree-
planting, livestock production, fisheries, and micro-irrigation while other investments
would include support for schooling and adult literacy, health and HIV/AIDS provision,
water and sanitation, transport infrastructure etc. To ensure that CBRD targeted villages
in the protected area peripheries, PAGEN envisioned that agreements would be signed
between the Ministries in charge of each operation.

4.10 While an official Memorandum of Understanding was drawn up and signed
between the two projects, the cooperation envisioned between the underlying investment
and the GEF grant did not fully materialize. Timing was an issue. CBRD was designed
prior to PAGEN and its beneficiaries had already been targeted. Although there was some
geographical overlap between the two projects, the program did not retrofit its design or
adjust parts of its micro-program to accommodate the needs of PAGEN's beneficiaries,
despite the MOU. This review found some evidence of cooperation between the two
projects around the river Volta in the Kabore park where some support was lent to the
displaced persons to intensify agriculture around a branch of the river (since the plots that
were previously being occupied were prohibited), but this cooperation was limited. There
were no rural development micro-projects financed by CBRD implemented in the
provinces peripheral to the Sahel wildlife corridor supported by PAGEN.

4.11 As recognized by early quality assurance discussions, effective linkages between
the two programs would rely on the effective coordination of the activities of the two
Bank projects during implementation. This need was especially acute after mid-term,
when the decision was taken to resettle persons living in and around the newly
demarcated corridors. However the first Phase of the CBRD project was winding down at
this juncture and the second phase was designed to work at the municipal, not the village
level.



5. Ratings

RELEVANCE

5.1     PAGEN's objective is substantially relevant, however less so today given the
effects of the food crisis in West Africa. The relevance of project design is rated Modest.
                                            10

5.2     Relevance of objectives. PAGEN's first phase objective is rated Substantially
relevant. The project objective was in line with the country's 2000 Country Assistance
Strategy objective of strengthening the country's decentralized rural development
strategy and its 2000 Poverty Reduction Strategy objective that identified sustainable
management of natural resources as one of the major pillars for combating poverty.
PAGEN was designed to reinforce the overarching aims of the Community Based Rural
Development project. The Country Assistance Strategy lists PAGEN as a FY01 APL as a
project that will contribute to rural development "to increase productivity of rural assets
(labor and land) through the conservation and renewal of natural resources..." The
objective was in also line with the government's 2000 Biodiversity Strategy and Action
Plan. The government viewed PAGEN as one instrument that could help implement its
National Natural Ecosystem Management program, lodged under the national rural
development program.

5.3      Today however PAGEN's objective is viewed by parts of the government as less
relevant than at design due to the fallout from the food crisis (and to a lesser extent the
financial crises). The food crisis in 2008, for example, prompted violent protests in the
capital of Burkina Faso. In response, the Government moved its IDA resources that were
in part targeted for the second phase of PAGEN towards the development of the
Agricultural Productivity and Food Security Project (approved in November 2009). The
new food security project, financed from IDA at a level of US$40m does not include
GEF funds but provides some continuity by specifically targeting the communities living
around the protected areas targeted by PAGEN. In the spirit of PAGEN, the project will
also support income generating activities, particularly through the promotion of non-
timber forest products. However the exact percent allocation of resources from the food
security project that will be extended to these communities has not been articulated in
project documentation or in interviews conducted over the course of the PPAR mission.

5.4     Relevance of design. The relevance of project design is rated Modest. There are
aspects of PAGEN's design that were well grounded in the country's socio-cultural
context and needs and these are worth noting. It worked at the right level. The focus on
village and inter-village capacity building for protected area management was in line with
the country's decentralized rural development process underway, supported heavily by
the World Bank's Community Based Rural Development project. The project also
assessed where it was most needed. PAGEN sought to complement the ongoing
ecosystem management work underway by targeting four wildlife conservation units that
were not being assisted by other donors active in the sector, such as the AfdB, the EU,
and the ADB. Interviews with the Ministry of Environment revealed that the project was
lodged within a government-led steering committee that would jointly, along with other
donors, monitor and report on biodiversity indicators across all assisted protected area
sites.

5.5     The design of the project as a fifteen year program was also realistic in so far as
the project recognized that "capacity building and ecological restoration require many
years." However the project was prepared in a manner that over-relied on subsequent
phases of support ­ from the GEF (which would require GEF CEO approval) and IDA ­
to implement the studies, management plans, and sector strategies that it formulated in its
first phase. The second and third phase were supposed to build on and consolidate the
                                            11

achievements of the first phase, focusing in particular on developing income-generating
activities and financial mechanisms that would guarantee financial sustainability of the
activities. This phased approach positioned activities that would ensure enhanced
livelihoods and the sustainability of the protected areas system towards the end of the
APL. PAGEN also over-relied on the Community Development Project to help fund
micro-projects geared towards enhanced natural resource management in the PAGEN
target areas.

5.6      Project design was also constrained by a weak M&E framework. The results
chain was not designed to measure or monitor the project's contribution to rural
development or enhance livelihoods. The framework lacked methods for assessing
capacity development. Project design also was challenged by a lack of consistency
between the indicators presented in the PAD, Grant Agreement, and the indicators
initially chosen to be tracked during implementation supervision missions

EFFICACY
5.7     Efficacy is rated Substantial. This is a GEF financed environment project
executed by the World Bank. The PAD therefore articulated both a Global Environment
Objective (GEO) and a project Development Objective (DO). As discussed in previous
sections, the PAD laid out a set of objectives designed to be achieved across the projected
three phases outlined in the 15 year APL. Phase One - Reverse biodiversity trends in
priority protected areas; Phase Two - Substantially improve biodiversity in priority
protected areas; and Phase Three - Secure biodiversity in priority protected areas. This is
an assessment of the effectiveness of the first phase.

5.8     The PAD indicated that "Success in achieving outcomes set by the Global and
Project Development Objectives [would] be verified by (1) reduction of agricultural
encroachment in protected areas (as measured by remote sensing techniques) and (2)
improvement of a set of bioindicators (indicators of mammals in terrestrial areas and
birds in wetlands) whose data would be collected with technical (aerial surveys) and
participatory (line transects) ecological monitoring." Project supervision monitored the
implementation of two indicators: (1) the percentage of the area of the protected areas
with agricultural encroachment and (2) the percentage improvement of bioindicators
(indicators of mammals in terrestrial areas and birds in wetlands).

5.9      Designed more than a decade ago, the GEF financed PAGEN project developed
biodiversity related indicators that were able to be monitored by the participating
communities and that could allow for a tabulation and comparison of biodiversity related
outcomes across the nine protected areas. Standardized indicators to measure the
outcomes of World Bank supported biodiversity conservation projects have evolved
considerably since then. If the PAGEN project was designed today, it would be expected
to utilize the Management Effectiveness Tracking Tool (METT) ­ a tool developed by
the WWF and rolled out by the GEF that allows for project level as well as portfolio level
tracking of the management capacity of protected areas, although it too has its
weaknesses. Nevertheless, PAGEN did not establish its baselines for its two main bio-
indicators until 2004, with the assistance of parallel Danish finance.
                                                  12

5.10 Reduction of agricultural encroachment in protected areas. Supervision
missions monitored this indicator though remote sensing by measuring the change in the
percentage of cultivated area within the boundaries of the protected areas. However
proper surveillance did not begin until 2005. Prior to that, monitoring was mainly
conducted through field observations. The indicator did not take into consideration
temporary incursions by livestock.

5.11 Agricultural encroachment decreased across all targeted protected areas: there
was no crop cultivation within the boundaries of protected areas at the end of the project
in all the Wildlife Conservation Units except for the Sahel Unit, where cultivation
dropped from 20 to 13 percent during the course of the project. However, there is
increasing human pressure around the WCUs. At project end, the percentage of cultivated
land in the areas surrounding the protected areas had increased from 15 to 49 percent,
from 43 to 93 percent, and from 58 to77 percent in the Comoé-Léraba, Boulon-
Kouflandé, and in the biosphere Mare aux Hippopotames, respectively, over the life of
the project.2 With the termination of the APL at the end of the first phase, no sustainable
mechanisms were left in place to involve peripheral communities in the management of
the protected areas and to ensure an adequate flow of benefits that could ensure their
sustainable management in the long run.

5.12 Improvement of a set of bioindicators (indicators of mammals in terrestrial
areas and birds in wetlands). By project end, there was an increase in the number of
animals in the WCUs targeted by the project: the chosen bio-indicator (l'indice
kilométrique d'abondance des populations des mammifères - IKA) increased for almost
all species and in all the WCUs. Bio-indicators improved due to several project
interventions. The project established new protected areas and biological corridors,
including six new protected areas that were negotiated and created in the Sahel
(Nassoumbou, Séno-Mago, Béli, Darkoye, Oursi Nord and Oursi Sud, for a total area of
525,854 ha); the area of the Boulon-Koflandé Forest was increased (from 42,000 to
56,822ha), and two biological corridors were created within the PONASI WCU (4,500
and 33,000 ha respectively). It also helped to formulate an Anti-Poaching Strategy,
financed the training of 166 forest agents throughout the country and involved local
communities is surveillance activities.

5.13 PAGEN achieved its first phase objective by also supporting the Government in
creating the enabling environment for community-based protected area management.
Although by project end the Forestry Code had not been fully adopted and launched, the
project supported the formulation of forest related decrees, and helped to raise awareness
about the code by disseminating it and by organizing a series of awareness raising
workshops. The project also supported the formulation of a National Program for the
Management of Wildlife and Protected Areas (Programme National de Gestion de la
Faune et des Aires Protégées) and provided assistance in drafting its associated Action
Plan.



2. In its comments to this PPAR (see Annex C) the Government indicates that occupancy percentages are
not as high as pointed out in the ICR and the IEG PPAR, however the figures quoted in the ICR were
confirmed during the IEG PPAR mission and no revised figures were made available to IEG.
                                             13

5.14 Site visits conducted for this review confirmed the existence of village-level
management plans that had been supported by this and other donor programs. However,
none of these plans had been financed, and in some villages, due to poor staging, plans
had not been fully prepared until the very end of the project. In other villages visited, the
mission discovered the existence of multiple plans, financed for the most part by Dutch
aid prior to and during the project period. The IEG mission also verified that jobs had
been supported through the project, although these occupations were no longer being
supported after the project closed. The mission also learned that like activities were
supported by the International NGO TreeAid, and were predominantly carried out in the
Comoe Leraba.

5.15 Women were specifically targeted in project design: however interviews at the
village level revealed that while women were included in traditional activities such as the
collection of non-timber forest products and products for medicinal use, the women were
not included in decision making concerning the management of the protected areas or
their use.

EFFICIENCY
5.16   Efficiency is rated Modest.

5.17 Incremental Cost Criteria for GEF Projects. The project conducted an
incremental analysis of the costs of providing the global public environmental goods
financed through the GEF. The assessment estimated that incremental costs of US$7.5
million would be required to deliver the GEF alternative to the baseline scenario,
calculated at US$5.96 million. Baseline costs (costs not associated with the production of
global environmental public goods were derived from the Bank's and other donors' rural
portfolio of projects under implementation in and around the PAGEN project sites. These
underlying costs included an expected US$2.53 million contribution from CBRD
financed by IDA, a US$1.0 million contribution from rural development projects
financed by the Netherlands and the African Development Bank, Government
contributions equivalent to US$1.68 million, direct community contributions of
US$590,000 and a small amount of finance from NGOs in the order of US$60,000.

5.18 All of the GEF finance was disbursed. Yet the World Bank's CBRD contributions
fell short by more than US$1million. This necessitated the transfer of some of the GEF
funds to a micro-project program ­ a program that for the most part funds the provision
of local goods ­ whereas GEF finance is designed to finance only the incremental costs
of providing global environmental public goods. Financing for global environmental
benefits is relatively scare in the face of global needs ­ in this the conservation of
biodiversity in the Sahel and other woodlands of Burkina Faso. The use of GEF funds to
finance a micro-project program represents an inefficient use of funds since there were
several pieces of underlying finance that the GEF grant was built upon that should have
been tapped for this purpose, especially the CBRD purpose since it was considered the
baseline project.

5.19 Nevertheless, the project reported income gains from the implementation of these
micro-projects. According to the ICR and interviews with the NGO Naturama conducted
during the IEG mission, support to revenue generating activities resulted in the creation
                                             14

of 283 jobs between 2003-2007. These activities included production of charcoal, safari
hunting, honey production, exploitation of non-timber forest products, exploitation of
halieutic resources, production of karite butter, production of soap, production of
soumbala, and maintenance jobs. Documentation provides total revenues generated over
the project period per category, but there is no indication in the project documentation as
to how many people benefitted directly from the projects nor who benefited (an important
point given the stratification of Burkinabe society and village life). IEG interviews in the
field found that many of these activities had ended by the time the IEG mission took
place.

5.20 Cost Effectiveness. Due to the depreciation of the dollar, the project lost about one
fifth of its value. However, instead of consolidating the project's activities to achieve the
aims it set out at appraisal, the scope of the project was expanded by creating two
elephant migration corridors, for which a Resettlement Framework could not be finalized
or validated, nor would there be adequate compensation for the resettled persons.

5.21 PAGEN was designed as an APL and as such left activities that would support the
financial sustainability of the systems that were being put in place in the first phase until
the end. These activities, such as development of tourism or a sustainable financial
mechanism for the protected area system were therefore left undeveloped. The project did
not envision being able to obtain a rate of return for at least ten years into project
implementation and without continuation of the APL, the types of return envisioned are
unlikely to materialize. The envisioned returns varied based on locale. In Comoe-Lerabe,
a business plan drawn up for the site projected that by 2006, the revenues from utilization
of wildlife, tourism, and valorization of other savannah products would just balance the
costs of maintaining infrastructure and carrying out field activities. In the Sahel, the
project projected it would be likely to take all three phases of the APL and that financial
returns would depend primarily on international tourism, noting that although thousands
of tourists and waterfowl hunters already visit the area, little of the income is captured
locally. For other protected areas that do not prove financially viable, the project planned
to help establish a long-term financial mechanism. This was designed to be established in
the third phase.

OVERALL OUTCOME
5.22 The overall outcome of the project is rated Moderately Satisfactory. A
substantially relevant project whose objectives were in line with the country's
biodiversity related frameworks and poverty alleviation strategies, the project lost some
of its support towards completion due to domestic challenges posed by the food and to a
lesser extent the financial crisis. The project was designed in a relevant manner in line
with the country's rural decentralization efforts, socio-cultural context, and relative
capacities. However decisions taken after mid-term lessened the relevance of project
design since the decision strayed from the original capacity development aims of the
project towards alternative activities such as the creation of migration corridors. This
decision was taken late in the project cycle, in the face of dollar depreciation, resulting in
the Bank's inability to assure proper mitigation of its social safeguards. Yet the project
achieved its objective of reversing biodiversity trends, by helping to strengthen the
capacity of the village and inter-village committees to promote enhanced natural resource
                                           15

management and community management of the protected areas. The project fully
achieved results against the two main bio-indicators utilized in this project. The project
successfully reduced agricultural encroachment and increased biodiversity in all areas in
which it worked. There is however a high risk that these outcomes will not be sustained.

Bank Performance
5.23 Bank performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. The Moderately
Unsatisfactory rating is based on Moderately Satisfactory quality at entry but Moderately
Unsatisfactory supervision. The serious lack of attention to resettlement issues and the
resulting safeguards violation during supervision calls for the supervision rating to
outweigh the MS quality of entry rating, leading to an overall MU rating for Bank
performance.

QUALITY AT ENTRY
5.24 Quality at entry was Moderately Satisfactory. The scientific and technical
soundness of the project was confirmed at appraisal by the Scientific and Technical
Committee of the GEF. Its review found that lessons for the region (and for the Sahel in
particular) could be gleaned from the project's proposed community-based approaches to
conservation and natural resource management since in Africa, this approach had at the
time been mainly applied in Southern and Central Africa. Although the project took twice
as long to prepare as planned (36 months), its design was firmly rooted in Burkinabe
customs and the country's decentralization strategy. In its 2000 Biodiversity Action Plan,
the government defined its long-term vision and commitment to incorporate protected
area management in rural development. PAGEN was designed to help achieve this aim.
However the instrument chosen resulted in the shift of critically needed investments
towards later phases of the program that would never materialize. This created
expectations related to the long-term commitment beneficiaries felt had been put in place
by the project to fund the investments that were articulated in their community
development management plans.

QUALITY OF SUPERVISION
5.25 Quality of supervision is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. IEG recognizes the
day-do-day supervision carried out by the project team based in Ouagadougou that was
instrumental in helping to achieve results on the ground. The overall project outcome
rating is Moderately Satisfactory due in part to the performance of the field based team,
its good relationship with the Government, implementing agencies, and the local
authorities.

5.26      However, the quality of Supervision is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory since
while the Bank conducted an average of two supervision missions per year (11 missions
total), it neglected to ensure compliance with safeguards, in particular on resettlement.
The realism of supervision ratings regarding the project's social safeguards was skewed.
Every Implementation Supervision Report submitted for this project assigned a
Satisfactory rating with regards to social safeguard compliance, except for the last
mission, which downgraded compliance with specific reference to the issue of
involuntary resettlement to Moderately Satisfactory.
                                            16

5.27 Capacity issues related to project implementation as well as the capacity to
implement the Environmental and Social Mitigation Plan were not raised until February
2004. It should be noted that following this recognition of a capacity problem, the WBG
supervision team engaged the support of the Direction Generale de l'Environnement
(specifically the direction des evaluations environmentales) and organized a training
workshop on July 2004 on safeguards with a focus on resettlement that included project
staff, Direction Générale de l'Environnement staff, UCF, Naturama and members of the
inter-village associations. However, this did not result in compliance.

Borrower Performance
5.28   Borrower Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

GOVERNMENT PERFORMANCE
5.29 Government performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The government, led
by the Ministry of Environment and Water, supported the implementation of a number of
innovative institutional and legal measures, which enabled the status of protected areas to
be changed so that a local community's institution, in this case the inter-village protected
area management association, could become the concessionaire of the area. They also
supported a range of parallel measures that empowered communities to assume the
responsibility for a range of development activities in the area.

5.30 The government support equaled 25-30 percent of the actual GEF contribution.
An additional allocation was provided by the Government in 2007 to partially
compensate the financial loss due to the depreciation of the dollar. Yet while the
Government also took on the responsibility of compensating resettled communities,
compensation fell short of standards set by the World Bank's operational policy. The
biological corridors created and demarcated with project assistance should not have been
put in place without the means to properly compensate the resettled beneficiaries.

IMPLEMENTING AGENCY PERFORMANCE
5.31 The performance of the implementing agencies is rated Satisfactory. During the
course of the project, the institutional framework for the implementation of the project
changed. The Ministry of Environment and Hydraulic ­ the agency originally responsible
for the implementation of the project ­ was restructured and became the Ministry of the
Environment and Quality of Life (MECV). The Forestry Department where the PCU was
situated was split into two directorates: the General Directorate of Nature Conservation
and the National Directorate of Water and Forests (a paramilitary branch). The
restructuring did not cause major delays to the project. High turnover of staff did not
affect procurement or financial management which was rated satisfactory throughout the
project. Members of the PCU with whom this review worked during the IEG mission
displayed an excellent awareness of the project and had good working relations with the
project beneficiaries visited, in despite of the resettlement issues discussed herein.
                                            17


Monitoring and Evaluation
5.32 Monitoring and Evaluation design, implementation, and utilization are rated
Modest.

M&E DESIGN
5.33 M&E design is rated Modest. Without the benefit of a specific and measurable
objective, the M&E system for the project relied on two outcome indicators chosen
during implementation that were deemed most useful in tracking progress towards the
development and global environmental objective. The design of the initial system
suffered from a lack of consistency between the indicators presented in the PAD, Grant
Agreement, and the indicators initially chosen to be tracked during implementation
supervision missions. The PAD lists sixteen output indicators in the main text and
fourteen in the Annex, only eight of which are consistent with one another. However this
was in part due to the staging of the program across a fifteen year period across a fifteen
year period where separate indicators would be used during separate stages.

M&E IMPLEMENTATION
5.34 Implementation of the M&E system is rated modest. Baseline data were not
collected for the project until late 2004, with the assistance of parallel finance provided
by DANIDA. Despite the fact the government had committed to supporting surveillance
in the protected areas targeted by the project, equipment for conducting remote sensing
was only procured mid-way through the project and training had to be conducted
thereafter. Therefore in the early part of the project, monitoring was mainly conducted
through field observations. One aerial survey was conducted in 2005; however the project
lacked resources to conduct the follow-up survey planned for project end.

5.35 Other results, namely job creation through the small grants program occurred but
were not systematically monitored or reported though the supervision missions (however
they were provided by the government's completion report).

5.36 One important omission of the project's M&E system is the lack of indicators
developed to measure the bulk of the project's component activities ­ namely capacity
building. Designed with an ambiguous objective, the project's M&E system should have
been designed with output and outcome indicators to also measure and report on the
enhanced capacity of the Ministry of Environment, the decentralized forest staff, and the
inter-village committees to more effectively manage the protected areas. The M&E
system as it was designed does not include indicators that establish causal links between
the capacity strengthening aims of the project and the outcomes reported.

USE OF M&E DATA
5.37 M&E Utilization is rated Negligible. The project's M&E systems were not used
to enhance project implementation. There is very little learning that has resulted from the
implementation of this system - that only tracked two physical indicators ­ that can
inform project design about community based natural resource management in like
environments. Likewise, effective development and implementation of the M&E system
could have paved the way for a more robust readiness strategy in relation to efforts to
                                               18

reduce deforestation and forest degradation (REDD). Burkina Faso has been chosen as
one of five countries that will be financed during the first round of the Forest Investment
Program.

Risk to Development Outcome
5.38 Risk to development outcome is High. The premature end of the planned APL has
resulted in a high risk to the sustainability of the activities carried out in the first phase of
this project. For example, PAGEN financed the operating costs of the National Forestry
Department, the implementing agency of PAGEN. PAGEN financed conservation
awareness activities geared at improving conservation-oriented behavior of National
Forestry Department Staff, staff of the Wildlife Conservation Units, concessionaires, and
guides. It financed vehicles, the construction of park infrastructure, and other operating
costs to support an anti-poaching unit. The drop in poaching activities reported by the
project can be directly linked to the support provided by the project. Interviews with the
Forest Staff conducted for this review discussed the fact that although the project helped
put in place an Anti-Poaching National Strategy, there is an inadequate amount of
recurrent finance available to sustain the level of surveillance that was conducted during
the life of the project.

5.39 This is complicated by the fact that the project was responsible for creating
578,176 ha of newly protected areas. These newly demarcated areas include the two new
biological/migration corridors. While the corridors were demarcated and persons were
resettled by the end of Phase I, interviews with environment and forest staff and the
concessionaire, NATURAMA, indicated that the elephant population will be extremely
vulnerable post-project since the demarcated area was not equipped with proper
surveillance infrastructure, tourism was not developed, and resources for anti-poaching
are not available at the level at which they were available through the project. Sustainable
financing mechanisms were to be developed for the protected area system under
subsequent phases. In fact, PAGEN supported roughly ten studies that were
commissioned during the first phase to inform the second phase on management and
sustainable financing, tourism development, partnership with the private sector, and
livelihoods development.

5.40 A follow-on project financed by IDA, the Agricultural Productivity and Food
Security project that has recently been prepared will target the communities living around
the Protected Areas targeted by PAGEN. However the exact percentage of support that
will reach these communities has not been articulated in project documentation.




6. Conclusion and Lessons

6.1    This PPAR was conducted as an input into IEG's Review of the World Bank's
Safeguard Policies, and as such, focuses heavily on the conclusions that can be drawn
                                            19

and the lessons that can be learned from the implementation of the Bank's safeguards
policies in GEF financed biodiversity conservation projects, in this case, in West Africa.

   ·   Protected area projects supported by the World Bank need to ensure that
       other means of finance, apart from the GEF, are woven into the project
       design in case contingency resources are needed to ensure that negative
       impacts on human livelihoods are mitigated. Biodiversity conservation
       projects that seek to enlarge or create protected areas or conservation corridors
       always involve a change in access by rural residents to natural resources and
       sometime involve physical resettlement. Proper valuation of livelihoods and
       sufficient project costing for the restoration of these livelihoods are essential and
       should be firmly figured into project design. GEF stand-alone projects are less
       equipped to finance the costs of restoring livelihoods since GEF is an incremental
       financing instrument designed to focus on the provision of global environmental
       benefits.

   ·   The Bank's Safeguard on Indigenous Peoples is not comprehensive enough to
       cover vulnerable groups that may be affected by a project. Biodiversity
       conservation projects that limit access to resources, including water and grazing
       rights of nomadic groups and herders, need to highlight the particular needs of
       these groups in the social assessment and work with the respective client
       governments to formulate appropriate mitigation strategies.          The Bank's
       resettlement policies should be applied on a contextual basis so that, where
       appropriate, seasonal and climatic migration is taken into account in figuring the
       number of project affected persons.

   ·   Projects with small grants programs typically indicate that since the activities will
       be chosen downstream, environmental management plans will need to be
       designed at the time when activities are selected, and that the management plans
       must be designed in consultation with the beneficiaries. The project level
       Environment Management Plan is often modeled as a framework process that
       provides guidelines on how to develop EMPs at the site or activity level.
       Guidelines include information concerning Bank standards on participation and
       inclusion, conflict resolution, monitoring and evaluation. However, for this
       system to be effectively implemented, adequate and upfront assessment is
       needed of EIA capacity at the village and inter-village level, including both
       capacity for assessment and capacity to mitigate harm (technical and
       financial capacity).
                                           21                             Annex A


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

Partnership for Natural Ecosystem Management Project

Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                        Appraisal             Actual or
                                        estimate           current estimate
Total project costs                        13.80                   13.20
Loan/Grant amount                           7.50                    7.50
Cofinancing                                 4.98                    3.88


Project Dates
                                      Original                Actual

 Appraisal                            02/15/2000             01/15/2002
 Negotiations                         08/15/2000             01/25/2002
 Board Approval                       10/17/2000             05/21/2002
 Signing                                       -             07/10/2002
 Effectiveness                                 -             04/29/2003
 Project Completion                   12/31/2007             12/31/2007


Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
     Staff Time                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget only)
  and Cost Stage                                  USD Thousands (including
  of Project Cycle           No. of staff weeks   travel and consultant costs)

Lending
        FY99                                                    13.17
        FY00                                19                  58.97
        FY01                                23                  78.33
        FY02                                18                  72.05
        FY03                                 2                   2.88
                             Total:                            225.34
Supervision/ICR
        FY03                                16                  59.01
        FY04                                13                  32.94
        FY05                                26                  58.58
        FY06                                25                  40.94
        FY07                                21                  42.69
        FY08                                25                  81.93
                             Total:                            308.52
 Annex A                                     22


 Mission Data
 Names                               Title                  Unit   Responsibility/
                                                                     Speciality
Lending
Jean-Michel Pavy       Sr. Environmental Specialist        AFTEN   Task Manager
Ibrahim Nebie          Agricultural Services Specialist    AFTEN
Emmanuel Nikiema       Natural Resources Mgmt.             AFTAR
                       Specialist
Luc Lecuit             Evaluation Specialist
Jerome Gauthier        Livestock & Local Dvt. Specialist
Mohammed Bekhechi      Environmental Lawyer
Korka Diallo           Disbursement Specialist
Mamadou Yaro           Financial Management Analyst
Celestin Bado          Sr. Operations Officer              AFTPR
Amadou Tidiane         Procurement Officer                 AFTPC
Toure
Jane Hopkins           Economist
Pascale Dubois         Country Lawyer
Luc Lapointe           Procurement Officer
Edith Mwemba           Lawyer

Supervision/ICR
Ibrahim Nebie          Sr. Ag. Extension Specialist        AFTAR   Task Manager
Paola Agostini         Sr. Economist                       AFTEN   Economist
Christophe Crepin      Lead Environment Specialist         AFTEN   GEF focal point
Emmanuel Y.            Sr. Natural Resources Mgmt Sp.      AFTEN
Nikiema
Matteo Marchisio       Consultant                          AFTEN   ICR Author
William Dakpo          Procurement Specialist              AFTPC   Procurement
Mamadou Yaro           Sr. Financial Management Sp.        AFTFM   Financial
                                                                   Mgmt.
Marwane Diallo         Consultant                          AFTFM   Financial
                                                                   Mgmt.
Gwladys Isabelle       Team Assistant                      AFMBF   Supp. Support
Kinda
Marie-Jeane Ndiaye     Program Assistant                   AFTS4   Supp. Support
Virginie Vaselopulos   Program Assistant                   AFTEN   Su. Support
Francis Lauginie       Consultant                          AFTEN
Oumar Ouattara         Consultant                          WBIHD
Dirk Nicolaas Prevoo   Senior Operations Officer           AFTEN
Abdoul-Wahab Seyni     Social Development Spec.            AFTCS
Bassega Celestin       Consultant                          AFMBF
Zinkone
                                                 23                                     Annex B


Annex B. List of Persons Met
NAME                              Affiliation           General Title      Contact Information
                                                        and Title in       Email/Phone/Fax
                                                        Relation to
                                                        Project
World Bank Staff DC
Paola Agostini                    AFTEN - WB            Senior             Pagostini@worldbank.org
                                                        Economist          202 - 473-7620
World Bank Staff based in Ouagadougou
Emmanuel Nikiema                                                           enikiema@worldbank.org
                                                                           50 49 63 00
Bintou Sogodogo                   Program assistant                        bsogodogo@worldbank.org
                                                                           50 49 63 00
Government of Burkina Faso Officials
Boureima Nebie                  ONEA-Maîtrise                              nebieboureima@yahoo.fr
                                d'Ouvrage de Ziga                          (00226) 70 23 64 47
Ousmane Yaya Bocoum             ONEA-Maîtrise                              yousmane@yahoo.fr
                                d'Ouvrage de Ziga                          (00226) 70 12 86 92
B. Augustin Neya                ONEA-Maîtrise                              nbapiyan@yahoo.fr
                                d'Ouvrage de Ziga                          (00226) 78 80 82 01
Lassané Ouédraogo               Ministère de            Secrétaire         lassanedetikare@yahoo.fr
                                l'Environnment          général            (00226) 70 26 25 63
                                                                           (00226) 78 82 75 02
                                                                           (00226) 76 66 60 18
Jean Martin Kambire              Ministère de           Ingénieur          jmkambire@fasonet.bf
                                 l'Agriculture, de      agroéconomiste     Tel: (00226) 50 49 99 43
                                 l'Hydraulique et des   Conseiller         Fax: (00226) 50 37 58 25
                                 Ressources             technique          c(00226) 75 03 80 32
                                 Halieutiques                              h(00226) 50 31 76 40
Project Coordinators and Local Teams
Hamidou Tiendrebeogo             Second Phase-          Responsable        tiendrebeo@hotmail.com
                                 Community Based        suivi évaluation   c(00226) 70 24 60 03
                                 Rural Development                         h(00226) 50 38 54 39
                                 Project (PNGT2-
                                 Phase 2)
Dominique Zongo                  Second Phase-                             Zongo_dominique@yahoo.fr
                                 Community Based                           (00226) 70 23 03 36
                                 Rural Development
                                 Project (PNGT2-
                                 Phase 2)
Prosper Sawadogo                 OFINAP / PAGEN                            Prosper_sawadogo@yahoo.fr
                                                                           (00226) 70 26 68 62
Adama Drabo                       OFINAP / PAGEN                           adrabo@yahoo.fr
                                                                           (00226) 70 72 06 18
Amadé Ouédraogo                   OFINAP / PAGEN                           amadejunior@yahoo.fr
                                                                           (00226) 70 25 37 13
Pierre Kafando                    OFINAP / PAGEN                           pierre_kafando@yahoo.fr
                                                                           (00226) 70 22 49 23
United Nations Agencies
Yaovi S. Fiagan                  IFAD                   backstopping       y.fiagan@ifad.org
                                                        and supervising
                                                        IFAD projects
                                                        and programs
Michèle Stoltz                   UNDP (Env ­ Enegy)                        michele.stoltz@undp.org
Annex B                                        24

NAME                            Affiliation         General Title       Contact Information
                                                    and Title in        Email/Phone/Fax
                                                    Relation to
                                                    Project
Bamba Kassoum                   FAO                                     kassoum.bamba@fao.org
Clarisse Coulibaly              PNUD (PEI                               clarisse.coulibaly@undp.org
                                initiative)
Bernadette Tapsoba              WFP                                     bernadette.tapsoba@wfp.org
Annalisa Conte                  WFP                 WFP Country         Annalisa.conte@wfp.org
                                                    representative
Victoire Akoko Lawson           PNUD/UN                                 victoire.lawson@undp.org
                                Coordination                            Tel (00226) 50 30 67 62/3/4
                                                                        Fax: (00226) 50 31 04 70
Soungalo Togola                  UNICEF                                 stogola@unicef.org
Zounoubate N'zombie              UN Habitat                             zounoubate.nzombie@undp.org
Bilateral Donors (based on Ougadougou)
Mélanie Canet                    AFD (Agence        Chargée de          canetm@afd.fr
                                 Française de       mission ­            mobile: 70 89 82 29
                                 Développement)     secteur rural       Tél (226) 50 30 60 92
                                                                        Fax (226) 50 31 19 66
Jérémie Dumon                   AFD (Agence         Chargé de           dumonj@afd.fr
                                Française de        mission             Tél (226) 50 30 60 92
                                Développement)                          Fax (226) 50 31 19 66
Florent-Dirk Thies              GTZ (Agence         CTP/Coordinat       florent-dirk.thies@gtz.de
                                Allemande de        eur du pole         c(00226) 70 21 45 30
                                Coopération         prioritaire         Tel: (00226) 50 33 19 10
                                Technique)          agriculture de la        (00226) 50 30 43 58
                                                    Coopération         Fax: (00226) 50 31 08 73
                                                    Allemande de

Others (NGOs and beneficiaries)
Idrissa Zeba                    Fondation                               idrissa.zeba@naturama.bf
                                NATURAMA                                (00226) 70 25 93 03
                                                                        (00226) 50 37 32 40
Adama Nana                      Fondation                               adama.nana@naturama.bf
                                NATURAMA                                (00226) 70 23 78 93
                                                                        (00226) 50 37 32 40
Youssouf Sanou                  Fondation                               youssouf.sanou@naturama.bf
                                NATURAMA                                (00226) 78 83 08 47
                                                                         (00226) 50 37 32 40
Yacouba Bara                    Fondation                               youssouf.sanou@naturama.bf
                                NATURAMA                                (00226) 78 83 08 47
                                                                         (00226) 50 37 32 40
Idani Oumarou                   ERGECI-                                 omaridani@fasonet.bf
                                DEVELOPPEMENT                           (00226) 50 31 58 91
                                                                        Fax : (00226) 50 30 08 89
Nobéré Ouattara                 ERGECI-                                 (00226) 50 31 58 91
                                DEVELOPPEMENT                                Fax : (00226) 50 30 08 89
Dabiré Evariste                                     Villager
Moumouni Ouédraogo                                  Villager
Francois Sia                                        Villager
Issoufou Ouédraogo                                  Villager
Seydou Sankara                                      Villager
Baba Zerbo                                          Villager
Salamata Adouabou                                   Villager
Moussa Koudibakida                                  Villager
                                                      25                                        Annex C


Annex C. Borrower Comments


        Rapport de l'évaluation indépendante du projet de Partenariat pour
                                   l'Amélioration
                de la Gestion des Ecosystèmes Naturels (PAGEN)

                   Commentaires du Gouvernement du Burkina Faso

Notations (Principal Ratings)

Projet de Partenariat pour l'Amélioration de la Gestion des Ecosystèmes Naturels
(Partnership for Natural Ecosystem Management (P052400)

Nous proposons une appréciation du Gouvernement du Burkina Faso en dernière colonne (voir tableau ci-
dessous)

                                                                                       Gvt of BF
                          ICR*            ICR Review*            PPAR                  Assessment
Outcome                   Satisfactory    Moderately             Moderately            Satisfactory
                                          Satisfactory           Satisfactory
Risk to Development Significant           High                   High                  Significant
Outcome
Bank Performance          Satisfactory    Satisfactory           Moderately            Moderately
                                                                 Unsatisfactory        satisfactory
Borrower                  Satisfactory    Satisfactory           Moderately            Satisfactory
Performance                                                      Satisfactory
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. The ICR
Review is an intermediate IEGWB product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.
Govt of BF Assessment: Evaluation du Gouvernement du Burkina Faso
Le résumé (Summary) est à reprendre en fonction des commentaires du Gouvernement du Burkina Faso

Observations d'ordre général
Le rapport de l'évaluation indépendante a fait un effort considérable en passant en revue les résultats
atteints par le projet mais a également abordé des questions clés quand à la durabilité de ces acquis pour
un projet initialement programmé pour 15 ans mais qui s'est brusquement arrêté au bout de 5 ans. Le
rapport a également mis l'accent sur les questions de compensation des populations déplacées dans le
cadre de la mise en place des corridors au Parc National Kaboré Tambi (PNKT) en insistant sur le non
respect des procédures de la Banque Mondiale en matière de mise en oeuvre du plan de gestion
environnementale et sociale (PGES). Les efforts consentis par le Gouvernement du Burkina Faso ainsi que
l'implication des populations autochtones dans la mise en oeuvre des mesures de sauvegarde
environnementale et sociale ont été sommairement évoquées. Certains résultats suffisamment positifs du
projet n'ont pas été soulignés dans le rapport, tel que les taux atteints au niveau des indicateurs de
performance.
Annex C                                               26


Restructuration du projet
2.7. La restructuration du projet, intervenue à la faveur de la revue à mi-parcours, réalisée conjointement
par la Banque Mondiale et le Gouvernement du Burkina Faso, était une nécessité pour mieux recadrer les
activités en vue de réaliser des résultats performants. C'est ainsi qu'il a été décidé le financement de
microprojets au profit des populations et la création des deux corridors.

2.8. Microprojets
Le développement de microprojets n'a pas seulement concerné les populations qui devaient quitter
l'emprise des corridors comme l'indique le rapport de l'évaluation indépendant, mais l'ensemble des
populations autour des 5 aires d'interventions du projet. Ces activités rémunératrices de revenus ont été
demandées par les populations riveraines et le gouvernement était tenu de les appuyer pour leur
développement. Ainsi, des activités d'apiculture, d'aulacodiculture, d'exploitation de produits forestiers non
ligneux, de plantation de vergers, de pêche (équipement en matériel de pêche), et autres ont été
développées. Cet aspect a été positif pour le projet et de nos jours continuent de développer ces activités
elles-mêmes.

7. Mesures de sauvegarde environnementale et sociale (Safeguards)


3.3. La création d'un verger écologique autour de la Réserve de biosphère de la Mare aux Hippopotames
La réalisation de ce verger écologique (fruitier) a été négociée avec tous les producteurs qui ont identifié les
types de microprojets qu'ils veulent mettre en oeuvre en guise de compensation. L'administration locale
(préfectures et communes rurales riveraines de la réserve) et l'AGEREF de la Forêt Classée de la Réserve
de Biosphère de la Mare aux Hippopotames ont tous participé à tout le processus de négociations. C'est
ainsi que le projet PAGEN a financièrement accompagnés ces populations (PAPs) pour l'acquisition des
plants fruitiers pour un montant de 20 millions de francs CFA en deux années. Contrairement au rapport
d'évaluation indépendante qui stipule que les populations dont les champs auparavant contigus à la forêt
classée ont été déplacées sans dédommagement, il convient de noter que ces populations ont doublement
bénéficié du PAGEN. En effet, elles continuent de cultiver le coton sur les autres portions des terroirs, les
cultures basses et le maïs sur les 52 hectares (au lieu de 520 ha indiqué dans le document de l'évaluation
indépendante). Il convient de noter que la largeur se la bande des vergers ne couvre que 100 mètres.
Mieux, cette situation évite les conflits perpétuels avec le service des Eaux et Forêts pour l'occupation
illégale de la zone tampon de la forêt classée. La mise en place des vergers écologiques est un aspect
positif pour le gouvernement et cela se ressent de nos jours au regard des relations de bonne collaboration
entre le service forestier et les populations (à travers leur AGEREF) qui continuent d'organiser ensemble les
opérations de surveillance, l'exploitation des produits forestiers non ligneux et la pêche. Les communautés
autour de la Réserve de la Biosphère se sentent aujourd'hui suffisamment co-propriétaires et co-
gestionnaires de cette forêt. Le gouvernement ne peut qualifier ce cas spécifique de « déplacement
involontaire des populations » mais pense plutôt qu'il s'agit d'une opération qui rentre dans le cadre de
l'aménagement du territoire au bénéfice de toutes les parties concernées, étant donné que ces populations
restent toujours sur les mêmes terres.

3.4. Corridors
La mise en place des deux corridors répond à la recommandation de la revue à mi parcours en 2005. Ainsi,
les deux parties, Banque Mondiale et Gouvernement du Burkina Faso ont convenu de la mise en place des
deux corridors du PNKT dans la vision, non seulement de favoriser la migration des animaux sauvages,
notamment les éléphants, de préserver la biodiversité (objectif primordial du projet PAGEN) mais également
de contribuer à la réalisation du protocole de gestion des ressources naturelles partagées entre le Ghana et
le Burkina Faso.
                                                      27                                         Annex C

Le processus de la mise en place des corridors a été très participatif. Elle ainsi vu l'engagement des
autorités locales, des élus locaux, des administrations communales (communes de Guiaro, Ziou, Tiébélé,
Gon-Boussougou, Zoaga, Zabré, Pô), de tous les services techniques concernés, des autorités coutumières
(chefs de villages et chefs de terres) et des personnes affectées par le projet (PAPs). Le tracé des deux
corridors a été faite avec toutes les parties prenantes. Le Gouvernement a déployé des efforts financiers
supplémentaires pour les compensations qui ont été établies de manière consensuelles entre le projet
(l'administration publique), les personnes concernées et les autorités coutumières. Aucune personne
installée dans les corridors n'a été déplacée de force. La réinstallation des PAPs a été négociée avec les
propriétaires terriens locaux qui leur ont distribué gratuitement des terres d'habitations et de cultures sans
contrainte aucune.

Il est constaté que les conditions de la Banque n'ont pas été toutes respectées en ce qui concerne la mise
en oeuvre du plan de gestion environnementale et sociale. Cela est essentiellement lié au manque de
ressources financières dû à la chute du dollar, à la non-poursuite de la seconde phase du PAGEN qui
devait permettre de consolider davantage les acquis de la première phase. Cependant, comme souligné
plus haut, le Gouvernement du Burkina Faso qui porte un intérêt particulier à la réalisation de ces deux
corridors, première expérience écologique dans la sous région ouest Africaine, a financièrement contribué à
leur réalisation. Les populations locales ont, quant à elles ont accepté distribuer des terres aux PAPs. Les
infrastructures sociales mises à la disposition des PAPs et des populations locales qui ont accueilli ces
PAPs ne sont certes pas suffisantes, mais le Gouvernement salue surtout l'intégration parfaite entre les
populations au sein desquelles on constate que la paix y règne. Les effets négatifs des corridors dont parle
le rapport d'évaluation indépendante sont, du point de vue du Gouvernement, à minimiser.

De nos jours, les corridors n'ont pas fait l'objet d'occupation ou de réoccupation bien que le projet soit
clôturé il ya de cela deux ans. Le passage des animaux sauvages, notamment des éléphants du PNKT au
Ranch de Gibier de Nazinga dans le corridor 1 est effectif présentement.

3.5. Gestion des ressources naturelles partagées (autre d'acquis du PAGEN)
La création des corridors a également joué un rôle très positif dans le renforcement de la coopération entre
le Ghana et le Burkina Faso en matière de gestion partagée des ressources transfrontalières à travers un
protocole signé le 18 juillet 2008. Les négociations ont été faites dans le cadre de la mise en oeuvre de deux
projets de biodiversité, financés par le FEM et administrés par la Banque Mondiale dans les deux pays. Il
s'agit du projet de Partenariat pour l'Amélioration de la Gestion des Ecosystèmes Naturels (PAGEN ­
Burkina Faso) et du Northern Savannah Biodiversity Conservation Project (NSBCP ­ Ghana). Le processus
de l'élaboration du protocole a été conduit par l'UICN ­ Burkina sous forme de prestation de service
financée par le PAGEN.

Avec le Mali, le même processus de gestion des ressources partagées a commencé sous les auspices de
l'UICN avec des rencontres entre les autorités des deux pays. Le PAGEN a permis un brassage entre les
populations du sahel Burkinabè et celles du Gourma Malien. De nos jours, le dossier pour l'établissement
du protocole sur la gestion partagée des ressources naturelles est reversé à la commission mixte Burkina
Faso-Mali pour la mise en place éventuelle d'un protocole.

Le Gouvernement du Burkina Faso marque toute sa satisfaction pour ces protocoles de gestion
transfrontalière des ressources partagées.

En terme donc de résultats, on peut dire que la création des corridors reste un acquis durable sur le plan de
la préservation de la diversité biologique, de l'intégration des populations locales et des PAPs et de la
coopération avec le Ghana et le Mali en matière de gestion partagée des ressources naturelles.

4.7. Zone sylvopastorale de Soulougré
Annex C                                             28

La zone sylvopastorale de Soulougré (partie nord du PNKT) dans le Zoundwéogo avait été aménagée pour
accueillir les éleveurs transhumants afin d'éviter leur occupation illégale du parc. Le PAGEN a contribué à
renforcer ces aménagements par la mise à disposition de puits pastoraux, de parcs de vaccination, de silos
pour le stockage du foin. Les éleveurs ont été formés et encadrés pour la récolte du fourrage.

Le rapport d'évaluation indépendante souligne le mécontentement des éleveurs. Cela se comprend
aisément du fait que ces éleveurs n'ont plus l'accès aux ressources fourragères du PNKT. Le
Gouvernement tient à souligner que les objectifs du parc, classé en 1970, visent la conservation des
ressources biologiques qui ne sauraient être détruites par des groupes de personnes pour des intérêts
personnels. Le PAGEN a été souple dans son intervention, aucun éleveur pris en flagrant délit de pâturage
dans le parc n'a été verbalisé. Les initiatives prises par le PAGEN à travers un processus participatif de
négociations pour permettre aux éleveurs d'entreprendre leurs activités hors du parc ont permis de
répondre au mieux les besoins de ces éleveurs. Du point de vue du Gouvernement, le recasement des
éleveurs et les infrastructures mises à leur disposition ne devraient pas être qualifiés de négatif.

5. Notations (Ratings)

Pertinence (Relevance)
5.1, 5.2 et 5.3. Sur le plan de la vision du Burkina Faso en matière de gestion des ressources naturelles,
l'objectif du PAGEN reste de nos jours valable et prioritaire car la préservation des ressources naturelles
dans les aires protégées profite substantiellement aux communautés riveraines. L'objectif de
développement reste hautement pertinent, contrairement au rapport de l'évaluation indépendante qui
indique que la crise alimentaire à relayé la préservation des ressources naturelles dans les aires protégées.
Bien au contraire, cette crise alimentaire pourrait être atténuée pour les populations riveraines des aires
protégées si ces airs protégées étaient bien gérées.


5.10 et 5.11. Empiétement agricole dans les zones d'intervention du PAGEN

Le rapport de l'évaluation indépendante indique que le pourcentage d'occupation de l'espace
cultivé autour des zones du projet après sa clôture a augmenté de 15 à 49 % à la Comoé-Léraba,
43 à 93 % à Boulon-Koflandé et 58 à 77 % à la réserve de biosphère de la Mare aux
Hippopotames.

Le Gouvernement reconnait que des occupations ponctuelles sont intervenues au niveau des trois
aires ci-dessus citées. Cette situation s'explique par la non poursuite du PAGEN avec le départ
des équipes d'animation. Cependant, les pourcentages d'occupation ne sont pas aussi élevés que
le rapport le souligne.

Contrairement aux termes du rapport qui soulignent que les communautés sont délaissées après
le projet, le Gouvernement tient à mentionner que dans les trois zones ci-dessus indiquées, les
AGEREF sont toujours mobilisées pour poursuivre les activités de sensibilisation et de surveillance
en collaboration avec le service forestier. Cela fait partie des acquis indéniables du projet PAGEN
pour assurer la durabilité de la gestion des ressources naturelles.


Conclusion
Le Gouvernement du Burkina Faso reconnait la pertinence du projet PAGEN qui vise la sauvegarde de la
diversité biologique. Le Gouvernement apprécie positivement les résultats atteints par le projet PAGEN
malgré les contraintes rencontrées pendant sa mise en oeuvre. Concernant la mise en oeuvre des mesures
                                                     29                                      Annex C

de sauvegarde environnement et sociale, les résultats actuels au niveau des sites sont satisfaisants quand
bien même des difficultés ont été rencontrées au moment de l'opération.
Sur la base des informations ci-dessus fournies la gouvernement souhaiterait la révision des notations par
le Groupe des Evaluateurs Indépendants.
Enfin, le Gouvernement marque sa satisfaction à la coopération entre la Banque Mondiale et le Burkina
Faso en matière de préservation et de gestion durable des ressources naturelles.
