                                  Document of
                               The World Bank


                                                  Report No: ICR0000823




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  (TF-51242)




                                     ON A

                  GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY GRANT


                              IN THE AMOUNT OF

                        US$ 7.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                     TO

                               BURKINA FASO

                                    FOR A

                        PARTNERSHIP FOR NATURAL

                    ECOSYSTEM MANAGEMENT PROJECT




                                 JUNE 19, 2008




Sustainable Development Department
Environment Department
Africa Region

                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective April 2002)

                        Currency Unit = CFA Franc
                            740 CFAF = US$1
                             US$0.135 = 100 CFAF

                              FISCAL YEAR
                           January - December

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFD       Agence Française de Développement (French Aid Agency)
AGEREF    Association Intervillageoise de Gestion des Ressources Naturelles et de
          la Faune (Inter-village Natural Resources and Wildlife Management
          Association)
APL       Adaptable Program Lending
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CAP       Community Action Plan
CBNRM     Community-Based Natural Resources Management
CBRDP     Community-Based Rural Development Program
CCTP      Comité de Concertation Technique Provincial (Provincial Technical
          Consultation Committee)
CDD       Community Driven Development
CTSP      Comité Technique de Suivi de la Préparation (Preparation Monitoring
          Technical Committee)
CVGT      Comité Villageois de Gestion des Terroirs (Village Development
          Committee)
DFC       Direction de la Faune et des Chasses (National Wildlife Service)
DGEF      Direction Générale des Eaux et Forêts (National Forestry Department)
GEF       Global Environment Facility
GEF COP   GEF Conference of Parties
GEPRENAF  Projet de Gestion Participative des Ressources Naturelles et de la Faune
          (Pilot Community-Based Natural Resources & Wildlife Management)
IEC       Information, Education, Communication
NEAP      National Environment Action Plan
NSC       National Steering Committee
LDP       Local Development Plan
LPRD      Letter of Policy for Decentralized Rural Development
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PAGEN     Partnership for Improved Management of Natural Ecosystems
PCU       Project Coordination Unit
PRSP      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PRONAGEN  Programme National de Gestion des Ecosystèmes Naturels (National
          Natural Ecosystem Management Program)

QAG           Quality Assurance Group
RAF           Réforme Agraire et Foncière (Rural Land Tenure Law)
SCAC          Service de Coopération et d'Action Culturelle (French Technical
              Cooperation Agency)
SILEM         Sahelian Integrated Lowland Ecosystem Management
UICN          World Conservation Union
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
WCU           Wildlife Conservation Unit



           Vice President:  Obiageli K. Ezekweseli
         Country Director:  Ishac Diwan
          Sector Manager:   Marjory-Anne Bromhead
      Project Team Leader:  Ibrahim Nebie
         ICR Team Leader    Paola Agostini

                                                   Burkina Faso
                  Partnership for Natural Ecosystem Management Project


                                                   CONTENTS
Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design ................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 12
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 20
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 21
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 24
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 25
 8. Additional Information (for GEF purposes)............................................................. 25
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 28
 Annex 2. (A) Outputs by Component; (B) Comparison among indicators as reported in
 the PAD, Grant Agreement and ISRs; (C) Bio-indicator values .................................. 29
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 39
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 40
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 42
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 43
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 44
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 59
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 60
 MAP.............................................................................................................................. 61

A. Basic Information

                                                                     PARTNERSHIP FOR
                                                                     NATURAL
Country:               Burkina Faso            Project Name:         ECOSYSTEM
                                                                     MANAGEMENT
                                                                     PROJECT
Project ID:            P052400                 L/C/TF Number(s):     TF-51242
ICR Date:              06/24/2008              ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                     GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:    APL                     Borrower:
                                                                     BURKINA
Original Total
                       USD 7.5M                Disbursed Amount:     USD 7.5M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B                      Global Focal Area: B
Implementing Agencies:
PAGEN
Ministry of Environment and Hydraulic
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date              Process         Original Date  Revised / Actual
                                                                              Date(s)
Concept Review:        06/24/1998     Effectiveness:       03/31/2003       04/29/2003
Appraisal:             01/15/2002    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              05/21/2002     Mid-term Review:     12/01/2005       12/05/2005
                                      Closing:             12/31/2007       12/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome             Substantial
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:            Satisfactory      Government:                Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision:      Satisfactory      Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:      Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:                 Satisfactory      Performance:               Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators             (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                     Quality at Entry
                                                                       None
at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                           No                                          None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
GEO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                 24                24
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                  26                26
Other social services                                             25                25
Sub-national government administration                            25                25


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Biodiversity                                                     Primary          Primary
Decentralization                                                 Primary          Primary
Environmental policies and institutions                          Primary          Primary
Law reform                                                       Primary          Primary
Rural policies and institutions                                 Secondary        Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                           At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili         Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:          Ishac Diwan                        A. David Craig
Sector Manager:            Marjory-Anne Bromhead              Richard G. Scobey
Project Team Leader:       Ibrahim B. Nebie                   Jean-Michel G. Pavy
ICR Team Leader:           Paola Agostini
ICR Primary Author:        Matteo Marchisio




                                                ii

F. Results Framework Analysis
Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators(as approved)
GEF APL 15-year purpose: "biodiversity in priority protected areas sustainably benefit
peripheral communities' local development."15-year Global purpose: "secure biodiversity
in priority protected areas is secured"

  5-year Global Development Objective: "biodiversity trends in priority protected areas
are reversed"

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
and Key Indicators and reasons/justifications




(a) GEO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator           Baseline Value         Values (from       Revised          Achieved at
                                                approval         Target         Completion or
                                               documents)        Values          Target Years
Indicator 1 :    Biodiversity indicator improved

                 0.22, and 0.048 were the  by 20% in Comoe-

                 rate for the density      Leraba; 5% in
                                           Boulon-Koflande;
Value            indice for the two main   5% in Mares aux
(quantitative or species as measured by    hippos; 5% in
Qualitative)     the number of
                 observations per linear   Kabore Tambi;

                 kilometer within a        and stabilized

                 transect.                 (0%) in Sahel
                                           Protected areas
Date achieved 02/28/2004                   12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                 Agriculture encroachment decreased as defined by crops cultivation within the
Indicator 2 :    boundaries of protected areas. This indicator does not take into account
                 temporary incursions by livestock.
                                           to 0% in the
                                           Comoe-Leraba
                                           protected area,
Value                                      Mares aux hippos
(quantitative or 0,85% in (area)           and Kabore-
Qualitative)                               Tambi; 10% in
                                           Boulon-Koflande;
                                           and 20% in Sahel
                                           protected areas
Date achieved 12/30/2002                   12/31/2007



                                                iii

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target     Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value           Values (from                      Achieved at
                                                 approval          Revised      Completion or
                                                documents)     Target Values    Target Years

Indicator 1 :    A new forestry code and its implementation decree(s) take into account the
                 orientations of the Letter of Policy on Decentralized Rural Development
                                            forestry code
                                            revised and
                                            implementation
Value            Forestry code not          decrees adopted;
(quantitative or                            revised at MTR to
Qualitative)     reviewed                   read legal
                                            application texts
                                            are elaborated for
                                            the Forestry Law
Date achieved 03/01/2003                    12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 2 :    Applicable taxes due to Government from Protected areas use are recovered at
                 80%
Value
(quantitative or 0%                         80%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/01/2003                    12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 3 :    The Government has adopted a satisfactory mechanism for long-term financing
                 of protected areas
Value
(quantitative or Not sustainable financing Adoption of

Qualitative)     mechanism in existance. mechanism

Date achieved 05/01/2003                    06/29/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 4 :    Donors have agreed to contribute at least US$5 milion to long-term financing
                 mechanism
Value            No funds pledged           $%.0 million
(quantitative or                            pledged



                                                  iv

Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/01/2003                     12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 5 :    50% of conservators have applied their new competencies in the areas of
                 planning and community participation for the management of protected areas
Value
(quantitative or 0%                          50%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/01/2003                     12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 :    The results of the national wildlife survey are used for establishing safari quota
Value
(quantitative or Not used                    Quota on the basis

Qualitative)                                 of inventory

Date achieved 05/01/2003                     12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 7 :    50% of the 1,000 villages that participated in the training and sensibilization
                 activities of the project are involved in protected areas management.
Value
(quantitative or 0%                          50%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/01/2003                     12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 8 :    Protected areas have legal status and size: Koflande 60,000ha; Nassoumbou
                 70,000ha; Seno Mango 70,000ha; Oursi 20,000 ha
                                             Koflande

Value                                        60,000ha;

(quantitative or 0                           Nassoumbou

Qualitative)                                 70,000ha; Seno
                                             Mango 70,000ha;
                                             Oursi 20,000 ha
Date achieved 05/01/2003                     12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 9 :    Poaching index reduced by 50% between year 2 and end of project
Value
(quantitative or To be entered               50% reduction
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/01/2003                     12/31/2007



                                                   v

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 10 :   Proportion of work completed in each protected area (composite index due to
                 size limitatation of ISR, details in PAD).
Value
(quantitative or 0                          100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/01/2003                    12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                 GEO                         IP            Disbursements
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1     12/20/2002              Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  0.00
  2     05/30/2003              Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  0.44
  3     11/24/2003              Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  1.30
  4     05/28/2004              Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  1.93
  5     12/15/2004              Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  2.56
  6     06/29/2005              Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  3.62
  7     12/29/2005              Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  4.17
  8     06/30/2006              Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  5.42
  9     03/06/2007              Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  6.69
  10    07/24/2007              Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  7.01
  11    12/13/2007              Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  7.50



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                  vi

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vii

    1. PROJECT CONTEXT, GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT OBJECTIVES                                 ANDDESIGN

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      Sector background. The Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
(PRSP) (2000) identified sustainable management of natural resources as one of the
major principles underlying its poverty reduction strategy. The document recognized that
in Burkina Faso the loss of biodiversity needs to be addressed. To address biodiversity
loss, the Government developed the 2000 Biodiversity Strategy and an Action Plan to
implement the Strategy. In the 2000 Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan, Burkina Faso
defined its long-term vision and commitment to incorporate protected area management
in rural development. To implement that vision, the Government proposed a 15 year
National Natural Ecosystem Management Program (Programme National de Gestion des
Ecosystèmes Naturels, PRONAGEN). PRONAGEN aimed at securing biodiversity in
priority protected areas and sustaining provision of benefits to surrounding communities.
PRONAGEN was expected to be implemented by an array of projects. This project - the
Partnership for Improved Management of Natural Ecosystems Project (Projet de
Partenariat pour l'Amélioration de la Gestion des Ecosystèmes Naturels, PAGEN), was
one of the projects that would implement PRONAGEN1.

2.      Rationale for Bank's assistance. The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) (2000)
aimed at supporting the Government's efforts to achieve a sustained high growth rate,
reducing the incidence of poverty, and improving the wealth of rural populations. Within
the CAS, two projects were expected to specifically support the decentralized rural
development strategy: the Community-Based Rural Development Program (CBRDP),
and the PAGEN. The CBRDP, a 15 year Adaptable Program Loan (APL), was conceived
as an instrument to alleviate poverty in rural areas by building local capacity to
implement small investments to develop productive assets and/or protect natural
resources. PAGEN, a GEF-financed operation, was conceived as an instrument to
contribute "to increase productivity of rural assets (labor and land) through [...] the
conservation and renewal of natural resource" (CAS, 2000). PAGEN was intended to
incrementally finance the costs associated to the achievements of global environmental
benefits beyond the CBRDP.

3.      Contribution to higher-level objectives. PAGEN was conceived as a 15 year
engagement to specifically support the objectives of the Government's 2000 Biodiversity
Strategy and Action Plan2 and of PRONAGEN3. As explained in the Project Appraisal


1Other projects contributing to the implementation of PRONAGEN include: (i) support to the Wildlife
Conservation Unit (WCU) of W (National Park and hunting area of Tapoa-Djerma) by the European
Union; (ii) support to 4 WCUs by France: Hauts Bassins (Mou Forest), Boromo (Deux Balés National
Park), Arly (Arly National Park and Pagou-Tandougou, Koakrana, and Konkonbouri Hunting Areas), Pama
(Pama Centre Nord, Pama Centre Sud, Pama Sud Hunting Areas, and Singou Game Ranch), and (iii)
support to the WCU of Diébougou (Bontioli, Nabéré, and Koulbi Forest Reserves) by the African
Development Bank.

2To ensure the conservation of important ecosystems/species, sustainable use of biological resources, and
equitable sharing of the benefits deriving from the sustainable use of these resources

3To secure biodiversity in priority protected areas and sustain provision of benefits to the surrounding
communities


                                                      1

Document (PAD) (ref. section B.3), the project was expected to contribute to these
objectives by supporting five strategic areas: (i) improve the sector performance with
adequate reforms, (ii) improve the incentive framework, (iii) adopt a community-based
management approach, (iv) focus on conservation but leverage on development, and (v)
seek sustainable source of funding.

4.       This project was designed (and approved by the GEF Council and Bank Board) as
a 15 year APL divided in three phases of 5 years each. While looking at this project
within this context, the ICR will only assess the achievements of the project against the
objectives of the first phase (2002-2007).


1.2 Original Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators

5.       The 15-year Global Environmental Objective was "to secure biodiversity in
priority protected areas". The specific Project Development Objective (PDO) and Global
Environmental Objective (GEO) of the first phase (5 years) were "to reverse biodiversity
trends in priority protected areas4" (ref. section A.2 of the PAD)5.

6.       Key performance (outcome/impact) indicators, as reported in the PAD (ref.
section A.3 of the PAD), included: (1) reduction of agricultural encroachment in
protected areas (as measured by remote sensing techniques) and (2) improvement of a set
of bio-indicators (e.g. indicators of mammals in terrestrial areas and birds in wetlands)6.

7.       Specific output indicators, as reported in the PAD (ref. Annex 1), included: (1) a
new forestry code and its implementation decrees take into account the orientations of the
Letter of Policy on Decentralized Rural Development; (2) applicable taxes7 due to
Government in the protected areas sector (trophy fee, tourism, concession fee) are
recovered at 80% in Y5; (3) Donors are committing US$ 5 million to the adopted long-
term financial mechanism; (4) 50% of conservators trained used their new planning and
community skills in the management of protected areas; (5) Results of the standardized
national wildlife survey are used to set-up safari quota; (6) 50% of the 1,000 villages who
participated in training and awareness modules are involved in protected areas
management by Y5; (7) Poaching indexes decrease by 50% between year 2 and 5 in all
protected areas; (8) Participatory ecological monitoring reports are used as monitoring



4Areas where PAGEN provided support included the following WCUs: Sahel (Nassoumbou, Séno-Mago,
Beli, Oursi, and Darkoye Protected Areas), PONASI (Kaboré-Tambi National Park), Hauts Bassins (Mare
aux Hippos Biosphere Reserve), and Comoé-Léraba (Comoé-Léraba Reserve and Boulon-Koflandé Forest).

5The objectives of the project are worded slightly differently in the Grant Agreement: "to reverse trends in
biodiversity loss through sustainable management of natural ecosystems, particularly in priority Protected
Areas" (ref. Schedule 2).

6The indicators were further detailed in the PAD Annex 1 and in the Grant Agreement as follows: (1)
Percentage of agricultural encroachment is 0% in Comoé-Léraba, Mare aux Hippo, and Kaboré Tambi,
10% in Boulon-Koflandé, and 20% in all Sahel Protected Areas; (2) Percentage improvement of bio-
indicators is 20% in Comoé-Léraba, 5% in Boulon-Koflandé, 5% in Mare aux Hippo, 5% in Kaboré Tambi,
and stable in all Sahel Protected Areas.

7The term `taxes' in the PAD is understood as `fees'.



                                                     2

tool in year 4 for all targeted protected areas except Sahel; (9) Protected areas which have
acquired legal status: Koflandé 60,000 ha, Nassoumbou 70,000 ha, Seno Mango 70,000
ha, Oursi 20,000 ha, Beli 20,000 ha; (10) Percentage achievement of work or level of
organization in protected area: [...] (ref. Annex 1 of the PAD for details); (11) Funds are
timely made available to conservators and concessionaires' accounts; (12) Goods and
works are timely procured; (13) Financial accounting and budget control is adequate; and
(14) Annual reports and annual work programs meet agreed standards by year 3. It is
important to note that these output indicators differ from those listed in the PAD Section
A.3 and in the Grant Agreement (ref. Schedule 6 of the Grant Agreement). A more
detailed discussion on the nature of the discrepancies in included in section 2.3.

8.      Triggers. Eight triggers were selected among the target indicators as
implementation milestones to demonstrate commitment by the Government of Burkina
Faso. These include: (1) Percentage of agriculture encroachment is [...], (2) A new
Forestry Code and its implementation decrees take into account the orientation of the
Letter of Policy on Decentralized Rural Poverty, (3) Applicable taxes in the protected
areas sector that are due to the Government are recovered at 80%, (4) The Government
has adopted a long-term financial mechanism for protected areas and presented an
implementation plan acceptable to the Bank for phase 2, (5) A standard monitoring
system for wildlife census and agricultural encroachment is operational and adopted
nationally, (6) AGEREFs [Inter-Village Protected Area Management Associations] are
legally concessionaries of Comoré-Léraba, Boulon-Koflandé, Mare aux Hippos, (7) At
least 6 of 9 protected areas have officially adopted a Management Plan, (8) At least 2
private safari/ecotourism guides are operating professionally and ethically in Comoré-
Léraba and Boulon-Koflandé.


1.3 Revised GEO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

9.      There were no revisions in the Global Environment Objective and key
performance indicators.


1.4 Main Beneficiaries

10.     According to the PAD (ref. section C.3), the project was intended to improve the
living conditions of about 100,000 people of 10 different ethnic groups living in
proximity of the target areas: about 53,700 people in the Sahel Wildlife Conservation
Unit (WCU), about 20,000 people in the Comoé WCU, about 10,000 people in the Hauts-
Bassins WCU, and about 50,000 people in the PONASI WCU. In addition, an unknown
number of nomad pastoralists was expected to also benefit from the project.

11.     Overall, the project impact on the living conditions of the targeted population was
not expected to be direct, but indirect through the security provided by healthy and
functioning ecosystems and potentially restored access to wildlife resources. However, a
marginal increase in the income of the targeted populations was expected from the
support of the project to new and/or alternative resource generation activities, e.g.
tourism, safari hunting, pharmacopoeia, wildlife farming, etc.




                                              3

12.     From an institutional point of view, the project intended to strengthen the capacity
of (i) the Ministry of Environment and Hydraulics to create an enabling environment for
community based protected-area management, (ii) NGOs to provide conservation
assistance in the country, and (iii) Inter-Village Protected Area Management Associations
(Associations Intervillagoise de Gestion des Ressources Naturelles et de la Faune,
AGEREFs) to act as concessionaries for the management of protected areas.


1.5 Original Components

13.     The project had three components: (1) national capacity building for support to
decentralized management of protected areas; (2) local capacity building to manage
protected areas; and (3) program administration and monitoring.

14.     The first component aimed at supporting the Government in creating the enabling
environment for community-based protected area management. It specifically aimed at (i)
supporting the Ministry of Environment and Hydraulics in reviewing the legal and
institutional framework, particularly the Forest Code, (ii) strengthening the capacity of
the Government and NGOs to provide conservation assistance throughout the country,
and (iii) supporting studies that would contribute to the development of the sector. The
second component aimed at supporting surrounding communities and other partners to
sustainably manage the protected areas. It specifically aimed at (i) supporting the
establishment and building the capacity of the Inter-Village Protected Area Management
Associations (AGEREFs), (ii) designing and begin the implementation of Protected
Areas Management Plans, and (iii) strengthening the capacity local government staff and
communities to manage protected areas. The third component aimed at ensuring a good
administration of the project.

15.     The causal linkage between the activities/outputs of the three components and the
project objective is summarized in the table below, and can be explained as follows:
improved management of protected areas resulting from an improved enabling
environment, a functioning institutional framework, and improved capacity of the various
actors involved in the decision/management of protected areas, at all levels, would lead to
restoration of natural habitats and ecosystems, and consequently to an increase in number
and density of biological diverse species.




                                               4

Main areas of support             Expected intermediate outcomes          (Expected) final
                                                                              outcome
 Support to the Ministry
of Environment and
Hydraulics in reviewing
the legal and
institutional framework,  Improved enabling

particularly the Forest   environment (legal and

Code                      institutional
                          framework, and
 Support to the           knowledge base)
preparation of studies
that would contribute to
the development of the
sector
 Strengthening the
capacity of the                                                         Restoration of natural
Government and NGOs                                                     habitats and
to provide conservation                            Improved management  ecosystems (and
assistance throughout                              of protected areas   consequent increase in
the country               Functioning                                   number and density of
 Support to the           institutional                                 biological species)
establishment and         framework
building the capacity of
AGEREFs                   Improved capacity of
 Strengthening the        the various actors
capacity local            involved in
government staff and      decision/management
communities to manage     of protected areas, at
protected areas           all levels
 Support to the
designing and
implementation of
Protected Areas
Management Plans


1.6 Revised Components

16.       Components were not changed during implementation.


1.7 Other significant changes

17.       There were three significant changes during project implementation:

     (a)   The institutional framework for the implementation of the project changed.
           The Ministry of Environment and Hydraulic, the agency responsible for the
           implementation of the project, was restructured and became Ministère de
           l'Environnement et du Cadre de Vie (MECV). The Forestry Department
           (Direction Générale des Eaux et Forêts), the General Directorate under whose
           responsibility the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was working, was split in
           two directorates: la Direction Générale de la Conservation de la Nature
           (DGCN), and la Direction Nationale du Cadre Paramilitaire des Eaux et Forêts
           (DNCPEF). The PCU was placed under the administrative responsibility of the



                                                 5

         Secrétariat Général, and under the technical and operational responsibility of
         the DGCN. The decentralized Animation Units (Cellules d'Animation)
         remained under the administrative responsibility of the PCU, but they were
         moved under the technical and operational responsibility of the Direction
         Provinciale de l'Environnement et du Cadre de Vie of the area in which they
         operate. These changes have not had a significant impact on the outcomes of the
         project.

   (b)   Income generation activities or micro-projects for the benefit of the
         peripheral communities were added as eligible activities to the Project.
         According to the original project document, the baseline program (the
         Community-Based Rural Development Program) was supposed to support the
         implementation of small investments in the provinces where PAGEN was
         implemented8. The selection of the investments followed the community-driven
         development (CDD) approach, i.e. a bottom-up approach in which communities
         define their development priorities, and matching grants are provided for
         investments supporting these priorities. However, the CBRDP had a limited
         envelope per community and in many cases these community had more pressing
         short-term priorities, such as access to water, schools and basic health facilities.
         Natural resource management priorities were thus often not identified as priority
         interventions by the communities. After the mid-term review (2005), it was thus
         decided that the project needed to directly support the development of natural
         resource-based income generating activities (e.g. apiculture, aulacodiculture,
         exploitation of non-timber forest products, etc.). There were two main reasons
         in the decision to add this activity: first, to reduce the pressure of the
         communities surrounding the protected areas on natural resources by offering
         alternative income generating opportunities, and second, to better involve these
         communities in managing and sharing the benefits deriving from the sustainable
         management of the protected areas. The budget allocated for these activities was
         US$ 325,000. To allow this new activity, allocations for the categories vehicles
         and equipment, and consultant services, trainings, audits and workshop were
         reduced. (It can be inferred that this new activity resulted in a reduction of the
         budget for component 1 and in an increase of the budget for component 2).

   (c)   Two biological corridors within the PONASI WCU (Kaboré-Tambi -
         Nazinga and Kaboré-Tambi - Red Volta valley in Ghana) were created
         after mid-term review in 2005. This activity, initially not foreseen in the
         project, was taken based on the results of a feasibility study to facilitate the
         movement of wildlife within these protected areas (2004). This decision also
         contributed to the establishment of a biological corridor between the PONASI
         WCU and the Mole National Park in Ghana to connect the two ecological
         blocks of Burkina Faso and Ghana, thus allowing the migration of wildlife


8Because the CBRDP was designed before the PAGEN, some of the provinces where the CBRDP was
implemented do not overlap with those where PAGEN was implemented. For instance, the CBRDP was not
implemented in the provinces of where the Sahel WCU was established. The communities surrounding the
Sahel WCU could not therefore benefit from the support from the CBRDP.



                                                  6

          (particularly elephants) between the two areas. Support for the corridor in
          Ghana       was     provided     thorough     the    Northern        Savannah    Biodiversity
          Conservation Project. It is not clear what the budget implication for including
          this new activity was, beyond the costs for compensating the displaced people
          (ref. section 2.4).

18.     The above described changes did not have negative impact on the outcomes of the
project; on the contrary, they substantively contributed to the achievements of the project.


    2. KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION                          AND   OUTCOMES

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

19.     The design of the project was based on and largely benefited from the experience
and lessons learnt from the Pilot Community-Based Natural Resources and Wildlife
Management Project (Projet de Gestion Participative des Ressources Naturelles et de la
Faune, GEPRENAF) (1997-2002), a World Bank-GEF/Belgium project that tested the
community-driven development approach applied to biodiversity conservation in Burkina
Faso. Key lessons from the pilot-project and the way they have been reflected in the
project design include the following:

    (a)   The experience from GEPRENAF highlighted the fact that ecological recovery
          can result only from long-term commitment. PAGEN bore this lesson by
          proposing a long-term engagement in the sector through a 15 year APL;

    (b)   GEPRENAF successfully applied the community-based development approach
          to conservation and successfully manage to involve local communities in the
          management of protected areas through the set-up of Inter-Village Protected
          Area Management Associations (AGEREFs). PAGEN adopted the same
          approach and proposed the same institutional arrangements at the local level;

    (c)   The experience from GEPRENAF showed that there were too high expectations
          on the communities' capacity to manage protected areas. In PAGEN, great
          emphasis was given to capacity building of local communities (Component 2)
          and in involving other partners (e.g. NGOs) in the management of the protected
          areas;

    (d)   The experience from GEPRENAF showed that project activities were spread
          among too many interventions (e.g. wildlife management, local development,
          agricultural intensification, etc.) to have a significant impact in any of these
          areas. PAGEN focused therefore on management of protected areas and
          capacity building for biodiversity conservation only, leaving local development
          activities to be implemented through the CBRDP9.



9It is important to highlight however that the choice made during project design to have the PAGEN
focusing on conservation activities and the CBRDP focusing on local development activities did not
produced the expected results. In the CBRDP (a CDD-type operation, i.e. an operation in which support is
provided to the priorities defined by the communities) the priorities identified by the communities mainly
focused on small infrastructures or investments of a socio-economic nature rather than natural resource-


                                                   7

20.      Other important lessons for the project design were drawn from the 1998 Quality
Assurance Group (QAG) Review on Natural Management Portfolio; the 1997 QAG
Review on Biodiversity Projects in Africa; the 1998 ENV Review of Biodiversity
Projects; and a QAG Diagnostic of a sample of GEF-supported projects. These
documents highlighted, among other elements, the importance for strengthening
Government's capacity, coordination with NGOs and other partners, and dealing with
socio-economic pressure in perimeter zones in which populations may be dependent on
forest utilization.

21.      No major controversial aspects were identified during project design. Identified
risks and proposed mitigation measures seemed adequate. However, the project did not
adequately assess the risk of involuntary resettlement (see section 2.4 for more details).

22.      The project was not subject to review by QAG.


2.2 Implementation

23.      Among the factors that contributed to the successful implementation of the project
it should be mentioned:

    (a)    The adoption of a community-based management approach;

    (b)    The involvement of decentralized structures of the Government in the
           management of wildlife and natural resources;

    (c)    The involvement of/partnership with different partners, including the
           private sector and NGOs;

    (d)    The decision to support local development (natural resource-based income
           generating activities) through the project after the mid-term review.

24.      Among the factors that raised problems during project implementation it should
be mentioned:

    (a)    Initial focus on conservation activities only, without sufficiently developing
           the linkages between conservation and natural resource-based income
           generating activities: as mentioned above, PAGEN's initial focus was mainly
           on conservation, as development activities (e.g. income generating activities)
           were supposed to be supported through the CBRDP (CCD-type operation).
           However, the CDD approach does not necessarily guarantee that NRM activities
           are selected. In fact, in their problem identification and priority setting process,
           communities often gave higher priority to activities with short-term benefits (e.g.



based income generating activities, as expected by PAGEN. As a result, the activities supported by the
CBRDP did not generate have enough incentives to local communities to actively engage in conservation
and natural resource management activities. At the same time, the activities supported by PAGEN - which
focused on conservation only - proved not to provide enough incentives/benefits to communities to engage
in the management of natural resources either. As a result, after mid-term review, it was decided that
PAGEN would have also supported local development activities that would specifically focus on
exploiting/generating value from natural resources (ref. section 1.7.b).



                                                     8

         small infrastructure and activities of social nature) than to activities with long-
         term benefits (e.g. natural resource management activities). As a result, in many
         communities surrounding the protected areas, conservation measures were often
         not supported by NRM-based income generation activities. As conservation
         alone does not give enough incentives to communities to actively engage in
         sustainable management of natural resources, in these cases fundamentals of
         sustainability were at risk.

   (b)   Depreciation of the dollar: at the completion of the project it was estimated
         that the equivalent of 1,137 million CFA (about one fifth of the project total)
         were lost because of the depreciation of the dollar. This loss prevented some
         activities to be carried out, including part of the micro-projects, the payment of
         compensation for resettled people and the finalization/validation of a
         Resettlement Framework (ref. section 2.4), the final aerial inventory, the final
         stakeholder workshop, and certain planned studies such as the beneficiary
         assessment and project impact study (which should include an analysis of the
         cost-effectiveness of the project), the study on the impact of agricultural
         expansion, etc. The depreciation of the dollar was so drastic that contingency
         resources were inadequate to guarantee completion of the activities.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

25.     Outcome indicators. Two outcome indicators were chosen to monitor the
progress of the project towards the PDO/GEO: (1) the percentage improvement of bio-
indicators, and (2) the percentage of the area of the protected areas with agricultural
encroachment.

   (a)   Improvement in bio-indicators. The bio-indicator chosen for the first indicator
         was the indice kilométrique d'abondance (IKA) (i.e. the number of total animals
         observed in a linear kilometer within a transect) for specific indicator species10.
         Even though the IKA does not allow to measure animal density, it has however
         the advantage of being simple. Observations were regularly taken after 2004
         through pedestrian surveys. One aerial survey was conducted in 2005, and a
         second one was supposed to be conducted at the end of the project. The second
         survey has however not been conducted due to lack of financial resources (ref.
         section 2.2).

   (b)   Decrease in agricultural encroachment in protected areas. This indicator
         measured agricultural encroachment defined as crop cultivation within the
         boundaries of the protected areas. The indicator did not take into consideration
         temporary incursions by livestock. Measurements were made through remote
         sensing.




10The ISRs refer to the `two main species' as the indicator species.



                                                     9

26.     Both indicators are considered adequate to monitor the progress of the project
towards the PDO/GEO. Data were regularly collected. Main issue concerns the lack of an
initial baseline: baseline values were in fact established only in late 2004.

27.     Output indicators. In addition to the two outcome indicators, a number of output
indicators were also proposed (ref. section 1.2) to monitor progresses in implementing the
components of the project. However, one of the major problems in assessing the
adequacy and usefulness of the chosen indicators in monitoring progress towards the
project objectives was the lack of consistency between the indicators presented in the
PAD, in the Grant Agreement, and in the Implementation Supervision Reports (ISRs).
The PAD lists 16 output indicators in the main text (ref. section A.2), and 14 in the
Annex (Annex 1), only eight of which are consistent with each other. The Grant
Agreement lists only 6 output indicators (ref. Schedule 6). ISRs measure progress against
10 output indicators, mainly a subset of the indicators proposed in Annex 1 of the PAD.
(In Annex 2, Appendix B a table that compares the outcome and output indicators as they
were reported in the four documents). Apparently the decision to select a subset of
indicators to monitor progress during supervision was agreed to simplify the management
and supervision of the project. There is no apparent explanation for the other
inconsistencies.


2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

28.     Three safeguards policies were triggered during project design: OP 4.01
(Environmental Assessment); OP 4.04 (Natural Habitats), and OP 4.12 (Involuntary
Resettlement). An Environmental Assessment was carried out. Compliance with
safeguard policies was regularly monitored during supervision. Compliance was rated
satisfactory in all Implementation Supervision Reports throughout the project.

29.     Involuntary Resettlement. The project document triggered OP 4.12, but it
specified that this operational policy was triggered because the management of protected
areas could have ended up restricting the access to the resources of the areas targeted by
the project to certain users. The project document however also specified that
displacement of people was excluded, as the limits of the protected areas would have
been redefined as necessary to ensure that involuntary resettlement would not have
occurred. A Framework Process for Involuntary Resettlement was prepared (December
2001). However, during project implementation 2,697 people were resettled from within
to outside the borders of the Kaboré Tambi-Nazinga corridor after the decision to set-up
two biological corridors within the PONASI WCU (2005). A Mitigation Plan, which
identified people affected by the creation of the corridors and proposed compensation
measures, was drafted. However, because the risk of involuntary resettlement was not
adequately assessed during project design or flagged during supervision, there were not
sufficient resources in the project budget to be reallocated to finalize/validate it and to
cover the proposed mitigation measures. The situation was made even worse by the fact
that the depreciation of the dollar further reduced the project budget (ref. section 2.2.b).
The Government took the responsibility to compensate the displaced people: new land
was provided and about CFA 46 million (about US$ 100,000) was paid to 1,764 resettled
(about US$ 55 per individual) (770 people who illegally occupied the banks of the river



                                              10

received the land, but no monetary compensation). Five water points for a total value of
about CFA 30 million (about US$ 65,000) were in addition constructed as a form of
compensation. The decision to support micro-projects (US$ 325,000) through the project
was also taken with the objective to provide an additional form of compensation to local
communities. However, overall, the total compensation provided to displaced
communities seems significantly lower than that suggested in the Mitigation Plan (CFA
245,740,000). However the fact that no formal complains were received on how the
resettlement was handled, suggests that measures undertaken and compensation provided
were satisfactory.


2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

30.     Because capacity building and ecological restoration require many years, this
operation was conceived as a 15 years APL divided in three phases. A second and a third
phase were supposed to build on and consolidate the achievements of the first phase,
focusing in particular on developing income generating activities and financial
mechanisms that would guarantee financial sustainability of the activities. An indicative
financial commitment from GEF of US$ 6 and 5 million for phase 2 and 3 respectively
was indicated in the PAD (subject to GEF CEO's approval). However, following the shift
to a Resource Allocation Framework (RAF) system by the GEF, GEF's expected
financial support to phase 2 and 3 of the operation did not materialize. This situation
poses serious problems to the success of the operation: the proposed long-term objectives
will in fact not be achieved, and the results of the first phase will unlikely be sustained
without a follow-on project (ref. section 4 for more details).

31.     An IDA allocation of 5 million is made available to support a follow-on project.
Based on the achievements and lessons learnt during this project, and on the activities
expected to be carried-out during phase 2 of the APL, the following seem the most
important areas where the new operation should focus on:

   (a)   Consolidating and/or strengthening of the achievements of phase 1, i.e.
         consolidation of the legal and institutional framework set-up during the project
         (e.g. Forestry Code and implementation decrees, establishment of Comité
         National de Pilotage and of a Comité Consultatif Scientifique et Technique,
         establishment of Inter-Village Associations, etc.); carry on of protection,
         surveillance, natural resource management, awareness creation activities; set-up
         of a GIS database and harmonization of M&E system; completion of the
         activities that was not possible to complete during phase 1 (e.g. finalization of
         the National Program of Wildlife and Protected Areas Management and of its
         Action Plan; finalization and adoption of the Anti-poaching Strategy;
         harmonization of documents concerning transboundary resources management);

   (b)   Pursuing economic growth through valorization of wildlife resources and
         other territorial assets (e.g. eco-tourism, game hunting, fishing, apiculture,




                                             11

           exploitation of non-timber forest products, cultural and craft activities, etc.)
           according to a `territorial approach'11;

     (c)   Ensuring financial sustainability through the establishment of a long-term
           financing mechanism for the management of the protected areas (e.g. a
           Protected Areas Trust Fund).

32.      Some concerns were raised on whether the 5 million IDA allocation for this
operation would be sufficient to achieve significant results in all the three above
mentioned areas. It is therefore important that opportunities for co-financing and possible
partnership be explored while preparing the new operation.


     3. ASSESSMENT         OF  OUTCOMES

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

33.      The project objectives remained relevant to the key Government' sectoral
strategies (the 2000 Biodiversity Action Plan and the PRONAGEN) during project
implementation, as demonstrated by the fact that they were not revised. The decision
during project implementation to include local development activities among the
activities directly supported by the project (ref. section 1.7.b) contributed even more
directly to the PRONAGEN's objective of guaranteeing benefits to the communities
surrounding the protected areas. The project objectives remain in addition relevant to the
new Government's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (2004) priorities (i.e. protect the
environment and improve living conditions) and to several programs of the
Government's Priority Action Program to implement the PRSP 2004-06 (e.g. support to
productive sectors through, among other interventions, improvement of sustainable
natural resource management, including vegetation and fauna, development of protected
areas; intensification and diversification of forest and wildlife products through, among
other interventions, placing wildlife areas under sustainable management in the context of
the national program for wildlife and protected areas management). Finally, the project
objectives directly contribute to one of the outcomes of the new Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (2005), i.e. increased employment and income opportunities for the
poor through, among various approaches, promoting community-based natural resource
management.

34.      While the objectives of the 15 year APL remain relevant, there is a risk that these
long-term objectives will not be achieved as the APL series will not be continued.
Despite the modest budget, it is therefore important that the proposed IDA follow-on
project carries-out some of the activities initially planned to be implemented in the two
subsequent phases of the APL.




11A `territorial approach' is an approach that seeks to derive added value from locally under-used resources,
that can become assets/drivers of growth of a territory, and incorporate the rural poor into the employment
and investment opportunities created by local growth.



                                                      12

3.2 Achievement of Global Environmental Objectives

35.      The project was expected to reverse trends in biodiversity in selected priority
areas. The project achieved its objective, as demonstrated by:

    (a)    A decrease in the agricultural encroachment: the percentage of crop
           cultivations within the boundaries of protected areas at the end of the project is
           0% in all the Wildlife Conservation Units (WCUs) except the Sahel WCU,
           where, however, the final value (13%) is lower than the value targeted at the
           beginning of the project (20%);

   Key performance/outcome                      Target value                    End-of-project value
             indicator                      (Grant Agreement)                   (ISR 12 Dec. 2007)
        (Grant Agreement)
    Percentage of agricultural           Comoé-Léraba :         0%           Comoé-Léraba :         0%
    encroachment                         Mare aux Hippo :       0%           Mare aux Hippo :       0%
                                         Kaboré Tambi :         0%           Kaboré Tambi :         0%
                                         Boulon-Koflandé :      10%          Boulon-Koflandé :      -- *
                                         Sahel :                20%          Sahel :                13%

 * End of project value for the Boulon-Koflandé Forest is not reported in the ISR, but is 0% according to
 the "Rapport Final d'Exécution du Projet PAGEN" (Ministère de l'Environnement et du Cadre de Vie)

    (b)    An increase in the number of animals in the WCUs targeted by the project:
           the chosen bio-indicator (l'indice kilométrique d'abondance des populations des
           mammifères - IKA) has increased for almost all species and in all the WCUs
           (ref. Annex 2, Appendix C for details on the IKA value per specie in each
           protected area).

   Key performance/outcome                      Target value                    End-of-project value
             indicator                      (Grant Agreement)                   (ISR 12 Dec. 2007)
        (Grant Agreement)
    Percentage improvement of            Comoé-Léraba :         20%          Comoé-Léraba :         148%
    bio-indicators                       Mare aux Hippo :       5%           Mare aux Hippo :       0% *
                                         Kaboré Tambi :         5%           Kaboré Tambi :         -- 
                                         Boulon-Koflandé :      5%           Boulon-Koflandé :      118%
                                         Sahel :                stable       Sahel :                -- 

 * According to the "Rapport Final d'Exécution du Projet PAGEN" (Ministère de l'Environnement et du
 Cadre de Vie), the IKA in the Mare aux Hippos Biosphere Reserve has significantly increased (beyond
 the target value of 5%) for all monitored species (ref. ref. Annex 2, Appendix C for details on the IKA
 value per specie in each protected area)

  End of project value for the Kaboré Tambi National Park and the Sahel Protected Areas is not reported
 in the ISR, but according to the "Rapport Final d'Exécution du Projet PAGEN" (Ministère de
 l'Environnement et du Cadre de Vie) the value of IKA has significantly increased (beyond the target
 value) for all monitored species (ref. Annex 2, Appendix C for details on the IKA value per specie in each
 protected area)

36.      Among the factors that directly contributed to the full achievement of the project
objective it is worth mentioning:

    (a)    The improvement of the enabling environment for wildlife and protected
           areas management through (i) the formulation of various strategies, programs
           and action plans for the conservation and development of wildlife resources (e.g.
           the Anti-pouching National Strategy, a new Forestry Code and implementation


                                                   13

         decrees, the National Program for the Management of Wildlife and Protected
         Areas (draft), etc. - more details in Annex 2), which contributed to strengthen
         the Government's vision in terms of wildlife and protected area management,
         and (ii) the establishment of an effective and functioning institutional
         framework for wildlife and protected areas management (e.g. partnerships with
         various public and private partners through the establishment of collaboration
         protocols, execution protocols, and contracts for the provision of services;
         involvement of local communities in the decision and management of protected
         areas through the establishment of AGEREFs or Support Committees, etc.);

    (b)  Better management of protected areas thanks to: (i) improvement of the
         capacity of staff of the Ministry of Environment (264 staff members have been
         trained in various subjects related to conservation protected areas management
         and 102 staff members have participated in various study-torus - details in
         Annex 2), which allowed to improve interventions on the field, (ii)
         improvement of the capacity of concessionaires12 and local communities in
         various areas related to protected areas management (details in Annex 2), (iii)
         the formulation and adoption of Management Plans in three protected areas
         (PNKT, Mare aux Hippos, and Comoé-Léraba), and (iv) the development of
         few infrastructures (e.g. tracks, barriers, barrage, etc - details in Annex 2) within
         and outside the protected areas which facilitated protected areas management
         activities;

    (c)  The establishment of new protected areas and biological corridors: 6 new
         protected areas were negotiated and created in the Sahel (Nassoumbou, Séno-
         Mago, Béli, Darkoye, Oursi Nord and Oursi Sud, for a total area of 525,854 ha);
         the area of the Boulon-Koflandé Forest was increased (from 42,000 to 56,822
         ha), and two biological corridors within the PONASI WCU were negotiated
         with local communities and established (4,500 and 33,000 ha respectively);

    (d)  A decrease of the pressure of local communities on natural resources due to
         (i) their involvement in activities directly related to the management of the
         protected areas (e.g. surveillance, reforestation, construction and maintenance of
         tracks and water points, tourism/safari hunting, etc.), (ii) increased awareness
         through various awareness raising activities (details in Annex 2), (iii) the
         diversification of their income-generating activities, (iv) the valorization of
         natural-resources through the implementation of natural-resource based income
         generating activities;

    (e)  A decrease in illegal poaching due to (i) strengthening of the capacity of
         Forestry Agents (166 agents trained in anti-pouching techniques, forestry
         control techniques, etc. - details in Annex 2), (ii) the involvement of local
         communities is surveillance activities, (iii) the formulation of an Anti-poaching
         National Strategy.



12"Concessionaire" is defined as a community association, NGO, or a private operator under a concession
for management of a Protected Area pursuant to a decision, decree or order issued by the Government.



                                                  14

37.     Below a table summarizing the logical flow between inputs/activities, outputs,
intermediate outcomes, and outcomes.

   Inputs/Activities          Outputs             Intermediate outcomes      Final outcome
   Formulation of .an
   Anti-pouching
   National Strategy, a
   new Forestry Code
   and implementation     Strategies, programs

   decrees, a National    and action plans for

   Program for the        the conservation and

   Management of          development of

   Wildlife and           wildlife resources                                Natural habitats and
   Protected Areas, etc.  Effective                  Improved enabling      ecosystems
   Establishment of       institutional              environment for        restored/improved
   collaboration          framework for              wildlife and           (and consequent
   protocols, execution   wildlife and               protected area         increase in number
   protocols, and         protected areas            management             and density of
   contracts for the      management                                        biological species)
   provision of services  (involvement of

   with various public    local communities in

   and private partners   the decision and

   Establishment of       management of

   AGEREFs or             protected areas, etc.)

   Support Committees
   in the areas targeted
   by the project
   Trainings to
   Ministry of
   Environment' staff
   Study-tours in
   Burkina Faso and       Improved

   other countries        Government's

   Set-up of GIS          capacity in protected

   database               areas management

   Training to            Improved capacity

   concessionaires and    of concessionaires         Improved

   local communities      and local                  management of

   Formulation and        communities in             protected areas

   adoption of            protected areas

   Management Plans       management

   in three protected     Basic infrastructures

   areas                  in the protected

   Development of         areas

   infrastructures
   within and outside
   the protected areas




   Identification and     New protected areas        Increased total area
   negotiation of the     created                    of protected natural
   limits of the          New biological             habitats and
   protected areas in     corridors established      ecosystem
   the Sahel, and                                    Movement of
   establishment of 6                                wildlife between
   new protected areas                               protected areas
   in the Sahel                                 15   facilitated
   Increase in the area

   of the Boulon-
   Koflandé Forest
   Feasibility study on
   biological corridors
   Establishment of
   two biological
   corridors
                           Increased
                           involvement of local
   Trainings, study        communities in
   tours                   protected areas
   Awareness raising       management
   activities:             Increased awareness
   documentaries,          on conservation and
   competitions in         natural resource        Reduced pressure of
   primary schools on      management              local communities
   environmental           Reduced                 on natural resources
   education, radio        dependence of local     (including
   programs, etc.          communities on          agricultural
   Development of          natural resources for   encroachment)
   infrastructures         their livelihoods and
   within and outside      income generation
   the protected areas     Increased value of
   Development of          natural resources
   micro-projects          through their direct
                           link to income
                           generation activities
   Training to Forestry    Capacity of Forestry
   Agents                  Agents improved
   Equipment to            Number of people
   DNCPEF                  (local communities)     Illegal poaching

   Training to local       involved in             decreased

   communities in          surveillance
   surveillance            activities increased


3.3 Efficiency

38.     As standard procedure at that time for GEF projects, an Incremental Cost
Analysis and not an Economic and Financial Analysis was carried out during preparation
(ref. section E1-2 and Annex 4 of the PAD). An analysis of the cost-effectiveness of the
project (the achievement of the environmental and developmental objective as well as the
project's output in relation to input, costs and implementing time) was supposed to be
carried out as part of the Government's project impact study. However, lack of resources
due to the depreciation of the dollar prevented this activity to be carried out. It is
therefore not possible at the moment to assess the cost-efficiency of the project activities
in achieving the proposed objectives. Still we can say that the project completed the
planned activities and met or exceeded the expected outcome in terms of achievement of
the PDO, and as cost-effective as initially planned.

39.     In terms of compliance with the incremental costs criteria (i.e. GEF fudns are
used to finance a component of a project that would not have taken place without GEF
funding), and securing associated parallel financing, the project met the initially
expectations.


                                                16

40.     The table below shows GEF financing and parallel financing from other donors13:

    Project Financing/Costs                     Planned                          Actual
                                            US $ (million)                    US $ (million)
GEF                                                7.5                             7.5
Others:
Government                                        1.68                             2.0
Communities                                       0.59                             0.6
CBRDP IDA                                         2.53                             1.6
PSB                                                0.3                             0.3
PDSE                                               0.3                             0.1
LPDZ                                               0.4                             0.2
Private Sector (Naturama and                      0.06                             0.9
Partner NGOs)
Total                                             13.36                           13.2

PSB (Programme Sahel Burkinabè) was a Local Development Project (like CBRD) in the Sahelian region
funded by the Netherlands .

PDES (Projet d'élevage du Soum) was a livestock project funded by ADB, in the Soum province, covered
by the Sahelian unit of PAGEN.

LDPZ (Projet de développement local du Zoundwéogo) was a local development project funded by
Nedeerland. in the a province covering partly the PNKT, supported by PAGEN.

PSB and LDPZ were managed by the Ministry of Planning and Economy, and PDES was under the
Ministry of Animals resources. All those projects were implemented and closed. In the field there were
annual collaboration MoU with PAGEN local units, and funded some activities at the local communities
request. Private sectors were mainly NGOs working PAGEN project areas and supporting NRM and Rural
Development. For example: Tree Aid, Birdlife International, Naturama, Italian Cooperation, etc.

41.     The actual parallel financing is more or less equivalent to the planned one as total
numbers, but it is worth noticing the CBRD contribution was lower than expected (the
project focused also in other areas), while the Government and NGOs contribution was
higher than initially foreseen. It is unfortunately not possible to analyze the parallel
financing in terms of component, due to lack of data, but it could be inferred that the
majority of the con-financing was for component 2 (for investment on the ground and
capacity building of local communities).


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

    Rating: Satisfactory

42.     Overall rating of the project outcome is satisfactory. The project achieved in fact
its PDO/GEO as demonstrated by full achievement of the two performance/outcome
indicators (in many cases the value of the indicators exceeded the target value - ref.
section 3.2).

43.     The project in addition fully achieved 7 of the 10 output indicators monitored in
the ISRs (i.e. a new forestry code and implementation decrees adopted; 86% recovery in




13Exchange Rate :1$ = 500 CFA (2007)



                                                   17

the applicable taxes from the protected areas; 100% conservators                     14 apply their
competences for the management of protected areas; 77% of the 1,000 villages that
participated in the training and sensibilization activities are involved in the management
of protected areas; five new protected areas have legal status and size), and almost
entirely achieved other 2 output indicators (i.e. poaching index reduced by more than
50% in three of the five protected areas15 - data are not available in one protected area;
75% of work completed in each protected area). 2 output indicators were only partially
achieved (the Government conducted a study to adopt a long-term financing mechanism
to finance protected areas, but has not yet operationalized it; safari quota based on the
results of the national wildlife survey established for 2007, but not yet for 2008). One of
the output indicators (i.e. donors have agreed to contribute at least US$ 5 million to long-
term financing mechanism) was dropped as the mechanism would not be in place until
the follow-on project.

44.     Having only a subset of the output indicators proposed in the PAD been
monitored (ref. section 2.4), it is not possible to assess the achievements of the project in
all the areas. Particularly, there is no information on: (1) whether the share of the national
budget allocated to biodiversity conservation has increased; (2) whether international
protocols with Mali and Ivory Coast have been implemented; and (3) whether an external
monitoring system has been adopted.

45.     As far as the other output indicators of the PAD not monitored during supervision,
the Government completion report reports that (1) only one community institution is
officially concessionaire of a protected area: the AGEREF in Comoé-Léraba (the
AGEREFs in Boulon-Koflandé and Mare aux Hippopotames act as if they were
concessionaires, but they have not yet given officially the concession to manage a
protected area); (2) three protected area management plans have been adopted (Kaboré
Tambi National Park, Comoé-Leraba, Mare aux Hippopotames), but there is no
information on the level of implementation of these plans; and (3) the indicator on the
number of protected areas successfully exploited by private guides has been dropped
because not representative.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

    (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

46.     Despite the project's main focus was on conservation of biodiversity, the project
had also positive impact in terms of local development and poverty reduction. The
involvement of local communities in activities related to the management of the protected
areas (e.g. surveillance, reforestation, construction and maintenance of tracks and water



14"Conservator" is defined as an individual charged by the Government with the responsibility for
coordination and management of activities in a WCU.

15The poaching index has decreased by 75%, 55% and 48% in Comoé-Léraba, Mare aux Hippopotames
and Boulon-Koflandé respectively. In the Kaboré Tambi National Park the poaching index has increased by
40%, however, according to the Government, this increase is probably due to a mis-interpretation of
evidences.



                                                 18

points, tourism/safari hunting, etc.) and the support to natural resource-based income
generating activities or micro-projects (e.g. apiculture, aulacodiculture, exploitation of
non-timber forest products, etc.) generated a marginal increase in income among the
communities surrounding the protected areas (in the table below a summary of the
revenues generated through natural resource-based activities). This is considered as one
of the main factors that allowed on the one hand to actively engage local communities in
the management of the protected areas, and on the other hand to reduce the pressure of
these communities on the resources of the protected areas. This confirms that
conservation cannot be achieved if not addressing poverty as well.

            Activity               Revenues generated (FCFA)                     Notes
    Production of charcoal                    500,000                   Production organized by the
                                                                        AGEREF Comoé-Léraba
    Safari hunting                           52,791,155
    Honey production                         1,227,600                  Production of 228 beekepers
                                                                        in Comoé-Léraba, Hauts
                                                                        Bassins and PNKT
    Exploitation of NTFP                       39,000                   By the AGEREF Comoé-
                                                                        Léraba
    Exploitation of halieutic                3,405,297                  By by Comoé-Léraba and
    resources                                                           Mare aux Hippo
    Production of `karité' butter             160,000
    Production of soap                        130,000
    Production of `soumbala'                39,000/month
    Maintenance                             358,701,835

Source: Rapport Final d'Exécution du Projet PAGEN (Ministère de l'Environnement et du Cadre de Vie)

47.     The support to revenue generating activities resulted in the creation of 283
permanent jobs between 2003 and 2007. The young represented the social group who
benefited more from these new employment opportunities. About 343 women directly or
indirectly benefited from these activities, particularly those related to the exploitation of
non-timber products.


    (b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

48.     The project has resulted in an overall improvement of the institutional framework
for the management of wildlife and protected areas. Major results include:

    (a)    At national level, the project contributed to strengthen the capacity of the key
           institutions responsible for conservation and wildlife management - la Direction
           Générale de la Conservation de la Nature (DGCN), la Direction Générale de
           l'Amélioration du Cadre de Vie (DGACV), and la Direction Nationale du
           Cadre Paramilitaire des Eaux et Forêts (DNCPEF) - through (i) capacity
           building activities (e.g. trainings and study tours); (ii) technical assistance on a
           wide set of activities including, among other activities, the formulation of a text
           to apply the Forestry Code, the formulation of a National Plan for the
           management of Wildlife and Protected Areas, the assessment of the hunting
           licenses, and various studies; and (iii) the provision of vehicles and equipment.
           The project also contributed to the involvement of various ministries in the
           management of wildlife and natural resources through their involvement in the


                                                 19

           Comité National de Pilotage (CNP) du PRONAGEN, the committee in charge
           of overseeing the implementation of the Government's National Natural
           Ecosystem Management Program (PRONAGEN).

     (b)   At local level, the project contributed to actively involve peripheral
           communities in the participatory management of protected areas and in the
           equitable sharing of the benefits deriving from protected areas management
           through the set-up and support to community-based associations responsible for
           the management of wildlife and natural resources (i.e. AGEREF).

     (c)   Overall, the project contributed to a wider adoption of the partnership approach
           in the management of wildlife and natural resources. Several different
           stakeholders, both public and private, have been involved in the management of
           the WCU through the establishment and signature of collaboration-framework
           protocols, execution protocols, and contracts for the provision of services.


     (c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

49.      Not available.


3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

50.      Not available.


     4. ASSESSMENT         OF RISK    TO  DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME

     Rating: Significant

51.      As highlighted in the project document, sustainability of the results was linked to
the capacity of the APL to (a) improve the enabling environment and maintain the
Government's commitment to sustainable management of wildlife and natural resources;
(b) generate and maintain the involvement of the local communities in the management
of the protected areas, and (c) make the activities financially sustainable not to burden the
Government's budget with additional needs. While the project (phase 1) well succeeded
in achieving the first two pre-requisites for long-term sustainability (i.e. creating an
enabling environment for sustainable management of wildlife and natural resources and
setting-up a functioning institutional framework), the project has however not yet
achieved the third pre-requisite for long-term sustainability, i.e. to establish a mechanism
that guarantees full financial sustainability. There is not yet a revenue generating
mechanism that allows the protected areas to be financially auto-sufficient in place16.
Without such a mechanism, the achievements of the project cannot be maintained over



16From comparison with other experiences in Burkina Faso and in the region (e.g. Benin), it was estimated
that, because of the time needed for ecological recovery, community capacity building, and organization of
commercial activities, a positive financial return of the investment would have likely exceeded 10 years,
and it would have probably taken more time in the Sahel.



                                                     20

time17. It is therefore important that the IDA follow-on project focuses on establishing a
mechanism that ensures financial sustainability of the protected areas.

52.      In addition to the above, there are other issues that may undermine the
sustainability of the results of the project, such as:

    (a) The existence of a strong human pressure around the WCUs. Although there was
         no presence of human settlements or agricultural encroachment within the WCUs
         at the end of the project, there is still a strong human pressure at the border of the
         protected areas (the percentage of cultivated land in the areas surrounding the
         protected areas has increased from 15 to 49%, from 43 to 93%, and from 58 to
         77% in the Comoé-Léraba, Boulon-Kouflandé, and in the biosphere Mare aux
         Hippopotames respectively in the last 5 years). Should mechanisms for involving
         peripheral communities in the management of the protected areas and in the
         sharing of benefits deriving from sustainable management of these areas not be
         consolidated, these communities may end up returning within the protected areas.

    (b) Adequacy of compensation for resettled communities. As mentioned above,
         resettlement of communities was an activity not initially foreseen in the project
         design, and therefore a budget for compensating resettled communities had not
         been foreseen. The Government took the responsibility to compensate these
         communities with its own budget. However, compensation provided is
         significantly lower than that indicated in the draft Mitigation Plan. Should the
         compensation be perceived inadequate by the resettled communities, communities
         may feel they have the right to return to their original sites.


    5. ASSESSMENT          OF ANK AND ORROWER ERFORMANCE
                                B              B              P

5.1 Bank

    (a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

         Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

53.      The PDO is consistent with the Government priorities as defined in the PRSP, in
the 2000 Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan, and in the PRONAGEN. The PDO was
not revised during project implementation, there have not been revisions of project
components, and implementation arrangements remained valid throughout project
implementation, thus suggesting a good project design. Critical risks and appropriate
mitigation measures were identified (a part from the involuntary resettlement risk - see
below), and there have not been major delays in preparation.



17It is however important to highlight that the achievement of full financial sustainability was not one of
the expected outcomes of the project. As discussed, this project was conceived as the first phase of a 15
years engagement in the biodiversity conservation sector in which the first phase should focus on
ecosystem rehabilitation and in setting-up the institutional mechanisms for the effective management of the
WCU, the second phase should set-up the mechanisms that would progressively guarantee the financial
auto-sufficiency of the activities, and the third phase should focus on consolidating these mechanisms and
set-up an exit strategy.



                                                      21

54.    However, there are a few shortcomings in the project design:

   (a)    Inconsistency among indicators and no initial baseline: As discussed in
          section 2.3, there was lack of consistency between the indicators presented in
          the PAD (main text and Annex 1) and the Grant Agreement (ref. section 2.3 for
          more details). In addition, the project document did not provide a baseline value
          for most of the indicators (baseline was established only after two years of
          project implementation).

   (b)    Coordination with baseline project: synergies expected from coordination
          with the baseline project, the Community-Based Rural Development Program
          (CBRDP), did not produce the expected results. As discussed (ref. section 1.7.b),
          PAGEN expected the CBRDP to support, among other activities, natural
          resource-based income generating activities. Unfortunately, these activities were
          not identified as priority by the communities, and thus not financed by the
          CBRDP. One of the reasons why the cooperation between the two projects did
          not produce the expected results can be explained by the fact that the two
          projects were designed separately (CBRDP was in fact prepared and approved
          before the PAGEN), and had different approaches (the methodology to select
          the development interventions of the CBRDP does not necessarily guarantee
          that NRM activities are selected by the communities). It is however important to
          highlight that, despite the two projects adopted two different approaches,
          coordination in the field worked well (a memorandum of understanding
          between the Project Coordination Units of the two projects to coordinate the
          activities was signed) and efforts were made to overcome possible problems.

   (c)    The issue of resettlement was overlooked: this issue was not properly assessed
          in the project document, and no budget was allocated to finance mitigation
          measures according to Bank' safeguard policies and procedures. This created
          the conditions for two potential risks: Bank's reputation risk, and
          unsustainability of the outcomes (ref. section 4).


   (b) Quality of Supervision

       Rating: Satisfactory

55.    The Bank, jointly with the Government, conducted an average of two supervision
missions per year (11 in total). According to the client, the quality of supervision was
good: the Bank teams provided useful inputs and helped to overcome minor problems
during implementation, including the decision during mid-term review to finance micro-
projects. Procurement and financial management were adequately supervised. There has
been a relatively good degree of continuity in the team: the Task Team Leader changed,
but the team overall remained the same throughout the project, guaranteeing continuity
and consistency in the support. The rating of project performance seemed objective and
appropriate. The project was completed with no delays.

56.    Two issues were not adequately recorded and documented in the various
supervision documents (Aide-Memoires or ISRs): resettlement and indicators. A
Safeguard Specialist participated in a few supervision missions and provided guidance on



                                              22

how to deal with the issue of resettlement. A Mitigation Plan was drafted (though not
finalized/approved because of lack of resources), and compensation provided to resettled
communities. However, this process has not been adequately recorded in the various
supervision, making unclear whether Bank's procedures have been properly followed. As
far as the indicators are concerned, while the decision to use only a subset of the PAD
indicators during supervision to simplify the management and supervision of the project
is understandable, this decision should have been recorded and documented in the
supervision documents.


    (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

        Rating: Satisfactory


5.2 Borrower

    (a) Government Performance

        Rating: Satisfactory

57.     The Government demonstrated ownership and commitment in supporting the
implementation of the project as demonstrated by significant co-financing allocated for
this project (CFA 1,344,500,000, about 25-30% of the total GEF allocation) to which an
exceptional allocation of 258 million CFA (about US$ 540,000) was added in 2007 to
partially compensate the financial loss due to the depreciation of the dollar. The
Government in addition took the responsibility to compensate the resettled communities
with its own budget. The Government is ready to request an IDA loan to ensure the
preparation and implementation of a follow-on project.


    (b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

        Rating: Satisfactory

58.     Despite a few initial delays in recruiting and appointing key staff which delayed
the start-up of the project, the implementation agency took then full commitment and
leadership in pursuing the project objectives, as demonstrated by the achievement in
project indicators. The institutional restructuring of the Ministry of Environment during
project implementation didn't cause major delays, suggesting a good internal
organization. Despite relatively high turnover among project staff during project
implementation (two project coordinators, two financial administrators, and several
experts in the different Cellules d'Animation followed one another), the overall
performance of the Implementing Agency was not seriously affected, particularly after
mid-term review. Monitoring of activities was adequately carried-out. Procurement and
financial management were rated satisfactorily throughout the project. The quality of the
reports provided was generally good. Particularly, the Government's Completion Report
(Rapport Final d'Exécution du projet PAGEN) was extremely reach of data and details,
and provided an extremely useful input for the preparation of this ICR.




                                             23

   (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

       Rating: Satisfactory


   6. LESSONS LEARNED

59.    Six major lessons can be drawn from the assessment of this project:

   (a) Conservation objectives cannot be dissociated from poverty reduction/local
       development activities: the decision during project implementation to support
       revenue generating and other local development activities in addition to
       conservation activities, and the good results that followed this decision
       demonstrate that conservation alone does not provide enough incentives to
       communities to engage in sustainable natural resource management. Alternative
       natural resource-based income generating activities and other local development
       activities which exploit territorial assets need to accompany conservation
       activities to reduce the pressure of local communities on natural resources and
      increase their incentive in engaging in sustainable management of natural
       resources;

   (b) Partnership between Government, local communities and public/private
       actors provides a successful model for wildlife and protected areas
       management: The Government alone does not have the capacity to effectively
       manage protected areas. Involvement of local communities in the management of
       the protected areas and in the sharing of benefits deriving from protected areas
       management is a critical element for sustainable natural resource management.
       The AGEREF system to involve communities in the decision and management of
       protected areas, already piloted through the GEPRENAF and fully implemented
       through the PAGEN, has produced good results, and should be replicated. In
       addition to local communities, PAGEN has managed to successfully involve other
       actors in the management of protected areas, such as NGOs and private sector.

   (c) A long-term engagement is needed: securing biodiversity conservation is a long-
       term process: ecological restoration, capacity building and achieving financial
       sustainability require time. A 5-6 year project is not sufficient to secure
       biodiversity conservation; it is necessary to plan and keep a medium-long term
       engagement (10-15 years). An APL could be an adequate instrument, if financial
       commitment is kept. If a long-term engagement is not possible, sustainable
       achievement of objectives is at risk.

   (d) Wildlife resources need to be managed within a transboundary and
       ecosystem perspective: in those cases in which movement of wildlife resources is
       transboundary, and whenever transboundary collaboration is possible (either
       through international protocols or through the collaboration with projects in the
       neighbor country), transboundary planning, exchange of experiences, joint
       solutions to common issues can have a significant added value to achieve project
       objective.

   (e) CDD operations are not necessarily the best instrument to support NRM
       activities, and therefore their complementarity with a GEF operation should


                                            24

        be carefully assessed: as mentioned above, the CDD approach does not guarantee
        that NRM activities are identified and selected as priority interventions to be
        supported through a CDD operation. In the case of this project, the nature of this
        approach represented a shortcoming, as PAGEN expected that NRM-based
        income generating activities could be supported by the CBRDP, but in fact
        communities gave higher priority to other investment needs. When blending a
        GEF operation with a CDD operation, complementarity between objectives,
        activities and approach should be carefully assessed.

    (f) The use of a single currency for a grant makes the funds less reliable. As
        discussed, the overall depreciation of the dollar in the five years of project
        implementation was one of the factors that created most problems in
        implementation. The use of a basket of currencies (e.g SDR) for the grant may
        reduce the risk of depreciation.


    7. COMMENTS          ON    ISSUES     RAISED      BY    BORROWER/IMPLEMENTING
        AGENCIES/PARTNERS


    (a) Borrower/implementing agencies


    (b) Co-financiers


    (c) Other partners and stakeholders

    8. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION (FOR GEF             PURPOSES   )

8.1 Analysis of attainment of global environmental objectives

60.     The project's Global Environmental Objective (GEO) was "to reverse
biodiversity trends in priority protected areas". The project achieved its objective, as
demonstrated by: (1) a decrease in the agricultural encroachment, and (2) an increase
in the number of animals in the WCUs targeted by the project. (For additional
information and analysis, please refer to sections 3.2 and 3.4 of this document).

8.2 Country ownership and drivenness

61.     PAGEN was conceived as a 15 year engagement to specifically support the
objectives of the Government's 2000 Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan and of
PRONAGEN. The project objectives remained relevant to the key Government' sectoral
strategies. The project objectives remain in addition relevant to the new Government's
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (2004) priorities, and to several programs of the
Government's Priority Action Program to implement the PRSP 2004-06. The project
contributed to the formulation of various strategies, programs and action plans for the
conservation and development of wildlife resources (e.g. the Anti-pouching National
Strategy, a new Forestry Code and implementation decrees, etc. - more details in Annex
2), which contributed to strengthen the Government's vision in terms of wildlife and
protected area management. The Government demonstrated ownership and commitment


                                             25

in supporting the implementation of the project as demonstrated by significant co-
financing allocated for this project (about 25-30% of the total GEF allocation) to which
an exceptional allocation of 258 million CFA (about US$ 540,000) was added in 2007 to
partially compensate the financial loss due to the depreciation of the dollar. The
Government in addition took the responsibility to compensate the resettled communities
with its own budget. (For additional information and analysis, please refer to sections 1.1,
3.1, 3.2, and 5.2 of this document).

8.3 Stakeholder participation and public involvement

    (a) Information dissemination

62.     The project directly supported a number of activities aiming at disseminating
information and raising awareness, including the organization of a series of informative
workshops on the Forestry Code, the environmental legislation, the biodiversity rights;
the dissemination of the Forestry and Environment Code; the establishment of a
documentation center to facilitate the access to the information of the project; the
production of two documentaries, etc. (more details in Annex 2).

   (b) Consultation and stakeholder participation

63.     The project contributed to actively involve local communities in the decision on
and management of the protected areas through the establishment and strengthening of
the AGEREF (Inter-Village Protected Areas Management Associations). The project
contributed to a wider adoption of the partnership approach in the management of
wildlife and natural resources. Several different stakeholders, both public and private (e.g.
IUCN, NATURAMA, etc.), have been involved in the management of the WCU through
the establishment and signature of collaboration-framework protocols, execution
protocols, and contracts for the provision of services. (For additional information and
analysis, please refer to sections 2.1, and 3.5 of this document)

8.4 Replication approach/potential

64.     Some of the key lessons of the project (particularly on protected area
management) have already been shared and are already being implemented in Ghana
through the Northern Savannah Biodiversity Conservation project. Replication of lessons,
approach, and institutional arrangements in another geographical area in Burkina Faso
(Arly National Park) is being considered in the follow-on IDA project.

8.5 Monitoring and evaluation

65.     Chosen outcome indicators seem adequate to monitor the progress of the project
towards the GEO. The initially selected output indicators were too numerous; during
implementation only a subset of them were monitored in order to simplify the
management and the supervision of the project. Monitoring was regularly conducted.
Quality of reports was satisfactory. One of the main problems was the lack of initial
baseline: baseline values were established only in late 2004 (For additional information
and analysis, please refer to sections 2.3, 5.1., and 5.2 of this document).

66.     Three main lessons can be used for the design and implementation of similar
projects:




                                              26

   (a) keep the M&E simple, and use a limited number of key indicators to monitor
       progress of the project;

   (b) baseline should be established before project start-up;

   (c) result chain input-output-outcome should be clear.

8.6 Cost Effectiveness

67.    Refer to section 3.3 of this document.

8.7 Financial Planning/Costs

Refer to section 3.3 of this document.




                                           27

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                  Appraisal Estimate  Actual/Latest
          Components                                                      Percentage of
                                   (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                         millions)         Appraisal

National capacity building to
support decentralized                      1.20               1.14            95%
management of protected areas
Local capacity building to manage
protected areas                            5.57               5.15            92%

Program administration and
monitoring                                 0.73               1.21           166%


            Total Baseline Cost            7.50               7.50
Physical Contingencies                     0.00
Price Contingencies                        0.00
             Total Project Costs           7.50               7.50           100%
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)         0.00               0.00
      Total Financing Required             7.50               7.50




(b) Financing
                                                    Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds              Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                     Cofinancing     (USD          (USD       Appraisal
                                                    millions)     millions)
Borrower                                             1.82          1.82         100%
 Global Environment Facility (GEF)                   7.50          7.50         100%




                                             28

Annex 2. (A) Outputs by Component; (B) Comparison among indicators as reported in the PAD, Grant Agreement and
ISRs; (C) Bio-indicator values

Appendix A. Outputs by Components

      Component                         Planned activities (at design)                              Outputs (at project completion)
1. National capacity    I. Institutional strengthening/ Capacity building              I. Institutional strengthening/ Capacity building
   building for support    -   Legal and institutional reforms                           -  Formulation of decrees to implement the Forestry Code
   to decentralized
   management of           -   Support to Forestry Department: 2 vehicles for the        -  Formulation of the Anti-poaching National Strategy
   protected areas             Forestry Department, support to operating costs for       -  Purchase of equipment (7 motorcycles, 1 four-wheel
                               missions of the anti-pouching unit                           drive, computer equipment, etc.) to the Direction
                           -   Training of Forestry Department staff in strategic           National du Cadre Paramilitaire des Eaux et Forêts
                               planning, antipouching, community-based development,         (DNCPEF)
                               wildlife surveys                                          -  166 Forestry Agents trained in anti-pouching
                           -   Training and awareness raising of private operators in       techniques, forestry control techniques and deontology,
                               management and operating practices                           community-based protected areas management, etc.
                                                                                         -  264 staff members of the Ministry of Environment (staff
                                                                                            from PAGEN, DNCPEF, DFC, DGACV, DGCN) have
                                                                                            been trained on conservation and protection, ecology,
                                                                                            database management, social and environmental
                                                                                            assessment, ecotourism, etc.
                                                                                         -  102 staff members of the Ministry of Environment (staff
                                                                                            from PAGEN, DGCPEF, DFC, DCAV, DGCN, ONTB)
                                                                                            have participated to study-tours in Burkina Faso (Par W,
                                                                                            Concession de Tagou) and in foreign countries (Mole
                                                                                            National Park in Ghana, Pendjari National Park in
                                                                                            Bénin, Salon de la Chasse in Paris)
                                                                                         -  Support to the Ecole Nationale des Eaux et Forêts
                                                                                            (ENEF) : diagnostic on educational needs and
                                                                                            formulation of educational programs/revision of
                                                                                            diploma curricula, elaboration of a training module on
                                                                                            the pedestrian inventories techniques




                                                                        29

II. Studies in support of sectoral reforms                     II. Studies in support of sectoral reforms
    -  National economic and financial analysis of protected      -  Review of the legal documents in force in the wildlife
       areas                                                         sector, in relation to decentralization
    -  Long-term financing mechanisms                             -  Assessment of the hunting concessions in Burkina Faso
    -  Professionalization of private guides and creation of      -  Study on long-term financing mechanism (draft)
       label for protected areas products                         -  Capacity assessment of Government staff and local
    -  National Audits of concessionaires                            population in planning, community-based protected
                                                                     areas management, protected areas management
                                                                  -  Formulation of a Communication Plan
                                                                  -  Formulation of a National Program for the Management
                                                                     of Wildlife and Protected Areas (Programme National
                                                                     de Gestion de la Faune et des Aires Protégées,
                                                                     PNGFAP) and of its Action Plan (draft)
                                                                  -  Study on the recovery rate from the taxes for the
                                                                     management of the protected areas


III.Awareness raising                                          III. Awareness raising
    -  Awareness building of forestry staff, concessionaries,     -  Organization of a series of informative workshops on
       and private operators: development and diffusion of           the Forestry Code, the environmental legislation, the
       information material, organization of meetings,               biodiversity rights, the decentralization in the wildlife
       awareness days, workshops.                                    sector, and the management on transboundary resources
                                                                     for the benefit of 164 decision-makers, local
                                                                     representatives, and partners/stakeholders in the four
                                                                     sites targeted by the project
                                                                  -  Dissemination of the Forestry and Environment Code
                                                                     (1,600 copies have been produced)
                                                                  -  Establishment of a documentation center to facilitate the
                                                                     access to the information of the project (more than 900
                                                                     documents are archived)
                                                                  -  Production of two documentaries
                                                                  -  Support to the Office National du Tourisme Burkinabé




                                                30

                                                                                             (ONTB) for the participation to the Salon International
                                                                                             de la Chasse in Paris (2005 and 2006)
                       IV.Communication and Information System                         IV. Communication and Information System
                          -  Design and set-up of a documentation center, including      -   Set-up of a GIS database
                             furniture, books, and costs of duplicating and
                             referencing documents and reports
                          -  National monitoring of bio-indicators: annual aerial
                             surveys of targeted areas
                          -  National monitoring of protected areas encroachment:
                             acquisition of equipment, images for remote sensing and
                             processing of data from aerial and ground surveys and
                             satellite images
                          -  Web gateway: website to link project monitoring system
                             and other relevant sites

                       V. Transboundary coordination                                   V. Transboundary coordination
                          -  Service of partner (an international NGO) contracted to     -   Formulation of a road-map for the signature of an
                             provide technical support to the PCU                            agreement protocol on the management of
                                                                                             transboundary resources with Ghana
                                                                                         -   Establishment of a Council for the Management of
                                                                                             Tranboundary Ecosystems (Conseil de Gestion de
                                                                                             l'Ecosystème Transfrontalier, CGET) and of its
                                                                                             Technical Committee
2. Local capacity      I. Institutional strengthening/ Capacity building               I.  Institutional strengthening/ Capacity building
   building to manage      -  Incremental support to local advisory fora, WCUs, and      -   Establishment of 11 Inter-Village Associations
   protected areas            other provincial services: costs of annual meetings,           (AGEREFs) or Support Committees (Comités d'Appui a
                              rehabilitation of field offices, equipment and operating       la Gestion du Parc, CPAG) in the four areas targeted by
                              costs, preparation and implementation of management            the project (1 AGEREF in Boulon-Koflandé, 5
                              plans, training of communities in forestry, ecological         AGEREFs in the Sahel, 1 AGEREF in the Hauts
                              monitoring, anti-pouching, law enforcement                     Bassins, 4 CPAGs in the PNKT), and strengthening of
                           -  Technical Assistance to conservators and                       the capacity of the AGEREF in Comoé-Léraba
                              concessionaires in ecological diagnostics, planning and        (established in 2002 by the GEPRENAF)
                              reporting, information awareness campaigns,                -   Establishment of a Consultation Framework (Multi-
                              organization of trainings, establishment of AGEREFs,           stakeholder forum) for the management of the PNKT




                                                                       31

       preparation of management plans, planning and              -  43 study-tours and 273 trainings for the benefit of 604
       implementing surveillance strategies                          and 153,210 participants from various partners,
    -  Trainings and awareness raising for field staff and           Animation Units, Concessionaries, local producers, etc.
       partners, communities, and local institutions in              respectively
       communication, participatory methods, ecological           -  18 competitions in 61 primary schools on theme of
       monitoring, planning and reporting, GPS, production of        environmental education, 122 radio programs and 122
       awareness raising tools (trainings, posters, theatre          video projections on the themes of management of early
       presentations, field visits, local radio, programs,           fires, pedestrian inventory techniques, surveillance,
       contests, etc.), keeping records, accessing financial         conservation of water and natural resources, etc.
       resources, wildlife surveys, anti-pouching, fire
       management, tourist guiding, building and maintaining
       temporary roads, etc.
II.  Management of protected areas                             II.     Management of protected areas
   -  Participatory diagnostics and establishment and             -  Identification and negotiation of the limits of the
      implementation of Local Development Plans                      protected areas in the Sahel, and establishment of 6 new
   -  Protected area management: identification and                  protected areas in the Sahel (Nassoumbou, Séno-Mago,
      negotiation of protected areas, tenure and users'              Béli, Darkoye, Oursi Nord and Oursi Sud, for a total
      diagnostics, water resource diagnostics, preparation of        area of 525,854 ha)
      protected area management plans, construction and           -  Increase in the area of the Boulon-Koflandé Forest
      maintenance of infrastructures, surveillance, monitoring       (from 42,000 to 56,822 ha)
                                                                  -  Feasibility study on the biological corridors within the
                                                                     PONASI WCU, and establishment of two biological
                                                                     corridors within the PONASI WCU (4,500 and 33,000
                                                                     ha respectively)
                                                                  -  Formulation and adoption of Management Plans in three
                                                                     protected areas (PNKT, Mare aux Hippopotames, and
                                                                     Comoé-Léraba)
                                                                  -  Development of infrastructures within and outside the
                                                                     protected areas (see below for details)

                                                               III. Local development
                                                                  -  Development of 52 micro-projects




                                                  32

 Development of infrastructures within and outside the protected areas

    SITE                     Hauts Bassins        Boulon
                                                 Koflandé           PONASI             Sahel        Comoé Léraba NATURAMA   TOTAL

Km of open tracks                  97               237               120                               77          493      1,024
Km of maintained tracks            97               237               120                              527          393      1,374
Installed panels                   23               36                 11                58             33          70        249
Installed barriers                 1                 3                                                  3                      7
Installed borders                  31                0                 55                               54          251       393
Gabions, concrete beds, etc.       2                31                                                  36                     69
Barrage, stoneworks, etc.          0                 1                                   3              1            1         6
Salines                                                                                                 25                     25
Ha of burnt land with
controlled fires                 17,000           42,000                                              125,000     160,000    200,000

Eco-museum                         1                                                                    0                      1
Lodgings                           0                 2                                   3              0                      5
Vaccination areas                                                                                                    2         2
Base vie                                             1                                                  1            2         5

 Source: Rapport Final d'Exécution du Projet PAGEN (Ministère de l'Environnement et du Cadre de Vie)




                                                                          33

Appendix B. Comparison among indicators as reported in the PAD, Grant Agreement and ISRs

     PAD (Section A.3)               PAD (Annex 1)            Triggers (PAD Section B.4)        Grant Agreement                        ISR
 Reduction of agricultural      % encroachment                 Percentage of agricultural    Percentage of agricultural     Agricultural encroachment
 encroachment in protected                                     encroachment is 0% in         encroachment is 0% in          decreased [...] to 0% in
 areas                          Comoé-Léraba             0     Comoé-Léraba and Mare         Comoé-Léraba, Mare aux         Comoé-Léraba, Mare aux
                                Koflandé                 10    aux Hippo and Kaboré          Hippo, and Kaboré Tambi,       Hippo, and Kaboré Tambi,
                                Mare Hippo               0     Tambi, 10% Boulon-            10% in Boulon-Koflandé,        10% in Boulon-Koflandé,
                                Kaboré Tambi             0     Koflandé, 20%                 and 20% in all Sahel           and 20% in Sahel Protected
                                all Sahel P. Areas       20    Nassoumbou Séno Mango         Protected Areas                Areas
                                                               and other Sahel protected
                                                               areas
 Improvement of a set of        % improvement of bio-                                        Percentage improvement of      Biodiversity indicator
 bioindicators                  indicators                                                   bio-indicators is 20% in       improved by 20% in
                                                                                             Comoé-Léraba, 5% in            Comoé-Léraba, 5% in
                                Comoé-Léraba             20                                  Boulon-Koflandé, 5% in         Boulon-Koflandé, 5% in
                                Koflandé                 5                                   Mare aux Hippo, 5% in          Mare aux Hippo, 5% in
                                Mare Hippo               5                                   Kaboré Tambi, and stable       Kaboré Tambi, and
                                Kaboré Tambi             5                                   in all Sahel Protected Areas   stabilized (0%) in Sahel
                                all Sahel P. Areas stable                                                                   Protected Areas
 A new Forestry Code and        A new forestry code and its    A new Forestry Code and       A new forestry code and its    A new forestry code and its
 its implementation decree,     implementation decrees         its implementation decrees    implementation decrees         implementation decree(s)
 which takes into account       take into account the          take into account the         take into account the          take into account the
 the orientation of the         orientations of the Letter of  orientation of the Letter of  orientations of the Letter of  orientations of the Letter of
 LPDRD                          Policy on Decentralized        Policy on Decentralized       Policy on Decentralized        Policy on Decentralized
                                Rural Development              Rural Poverty                 Rural Development              Rural Development
 Recovery of potential taxes    Applicable taxes due to        Applicable taxes in the       Applicable taxes due to        Applicable taxes due to
 in the protected areas sector  Government in the              protected areas sector that   Government from protected      Government from protected
                                protected areas sector         are due to the Government     areas use are recovered at     areas use are recovered at
                                (trophy fee, tourism,          are recovered at 80%          80%                            80%
                                concession fee) are
                                recovered at 80% in Y5
 Increased share of the
 national budget allocated to
 biodiversity conservation
 Adoption of a long-term                                         The Government has            The Government has           The Government has
 financing mechanism by                                          adopted a long-term           adopted a satisfactory       adopted a satisfactory




                                                                           34

the Government                                                financial mechanism for    mechanism for long-term  mechanism for long-term
                                                              protected areas and        financing of protected   financing of protected areas
                                                              presented an               areas
                                                              implementation plan
                                                              acceptable to the Bank
                                                              for phase 2
The amounts committed by      Donors are committing                                                               Donors have agreed to
other donors in this          US$ 5 million to the                                                                contribute at least US$ 5
financing mechanism           adopted long-term financial                                                         million to long-term
                              mechanism                                                                           financing mechanism
The proportion of the         50% of conservators trained                                                         50% of conservators have
conservators who use their    used their new planning                                                             applied their new
new skills to manage          and community skills in the                                                         competences in the areas of
protected areas               management of protected                                                             planning and community
                              areas                                                                               participation for the
                                                                                                                  management of protected
                                                                                                                  areas
Implementation of
international protocols with
Mali and Cote d'Ivoire
Adoption and                                                A standard monitoring
operationalization of an                                    system for wildlife census
external monitoring system                                  and agricultural
                                                            encroachment is
                                                            operational and adopted
                                                            nationally
Use of the results of the     Results of the standardized                                                         The results of the national
adopted monitoring system     national wildlife survey are                                                        wildlife survey are used for
in the determination of       used to set-up safari quota                                                         establishing safari quota
quotas
Number of community
institutions that are
officially "concessionaires"
of protected areas
Acquired capacity of Inter-   50% of the 1,000 villages     AGEREFs are legally                                   50% of the 1,000 villages
Village Protected Area        who participated in training  concessionaries of Comoé-                             that participated in the
Management Associations       and awareness modules are     Léraba, Boulon-Koflandé,                              training and sensibilization




                                                                       35

(AGEREFs) to act as          involved in protected areas   Mare aux Hippos                                              activities of the project are
concessionaires              management by Y5                                                                           involved in protected areas
                                                                                                                        management
Number of officially                                       At least 6 of 9 protected
approved protected area                                    areas have officially
management plans                                           adopted a Management
                                                           Plan
Level of implementation of
management plan
Number of protected areas                                  At least 2 private
successfully exploited by                                  safari/ecotourism guides
private guides                                             are operating professionally
                                                           and ethically in Comoé-
                                                           Léraba and Boulon-
                                                           Koflandé
Decrease in poaching         Poaching indexes decrease                                   Poaching index decrease by     Poaching index reduced by
indicators                   by 50% between year 2 and                                   50% between year 2 and         50% between year 2 and
                             5 in all protected areas                                    year 5 in all protected areas  end of the project
Efficiency and usefulness    Participatory ecological
of participatory ecological  monitoring reports are used
monitoring                   as monitoring tool in year 4
                             for all targeted protected
                             areas except Sahel
                             Protected areas which have                                  The areas of new protected     Protected areas have legal
                             acquired legal status:                                      areas are: Koflandé 60,000     status and size: Koflandé
                             Koflandé 60,000 ha,                                         ha, Nassoumbou 70,000 ha,      60,000 ha, Nassoumbou
                             Nassoumbou 70,000 ha,                                       Seno Mango 70,000 ha,          70,000 ha, Seno Mango
                             Seno Mango 70,000 ha,                                       Oursi 20,000 ha                70,000 ha, Oursi 20,000 ha
                             Oursi 20,000 ha, Beli
                             20,000 ha
                             Percentage achievement of                                   Percentage achievement of      Proportion of work
                             work or level of                                            planned work and level of      completed in each protected
                             organization in protected                                   organization in protected      area
                             area: [...] (ref. Annex 1 of                                areas: [...] (ref. Schedule 6
                             the PAD for details)                                        of Grant Agreement for
                                                                                         details)
                             Funds are timely made




                                                                      36

available to conservators
and concessionaires'
accounts
Goods and works are
timely procured
Financial accounting and
budget control is adequate
Annual reports and annual
work programs meet agreed
standards by year 3




                              37

Annex 2. Bio-indicator values

      Specie             IKA baseline value           IKA final value               % variation
 Comoé-Léraba
  Bubale                        0.153                       0.271                      +77%
  Phacochère                    0.149                       0.271                      +82%
  Hippotrague                   0.118                       0.161                      +36%
  Guib harnaché                 0.025                       0.048                      +92%
  Cobe de Buffon                0.025                       0.012                      -52%
Boulon-Koflandé
  Bubale                        0.010                       0.079                     +690%
  Phacochère                    0.048                       0.596                     +1142%
  Hippotrague                   0.040                       0.115                     +188%
  Guib harnaché                 0.039                       0.047                      +21%
  Cobe de Buffon                0.024                       0.560                     +2233%
  Kaboré Tambi
  Eléphant                      0.010                       0.023                     +130%
  Hippotrague                   0.020                       0.023                      +15%
  Ourebi                        0.006                       0.019                     +217%
 Mare aux Hippo
  Eléphant                       0.03                       0.049                      +63%
  Hippotrague                   0.006                       0.055                     +817%
  Guib harnaché                 0.006                       0.030                     +400%
  Phacochère                    0.024                       0.080                     +233%
  Cynocéphale                   0.006                       0.092                     +1433%
      Sahel
                Darkoye               Béli              Oursi           Nassoumbou      Séno-Mango
            BL    FV    %V      BL    FV     %V    BL    FV     %V     BL   FV    %V   BL    FV    %V
  Lievre    0.03  0.11  267%   0.03   0.11  267%  0.06  0.16   167%        0.08              0.07
  Gazelle   0.20               0.056  0.15  168%  0.02  0.52  2500%                          0.17
  Chacal    0.01               0.007  0.10  1329% 0.02  0.17   750%        0.07              0.09
  Rat                                                                      0.07              0.07
  palmiste                            0.32
  Autres                              0.13              0.24               0.12              0.09
  Outarde         0.17                0.14        0.06  0.16   167%        0.07              0.09
  Grand                                                                    0.08
  calao

Source: Rapport Final d'Exécution du Projet PAGEN (Ministère de l'Environnement et du Cadre de Vie)




                                                38

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Not applicable for GEF projects.




                                    39

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

           Names                        Title             Unit   Responsibility/
                                                                    Specialty
Lending
Jean-Michel Pavy         Sr. Environmental Sp.           AFTEN   Task Manager
Ibrahim Nebie            Agricultural Services Sp.       AFTEN
Emmanuel Nikiema         Natural Resources Mgmt. Sp.     AFTAR
Luc Lecuit               Evaluation Specialist
Jerome Gauthier          Livestock & Local Dvt. Sp.
Mohammed Bekhechi        Environmental Lawyer
Korka Diallo             Disbursement Specialist
Mamadou Yaro             Financial Management Analyst
Celestin Bado            Sr. Operations Officer          AFTPR
Amadou Tidiane Touré     Procurement Officer             AFTPC
Jane Hopkins             Economist
Pascale Dubois           Country Lawyer
Luc Lapointe             Procurement Officer
Edith Mwemba             Lawyer

Supervision/ICR
Ibrahim Nebie            Sr. Ag. Extension Sp.           AFTAR Task Manager
Paola Agostini           Sr. Economist                   AFTEN Economist
Christophe Crepin        Lead Environment Specialist     AFTEN GEF focal point
Emmanuel Y. Nikiema      Sr Natural Resources Mgmt. Sp.  AFTEN
Matteo Marchisio         Environmental Specialist        AFTEN ICR Author
William Dakpo            Procurement Spec.               AFTPC Procurement
Mamadou Yaro             Sr Financial Management Sp.     AFTFM Financial mgt.
Marwane Diallo           Consultant                      AFTFM Financial mgt.
Gwladys Isabelle Kinda   Team Assistant                  AFMBF Sup. support
Marie-Jeanne Ndiaye      Program Assistant               AFTS4 Sup. support
Virginie Vaselopulos     Program Assistant               AFTEN Sup. support
Francis Lauginie         Consultant                      AFTEN
Oumar Ouattara           Consultant                      WBIHD
Dirk Nicolaas Prevoo     Senior Operations Officer       AFTEN
Abdoul-Wahab Seyni       Social Development Spec.        AFTCS
Bassega Celestin Zinkone Consultant                      AFMBF




                                         40

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle
                                    No. of staff weeks   USD Thousands (including
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY98
  FY99                                                               13.17
  FY00                                     19                        58.97
  FY01                                     23                        78.33
  FY02                                     18                        72.05
  FY03                                       2                        2.88
                            Total:
Supervision/ICR
  FY03                                     16                        59.01
  FY04                                     13                        32.94
  FY05                                     26                        58.58
  FY06                                     25                        40.94
  FY07                                     21                        42.69
  FY08                                     25                        81.93
                            Total:                                  308.52




                                        41

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not available.




                                    42

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not available18.




18The Stakeholder Workshop was not conducted because of lack of financial resources (ref. Section 2.2).



                                               43

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


1.   Contexte, Objectif et Conception du Projet

1.1     Contexte du pays au moment de l'évaluation (du rapport d'évaluation de projet -
        PAD)

Dans son Plan d'action 2000 sur la biodiversité, le Burkina Faso a défini sa vision et son
engagement à long terme à incorporer la gestion des aires de protection de la faune dans le
développement rural. Pour mettre en oeuvre cette vision, le gouvernement a proposé un
Programme National de Gestion des Ecosystèmes Naturels (PRONAGEN) et l'a inscrit au rang
des programmes nationaux prévus dans sa Lettre de Politique en matière de Développement Rural
Décentralisé (LPDRD). Pour la mise en oeuvre du PRONAGEN, le Burkina Faso a sollicité un
financement auprès du Fonds pour l'Environnement Mondial (FEM) à travers le Projet de
Partenariat pour l'Amélioration de la Gestion des Ecosystèmes Naturels (PAGEN). Il est destiné à
servir de complément au Programme National de Développement Rural Décentralisé (PNDRD)
du Burkina.


1.2     Objectifs du projet

(a)     Objectif de la Stratégie d'Assistance aux Pays (SAP) au niveau du secteur : Réduire
        la pauvreté et améliorer les conditions de vie et le potentiel productif de la population
        rurale.

(b)     Objectif du programme (15 ans) : La biodiversité dans les aires de protection de la
        faune prioritaires a un effet bénéfique durable sur le développement local des
        communautés vivant à la périphérie

(c)     Objectif du projet : inverser les tendances de dégradation de la biodiversité dans les
        aires de protection de la faune prioritaires.


1.3     Bénéficiaires principaux du projet (tel que décrit dans le document de projet et les
        différents documents de préparation)

Dans l'ensemble, une population d'environ 100.000 habitants sera affectée par le PAGEN.

· Unité de conservation de la faune du Sahel : dans la Réserve Partielle du Sahel, les
    populations cibles sont surtout les Peuls, les Touaregs, les Songhaï et les Béla (30 à 50 % des
    nomades temporaires). Les populations dans les départements les plus affectés par le projet
    sont évalués à 15.500 (Nassoumbou), 16.700 (Déou), 10.000 (Oursi) et 11.500 (Tin-Akoff).
    Les indicateurs de la pauvreté dans le Sahel sont parmi les plus bas au Burkina.

· Unité de conservation de la faune de la Comoé-Léraba : dans la Comoé, la population
    ciblée est de 20.000 personnes ­ Sénoufo et Dioula ­ répartis en 17 villages aux alentours de
    la réserve de Comoé-Léraba et 20 villages (environ 20.000 habitants) autour de la Forêt
    classée de Boulon-Koflandé.

· Unité de conservation de la faune des Hauts Bassins: sept villages ­ environ 10.000
    habitants issus du groupe ethnique des Bobo ­ seront affectés par le projet dans la Réserve de
    la biosphère de la Mare aux Hippopotames. Un nombre indéterminé d'autres pasteurs
    migrants devront être consultés et impliqués dans la prise des décisions.




                                                  44

· Unité de conservation de la faune de Ponasi : il est prévu que les équipes travaillent avec
    une population Gourounsi, Mossi et Bissa de près de 50.000 personnes répartis sur 90
    villages. La liste définitive des villages sera déterminée à mesure que le projet avance et en
    fonction de la disponibilité des villages à affecter des terres à la création d'un corridor « des
    éléphants » entre le Parc et le Ghana, ainsi qu'au Ranch de gibier de Nazinga. D'autres
    pasteurs migrants dont le nombre est encore inconnu devront être consultés et impliqués dans
    la prise des décisions.


1.4     Composantes du projet

Composante 1 : Renforcement des capacités nationales pour l'appui à la gestion
                     décentralisée des aires de protection de la faune.

L'atteinte de cet objectif se traduira entre autres par :

· un examen du cadre juridique et institutionnel en place, notamment le code forestier, pour
    créer l'environnement propice pour une gestion participative des aires de protection de la
    faune ;

· la réalisation d'études importantes du secteur tel que le mécanisme de financement à long
    terme pour garantir la durabilité des APF ;

· la formation du personnel des Eaux et Forêts et des ONG afin d'améliorer leurs capacités à
    fournir une assistance dans le domaine de la conservation dans l'ensemble du pays ;

· le suivi de l'évolution des bio indicateurs ;

· la coordination transfrontalière pour la gestion des écosystèmes naturels partagés.

Composante 2 : Renforcement des capacités locales pour la gestion des aires de protection
                   de la faune

Il s'agit d'appuyer les communautés riveraines et les partenaires terrain du PAGEN à gérer
convenablement les aires de protection de la faune. L'atteinte de cet objectif va nécessiter des
actions de sensibilisation, de formation et de conservation en direction des partenaires techniques
et des populations.

Composante 3 : Administration et suivi du projet

Les objectifs de la composante sont :

    · veiller à une bonne administration du projet ;

    · assurer l'acquisition des infrastructures et des équipements nécessaires à une gestion
        efficiente du projet.


1.5     Changements significatifs dans le concept du projet (montage institutionnel,
        financement...)

Au lancement du projet, la maîtrise d'ouvrage du projet était assurée par le Ministère de
l'Environnement et du Cadre de Vie à travers la Direction Générale des Eaux et Forêts. La
supervision revenait au Comité National de Pilotage (CNP) du PRONAGEN et au Comité
Consultatif Scientifique et Technique (CCST) mis en place le 31 mars 2003 respectivement par
Arrêté n° 03 - 005/MECV/CAB et Arrêté n° 03 - 006/MECV/SG.




                                                   45

La Cellule de coordination du projet (CCP), chargée de l'exécution des Composantes 1 et 3,
relevait administrativement de la Direction de la Faune et des Chasses (DFC).

Au cours de l'exécution, l'organigramme du MECV a été revu, consacrant la suppression des
UCF. La DGEF a été éclatée en deux directions nationales : la Direction Générale de la
Conservation de la Nature (DGCN) et la Direction Nationale du Cadre Paramilitaire des Eaux et
Forêts (DNCPEF). Au niveau régional, en plus des Directions Régionales de l'Environnement et
du Cadre de Vie (DRECV), il a été créé les Brigades Régionales des Eaux et Forêts (BREF) dont
les organes d'exécution sont les Unités de Protection et de Conservation (UPC). Les BREF
dépendent administrativement de la DNCPEF.

Au regard de ces changements, le cadre institutionnel du PAGEN a été restructuré comme suit :

(i) La CCP/PAGEN est placée sous la tutelle administrative du Secrétariat Général, à l'instar de
     tous les autres projets du département et sous la tutelle technique et opérationnelle de la
     DGCN ;

(ii) les équipes déconcentrées sont converties en "Cellules d'Animation du PAGEN",
     administrativement rattachées à la CCP mais travaillant sous la tutelle technique et
     opérationnelle de la Direction Provinciale de l'Environnement et du Cadre de Vie de leur
     siège respectif. Une note de service du Secrétariat Général du MECV a défini ces relations de
     tutelle et de collaboration ; les relations de tutelle des CA/PAGEN et des DPECV étant, par
     ailleurs, identiques à celles décrites pour la CCP et la DGCN ;

(iii)les contrats entre les concessionnaires et la CCP n'ont pas été modifiés ;

(iv) le suivi des plans de gestion environnementale et sociale a été transféré à la Direction
     Générale de l'Amélioration du Cadre de Vie (DGACV).

L'exécution de la Composante 2 a été assurée par les Cellules d'Animation (les conservateurs
sont devenus des chefs des cellules avec la suppression des UCF) et les concessionnaires
(NATURAMA et AGEREF/CL). Cette composante 2 est mise en oeuvre dans neuf (9) aires de
protection de la faune : Forêt Classée et Réserve partielle de faune et sylvo-pastorale du Sahel
(Nassoumbou, Séno-Mango, Béli, Oursi et Darkoye), la Réserve de la Biosphère de la Mare aux
Hippopotames, le Parc National Kaboré Tambi, la Forêt Classée et Réserve Partielle de Faune de
Comoé-Léraba et les Forêts Classées de Boulon et de Koflandé.


2.    Facteurs ayant impactés/influencés l'exécution du projet et ses résultats

2.1      Au niveau de l'évaluation du projet

Une évaluation indépendante du GEPRENAF a reconnu le résultat important réalisé par ce projet
en matière de développement local et de responsabilisation des communautés locales, ainsi que
dans l'édification des bases d'une conservation participative et adéquate des ressources
(organisation communautaire, organisation de la surveillance villageoise, suivi écologique
participatif, élaboration et mise en oeuvre des plans de gestion et des plans de développement
villageois).


2.2      Au niveau de l'exécution du projet

(a)      Les principaux facteurs ayant influencé positivement l'exécution du projet

· L'impulsion du développement communautaire incluant les groupes marginalisés, les
     pauvres, les femmes et les minorités ethniques. Cela a eu pour résultats la mise en place des



                                                    46

   organisations locales opérationnelles (8 AGEREF, 4 Comités Provinciaux d'Appui à la
   Gestion (CPAG) et 1 Forum du PNKT).

· L'engagement et l'implication des partenaires techniques, du secteur privé, des ONG et des
   associations dans la mise en oeuvre du PAGEN ont été un plus dans la politique de gestion
   durable des APF.

· La révision de l'Accord de Don (conversion de la monnaie de décaissement de DTS en
   dollars américains et la réallocation des catégories de décaissement).

· Le reversement des taxes d'abattage à l'AGEREF/CL a permis d'améliorer l'efficacité des
   retombées du secteur faune sur le développement des communautés riveraines et la
   réalisation des aménagements physiques.

· Le déblocage de 258 millions de FCFA supplémentaires par le gouvernement a permis de
   soutenir les mesures d'accompagnement des populations affectées par la mise en place des
   corridors de migration des animaux sauvages entre le PNKT-Ranch de gibier de Nazinga et
   entre le PNKT-Red Volta River corridor au Ghana.

· Les différentes recommandations des missions d'appui et de supervision ont eu pour résultats
   l'amélioration de la gestion du projet sur les plans technique, approches organisationnelles et
   financier.

· La mise en oeuvre de microprojets générateurs de revenus (recommandation de la revue à mi-
   parcours) a davantage motivé les communautés riveraines à s'intéresser et à s'investir dans
   les activités du projet.

· L'implication des communautés dans les travaux en HIMO tels que l'ouverture et l'entretien
   des pare-feux, des pistes, ainsi que des aménagements divers a constitué des sources
   d'emplois et de revenus pour ces communautés.

· Le renforcement des capacités à tous les niveaux (sensibilisation, formations, éducation
   environnementale, équipements et appuis divers).

· Le pilotage par l'UICN des questions liées à la gestion transfrontalière des écosystèmes
   partagés a permis de jeter les bases d'une concertation solide pour l'élaboration de protocoles
   d'accord, de plan de gestion et de rencontres périodiques des parties concernées.

(b)     Quelques facteurs ayant influencé négativement l'exécution du projet

· L'instabilité du personnel : en cinq (5) ans, le projet a connu deux (2) Coordonnateurs, deux
   (2) Administrateurs gestionnaires, un départ avant terme du responsable chargé du suivi-
   évaluation (non remplacé) à la CCP, quatre (4) Conservateurs à la Cellule d'Animation de
   Comoé-Léraba, deux (2) Conservateurs, deux (2) Ecologues et trois (3) Comptables
   gestionnaires au Sahel ; le recrutement tardif des Assistantes administratives dans les Cellules
   d'Animation. et des Sociologues dans les sites de Comoé-Léraba et de PONASI.

· Le manque d'uniformisation du cadre logique et des indicateurs dans les documents du projet.
   Les documents du projet (Accord de don, rapport d'évaluation PAD) ont des exigences
   différentes en matière d'indicateurs de performance ou déclencheurs de phase. Un total de dix
   neuf (19) indicateurs sont répartis comme suit selon les documents :

   (i) huit (8) indicateurs déclencheurs sont dans le rapport d'évaluation du projet (PAD) contre
        seulement quatre (4) dans l'Accord de Don ;

   (ii) dix (10) indicateurs de performance du projet cités dans l'Accord de Don en annexe 6
        sont indiqués dans le rapport d'évaluation du projet (PAD) comme principaux indicateurs



                                                47

        de performance. Neuf (9) indicateurs de performance du rapport d'évaluation du projet ne
        figurent pas dans l'Accord de Don du projet.

   On constate, en plus de ce manque d'uniformisation des indicateurs, que la réalisation de
   certains d'entre eux ne dépendait pas du PAGEN. Cette situation a par moment joué
   négativement sur la définition des stratégies et l'utilisation judicieuse des moyens pour
   l'atteinte de ces indicateurs.

· La fluctuation du dollar (740 FCFA, taux le plus haut et 458 FCFA taux le plus bas
   enregistrés au cours de l'exécution du projet) : Cette situation a occasionné une réduction de
   1,137 milliard de FCFA du Don du Fonds pour l'Environnement Mondial (FEM). Aussi, des
   activités planifiées, des recommandations de missions tout comme certaines études
   (inventaire aérien, étude pour la mise à jour de l'empiètement agricole dans tous les sites)
   n'ont pu être exécutées en raison de la forte diminution des ressources financières.

· Au niveau du développement local, le financement n'a pu être assuré par le PNGT2 comme
   initialement prévu.


2.3     Suivi et évaluation (S&E), conception, exécution et utilisation

(a)     Facteurs positifs :

· Elaboration et utilisation du manuel de procédures de gestion administrative et comptable

· Elaboration et utilisation du manuel de suivi évaluation

· Planification régulière des activités et rapportage trimestriel et annuel (RSF)

· Réalisation régulière des audits financiers et comptables

· Mise en place d'une BD-faune et d'une BD-SIG au niveau de la CCP et des sites

· Formation des écologues au traitement des données de faune et de SIG

(b)     Facteurs négatifs :

· Le logiciel TECPRO non adapté au projet a été remplacé par le logiciel TOMPRO pour
   pallier les difficultés de gestion comptable et financier

· Départ avant terme (une année avant clôture) du responsable chargé du suivi-évaluation.


2.4     Conformité de l'exécution aux procédures de sauvegarde environnementale et
        sociale et le respect des procédures fiduciaires

(a)     Facteurs positifs :

· Formation des équipes du projet sur les procédures de sauvegarde environnementale et
   sociale de la Banque Mondiale

· Elaboration des plans de mitigation selon une démarche participative (implication des chefs
   de terre, chefs de villages, maires des communes, préfets, responsables administratifs,
   partenaires techniques (Agriculture, Elevage, Eaux et Forêts, Action Sociale, Mouvement
   Burkinabè des Droits de l'Homme et des Peuples (MBDHP)) pour les personnes affectées par
   le projet (PAP) dans tous les sites

· Mesures d'accompagnement réalisées à 91 % pour les PAP à PONASI (mise en place des
   corridors)



                                                48

· Surcreusement d'une mare hors APF au profit d'un éleveur affecté au Sahel

· Réalisation d'infrastructures communautaires et accompagnement des éleveurs en périphérie
    du PNKT

· Transformation des champs en vergers écologiques le long des limites de la réserve de la
    biosphère de la mare aux hippopotames

(b)      Facteurs négatifs :

· Manque de ressources financières pour la mise en oeuvre des plans de mitigation

· Non respect des procédures de sauvegarde environnementale et sociale

· Non respect des procédures fiduciaires au regard de l'insuffisance des fonds


2.5      Nouvelle phase

La phase transitoire du nouveau projet (18 mois) utilisera les mêmes procédures de gestion
(procédures Banque mondiale) que le PAGEN. Au niveau central, une équipe légère permanente
de trois personnes (des techniciens) coordonnera l'ensemble des activités de la phase de
préparation et sera appuyée par une équipe de 6 à 7 personnes temporairement (suivi de la
réalisation des études de base, organisation des ateliers de validation, implication du privé et des
communes, finalisation du PNGFAP (outils de négociation), préparation de tous les documents du
projet, etc.).

Au niveau des sites PAGEN, il est prévu le maintien tout au plus de deux techniciens pour
appuyer et renforcer les capacités des communautés dans le cadre de la préservation/consolidation
des acquis (surveillance villageoise, suivi écologique participatif...). Les Brigades des Eaux et
Forêts interviendront dans les opérations de sécurisation et de lutte anti-braconnage dans les APF
du PAGEN. Il n'est pas prévu d'investissements, ni d'équipements nouveaux pendant la phase
transitoire.


3.    Résultats

3.1      Evaluation de la pertinence de l'objectif, la conception et l'exécution du projet

Le Projet de Partenariat pour l'Amélioration de la Gestion des Ecosystèmes Naturels (PAGEN)
est destiné à servir de complément au Programme National de Développement Rural Décentralisé
(PNDRD) du Burkina (Doc. PAD). Son objectif cadre bien avec les priorités nationales à travers
les politiques de lutte contre la pauvreté (Cadre Stratégique de Lutte contre la Pauvreté ­ CSLP).
Au plan sectoriel, le PAGEN est un outil de mise en oeuvre du Programme National de Gestion de
la Faune et des Aires Protégées (PNGFAP). Ces politiques et programmes ont été élaborés sur la
base des préoccupations des populations.

A l'analyse, on constate qu'aucune modification n'a été enregistrée au niveau de l'objectif, des
résultats et des composantes durant les 5 ans d'exécution du projet. Ce qui dénote d'une bonne
préparation du projet.

Le dispositif de partenariat PAGEN/PNGT2 prévu dans la conception du projet est une traduction
de la nécessité d'établir le lien entre conservation et développement mais son opérationnalité n'a
pas été bien mûrie car les objectifs du développement local ne sont pas forcement ceux de la
conservation.




                                                  49

Il a été constaté une absence d'évaluation des coûts financiers liés à l'application des procédures
de sauvegarde environnementale et sociale.

Il faut également noter que certaines activités n'ont pu être réalisées faute de ressources
financières devenues insuffisantes à cause de la dépréciation du dollar américain qui a conduit à
un déficit financier de plus d'un milliard de FCFA.


3.2      Evaluation de l'achèvement de l'objectif du projet

Composante 1 : Renforcement des capacités nationales pour l'appui à la gestion
décentralisée des aires de protection de la faune.

(a)    Appui complémentaire aux structures du MECV

· L'appui au fonctionnement

· La fourniture d'équipements (7 motos, 1 véhicule 4 x 4, du matériel de communication, du
    matériel informatique, ...)

· L'écriture de la stratégie nationale de lutte contre le braconnage

· La mise en place de la procédure d'endossement des études ou notice d'impact

· Le suivi des plans de gestion environnementale et sociale des projets environnementaux

· La conduite d'enquêtes publiques

· L'appui à la restructuration de l'ENEF (étude d'adaptation des formations diplômantes,
    élaboration d'un module sur les techniques d'inventaire pédestre de la faune sauvage et
    démarrage de la formation continue)

(b)    Sensibilisation et formation

· 264 personnes du MECV (personnel PAGEN, DNCPEF, DFC, DGACV, DGCN) ont été
    formées sur la conservation et la protection, le suivi écologique, la gestion des bases de
    données faune, l'évaluation sociale et environnementale, l'écotourisme, etc.

· L'organisation de voyages d'études nationaux et internationaux au profit de 102 participants
    du MECV (personnel PAGEN, DNCPEF, DFC, DGACV, DGCN, ONTB)

· La tenue de quatre (4) ateliers d'information et de sensibilisation du projet au profit de 164
    décideurs, élus locaux et juges en partenariat avec la DFC, l'UICN, le PRIJD/SF (Projet de
    Réforme Institutionnelle et Juridique pour la Décentralisation dans le Secteur Forestier) et le
    PADELIA (Projet de Partenariat pour le Développement des Législations et Institutions de
    l'Environnement en Afrique)

· La mise sur pied d'un centre de documentation avec plus de 900 documents qui y sont
    archivés

Ces interventions ont permis une mobilisation de tous les acteurs autour du projet.

(c)    Etudes et ateliers visant à soutenir les réformes

· La revue des textes en vigueur dans le secteur de la faune en rapport avec la décentralisation

· L'évaluation des concessions des zones de chasse au Burkina

· L'étude sur le mécanisme de financement à long terme (processus non achevé)

· L'évaluation du renforcement des capacités des conservateurs et des populations



                                                 50

· L'élaboration d'un plan de communication

· L'élaboration du PNGFAP et de son plan d'action (processus non achevé)

· L'étude sur l'évolution du recouvrement des taxes de gestion

(d)    Suivi, système d'information et communication

· La mise en place de bases de données sur la faune et SIG qui constitue des outils utiles au
     MECV pour le suivi de l'évolution des bio-indicateurs et de l'état d'empiètement agricole des
     APF

· La réalisation de quatre (4) inventaires pédestres dans chaque site sauf au Sahel (deux au
     Sahel)

· La réalisation d'un inventaire aérien

· La réalisation d'un inventaire ornithologique (au PNKT)

· L'évaluation du taux d'empiètement agricole des APF

· La création et la mise à jour périodique d'un site Web (http// :www.pagen-burkina.org) pour
     assurer la diffusion et la visibilité des résultats du projet.

(e)    Coordination à l'échelle internationale, (UICN)

· L'organisation de rencontres et ateliers avec le Ghana et le Mali. Cela a permis
     l'établissement d'une feuille de route entre le Burkina et le Ghana pour l'élaboration et la
     signature d'un protocole d'accord

· Le Mali et le Burkina ont mis en place un Conseil de Gestion de l'Ecosystème Transfrontalier
     (CGET) et son Comité Technique (CT)

· Les problèmes d'insécurité n'ont pas permis de mettre en place un programme de
     collaboration transfrontalière avec la Côte d'Ivoire

Dans l'ensemble, ces résultats sont considérés comme un succès tel que démontré par les
indicateurs du projet.


Composante 2 : Renforcement des capacités locales pour la gestion des aires de protection
                    de la faune

(i)    Appui complémentaire : par le biais de protocoles de collaboration avec les services
       techniques de l'Environnement, de l'Agriculture, de l'Elevage et de l'Education pour un
       accompagnement thématique.

(ii)   Assistance technique à travers la mise en place et le fonctionnement d'équipe
       pluridisciplinaire au niveau de chaque site.

(iii) Renforcement des institutions locales, formation, sensibilisation et éducation
       environnementale

· La création de douze (12) structures faîtières pour la gestion des ressources naturelles et de la
     faune : huit (8) AGEREF, quatre (4) comités provinciaux d'appui à la gestion du parc
     (CPAG) du PNKT

· La création d'un cadre de concertation (forum du PNKT)




                                                     51

· 43 voyages d'études organisés au profit de 604 personnes des Cellules d'Animations, des
    concessionnaires, des partenaires techniques et des populations

· 273 thèmes de formations et d'animations/sensibilisations ont touchés plus de 153 000
    participants

· L'éducation environnementale a touché 61 écoles primaires avec la réalisation de 18 jeux
    concours, 122 émissions radiophoniques et la réalisation d'une cassette audio

(iv) Développement local

· L'appui aux partenaires en développement, notamment le PNGT2, le PDR/Boulgou, le
    PDL/Z et le PDRDP/BK, aux diagnostics participatifs, à l'élaboration et à la mise en oeuvre
    de plans de développement local dans les villages riverains des APF ;

· La réalisation de 52 microprojets par les communautés riveraines des APF.

(v)   Etapes initiales de la gestion des aires de protection de la faune

· L'identification et la négociation des limites des aires de protection de la faune au Sahel

· L'établissement des règles locales de gestion des ressources naturelles dans les APF du Sahel

· La réalisation des études de faisabilité des corridors de migration de la faune dans le
    complexe PONASI

· La création effective des deux corridors de migration de la faune dans le PONASI

· Le diagnostic des ressources en eau de la Réserve de la Biosphère de la Mare aux
    Hippopotames

· L'élaboration et l'adoption des plans d'aménagement et de gestion de trois (3) aires de
    protection de la faune (PNKT, Mare aux hippopotames, Comoé-Léraba)

· L'agrandissement de l'entité Boulon-Koflandé

· La création de six (6) APF à l'intérieur de la forêt classée et réserve partielle et sylvopastorale
    dans le Sahel.

(vi) Mise en oeuvre des plans de gestion des aires de protection de la faune

· La réalisation d'infrastructures dans les APF et dans les zones périphériques

· La réalisation de vergers écologiques le long des limites périmétrales de la Réserve de
    Biosphère de la Mare aux Hippopotames

(vii) Protection et surveillance : La mise en oeuvre des protocoles avec les services forestiers
      et l'implication des surveillants villageois ont entraîné la reconstitution de la diversité
      biologique en général et des ressources fauniques en particulier, en attestent les résultats
      des différents inventaires fauniques.

(viii) Valorisation des APF : La valorisation a porté sur la pêche, le bois de chauffe, le tourisme
       de vision, la chasse safari à Comoé-Léraba, l'apiculture, la collecte des produits forestiers
       non ligneux (amendes de karité, fruits de néré, etc.) principalement à la mare aux
       hippopotames et au PNKT.


Composante 3 : Administration et suivi du projet

(a)      Appui complémentaire



                                               52

Mise en place de deux organes de supervision du projet :

· Le Comité National de Pilotage (CNP) du PRONAGEN a été mis en place le 31 mars 2003
    par Arrêté n° 03 - 005/MECV/CAB. Il a eu à analyser et à adopter les programmes d'activités
    et les budgets annuels du projet ; discuter en session les rapports annuels et prodiguer des
    conseils aux équipes du projet sur la conformité des résultats par rapport aux politiques
    nationales et aux stratégies sectorielles ;

· Le Comité Consultatif Scientifique et Technique (CCST) a également été mis en place le 31
    mars 2003 par Arrêté n° 03 - 006/MECV/SG. Il a joué le rôle de conseil et d'orientation
    scientifique et technique (avis sur les études, les inventaires fauniques, etc.).

(b)     Administration du projet

· Passation de marches : Au total, 161 marchés ont été passés par le projet.

· Gestion financière :

    -   Auprès du Bailleur: La mobilisation des fonds auprès du Bailleur s'est effectuée sans
        aucune difficulté. A la date du 10 septembre 2007, le projet avait déjà réalisé 100 % de
        décaissement sur le compte du Don logé à Washington. Seulement, les avances de fonds
        accordées par le Bailleur ne sont pas totalement recouvrées. Le solde en cours au
        31/12/2007 s'établit à 35 millions de francs CFA. Toutefois, il faut noter qu'en termes de
        mobilisation des fonds sur le compte du Don, le projet a enregistré une perte de 1,137
        millions de francs CFA suite à la dépréciation du cours du dollar américain.

    -   Auprès du budget de l'Etat burkinabé : Les fonds de contrepartie nationale ont été
        mobilisés dans les délais impartis et sans aucune difficulté. A la date du 15 novembre
        2007, l'Etat a débloqué un montant cumulé de 1.344.500.000 francs CFA au profit du
        PAGEN pour les années 2003 à 2007. Toutefois, il faut noter que l'Etat a débloqué au
        titre de l'année 2007, un montant supplémentaire (non inscrit dans la Loi des finances) de
        258 millions de francs CFA en vue de compenser partiellement les pertes enregistrées sur
        le financement du Bailleur.

· La planification et la communication de rapports : Les rencontres périodiques de
    planification sont régulièrement organisées. Les RSF, les rapports périodiques et les
    documents techniques ont été élaborés trimestriellement et transmis régulièrement à la
    Banque.

· Le suivi de la mise en oeuvre : Les activités du projet ont été régulièrement suivies à travers
    5 missions d'appui/supervision conjointes Banque Mondiale - Gouvernement. Des missions
    d'appui techniques nationales et internationales ont été réalisées par les directions centrales
    du MECV, la DGCOOP et l'UICN.

(c)     Audits

Des audits financiers et comptables externes ont été régulièrement conduits et les
recommandations mises en oeuvre dans les délais préconisés. Durant l'exécution du projet, cinq
(05) missions d'audit ont été réalisées dont trois (03) conduites par le Cabinet Deloitte & Touche
pour les exercices 2003 à 2005 et les deux (02) autres par le Cabinet CAFEC-KA pour les
exercices 2006 et 2007 (l'audit 2007 est en cours depuis le 10 janvier 2008). Tous les rapports
d'audits ont été ventilés aux différentes parties prenantes du projet et archivés au sein de la
Cellule de Coordination.

Les conclusions issues des rapports d'audit sont satisfaisantes (les rapports de 2003, 2005 et 2006
ont été certifiés sans réserve). Le rapport d'audit 2004 n'a pas été certifié au regard des anomalies
qui ont entaché l'exécution financière de l'année considérée. Cette situation a créé une tension de


                                                  53

trésorerie qui a négativement joué sur la mise en oeuvre des activités du projet sur une période de
quatre mois. C'est ainsi que le MECV, de concert avec la Banque Mondiale, a procédé au
changement du Coordonnateur et de l'Administrateur Gestionnaire du projet en juillet 2005.


Conclusion

La mise en oeuvre de l'ensemble des activités dans les trois composantes (renforcement des
capacités nationales, renforcement des capacités locales et administration) a permis de réaliser les
indicateurs déclencheurs de phase (8) et les indicateurs de performance (11). Le niveau d'atteinte
des indicateurs déclencheurs qui est de 80,70 % se présente comme suit :

· 3 indicateurs réalisés à 100 % : (i) empiètement agricole dans tous les sites ; (ii) élaboration
    de textes d'application du code forestier ; (iii) recouvrement des taxes en vigueur dans le
    secteur faune.

· 3 indicateurs réalisés à 75 % : (i) système national de suivi des bio indicateurs/inventaire de
    la faune (inventaire aérien adopté) ; (ii) plans d'aménagement et de gestion participative
    adoptés (PNKT, CL, HB), avant projet de plan d'aménagement adopté par la CPAT de
    Comoé pour Boulon-Koflandé ; (iii) AGEREF concessionnaires (8 AGEREF créées au total,
    dont 5 sont au sahel mais non prévues initialement).

· 1 indicateur en cours de réalisation à 40 % : mise en place d'un mécanisme de
    financement à long terme des APF (document provisoire disponible).

· 1 indicateur déclencheur a été supprimé à la revue à mi parcours : (au moins 2 guides
    safari/écotourisme privés fonctionnent selon les normes professionnelles et d'éthique à
    Comoé-Léraba, Boulon-Koflandé). Supprimé parce que ne correspond pas à la réalité de
    terrain après toutes analyses faites (recommandation de la mission de revue à mi parcours en
    décembre 2005).


3.3     Evaluation de l'efficacité du projet

N/A


3.4     Justification pour l'évaluation des résultats du projet

    Notation: Satisfaisante

D'une manière générale, l'exécution du PAGEN a permis d'enregistrer des progrès significatifs
en matière de :

· renforcement des capacités nationales et des institutions locales (CNP, CCST, DNCPEF,
    DGACV, DGCN, ENEF, DEP, AGEREF, secteur privé, etc.) ;

· inversion des tendances de dégradation de la biodiversité dans tous les sites (amélioration des
    habitats et des indices d'abondance kilométrique des populations animales, exemples :
    apparition d'une nouvelle espèce de singe (Cercocebus atys lunatus ou mangabey enfumé)
    dans la FCRPF-CL, retour constaté des éléphants dans le PNKT, etc.) ;

· création d'emplois au profit des communautés périphériques, de l'Etat et des prestataires
    privés.

L'atteinte de ces résultats majeurs constatés constitue des motifs de satisfaction du projet.




                                                54

3.5     Autres impacts du projet:

(a)    Aspects pauvreté. genre, et développement social

La mise en oeuvre du PAGEN a servi de tremplin à la consolidation de la dynamique de
développement local, à la lutte contre la pauvreté et à la prise en compte des intérêts des groupes
faibles dans le processus. Un des succès de la mise en oeuvre du projet dans le cadre des
aménagements a été la fixation des jeunes dans leur terroir à travers la création d'emplois. Au
total, 283 emplois permanents et temporaires ont été créés de 2003 à 2007.

D'autres activités ont été réalisées pour contribuer à la production et au développement local :
forages pour l'eau potable et l'abreuvement des animaux domestiques, fenils pour le stockage du
fourrage, vergers fruitiers, pistes rurales, parcs de vaccination, équipement des pêcheurs, culture
de fourrage.

On note par ailleurs l'appui au genre à travers l'implication des femmes dans les structures de
gestion des APF et dans la mise en oeuvre d'activités génératrices de revenus (343 femmes ont
bénéficié de microprojets).

(b)    Cadre institutionnel (renforcement à long terme)

La mise en oeuvre du PAGEN a permis d'améliorer le cadre institutionnel de gestion des APF,
notamment à travers l'élaboration des textes d'application du code forestier, la diffusion du
document du code forestier aux agents de terrain, le développement du partenariat avec les
collectivités locales, le secteur privé et les associations villageoises afin de favoriser la
participation de tous les acteurs aux efforts de conservation mais également de veiller à l'accès de
tous aux bénéfices issus de la conservation.

(c)    Résultats non attendus positifs

· L'acceptation des partenaires au développement (institutionnels, techniques et financiers)
    d'accompagner les associations et ONG partenaires (NATURAMA et l'AGEREF/CL) et le
    PAGEN dans le processus de réhabilitation des APF et dans la lutte contre la pauvreté. Parmi
    ces partenaires on peut retenir : les collectivités territoriales, la SNV/Bobo, le Royaume du
    Trophée, la Maison de l'entreprise, les CCTP, les ONG, les institutions de recherche (INERA,
    CIFOR, Universités de Ouagadougou et de Bobo-Dioulasso), Parco Orsiera Rocciavre,
    IREM /LCD, VBN, Comité UICN/Pays-Bas, la Province de Vercelli, Parco lame del sesia,
    Ecole « Martin Luther King » de Turin en Italie ;

· Les efforts remarquables du Gouvernement dans la mobilisation de ressources
    complémentaires d'un montant de 258 millions de francs ;

· La mise en oeuvre de microprojets générateurs de revenus ainsi que les retombées
    économiques visibles à partir des fonds propres du projet ;

· La réalisation des deux corridors de migration de la faune entre le PNKT et le Ranch de
    gibier de Nazinga d'une part et entre le PNKT et le Red Volta River au Ghana d'autre part.


3.6     Brève description des conclusions de l'évaluation de la perception du projet par les
        bénéficiaires et l'atelier réunissant les parties prenantes (stakeholders)

Quelques témoignages des communautés bénéficiaires :




                                                  55

Sahel : « Il y a plus de vingt ans que l'on n'avait pas observé de pintades sauvages sur la colline
de TIN-EDIAR ; des oiseaux viennent pondre au bord de la mare et n'ont plus peur de la
proximité de l'homme ... il en est de même des gazelles.

Hauts-Bassins : « Nos cours d'eau sont asséchés et nous connaissons la rareté des sols du fait de
la densité de la population et du bétail qui, avec l'avancée du front agricole, ont participé à
combler les sources d'eau. Le projet nous a aidés à réaliser des vergers fruitiers. Cela a suscité
l'observation de mesures communautaires interdisant la coupe de bois vert».

AGEREF-CL : « le projet est tout pour nous. Il nous a permis de faire de l'apiculture moderne,
la teinture, des voyages d'études, de connaître et d'utiliser des presses à karité (Rapport
d'évaluation du PAGEN par les bénéficiaires des sites d'intervention, décembre 2007).

Les bénéficiaires ont une appréciation positive du projet et ont souhaité la poursuite du
financement en vue de renforcer davantage leurs capacités.


4.    Justification pour l'évaluation des risques relatifs à l'atteinte de l'objectif.

       Notation: Risque négligeable

Sur les sept (7) risques prévus, seul le manque de collaboration pour la gestion de l'écosystème
transfrontalier entre la Côte d'Ivoire (zone inter villageoise de biodiversité de Warigué) et le
Burkina (FCRPF-CL) fut un risque élevé au regard de la situation d'insécurité en Côte d'Ivoire.
Les autres risques ont été négligeables au regard des résultats significatifs atteints par le projet.


5.    Evaluation de la performance de la Banque et le Bénéficiaire

5.1      Banque

(a)    Qualité de la conception du projet:

       Notation: Satisfaisante

Le PAGEN a été conçu comme un outil d'opérationnalisation du partenariat tripartite Etat-
Communautés - Privés dans la gestion des APF. Une telle disposition permettait d'anticiper sur le
processus de la décentralisation en cours et de faire en sorte que l'avènement ultérieur de la
communalisation intégrale ne vienne compromettre les acquis du projet sur le terrain. Donc,
globalement, il y a eu une bonne conception anticipée du projet et une bonne articulation avec les
textes d'orientation nationaux, la stratégie de réduction de la pauvreté et les stratégies nationales
et sectorielles (LPDRD, PNGFAP, CSLP, SDR, etc.).

Tirant leçons de l'expérience du GEPRENAF, les concepteurs ont voulu dissocier la fonction de
conservation de la biodiversité de la fonction de promotion du développement local en mettant en
place un dispositif d'intervention couplé PAGEN/PNGT2. Malheureusement ce couplage s'est
avéré peu performant sur les sites, du fait de la spécificité des procédures de gestion de chaque
projet tant et si bien que la complicité recherchée n'a pas toujours été au rendez-vous.

En plus, il a été constaté une sous évaluation financière des actions de mitigation rendant souvent
difficiles la mise en place des corridors biologiques et l'accompagnement des PAPs. Ces deux
points ont évidemment constitué le talon d'Achille de la conception du projet.

(b)    Qualité de la Supervision:

         Notation: Satisfaisante




                                                 56

Les missions conjointes de supervision de la Banque Mondiale et du gouvernement ont permis de
constater les progrès réalisés dans l'exécution du projet, d'identifier des facteurs de blocage et de
formuler des recommandations susceptibles d'aider les acteurs de terrain dans la mise en oeuvre
efficace des programmes d'activités. Les missions de supervision ont été régulières et animées
par des équipes de qualité.

(c)   Justification pour l'évaluation de la performance de la Banque

        Notation: Satisfaisante

· Contribution à l'amélioration de la vision politique nationale en matière de la gestion de la
    faune ;

· preuve de flexibilité dans la gestion administrative et financière du projet (prise en compte de
    la nécessité de créer des corridors dans le PONASI, révision de l'Accord de Don pour
    prendre en compte le financement des microprojets écologiques) ;

· engagement personnel et disponibilité des principaux responsables au niveau de la Banque
    Mondiale ;

· engagement de la Banque Mondiale et de l'Etat à consolider les acquis et à poursuivre le
    financement des APF.


5.2     Bénéficiaire

(a)   Performance du Gouvernement:

        Notation: Très Satisfaisante

· Mobilisation effective de la contrepartie nationale

· Accompagnement du projet par les services de l'Etat (lutte anti-braconnage, inventaire
    faunique, suivi de l'exécution)

· Prompte réaction par rapport aux difficultés rencontrées

(b)   Performance de l'unité de coordination:

        Notation: Satisfaisante

    · Meilleure conduite des actions du projet en dépit des difficultés rencontrées en 2005.

    · Bonne exécution financière avec un taux d'absorption de 100%.

(c)   Jugement général de la performance du Bénéficiaire:

        Notation: Satisfaisante

La performance du bénéficiaire est jugée satisfaisante à travers :

· l'engagement des communautés riveraines des APF dans la mise en oeuvre du projet
    (aboutissement du processus de création et de libération des corridors biologiques,
    reconnaissance juridique des AGEREF, concession de la gestion des APF aux communautés
    et au secteur privé) ;

· le versement régulier de la contrepartie nationale ;

· le financement supplémentaire du projet en cours d'exécution ;

· l'amélioration du paysage institutionnel du projet pour favoriser sa mise en oeuvre ;



                                                57

· les changements institutionnels, législatifs et règlementaires, réalisés et/ou en cours
   (élaboration des textes d'application du Code forestier, adoption du PNGFAP, processus de
   création de mécanisme de financement à long terme, etc.).


6  Leçons à tirer de l'exécution du projet

Les leçons tirées sont que :

· La réussite des actions de conservation de la biodiversité passe par la lutte contre la pauvreté

· La durabilité des ressources naturelles ne peut être assurée qu'à travers les actions
   appropriées de conservation, de protection, d'aménagements, de responsabilisation, de
   sensibilisation et de renforcement des capacités des acteurs

· La valorisation des ressources naturelles des APF est source de motivation financière des
   populations pour la conservation de la biodiversité

· L'implication des populations à la surveillance des APF produit des résultats satisfaisants. Il
   convient tout de même de définir un statut pour les surveillants

· L'instauration d'un climat de confiance entre les populations et les acteurs de développement,
   notamment les forestiers favorise la synergie dans la gestion des ressources naturelles

· La contribution des ONG est un plus à la gestion durable de la biodiversité

· La cohabitation bétail domestique ­ faune sauvage s'impose au Sahel

· La nécessité d'allouer des fonds conséquents à la prise en charge des mesures d'atténuation
   des personnes affectées par les projets de conservation est incontournable

· Un engagement politique fort pour soutenir la gestion transfrontalière des ressources
   naturelles partagées est indispensable

· Les actions de LAB soient menées en collaboration avec les concessionnaires

· La réussite des projets de gestion durable et de valorisation de la biodiversité nécessite des
   financements à long terme




                                               58

     Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


Not available




                                   59

               Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


1.  World Bank: Project Appraisal Document on a proposed Grant from the
    Global Environment Facility Trust Fund; April 2002.

2.  World Bank: GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement; July, 2002.

3.  World Bank: Project Status Reports (PSRs) and Implementation Status
    Results and Reports (ISRs); 2002-2008.

4.  Aide-Memoires of Supervision Missions and Mid-term Review Aide-
    Memoire; (2002-2007).

5.  Rapport Final d'Exécution du projet PAGEN, Ministère de l'Environnement
    et du Cadre de Vie.

6.  Rapport d'Achèvement (No. 51242 BUR) d'un Fonds Fiduciaire de US$ 7,5
    Millions au Burkina Faso Pour le Projet de Partenariat pour L'Amélioration de
    la Gestion des Ecosystèmes Naturels (PAGEN) ; March 2008.

7.  Plan de Mitigation des Personnes Affectées par le Trace des Corridors de
    l'UFC PONASI (Rapport Provisoire), Ministère de l'Environnement et du
    Cadre de Vie; May 2006.




                                   60

