Document of
The World Bank
Report No.13309-SL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
MARCH 13, 1995
Infrastructure Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             =              Leone (Le)
US$1.00                   =              Le 600
Le 1.00                   =              US$0.002
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)               =              3.28 feet (ft)
I hectare (ha)            =              2.47 acres
I kilometer (km)          =              0.625 miles (mi)
I liter (1)               =              0.220 Imperial gallons
I Imperial gallon (Ig)    =              4.545 1
1 cubic meter (m3)        -              220 Ig
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADF                   African Development Fund
CDC                   Commonwealth Development Corporation
CPI                   Consumer Price Index
DOF                   Department of Finance
DOHSS                 Department of Health and Social Services
DOEP                  Department of Energy and Power
FCC                   Freetown City Council
FIRP                  Freetown Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
GOSL                  Government of Sierra Leone
GVWC                  Guma Valley Water Company
NGO                   Non Government Organization
PMCU/FIRP             Project Management and Coordination Unit/FIRP
PPAR                  Project Performance Audit Report
SLRA                  Sierra Leone Roads Authority
SLWC                  Sierra Leone Water Company
UNDP                  United Nations Development Programme
WSD                   Water Supply Division
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Sierra Leone    July I to June 30
GVWC                         November I to October 31



REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .............................................;
L INTRODUCTION ..............................................1
IL  THE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR .............................................2
A. WATER RESOURCES AND SANITATION ..............................................2
B. SECTOR ORGANIZATION ............................................3
C. SECTOR DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY .............................................3
D. BANK INVOLVEMENT IN THE SECTOR ......5.......................................5
L. THE PROJECT .............................................5
A. PROJECT ORIGIN AND FORMULATION .............................................5
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES .............................................6
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION                                                 .6
D. PROJECT COSTS .............................................8
E. FINANCING PLAN ............................................8
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ............................................ 10
A. IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES                  ....................      ........................ 10
1. Project lmplementation Arrangement .............................................. 10
2. Guma Valley Water Company (GVWC) ..............................................                        11
3. Sierra Leone Roads Authority (SLRA) .............................................. 12
B. STATUS OF PROJECT PREPARATION ...................                    .......................... 13
C. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE ............................................ 13
D. PROCUREMENT ............................................. 13
E. DISBURSEMENTS .............................................                                                    16
F. PROJECT ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ............................................ 17
G. PROJECT REPORTING, MONITORING AND SUPERVISION                         ........................................ 17
H. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS ............................................. 18
V. GVWC'S FINANCES ............................................                                                           19
A. PAST FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE ............................................. 19
B. WATER TARIFFS ............................................ 20
C. BILLING AND COLLECTION ........................................................... 21
D. ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ............................                                                           22
E. GVWC's FINANCING PLAN ............................                                                             22
F. FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS ............................                                                             23
This report is based on the findings of Bank appraisal and preappraisal missions which visited Sierra Leone in May/June 1994 and
February/March 1994, respectively. The appraisal mission comprised Messrs. Nguyen Tin (Principal Operations Officer/Task Manager), Mark
Markanda (Financial Analyst/Co-Task Manager) and David Henley (Senior Sanitary Engineer). The preappraisal mission was led by Mr.
Nguyen Tin and comprised Messrs. Mark Makanda and David Henley and Ms. Kavita Sethi (Economist). Mr Arthur Bruestle acted as the peer
reviewer. Mrs Perla San Juan and Ms. Caroline Moisson provided secretarial and word processing support. Mr. Alberto Harth and Mr. Jean-
Louis Sarbib are the Managing Division Chief and Department Director, respectively, for the operation.



VL PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS .................................................. 24
A. PROJECT BENEFITS ..................................................                           24
B. POVERTY ALLEVIATION ................................................... 25
C. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ..................................................                          25
D. PROJECT RISKS .................................................. 26
VIL AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ..................................................             26
A.   AGREEMENTS  REACHED ..................................................                      26
B. RECOMMENDATION ..................................................                             28
ANNEXES
2-1     Letter on Water Sector Policies
3-1     Detailed Project Scope
3-2     TORs: Environmental Sanitation Component
3-3     TORs: Possible Role of Private Sector in Enhancing GVWC's Operating Efficiency
3-4     Detailed Project Cost Estimates
4-1     GVWC - Organization Chart
4-2     SLRA - Organization Chart
4-3     Project Implementation Schedule
4-4     Details of Procurement Arrangement
4-5     Estimated Disbursement Schedule
4-6     Supervision Plan and Key Performance Indicators
4-7     Environmental Impact Assessment and Mitigation Plan
5-1     GVWC - Income Statements, 1982-1993
5-2     GVWC - Balance Sheets, 1982-1993
5-3     GVWC - Funds Flow Statements, 1982-1993
5-4     GVWC - History of Water Tariffs
5-5     GVWC - Projected Income Statements, 1994-2000
5-6     GVWC - Projected Balance Sheets, 1994-2000
5-7     GVWC - Projected Funds Flow Statements, 1994-2000
5-8     GVWC - Assumptions for Financial Projections
6-1     Economic Analysis
7-1     Documents on Project Files
Mal:
IBRD No. 25712R          Guma Valley Water Company - Water Supply System



REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  Republic of Sierra Leone
Beneficiaries:             Guma Valley Water Company (GVWC); Department of Energy and
Power (DOEP); and Sierra Leone Roads Authority (SLRA)
Poverty Catezorv:          Program of Targeted Interventions
Amount:                    SDR 24.5 million (US$36.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                     Standard IDA, with 40 years maturity
Commitment Fee:            0.50% on undisbursed credit balances, begining 60 days after signing
less any waiver
Onlendine Terms:           SDR 19.2 million (US$28.2 million equivalent) of the Credit would be
onlent from the Government to GVWC for 20 years including a grace
period of five years at 7.1 % interest rate per annum. GVWC would
bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project Description:       The proposed project would support a major rehabilitation of the
water supply system, rehabilitation of a small existing sewerage
system and the establishment of a low-cost sanitation program in
Greater Freetown. It would also improve the public and private sector
capacities for operating and maintaining these systems. (I) Water
Supply: (A) GVWC water system rehabilitation and expansion: (i)
rehabilitation of the Guma Dam intake tower and diversion of wet
season flows from small catchments into the Guma reservoir; (ii)
rehabilitation of the Guma Water Treatment Plant; (iii) construction of
bulk pipelines to supply the growing eastern areas of Freetown; (iv)
rehabilitation and expansion of the water distribution system; and (v)
consultant services for supervision; (B) GVWC institutional
strengthening: (i) supply of computers and software for accounting
and management information systems; (ii) supply of vehicles and tools
for maintenance; (iii) technical assistance to implement computerized
systems and to identify roles for private sector participation in water
supply operations to help manage increased investment programs and
operations; and (iv) training of GVWC staff; and (C) improvement of
water supply operations in other major towns, including identifying a
role for private sector involvement, through (i) provision of consulting
services for water master plan and design studies for the major towns
and an organization and finance study for the water sector outside
Greater Freetown including the water supply operations in these



ii
towns; and (ii) institutional support. (11) Sanitation: (A) technical
assistance to plan low cost sanitation and to provide ablution facilities
in low income areas in Freetown, including the design of a community
outreach system involving NGOs and/or other private agencies; (B)
rehabilitation and pilot scale extension of DOEP's existing sewerage
system and extension of the outfalls; (C) management and consultant
services for supervision; and (D) institutional support including office
equipment and vehicles.
Benefits:                  The water supply component would improve the management and
operations of GVWC and expand supply capacity in order to meet
medium-term demand in Greater Freetown to improve public health
conditions and to enable industrial development in areas now without
water supply. The proposed project would also develop an
institutional framework for water supply operations in Sierra Leone
including the other major towns. The sanitation component would
rehabilitate the existing sewerage system and assist in the planning
and implementation of low cost sanitation measures in priority areas
in Greater Freetown.
Risks:                     The main project risk is associated with the capacity of GVWC and
SLRA to implement their respective project components. GVWC,
with its long history of capable technical performance and its
successful implementation of the water supply component of the
ongoing Freetown Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project (FIRP) (Credit
2511-SL), is expected to manage well the implementation of the water
supply component of the proposed project. To make use of existing
and proven capability, DOEP will employ GVWC through a
management services contract to implement, on its behalf, its
sewerage component. SLRA has demonstrated its capability in
implementing its various components under the FIRP project, will be
responsible for implementing the sanitation sub-component. Another
main risk is related to the availability of counterpart funding.
GVWC's financial projections indicate that GVWC would be able to
generate sufficient funds to meet its counterpart obligations. For the
other project components, as in the FIRP project, the Government
would be required to make agreed initial deposits into project accounts
to be established before credit effectiveness and to make quarterly
deposits into this account during project implementation. For the
longer term, GVWC may face the risk of sustaining its viability in the
light of the fact that most water utilities in Africa face severe
operational and financial difficulties. This risk would be minimized
through the Government's and Bank's continued support for the
autonomy of GVWC and modernization and strengthening of
GVWC's operations under the proposed project, and through the
development and implementation under the project of a strategy for
increasing private sector participation in water operations. The low-
cost sanitation component has an element of risk associated with the
difficulty of promoting and sustaining community-based activities.



11i
This risk is being reduced by using the same implementing agency
(SLRA) that has gained pertinent experience through the
implementation of the urban upgrading components of the FIRP and
by ensuring the involvement and commitment of the communities.
The security situation in Sierra Leone, if deteriorated in the future,
may also affect project implementation especially in the carrying out
of the water master plans and organization and finance study for
major towns outside Greater Freetown.



iv
Estimated Project Cost:
Project Component                                                US$ Million Equivalent
Local a'      Foreign        Total
I.     Water Supply
(i)  GVWC Water Supply Systems Rehabilitation
and Expansion                                  9.97          19.91         29.88
(ii) GVWC Institutional Strengthening              0.21           0.69          0.90
(iii) Technical assistance and support to
DOEP/WSD/SLWC                                  0.41          2.90          3.31
II. Sanitation
(i)  Sewerage System Rehabilitation                 1.05          2.21          3.26
(ii) Sanitation                                    0.56           1.31          1.87
Base Cost Estimate                                 12.20         27.02         39.22
Physical Contingencies                              1.67          3.58          5.25
Price Contingencies                                0.53           1.50          2.03
Total Project Cost                                14.40 b/       32.10        46.50 c/
Financing Plan:d/
US$ Million Equivalent
Local        Foreign        Total
Water Supply
Government                                     6.00            -           6.00
GVWC                                           3.00            -           3.00
IDA                                            3.50         28.00          31.50
Subtotal                                           12.50         28.00         40.50
Sanitation
Govermment                                     1.50            -           1.50
IDA                                            0.40          4.10          4.50
Subtotal                                           1.90          4.10           6.00
Total
IAAIQ ~22iQ    4LQ
a/  Local costs include duties on imported equipment and materials estimated at about US$6.3 million equivalent.
b/  See Footnote (a).
c/  See Footnote (a).
dI  Duties and taxes relating to GVWC sub-components will be capitalized and repaid to the Government along with the
subsidiary loan.



v
Estimated Disbursement:
IDA FY                                 1996    1997     1998     1999    2000
US$ Million Equivalent
Annual                                3.50      8.80   10.30     10.90     2.50
Cumulative                            3.50     12.30   22.60    33.50    36.00
Economic Rate of Return:
Water Supply Component  8%
Mal:
IBRD No. 25712R          Guma Valley Water Company - Water Supply System






REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.I    Sierra Leone is endowed with substantial mineral resources, ample cultivable agricultural land
and rich fisheries. However, largely as a result of past mismanagement of resources and inadequate
development efforts, the majority of its people live in extreme poverty with a per capita income of
about US$240 in 1990/91. It is classified as one of the "least developed" countries by the United
Nations. Since the late 1970s, Government institutions have deteriorated and have limited capability to
deliver even the most basic services. Most infrastructure systems have similarly deteriorated to a point
of near collapse. The living conditions for urban residents, particularly in the capital, Freetown, are
especially difficult and the quality of life, economic opportunity and environmental conditions are
extremely poor.
1.2   In December 1989, to reverse past trends, the Government embarked on a far-reaching reform
program, aimed at stabilization and structural adjustment of the economy. Significant reform measures
have been successfully implemented, including liberalization of the exchange rate, decontrol of
commercial bank lending rates and substantial increases in other interest rates, strengthening of revenue
collection and expenditure controls, liberalization of domestic pricing and trade and revamping of
natural resources policies. In early 1992, the Government commenced a further program of economic
recovery and structural adjustment with the support of international agencies including IDA.
1.3   IDA has actively supported the Government's structural adjustment and economic recovery
program through a reconstruction import credit (Cr. 2352-SL) approved by the Board on April 14,
1992. This policy-based credit has helped to restore the Government's capacity to provide essential
services and to manage economic reforns. It was followed by two investment credits, the first for the
rehabilitation of the power supply and distribution approved by the Board on April 21, 1992 (Cr.
2356-SL) and the second for rehabilitation and maintenance of the roads system approved on
December 22, 1992 (Cr. 245 1-SL), and a technical assistance credit (Cr. 2435-SL) approved on
November 19, 1992, Freetown Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project (FIRP) (Cr. 251 1-SL) approved on
June 10, 1993. A Structural Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2546-SL), approved in October 14, 1993, will
continue to support the Government's economic reforms and help provide foreign exchange for imports
of essential goods and budgetary support for priority public expenditures.
1.4    The Government has requested IDA to finance the proposed project to expand water supply
and improve sanitation conditions in Freetown and to undertake watcr supply master plan studies for
the major urban centers. The proposed project is a follow up to the FIRP, which provides for
improvement of the operations of the Guma Valley Water Company (GVWC) through leak detection
and repairs and universal metering program, and financing of studies to update the Water Master Plan
and Storm Drainage and Sewerage Master Plan and to review the organization, management and
finances of GVWC. Based on the results of thesc studies, the proposed project will improve and
modernize the management and operations of GVWC and rehabilitate and expand its water supply
systems to meet water demand through year 2005 in Greater Freetown. Furthermore, the project will
develop an institutional framework to improve water supply sector operations by carrying out an
organization and finance study of the Sierra Leone Water Company (SLWC) and the water supply
operations in the othcr major toNvms (including Bo, Kenema, and Makeni) and water master plan studies
and designs for these towns. It will also rchabilitate the existing sewerage system and assist in the
planning and implementation of low cost sanitation measures in priority areas in Greater Freetown.



2
II. THE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR
A. Water Resources and Sanitation
2.1    Sierra Leone, which lies along the Atlantic seaboard between latitudes 7 and 10 degrees north
and longitudes 10 and 13 degrees west, occupies an area of some 72,500 sq km in the bulge of West
Africa. To the north a 650km border is shared with Guinea while Liberia provides the boundary along
some 250 km to the south. Much of the westem half of the country lies below 200m, rising from
mangrove swamps which parallel the coast to the higher and less level ground of the interior lowlands.
East of these lowlands the ground again rises to the interior plateau, reaching an altitude of over 900m
in the Tungi and Loam mountains and a maximum of 1,950 m in Mount Bintumani, the country's
highest peak.
2.2    Climatically the year is divided into well defined dry and wet seasons, the latter of which
extends from May to mid-November. In general, mean annual rainfall decreases from an average of
some 500cm in the South to under 200cm in the North. Temperatures throughout the year are in the
25-30 degrees centigrade range, the hottest periods being at the beginning and end of the dry season
between which the Harmattan wind from the Sahara blows almost daily conveying fine dust which
hazes the landscape. The major river systems which traverse the country provide perennial water for
agriculture and domestic use. Seasonal rainfall causes variations of up to 18 m in the river levels, the
upper reaches are subject to tidal flooding. Most of the rivers are navigable for some miles upstream
from the sea and towns have grown from early trading settlements established at their heads of
navigation.
2.3    Reticulated drinking water supplies throughout Sierra Leone are almost entirely based on the
use of surface sources, the country being adequately served by perennial rivers fed by a high level of
annual precipitation'. Traditional sources in the rural areas also rely heavily on surface waters
although shallow wells are utilized to a lesser extent and the Government has introduced a shallow well
development program. Due to the ready availability of surface water, very little has been done to
investigate the extent of underground resources outside Freetown where there are no groundwater
resources.
2.4   In rural areas, communities are served primarily by unprotected shallow wells, lakes and
rivcrs. Solid and liquid wastes, human and animal excreta all contributable to contaminating ground
water sources. Siltation in river beds and lakes caused by mining activities exacerbates the problem for
rural communities in search of potable water. The time spent in travelling long distances in search of
safe water can be substantial and is time taken away, usually from women, from more productive
activitics such as child care2.
2.5    The only public sewers in Sierra Leone are two small ones in Freetown, which are maintained
by the Water Supply Division (WSD) of the Department of Energy and Power (DOEP). A study
"Master Plan for Wastes in Freetown" in the early 1980s proposed much more extensive sewering but
no action has been taken on the recommcndations. Otherwise all sanitation is the responsibility of the
Department of Health and Social Services (DOHSS), operating through Health Inspectors under
' Sourcc: IBRD Watcr Supply and Sanitation Sector Study, Report N° 4633 SL, dated October 1983
2 World Bank Report: Initial Assessment of Environmental Problems (Sierra Leone) 1993



3
Provincial Medical Officers, which empties cesspits and pail latrines, and controls nuisances by a
system of notice and prosecution.
B. Sector Organization
2.6    Before 1961, the (then) Public Works Department was responsible for water supply in Sierra
Leone, except for Greater Freetown which was the responsibility of the Freetown City Council. The
Guma Valley Water Ordinance 1961 established GVWC with an area of supply of 42 square miles in
and around Freetown, and now supplying population of about 0.6 million. Water supply for the
remainder of the country became the responsibility of then Ministry of Works until 1974 when it was
transferred to the Water Supply Division of the then Ministry of Energy and Power. Following the
recommendation of the World Bank Report "Water Supply and Sanitation Study" for Sierra
Leone(1983), the Government decided in August 1988 to establish Sierra Leone Water Company
(SLWC) to eventually take over responsibility for urban water supplies. As a first phase, SLWC, with
some 30 staff, has taken over the water supply operations in the provincial headquarters of Bo and
Makeni, with WSD still responsible for Kenema, the District Headquarters of Kodiu/Yengema and
other secondary towns, and rural population estimated at 3.4 to 4.4 million. The enabling Act for
SLWC, which is still in draft form, will be reviewed as part of the organization, management and
finance study financed under the proposed project (para. 2.8) with the view of defining its role in the
creation of water companies based on the GVWC operating structure.
2.7    Water supplies outside the GVWC area are regulated by the Water (Control and Supply) Act
1963. This Act apparently envisaged the setting up of one or more independent Water Authorities',
each with Board members appointed by a Minister. The Department of Works (DOW) is responsible
for drainage.
2.8    To rationalize institutional arrangements for the water supply sector outside Freetown, an
institutional, management and finance study for the sector including SLWC, which is responsible for
water supply operations in Bo, Kenema and Makeni, will be carried out under the proposed project.
The draft TOR for this study has been discussed and agreed with the Government. Agreement has
been obtained that this study will be completed by June 30, 1996 and that within three months from the
completion of the study, the Government will prepare an action plan to implement the recommendations
of the study, as agreed between the Government and IDA.
C. Sector Development Stratezy
2.9    The water sector strategy is contained in the draft policy letter prepared by the Government as
shown in Annex 2- 1. In common with most sectors of Sierra Leone's economy, the immediate needs in
the water supply and sanitation sector are the rehabilitation of existing systems and associated
improvements in operation and maintenance. These measures would provide the highest economic
return. Rehabilitation would logically be followed by programs of carefully planned expansion and
improvement of existing systems to provide acceptable levels of service to a rapidly increasing
population. A countrywide water resources plan and groundwater studies would be needed in the
longer tern development of the sector. The water master plan studies for the major towns including



4
Bo, Kenema and Makeni financed under the proposed project will be an important step towards this
end.
2.10   The short, medium and long term strategy for GVWC was defined by the IDA-financed
GVWC Organization and Financial Review and Water Supply Master Plan studies which were
finalized in March - June 1994. The FIRP and the proposed project are, therefore, addressing the short
and medium term strategic devclopment of GVWC which is to (a) maximize the supply of water
available from existing sources/water systems by minimizing losses/unaccounted-for water and
increasing yield of the Guma Reservoir; (b) manage water demand effectively through appropriate
tariff policy based on metered consumption; and (c) maximize the efficiency of the water supply
operations of GVWC.
2.11   This strategy to maximize water supply to Greater Freetown from existing sources is intended
to defer the high long term capital cost (approximately $150 million) of developing the Orugu dam (a
new major source of water supply for Greater Freetown) until it becomes essential and consumers
would be willing to pay for it. This will provide GVWC with time to consolidate its operational and
financial position as a result of investing in the FIRP project and the proposed project.
2.12   Despite economic hardships which beset the country, GVWC has been a remarkably strong
and successful organization. At the core of GVWC's success is the financial and operational autonomy
granted under its enabling Act. This autonomy has been respected by the Government over the years,
as evidenced by a complete lack of government interference. An independent judicial inquiry confirmed
in 1993 the operational and financial integrity of GVWC.
2.13   As indicated in paras. 2.6 and 2.8, the institutional management and finance study, to be
financed under the proposed project, will recommend the organizational framework for water supply
outside Grcater Freetown including the roles of WSD and SLWC. It is envisaged that SLWC would
play a key role in developing the water supply systems in the urban towns as well as in establishing
water supply utilities for these towns substantially along the GVWC model.
2.14   With respect to sanitation, an initial effort at addressing the health and sanitation conditions in
Freetown is being made under the FIRP. FIRP includes slum upgrading, the provision of waste
collection and disposal facilities and ablution facilities particularly in the selected low income areas.
These efforts would be extended in the proposed project. The proposed project would also rehabilitate
the existing small sewage system. These initial steps would maximize benefits from existing facilities
and stimulate future development of the Freetown sewerage system. The consultants' report on the
"Sewerage and Drainage Master Plan Study," also financed under the FIRP, has recommended, among
other things, that the sewerage operations in Freetown be transferred from DOEP to GVWC. It was
noted, however, that GVWC will be preoccupied in the next 2 to 3 years with the implementation of the
proposed project and the ongoing FIRP, and the reorganization and modernization of the company
(para. 4.6). It has been agreed that the sewerage functions in Freetown will be transferred from DOEP
to GVWC not later than January 1, 1998, and that an action plan for this transfer will be updated by
DOEP/GVWC by January 1, 1997 to be jointly reviewed with IDA. This action plan will also include
the transfer of assets and liabilities between the Government and GVWC as well as the sewerage
charges to be put in effect by GVWC to ensure that the revenues accrued from the sewerage operations
will, at the minimum, be adequate to meet their cash operating expenses and debt service related to the
sewerage operations.



5
D. Bank Involvement in the Sector
2.15   Bank involvement in the water supply sector began with the preparation of the "Republic of
Sierra Leone Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Study" which recommended the creation of SLWC.
After a decade-long hiatus, the Bank resumed its involvement through the water supply component of
the FIRP approved in June 1993 (Cr. 251 I-SL). The FIRP objectives are to rehabilitate and upgrade
essential urban infrastructure and services in Greater Freetown, including the improvement of the water
supply capacity of GVWC through a leak detection and repair program and universal metering
program and to modernize its financial and operational facilities. The water component of the FIRP is
being implemented well and on schedule. The lessons learned from this are that early project
preparation, well-planned procurement processing and GVWC's demonstrated management capability
are critical factors in successful project implementation These lessons have been incorporated in the
design and preparation of the proposed project. The proposed project, which builds upon the water
supply component of the FIRP, will develop model(s) for support for water operations in other urban
centers, including possible uses of local private management contract services. It will also finance
water master plan studies for three major towns which will be the basis for future assistance by
external agencies.
2.16   Through IDA involvement under the FIRP, the Government and GVWC have relied on the
Bank for advice on water sector policy and institutional development. IDA is also assisting GVWC and
the GOSL to examine the management implications of the projected large growth in the investment
program and future operation and maintenance needs. The proposed project is consistent with the
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) reviewed by the Board on October 14, 1993. The IDA strategy for
Sierra Leone stresses the need to rehabilitate infrastructure, including water systems, and to promote
sustainable development by improving the capacity of agencies such as GVWC. Given limitations in
the public sector, it recognizes the need for private sector participation in providing many critical social
services. The strategy also supports the provision of basic needs such as water supply to poverty
groups.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin and Formulation
3.1    Following the resumption of Bank operations in Sierra Leone in April 1992, the Bank assisted
the Government in preparing an immediate action project to address the unsatisfactory condition of
urban infrastructure in Freetown. This resulted in the Freetown Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project
(FIRP) approved by IDA in June 1993. The FIRP includes, among other things, provisions to improve
operations of GVWC through leak detection and repairs, universal metering and computerized billing,
and to carry out studies to update GVWC's Water Master Plan and review its organization and finance.
The proposed project would be a follow-up to the water supply component of the FIRP and is aimed at
continuing to improve the operations of GVWC, to rehabilitate and expand its water supply systems
and to improve sewerage and sanitation in Freetown. In February/March 1994, a preappraisal mission
visited Sierra Leone to begin the appraisal of the project and its individual sub-components. Project
appraisal was carried out jointly with the African Development Fund (ADF) in May/June 1994. In
February 1995, since ADF funding was not available as anticipated for the project to move forward,
the Government, in consultation with ADF, requested increased IDA financing for the entire project.



6
B. Proiect Objectives
3.2    The main objectives of the proposed project are: (i) to improve water supply and sanitation
services in Freetown; (ii) to improve the accessibility of these services to the urban poor; and (iii) to
ensure that water supply and sanitation services will be sustained by strengthening the sectoral
institutions, especially the GVWC and the agencies to be responsible for sanitation, and by introducing
private sector participation. The project would also help prepare water supply master plans and
development programs as well as institutional framework for the major towns outside Freetown.
C. Proiect DescriDtion
3.3    The proposed project will support a major rehabilitation of GVWC's water supply system,
rehabilitation of a small existing sewerage system and the establishment of a low-cost sanitation
program in Greater Freetown. It would also improve the public and private sector capacities for
operating and maintaining these systems. The project scope is shown in Annex 3-1 and summarized
below:
(I) Water SupplY:
(A)    GVWC water system rehabilitation and expansion:
(i)    rehabilitation and repair work on Guma Dam intake tower and raising of the
spillway by 1.5 m to increase storage (yield up to 90,000 m3/day), and
construction of weirs and canals/pipelines to divert wet season flows from
small catchments into the Guma reservoir to increase water supply capacity
and reliability by providing an incremental yield of about 13,000 m3/day;
(ii)   refurbishment of the Guma Water Treatment Plant, including replacement of
obsolete equipment, refurbishment of filters, and modifications to increase
capacity to match the supply capacity of the Guma reservoir and transmission
pipelines to Freetown (90,000 m3/day);
(iii)   construction of new bulk transfer mains to improve supply to the rapidly
growing eastern areas of Freetown, including: Congo Cross to Lumley Street
(700 mm diamneter, 4,060 m long); Lumley Street to Dan Street (600 mm,
1,340 m); Africanus Road to Wellington (600 mm, 4,900 m); and new outlet
to Wellington Reservoir (600 mm, 500 m), and installation of flow control
valves at the Wellington Reservoir;
(iv)   extensions to the distribution system to meet the projected 2005 demands
including: Spur Road Zone: about 2,300 m of 200-250 mm diameter pipelines
and installation/replacement of pressure reducing valves; Wellington Zone:
secondary distribution network to serve the high growth/influx population;
Tower Hill Zone: provision of a new 400 mm diameter common outlet main
from the Tower Hill Reservoir; Income Tax Zone: provision of bypass to the
Income Tax Break Pressure Tank;



7
(v)    improvement of reservoirs, including refurbishment of Dan Street and Income
Tax reservoirs, and re-integrate them into the distribution system, and
provision of new reservoirs at Governor's Lodge, Kortright and Wilberforce
Village;
(vi)   refurbishment of the subsidiary supply at Kongo, including provision of a
package treatment plant of 1600 m3/day capacity with the source of raw water
from the Kongo Reservoir and replacement of the old Gloucester Service
Reservoirs;
(vii)  secondary distribution reinforcement, including the supply of about 24 km of
pipes and fittings for replacement of old mains of less than 100 mm diameter
and other materials and supplies for routine expansion of the distribution
system;and
(viii)  consultant services for supervision.
(B)    GVWC institutional strengthening:
(i)    supply of computers and software for accounting and management
information systems;
(ii)   supply of vehicles and tools for maintenance;
(iii)  technical assistance to implement computerized systems, identify roles for
private sector participation in water supply operations to help GVWC
manage increased investment programs and operations and to develop a public
relations and education program; and
(iv)   training of GVWC staff.
(C)    Improvement of water supply operations in other major towns, including:
(i)    provision of consulting services for water master plans, feasibility studies and
designs for other major towns (including Bo, Kenema and Makeni) and an
organization and finance and management study for the water sector including
the water supply operations in these towns; and
(ii)   institutional support including office equipment and vehicles.
(11) Sanitation:
(A)    Technical assistance to plan low cost sanitation including the design of a community
outreach system involving NGOs and/or other private agencies and provision of
ablution facilities in low income areas in Freetown;
(B)    Rehabilitation and pilot scale extension of the existing sewerage system and extension
of the outfalls;



8
(C)    Management and consultant services for supervision; and
(D)    Institutional support including office equipment and vehicles.
3.4    The TORs for the water master plan and organization and finance studies for part (C)(i) above
have been agreed with DOEP. The TORs for the environmental sanitation component and the Study on
Possible Role of Private Sector in Enhancing Operating Efficiency of GVWC are shown in Annexes
3-2 and 3-3.
D. Project Costs
3.5    Project costs including physical and price contingencies are estimated at about US$46.5
million equivalent. This amount includes duties and taxes on imported goods totalling US$6.3 million
equivalent, including US$5.5 million equivalent for the GVWC component. Foreign costs are
estimated at about 80% of the total project costs excluding duties. Physical contingencies of 10% were
allowed on all items except rehabilitation of the Guma intake and treatment works, where 15% was
allowed. Price contingencies have been calculated on the basis of the following inflation factors: for
foreign exchange costs 2.0% in 1995, 2.5% in 1996, 2.7% in 1997 and subsequent years; for local
costs, and 16.0% in 1995, 11.0% in 1996, 6.8% in 1997 and 5% in 1998 subsequent years.
3.6    Detailed project cost estimates are shown in Annex 3-4 and are summarized below:
Proiect Component                                                  US$ Million Equivalent
Local"        Foreign        Total
I.     Water Supply
(i)  GVWC Water Supply Systems Rehabilitation and   9.97          19.91         29.88
Expansion                                       0.21          0.69          0.90
(ii) GVWC Institutional Strengthening               0.41           2.90          3.31
(iii) Technical assistance and support to
DOEPIWSD/SLWC
IL.    Sanitation
(i)  Sewerage System Rehabilitation                 1.05           2.21          3.26
(ii) Sanitation                                     0.56           1.31          1.87
Base Cost Estimate                                  12.20         27.02          39.22
Physical Contingencies                              1.67           3.58          5.25
Price Contingencies                                 0.53           1.50          2.03
Total Project Cost                                 1AAL b2Q AQ1L
i Local costs include duties on imported equipment and materials estimated at about US$6.3 million
equivalent
bl See Footnote (a)
C/ See Footnote (a)



9
E. Financing Plan
3.7    The proposed financing plan for the project is summarized below:
Financing Plan                                         US$ Million Equivalent
Local        Foreign         Total
Water Supply Component (Project Items I (i) and
I (ii))
GVWC Component
Govemnment                                5.50                         5.50
GVWC                                      3.00            -            3.00
IDA                                      3.50          24.70          28.20
Subtotal                                        12.00         24.70          36.70
Other Water Supply Component (Project Item I
(iii!)
Government                               0.50             -            0.50
IDA                                        -            3.30           3.30
Subtotal                                        0.50           3.30          3.80
Sanitation and Sewerage (Project Items 11 (i) and
(ii!)
Sanitation
Government                               0.50             -            0.50
IDA                                      0.20           1.50           1.70
Subtotal                                        0.70           1.50          2.20
Sewerage
Government                                1.00            -            1.00
IDA                                      0.20           2.60           2.80
Subtotal                                        1.20           2.60          3.80
Total                                           14AQ          3.2-Q          4
3.8   The proposed IDA credit of US$36.0 million would be made to the Govemment. Of this
amount, US$6.1 million would be made available to GVWC to implement, on behalf of DOEP, the
rehabilitation of the sewerage system (US$2.8 million) and the two studies for watcr master plans and
organization and finance for SLWC (US$3.3 million). Also, US$1.70 million will be made available
to SLRA to implement the sanitation sub-component. The balance of about US$28.2 million of the



10
proposed credit would be on-lent to GVWC for a 20-year repayment period, including a grace period of
5 years, at an annual interest rate of 7.1% under a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to IDA. The
foreign exchange risk would be borne by GVWC. Interest during construction would be capitalized.
The Government would finance the duties and taxes related to GVWC's project component (US$5.5
million equivalent) which would also be capitalized and repaid to the Government over the life of the
subsidiary loan. Counterpart funding for the water supply component, other than related duties and
taxes and interest during construction, will be provided by GVWC from its internal cash generation.
This financing plan was confirmed during the negotiations. Agreement has been obtained that the
subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and GVWC will be executed prior to the
effectiveness of the proposed credit.
3.9    With respect to counterpart funding by the Government for duties and taxes on imported
equipment and materials for the project, the Government will undertake to expedite the clearance of
such goods through customs. To provide the remaining counterpart funding for the financing of the
project (i.e. other than those to be provided by GVWC for its own project components), and to ensure
that such funding will be timely and adequate to expedite project implementation, the Government will
set up two project accounts in the names of the implementing agencies GVWC and SLRA into which
quarterly disbursements will be made to cover required payments against project expenditures. The
Government will establish these project accounts with an initial deposit of Le 50 million each prior to
credit effectiveness.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Implementing Auencies and ResDonsibilities
1. Project Implementation Arrangement
4.1    GVWC will be responsible for implementing its project component. GVWC will also manage
the implementation of the sewerage component on behalf of DOEP as well as the procurement of office
equipment and vehicles and appointment of consultants for the studies for DOEP/WSD/SLWC.
GVWC has agreed to appoint, prior to credit effectiveness, a sewerage engineer to assist its Chief
Engineer in managing the implementation of the sewerage component. DOEP, through its Water
Supply Division (WSD) and SLWC, will be responsible for supervising the water supply master plan
and organization and finance review studies related to the secondary towns (e.g. Bo, Kenema and
Makeni). DOEP has appointed a Steering Committee, to provide guidance to GVWC in carrying out
these activities. This committee is chaired by the Permanent Secretary for Energy and Power and
includes, as members, the heads of DOEP/WSD, SLWC and GVWC.
4.2    Given their experiences in implementing the urban upgrading infrastructure including
sanitation and ablution facilities under the ongoing FIRP, SLRA will be responsible for the
implementation of the sanitation sub-component of the proposed project. SLRA through its Project
Management and Coordination Unit for the FIRP (PMCU/FIRP) will manage the sanitation sub-
component under the guidance of its standing Steering Committee chaired by FCC and utilizing the
services of a NGO(s) to assist with community participation in the project.
4.3    The above arrangements have been agreed with the concerned authorities and agencies.
Furthermore, DOEP has entered into an agreement with GVWC for the management of the sewerage



11
sub-component and procurement of office equipment and vehicles as well as consultant services for the
two studies for DOEP/WSD and SLWC for a managemcnt services fee. This management services
contract will be financed under the proposed project.
2. Guma Valley Water Company (GVWC)
4.4    GVWC was incorporated in 1961 when the Guma Valley water system was completed with
financial assistance from the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC). Its organization
structure is shown in Annex 4-1. It is owned by the Government (90%) and the Freetown City Council
(10%), and controlled by a Board of six members, three appointed by the Government, two by CDC
and one by FCC. Its day-to-day operation is in the hands of a General Manager/Engineer-in-Chief. It
is autonomous, including in tariff making which has been decided by its Board without Government
interference. GVWC has a staff of about 3 10 including 14 professional engineers and accountants.
GVWC has a supply capacity of about 18 million imperial gallons (Ig) per day, most of which is being
used to serve more than 600,000 people through roughly 10,000 (unmetered) connections and 520
standpipes, and 1,600 commercial/industrial/institutional customers through metered connections.
4.5    GVWC is a generally well-run company which, in spite of the economic difficulties that the
country faced in the past years, has by-and-large managed to sustain itself GVWC's strengths include:
(i) the high degree of autonomy that it has enjoyed in conducting its operations including tariff-setting,
(ii) a stable and experienced management whose tenure with the company average at least 15 years
and who have risen through the ranks; (iii) the mode of operation, or "tradition/culture" that it has
established over the years and the reputation as among the best-run public companies in the country.
GVWC's water supply operations will be improved markedly particularly with the implementation of
the IDA-financed FIRP (Cr. 251 1-SL) which is addressing the following major issues: leakage
reduction, metering of all domestic connections, expanding the reticulation network and providing
metered connections to the plots that are not being served. GVWC has demonstrated its capability in
the implementation of its water component under the FIRP on schedule. In implementing its project
component, GVWC staff would have technical assistance and/or engineering service provided under the
proposed project as appropriate to assist in the implementation of the respective sub-components.
4.6    The consultants' study on the organization, management and finances of GVWC (para.3. 1)
made various recommendations to strengthen and modernize GVWC's management and operational
capacity. The major recommendations were for GVWC to appoint three additional professionals: a
commercial manager, a Electronic Data Processing (EDP) manager and a public relations officer. In
addition, the study recommended the supply of equipment and software for computerization of
accounting and management information systems. As agreed under the FIRP, GVWC computerized its
billings as of November 1994. Phase II of the computerization program which would cover the
accounting and management information system would be implemented in the medium term as part of
the proposed project. GVWC has adopted an action plan to implement the consultants' major
recommendations. As part of this action plan, GVWC has formally approved its new organization
structure, established a commercial division, and appointed an EDP manager, a commercial manager,
and a public relations officer.
4.7    Private Sector Participation. Public water utilities in Africa and elsewhere are experiencing
many difficulties, especially as their operations expand over time. Although GVWC is fairly well-
managed at the present time, difficulties might arise in the future as its operations expand. GVWC has
managed to maintain over the past thirty years the same level of staff strength of around 310 by making



12
use of local private sector capability, where appropriate, to perform its functions and/or services. In
fact, GVWC has employed local private contractors for services in several areas, including the
installation of water connections and meters, pipe laying, distribution expansion, computer software
technical assistance and training, ctc. To further improve the efficiency or reliability of its operations,
GVWC will investigate possibilities for using services of the private sector to perform the function(s)
or service(s), where appropriate and justified in terms of net savings to the company. In this
connection, it was agreed during appraisal that a study will be carried out under the project to identify
the specific function(s) and service(s) of GVWC which could be "privatized" and the possible form(s)
of privatization, and to assess the fcasibility of such possible course of actions. The TORs for this
study (Annex 3-3) were discussed and agreed with the IDA. GVWC has appointed a consultant for the
study. Agreements have been obtained that the Government, GVWC and IDA will jointly review the
findings and recommendations of this study not later than January 1, 1996 and agree on target dates for
implementing agreed measures, and that GVWC will undertake to implement those measures in
accordance with the agreed target dates.
3. Sierra Leone Roads Authority (SLRA)
4.8    SLRA was established under its legislation enacted in February 1992 as a semi-independent
entity to be responsible for the administrative control, planning, development and maintenance of all
roads and related structures including ferries in the country. It has the authority to hire and fire staff,
fix salary levels higher than Govemment pay scales, sign and award contracts, receive the bulk of its
funds for road maintenance from a Road Fund as allocated by Parliament and levy other road user
charges subject to the approval of Parliament. As shown in its organization chart in Annex 4-2, it is
managed by a Director General under the direction of a Board of Directors all appointed by the
President. It reports administratively to the Secretary of State of the Department of Works and is
subject to external audit by independent auditors. SLRA will have a total staff of about 1,400, many
of whom have already been recruited from the road staff of the Department of Works. SLRA has
become fully operational and has completed key appointments of all departmental heads.
4.9    To assist the current Director General of SLRA, a former Chief Highway Engineer of DOW
and a capable manager, a Project Management and Coordination Unit/Freetown Infrastructure
Rehabilitation Project (PMCU/FIRP) was established successfully within SLRA to manage and/or
coordinate the implementation of all project components other than the water supply component of
GVWC of the FIRP. Specifically, PMCU/FIRP manages and oversees the implementation of the roads
component, the community/slum upgrading and market improvement sub-components of the urban
upgrading component and the various studies under the technical assistance component. It is also
responsible for the procurement of the equipment/trucks provided under the solid waste management
sub-component for the DOHSS, and procurement of equipment for FCC. The Unit also
coordinates/liaises closely with GVWC to ensure that the water supply works particularly in the project
areas are planned and carried out in a timely and well-coordinated manner to reduce cost.
4.10   The PMCU/FIRP is headed by a Project Manager financed under the FIRP project and is fully
staffed (including a local counterpart Assistant Project Manager, an Engineer/Procurement Specialist
and a Project Accountant) to carry out its functions. The Project Manager, who was appointed by
SLRA, reports directly to the Director-General of SLRA who is guided, specifically with respect to the
proposed Freetown Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project, by a Steering Committee. This advisory
Committee is chaired by FCC and includes, as members, the representatives of GVWC, DOW,
DOHSS as well as other concerned Government Departments. SLRA/PMCU/FIRP have prepared an



13
action plan for implementing the low-cost sanitation component, which was confirmed during the
negotiations.
B. Status of Proiect Preparation
4.11   Consultants have submitted the final reports on the studies of GVWC's Water Supply Master
Plan and the organizational/operations and water tariff structural/finances and Storm Drainage and
Sewerage. These reports formed the basis of the project appraisal by IDA in May/June 1994. In order
to expedite project implementation, GVWC, with the assistance of the consultants, has prepared the bid
documents for some project packages, which are expected to be put out for tender shortly. It is also
anticipated that invitation for bids for some packages such as transport vehicles, computer equipment,
water treatment plant equipment, bulk transfer pipes and all accessories, would be issued before mid-
1995. The TORs for all the studies financed under the proposed project have been agreed with DOEP,
GVWC and SLRA. GVWC has initiated the process of selecting consultants for supervision of
GVWC works components and for design and supervision of the sewerage component
C. Proiect Implementation Schedule
4.12   The implementation schedule for the various components of the proposed project is shown in
Annex 4-3. The source works and treatment works rehabilitation would start up about the same time
and would be substantially completed over a period of 48 months, 36 months and 40 months,
respectively. The institutional strengthening which commences in the third quarter of 1995 will be
completed in three years and the sanitation would be completed within 42 months of credit
effectiveness. The implementation of the various studies would be completed within 30 months of
credit effectiveness. The proposed project would be completed by June 30, 1999.
D. Procurement
4. 13   All procurement of goods and works to be financed by IDA would be undertaken in accordance
with Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA credits. For procurement purposes, the
major components of the project would be divided into six civil works components valued in total at
about US$29.1 million (Annex 4-4) separate in location and nature of work, two for transmission and
distribution pipelines, one for reservoir and secondary distribution improvements, one for rehabilitation
of the water treatment plant, one for upgrading the Kongo system, and one for sewerage works.
Contracts for these would be awarded after International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Equipment
valued at about US$6.1 million would also be procured through ICB. For the Guma diversion and
remedial works, hydrological investigations and for sanitation, the works would be minor; procurement
by Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) is proposed. LCB procedures, which include local advertising,
public bid opening, clearly stated evaluation criteria and award to the lowest evaluated bidder are
acceptable to IDA. Foreign firms would be allowed to participate. In addition, contracts for goods
which are available locally and valued at US$ 100,000 or less would be procured by LCB, the total
value being about US$200,000. The total value of LCB procurement would be about US$2.7 million
(US$2.5 million for civil works and US$0.2 million for goods) or 6% of the total project cost, with a



14
maximum contract value for works of US$1.0 million and an average of about US$0.3 million. Further
miscellaneous goods (such as maintenance tools, office equipment, vehicles, etc.) estimated to cost less
than US$50,000 per contract and not more than US$1.2 million in aggregate would be procured
through shopping with the evaluation of price quotations from at least three suppliers
4.14   Prior IDA review of advertisements, bidding documents, tender evaluations and
recommendations for award would be required for each ICB and LCB contract over US$100,000
equivalent in value, covering over 95% of the value of all contracts to be awarded. Smaller contracts
would be subject to post review. Consultants to be financed by IDA under the project would be
selected in accordance with the World Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. Agreement has
been obtained that the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Goods or Works under ICB and the
Standard Letter of Invitation Package for Consultant's Services will be used. Prior IDA review of the
consultant invitation package would be required for all contracts over US$100,000 in value for
consulting firns and US$10,000 for individual consultants. The credit would finance about 450 staff-
months of consultant services, including about 250 staff-months for construction supervision. As
discussed in paras. 4.5 and 4.9, GVWC and SLRA are equipped to plan, manage and monitor
procurement activities.
4.15   It is assumed that the credit will become effective by about August 1995, at which time
GVWC should be in a position to award the first contracts. A General Procurement Notice has already
been published in Development Business. The first draft bidding documents based on the Bank's
Standard Bidding Documents for Goods or Works as appropriate have been reviewed by IDA. The
following table summarizes the procurement arrangements which are shown in detail in Annex 4-4.



15
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ millions)
1. Civil Works                                      ICB         LCB         OTHER        TOTAL
(a) Source and treatment works              6.53         2.06          -           8.59
(4.89)      (1.54)                    (6.43)
(b) Transmission and Distribution           19.26          -           -          19.26
(14.41)                               (14.41)
(c) Sewerage and sanitation                 3.31         0.49          -           3.80
(2.48)      (0.36)                    (2.84)
2. Goods and Equipment
(a) GVWC                                    6.10         0.20         0.19         6.49
(4.01)      (0.13)       (0.12)       (4.26)
(b) DOEP/SLWC                                                         0.77         0.77
(0.49)      (0 49)
(c) SLRA                                                              0.20         0.20
(0.18)      (0.18)
3. Consulting services and training
(a) Policy support                                                    0.58         0.58
(0.58)      (0.58)
(b) Technical assistance and training         -            -          1.34         1.34
(1.34)      (1.34)
(c) Project design and supervision            -            -          5.47         5.47
(5.47)      (5.47)
Total
35.20        2.75         8.55        46.50
(25.79)      (2.03)       (8.18)      (36.00)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts in US$ million equivalent, to be financed by IDA. "NBF"
indicates non Bank-financed. "Other" covers procurement of goods by shopping procedures and consultancy services
in accordance with guidelines.



16
E. Disbursements
4.16   The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed against the following categories:
Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit
(US$ Million)
Category             IDA Amount        % to be Disbursed from IDA Credit
A. GVWC
1. Civil Works                  21.10      100% of foreign expenditures and 90% of
local expenditures
2. Goods and equipment           4.20      100% of foreign expenditures and 90% of
local expenditures
3. Consultant services and       5.40      100%
training
4. Unallocated                   3.60      -
Subtotal                      34.30
B. SLRA
1. Civil works                   0.50      100% of foreign expenditures and 90% of
local expenditures
2. Goods and equipment           0.20      100% of foreign expenditures and 90% of
local cxpenditures
3. Consultant services and       0.80      100%
training
4. Unallocated                   0.20      -
Subtotal                         1.70
Total                           360
4.17   The estimated disbursement schedule for the proposed IDA credit is shown in Annex 4-5. It is
faster than the profile for Bank/IDA-financed water projects in Africa, which reflects the advanced
preparation and action taken to expcdite procurcmcnt in anticipation of the IDA credit as well as the
implementation arrangements that have been made. The closing date of the proposed credit would be
December 31, 1999.
4.18   Two special accounts, GVWC and SLRA, covering four months of eligible expenditures will
be established at commercial banks acccptable to IDA. The authorlzcd allocation for Fund-A (GVWC)
and Fund-B (SLRA) amount to US$0.8 million and US$0. I million, respectively. Upon effectiveness
of the credit, 50% of the initial dcposits will bc made available to cach special account, and the
remaining balance as needed. Replenishments of the spccial accounts should be made every two
months and must be fully documented except for contracts in a value of (i) less than US$ 100,000
equivalent for civil works, (ii) less than US$50,000 equivalent for goods; and (iii) for services, less



17
than $100,000 equivalent for consulting firms and less than $10,000 equivalent for individual
consultants, which may be claimed on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). GVWC and
SLRA will maintain all supporting documents in their respective offices for review by visiting
supervision missions and the extemal auditors.
F. Project Accounting and Auditinz
4,19   The accounting for project expenditures and special account transactions including statements
of expenditures would be maintained by GVWC and SLRA for their respective project components.
Agreement has been obtained that GVWC and SLRA will have the project accounts, special accounts
and statement of expenditures audited annually by qualified independent auditors acceptable to IDA,
and that the audited accounts together with the auditors' reports will be submitted to IDA not later than
six months after the close of their fiscal/financial year.
G. Project Reporting. Monitoring and Supervision
4.20   GVWC and SLRA will each prepare quarterly progress reports covering all project
components within one month after the end of each quarter. These reports will include: (i) progress
achieved against agreed implementation and disbursements schedules and key performance indicators;
and (ii) work programs and cost estimates for the coming quarter and for the total project. The main
purpose of the reports will be to provide timely and updated information on implementation of project
components, highlighting issues and problem areas, recommending actions and commenting on
progress in resolving previous recommendations. GVWC and SLRA will prepare a completion report
within six months of the final disbursement in accordance with IDA guidelines. Reporting
requirements and key performance indicators will be agreed with DOEP, SLRA and GVWC.
Agreement has been obtained that GVWC, DOEP and SLRA will submit to IDA copies of all
consultants' reports and studies financed under the proposed project.
4.21   Agreement has been obtained that GVWC will prepare a Project Implementation Manual prior
to the project launch workshop, i.e. by October 1, 1995, and that there will be a mid-term review by
IDA held two years from the date of credit effectiveness (i.e. by August 31, 1997) during which the
status of the entire project will be reviewed in detail. During this mid-term review, particular attention
will be paid to: (i) the compliance with covenants, particularly the financial and audit covenants; (ii) the
progress of implementation of the project components; (iii) the implementation of GVWC's water tariff
structure based on metered consumption; (iv) its components from the proposed project of water
svstems rehabilitation and cxpansion and institutional strengthening; and (v) the status of the drainage
and sanitation and sewerage components. The review will be jointly carried out with the Government,
DOEP, GVWC and SLRA. Corrective measures may be proposed as a result of this review including
necessary modifications in the scopc of the proposed project. The proposed supervision program for
the projcct and key performance indicators for monitoring the progress of the project are shown in
Annex 4-6.



18
H. Environmental Aspects
4.22   All physical components of the proposed project will have a positive impact on the
environment of Greater Freetown. Increased water supply to the city and improvements to the existing
sewerage systems and sanitation will help improve personal hygiene and reduce health hazards.
4.23   An Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) has been carried out to assess the environmental
impact of the project which is under Environmental Category B. This report was made available by the
Guma Valley Water Company (GVWC) in Freetown in a number of places accessible to affected
groups and to local NGOs prior to project appraisal. GVWC has officially sent it to the Bank and is
available at the Public Information Center (PIC).
4.24   The EIA, summarized in Annex 4-7, addresses the environmental impact of the following
components of the proposed project: raising of Guma Dam spillway level; diversion of water from the
Little Guma catchment into the Guma Dam reservoir; and trunk distribution mains from Congo Cross
to Dan Street reservoir and from Africanus Road reservoir to Wellington reservoir. The environmental
impact study involved field survey, interviews and discussions with DOEP/GVWC personnel and local
inhabitants by a multidisciplinary team of GVWC's consultants. The EIA concluded that the
environmental impacts of raising the spillway level by 1.5m would be minimal since the reservoir has
already been cleared to the top level of the dam, some 2.5m higher than the new proposed level of the
spillway. Similarly, the impact of the diversion of water into the Guma Dam reservoir would also be
minimal as it is confined to cleared areas for the new diversion channel and loss of about 3.5 km of
intermittent stream beds of the diverted streams.
4.25   Neither of the two transmission pipelines will have any significant long-term environmental
impact. Following construction and reinstatement of all surfaces, the only visible evidence of the
pipelines existence will be valve chambers and short sections of exposed pipe where crossing the deeply
incised river valleys. Care would be taken when siting pipe fittings to ensure, as far as possible,
unobtrusive locations for any chambers, the covers of which should be flush with the road surface.
Exposed pipes would be protected against corrosion using bitumen-based paints with colors selected to
be unobtrusive and to blend with the surrounds.
4.26   The construction of trunk distribution mains and of sewerage system rehabilitation, would
cause temporary social disruptions. To keep the disturbances to a minimum in terms of magnitude and
time, as recommended by the EIA, GVWC will: (i) limit the amount of trench open at any time; (ii)
limit contractors' stringing operations to avoid long lengths of unlaid pipes strung by the roadside; (iii)
provide financial incentives within the contract for prompt temporary reinstatement of trenches; (iv)
restrict the dumping of trench spoil in unsuitable or inconvenient locations, and (v) ensure the provision
of road plates to enable trench crossing.
4.27   The impact of increased water supply to Wellington would be addressed by mobilizing
community involvement, providing technical support, and possibly enlisting the support of NGO(s), as
has been satisfactorily carried out in several West African cities to ensure proper drainage of sullage
water. Provision of funds for this support has been included in the proposed project.
4.28   The extension of the existing sewerage system will have no long-termn significant adverse
environmental impact, except for temporary social disruptions (para. 4.26). The construction of pipe



19
sea outfalls to serve the immediate requirements of the city will provide significant environmental
improvements.
V. GVWC'S FINANCES
A. Past Financial Performance
5.1    A summary of GVWC's financial performance is highlighted in the table below and detailed in
Annexes 5-1 to 5-3. In reviewing GVWC's past financial performance, its financial statements have
also been restated in 1985 constant prices by reference to the annual average movement in the CPI
from the IMF Statistics.
GVWC's Historical Financial Performance
(Le million)
1982     1987    1988    1989    1990    1991         1992    1993
CPI Factors                     0.34       5        7       11       23       47       77       92
Net Revenue -      nominal         3      39       77       79      143      260      640      895
constant      10        8       11       7        6         5       14       19
Operating Expenses  nominal        2      29       33       45       73      145      261      762
constant       5        5        5       4         3        3        6       16
Operating Income -  nominal        1      10       44       34       70      115      379      133
constant       5        3       6         3        3       2         8        3
Exchange Losses -   nominal        -      29    -116    -205       -915     -303     -195     -796
constant       -        5      -17      -19      -39      -6        -4       17
Net Income/Loss -   nominal        1      25    -128    -206       -968    -289        63    -707
constant       3        5      -19      -19      -42       -6        1       19
Return on Average
Net Fixed Assets % a              10       4       12        7        4        4       10       -4
Accounts Receivable (days)        35      28       26      284      184      106      180       70
Debt to EquityRatio            0.4:1   0.6:1    1.2:1    1.4:1       2:1    4.6:1    3.5:1      2:1
a/ Based on annual revaluation of fixed assets
5.2    The average annual revenue growth of 115% in nominal prices between 1982 and 1993 was
due mainly to tariff increases during this period. However, in real prices, revenues decreased by an
annual average of 8% between 1982 and 1991, which was attributable to the fall in volume of water
consumed and increased by 20% between 1992 and 1993 due to the 100% increase in the general water



20
rates3. As water sales remains fairly constant between 1991 and 1993, the revenue increases of 149%
in 1992 and 22% in 1993 in real terms wcrc due to the tariff increase.
5.3    Over the same period, operating costs increased in nominal prices by an annual average of
50% . However, in real terms opcrating costs fell by 11 % between 1987 and 1991 and rose by 81% in
1992 and by 180% in 1993 due to the high electricity charges for pumping water to the hilly areas.
This fall in operating costs between 1987 and 1991 was due to shortage of foreign currency when
GVWC could not procure essential high cost items like chcmicals and spare parts. With the improved
financial and cashflow performance in 1992 and access to forcign currency, GVWC's importation of
chemicals increased by about 144% and spare parts by 267% from 1991.
5.4    The company had an annual average of Le 4 million in operating income in 1985 Leones (Le
229 million in nominal prices) between 1987 and 1993. The total net losses of Le 2.2 billion for period
1987 to 1993 were due to the exchange losscs totalling Le 2.3 billion resulting from massive
devaluations of the Leone (from Le 25 per US$1.0 in 1987 to Le 575 in 1993). The return on average
net fixed assets in operation on revalued basis increased from 4% in 1987 to 12% in 1988 and declined
to an annual average of 5% between 1989 and 1991, before increasing to 10% in 1992. The rate of
return on revalued assets basis in 1993 was about -4% due to increased operating costs including
electricity and chemicals (para. 5.3).
5.5    As agreed under the FIRP, a debt restructuring program was effected to enable GVWC to
service its debt obligations without causing undue liquidity problems. As a result, GVWC has been
able to settle in full its outstanding debt obligations to the ADB of US$92,727.27.
B. Water Tariffs
5.6    Currently water charges are based on the volume of water consumed for metered connections,
mainly for commercial and industrial customers and on property values for the non-metered domestic
customer. The metered customers currently pay Le 2500/1000 Ig (US$4.50/1000 Ig) while the non-
metered domestic pay Le 30 of annual rateable value. The present tariff structure ensures the metered
customers cross-subsidize the unmetered domestic consumers by contributing about 86% of total
revenue for consuming only 10% of the water sold. The trend in tariffs is provided in the tariff history
in the Annex 5-4.
5.7    While the metered tariffs maintained an upward trend between 1989-92, the non-metered
actually declined by 20% in 1991 from US$0.05/100lOg to US$0.04/lOOOIg before increasing again to
the 1990 levels of US$0.05/lOOOIg in 1992 and falling to US$0.03/1000 Ig in 1993. As covenanted
under the FIRP project (Cr. 2511 -SL), GVWC increased the water charges for non-metered domestic
customers from Le 10 to Le 20 of annual rateable value (ARV) effective November 1, 1993 and
subsequently to Le 30 effective November 1, 1994. Since the metered commercial/industrial customers
already bear an unproportionately high contribution to revenues, the tariff for this group remained
unchanged.
3 The consultants' report prepared in 1994 estimated the levels of leakage within the supply system to be
approximately 50%



21
5.8    Under the FIRP (Cr. 251 1-SL), it was covenantcd that the universal metering program will be
introduccd and GVWC will implement a new tariff structure based on metercd consumption, to be
agreed with IDA and cffcctive from November I, 1994. A key clement of this universal metering
system is to ensure accessibility to watcr and affordability especially by domestic consumers.
Although GVWC took actions to comply with this covcnant, the metering program was suspended in
October 1994 due to public reaction. Agreements have been reached with GOSL and GVWC during
the negotiations that: (a) GVWC will resume the metering of domestic water supply by July 1, 1995,
and complete the installation of meters for existing domestic connections by March 31, 1996; (b)
GVWC will implement a water tariff structure based on metered consumption by December 31, 1995
and adjust tariffs from time to timc to enable the company to cam a rate of return on average revalued
net fixed assets in operations of not less than I% in 1995/96, 2% in 1996/97, 4% in 1997/98, 6% in
1998/99, and 8% in 1999/2000 and thereafter. Thc rate of return covenant will be reviewed with
GVWC during the mid-term review taking into consideration the actual data on water consumption and
revenues resulting from the new tariff structure as wcll as GVWC's financial needs.
5.9    As mentioned in para. 2.14, once the scwcrage operations have been transferred from DOEP to
GVWC, the sewerage charges to bc put in effect by GVWC will be sufficient to meet annually, at the
minimum, the cash operating expenses (i.e. before depreciation) and debt scrvice related to its sewerage
operations. The sewerage charges, which are currently based on rateable values of the connected
properties, are expected to be based on the volume of water consumed.
C. Billing! and Collection
5.10   The results of the study on the organization/operation and water tariff/finances of GVWC
revealed inadequacies in the current meter reading, billing and collection system. The receivables
between 1989 and 1992 were, 284, 184, 106 and 180 days of average billings, respectively. The
receivables wcre reduced to 70 days of billing at the end of 1993, due to the prepayment by the GOSL
(para. 5.19). To remedy the situation, GVWC has established a Commercial Division responsible for
meter reading, billing, collection and customer services. GVWC's receivables position is likely to
improve due to recent settlement of the Government's arrears and Government's agreement to make
payment within 30 days of billings. Furthermore, when universal metering becomes effective in early
1996, collections will be rigorously pursued through disconnection measures which will extend to
government agencies. GVWC's disconnection unit will be enhanced as part of implementing the
recommendations of the above study.
5.11   A chief meter reader has been appointed with the specific role of ensuring that the billing
system is functioning efficiently, in particular that (i) all metered consumers are billed with correct
information, (ii) meter reading is carried out timely enough to allow for monthly billings and; (iii) all
malfunctioning meters are repaired promptly. The large number of existing customers, 35,000,
including some 12,000 with private connections, and the forecast population growth of Freetown
requires that the billing system be modernized through computerization. As provided under the FIRP,
GVWC has computerized its billing system efective November 1994.



22
D. Accountine and Auditing
5. 12   The current accounting and reporting system will be overhauled during computerization as
proposed by the above study. The study confirms that though the current annual and semi-annual
financial statements, budget projections, income statement and supporting schedules are adequate for
routine reporting requirements, they do not yield adequate management information. The proposed
computerization of the accounting system (Phase II computerization program to be financed under the
proposed project) is intended to ensure that: (i) annual budgets which are currently only used annually
should be reported periodically with all the variances explained and necessary actions taken, (ii) cash
flow requirements should be monitored and reviewed regularly, (iii) cost data produced should be used
by management for determining the cost of water produced and as a basis for cost cutting measures,
(iv) stores and inventory management should be accurate and accounted for with the expansion of the
operations of GVWC; (v) fixed asset acquisitions and disposals should be properly accounted for and
recorded; and (vi) an operational budget should provide a strong preventive maintenance program.
5.13    GVWC has consistently had its audited reports completed within six months of its financial
year end of October 31. It was agreed under the FIRP (Cr. 2511 -SL) that GVWC will submit to IDA
its annual audited accounts, together with the auditors' report not later than six months after the close
of the year. Such annual accounts and long audit reports will also include the project accounts, special
accounts and statements of expenditure. This covenant will be repeated under the proposed project.
GVWC will computerize the accounting system to ensure the above objectives are achieved as part of
the Phase II computerization program.
E. GVWC's Financing Plan
5.14   GVWC's estimated financial requirements during the execution period of the proposed project
FY95-99 and the sources from which they would be met are summarized in the table below:
GVWC's Financinv Plan FY 95-99
UsS
Million                   %
Apwlication of Funds
Proposed Project                                              36.70                    70
Ongoing Projects and Others                                   10.63                    20
Total construction cost                               47 339
Increases in Working Capital                                   5.42                    10
Total Application of Funds                            57Qm
Sources of Funds                                              28.20                    54
Proposed IDA Credit                                           12.30                    23
FIRP IDA Credit and Others
Total Borrowing                                       40 50
Intemal Cash Generation                                       17.87                    34
Less: Debt Service                                             5.62                    11
Net Intemal Cash Generation                                   12.25                    23
Total Sources of Funds



23
5.15   The above table indicates that, over the period 1995-99, GVWC's net internal cash operation
would total about US$13.16 million equivalent which would contribute 23% of the financing
requirement.
F. Financial Proiections
5.16   The financial projections for years 1994 to 2000 together with supporting assumptions are
shown in Annexes 5-5 to 5-8. The summary of the projected financial performance of GVWC is
highlighted in the table below.
GVWC-Summaa of Pro1ected Financial Performance
1993    1994   1995   1996    1997    1998   1999  2000
Actual  (Le Million)
Revenues                   895    1124   1352    2744    3798    5231  6869   8168
Operating Expenses         762    1258   1695    2476    3044    3427  3883   4313
Operating Income            132    -134   -343     268      754    1804  2986   3855
Interest                      1      16    422     412      381     337   758   2622
Income Tax                  43       54     65      133     184     254   334    397
Exchange Losses            796      308    364     686    1587    2136  2260   2284
Net Income (Loss)          -707    -513  -1196    -964   -1399    -924  -368  -1449
Operating Ratio (%)         90      117    130      95       85      70    61       58
Return on Average
Revalued Net Fixed         -4.0    -2.4   -2.4      1.1     2.1      4.3   6.6    8.0
Assets in Op. (%)
Accounts Receivables         70     91      90      60       60      60    60       60
(debtors days)
Debt to Equity              2:1   0.4:1  0.6:1    0.7:1   0.8:1   0.8:1  0.7:1   0.7:1
(inc.exchange losses)
Debt service coverage         -     2.6    0.7      2.1     3.4      5.4   3.6    1.5
ratio
5.17   The above annual revenue increases reflect levels of tariffs which would be required to achieve
the above return on average annually revalued fixed assets in operation. GVWC's unaccounted-for-
water of approximately 50% - 54% is due mainly to the physical leakage (pipe leaks and storage tank
overflows). However, GVWC's commitment to a sound leakage detection program is demonstrated in
the leakage detection and repair component in the FIRP which is ahead of schedule. Consultants'
evaluation indicates that by year 1999 the unaccounted-for-water will have reached 30%. Through the
FIRP, a maintenance unit would be rehabilitated in order to continue the leakage detection program on
a systematic basis. The percentage of reduction in unaccounted-for-water assumed in the projections is
in line with actual results in Africa. The detailed assumptions underlying the tariffs and water loss
reduction are shown in Annex 5-8.
5.18   The taxation of GVWC with effect from April 1, 1993 resulted in tax liability of Le 8 million
in 1993. Tax regulations in Sierra Leone require a quarterly tax charge of 4.25% on gross revenues.



24
This would be the minimum annual tax charge. The operating ratio for the period 1994 to year 2000
has an annual average of 0.83 (sound financial management requires this ratio to be less than 1)4. The
negative operating ratios from 1993 takes into account the depreciation on revalued assets. The large
increase in depreciation reflects the Leone devaluation since the last fixed asset revaluation in 1986.
Subsequent annual depreciation charges continue to rise due to annual revaluations in line with the
estimated Leone devaluation and the increase in capital expenditures arising from both the FIRP and
the proposed Urban Water Supply project. It was agreed under the FIRP (Cr. 2511 -SL) that GVWC's
fixed assets would be revalued annually. This covenant w,ill be repeated under this project.
5.19   The net operating loss in 1994 would be due to the increase in depreciation charges of Le 462
million which results from the fixed assets revaluation. The improving operating position of the
company in the period 1995 to 2000 is reflected by the annual increase in operating income. The
return on average revalued net fixed assets in operation would improve from a negative return of 2.4%
in 1994 to 1.3% in 1995, rising to 8.0% in 2000, and GVWC would finance 23% of its FY95-99
invcstment program from its internal cash generation. With the Government's agreement to pay off all
arrears prior to negotiations and to settle water bills within 30 days of billings (para, 5.10) and with
GVWC's ability to use disconnection to improvc collections aftcr universal metering is completed by
March 1996, the company is expected to mect the covenant under the FIRP project (Cr. 251 1-SL) to
reduce receivables to 90 days in 1995 and 60 days thercafter. This covenant will be repeated under this
project. The actual 70 days receivables in 1993 is duc to a prepaymcnt by the GOSL in error for its
water charges to GVWC.
5.20   The high debt to equity ratio of 3.5:1 in 1992 falls to 2:1 in 1993 with the conversion of the
Caisse Centrale debt to equity and falls cven further to 0.4:1 in 1994 when GVWC revalues its fixed
assets and pays off the ADF loan of US$92,727.27 and commences dcbt service of all the outstanding
loans. The increase in borrowing, including the IDA credit for the FIRP water supply component and
the IDA financing of the proposed project, results in higher debt-equity ratio averaging 0.7:1 during
1995-2000. GVWC agreed under Credit 2511 -SL to maintain a debt service coverage of not less than
1.5 times and this covenant xvill be repeatcd under this project.
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
6.1    The recently launched IDA-financed FIRP (Cr. 251 1-SL approved by IDA in June 1993)
includes provisions to improve the opcrations of GVWC through leak detection and repairs and
univcrsal metering, and to carry out studics to updatc the Water Master Plan and review the
organization, management and finances of GVWC. As a follow-up to the FIRP, the proposed Urban
Water Supply Project would improve and modernize the management and operations of GVWC and
rchabilitatc and expand its water supply systems. Dircct projcct bencfits include increasing the
quantity, quality and reliability of watcr supplics in Frcetown, thercby improving public hcalth. Water
would also be available to meet the dcmands of commercial and industrial users, thus removing an
obstacle to the development of these scctors, and permitting the dcvelopment of urban areas as centers
of economic growth. The project would rcducc pcr unit opcrating costs and improve the operating
efficiency of GVWC. It would improve the managcment ability and pcrformancc of the company,
4IBRD Water and Sanitation Utilities Study: June 1, 1994



25
thereby raising their public image, a prerequisite to encouraging consumers to pay for their water
supply. It would develop the GVWC into a self-supporting and sustainable entity with realistic long-
term development perspectives. The proposed project Nvould also defer the costly construction of the
additional water supply of Orugu Dam which the company and the country can ill afford at this time.
The proposed project would also develop an institutional framework to improve urban water supply
operations by carrying out an organization and finance study for SLWC and the water operations in the
other major towns and water master plan studies for these towns. It will also improve sanitary
facilities and the rehabilitation of the existing sewerage system in Freetown. The construction of sea
outfalls would also improve environmental conditions.
B. Povertv Alleviation
6.2    The proposed project would have a direct impact on poverty in Freetown, by improving the
health, hygiene and capacity for economic activitv of the people including the poor sections in the City.
Direct employment opportunities would be available in the rehabilitation and expansion of water
supply systems and improvements in the drainage and sanitation, most of which will be undertaken by
local contractors and/or subcontractors. Four out of every ten Sierra Leoneans do not have access to
safe drinking water and proper sanitation facilities. The proposed project would not only ensure
accessibility to clean treated potable water by thcsc disadvantaged levels of society but would also
allow affordability through a "lifeline" tariff structure. The medium and long-term strategic plans will
enable future investments in water supply and low cost sanitation to be targeted much more accurately
towards economically disadvantaged groups offering further opportunities for poverty alleviation.
C. Economic Analysis
6.3    Economic analysis shown on Annex 6-1 has been carried out for the GVWC water supply
component which accounts for more than 80 percent of the physical works under the project. Benefits
include (a) the incremental volume of water available for distribution to consumers valued at an
average water rate which will be effective in 1994/95 when the initial benefit of the works begin to
accrue, and (b) the prescnt value of the deferred capital outlay of the long term works (Orugu Dam)
resulting from the implementation of the FIRP projcct and the proposed projcct. This capital outlay
has becn deferred from year 2000 to year 2005. The incremental volume of water includes the savings
of water losses resulting from the ongoing leakage dctection program and rehabilitation/replacement of
dilapidated distribution systems included in the project. as wcll as additional water resulting from
increased sources, improved treatment and ncw transmission and distribution systems, especially to the
eastern parts of Greater Freetown. All costs rclatcd to the Icakagc detection and rcpair program were
added to the costs of the proposed GVWC watcr supply component, and adjusted for duties and taxes
and a general conversion factor of 0.93 for Sierra Leone
6.4    The economic rate of return is estimated at 8%. Sensitivity analyses indicate that with a 10%
increase in costs, rate of return would be 7% and wvith a 1()°/0 reduction in the volume of water saved,
the rate of return would be 7.4%. A combination of 1O% increase in costs and 10% reduction in the
volume of water saved would lower the ratc of return to 7%. This rate of return understates the full
benefits to arisc from the future increase in tariffs as the delivcry of wvatcr scrvices improve with the
implemcntation of the above components. In addition, the cconomic rate of return does not take



26
account of the benefits from positive externalities such as improved health and productivity as the
result of the better availability and quality of water cannot be quantified.
D. Proiect Risks
6.5    The main project risk is associated with the capacity of GVWC and SLRA to implement their
respective project components. GVWC, with its long history of capable technical performance and its
successful implementation of the water supply component of the ongoing FIRP (Credit 251 1-SL), is
expected to manage well the implementation of the water supply component of the proposed project.
To make use of existing and proven capability, DOEP will employ GVWC through a management
services contract to implement, on its behalf, its sewerage component. SLRA has demonstrated its
capability in implementing its various components under the FIRP project, will be responsible for
implementing the sanitation sub-component. Another main risk is related to the availability of
counterpart funding. GVWC's financial projections indicate that GVWC would be able to generate
sufficient funds to meet its counterpart obligations. For the other project components, as for the FIRP,
the Government would be required to make agreed initial deposits into project accounts to be
established before credit effectiveness and to make quarterly deposits into this account during project
implementation.
6.6    For the longer term, GVWC may face the risk of sustaining its viability in the light of the fact
that most water utilities in Africa face severe operational and financial difficulties. This risk would be
minimized through the Government's and Bank's continued support for the autonomy of GVWC and
modernization and strengthening of GVWC's operations under the proposed project, and through the
development and implementation under the project of a strategy for increasing private sector
participation in water opcrations. The low-cost sanitation component has an element of risk associated
with the difficulty of promoting and sustaining community-based activities. This risk is being reduced
by using the same implementing agency (SLRA) that has gained pertinent experience through the
implementation of the urban upgrading components of the FIRP and by ensuring the involvement and
commitment of the communities. The security situation in Sierra Leone, if deteriorated in the future,
may also affect project implementation especially in the carrying out of the water master plans and
organization and finance study for major towns outside Greater Freetown.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. A2reements Reached
7.1    Agreements have bcen obtained from thc Government, GVWC and SLRA that:
(a)   the institutional and finance study for the water supply sector will be completed by
June 30, 1996 and that, within 3 months of the complction of the study, the
Governmcnt will prepare an action plan to implement the recommendations of the
study as mutually agreed bctween the Government and IDA (para. 2.8);



27
(b)    the sewerage functions in Freetown will be transferred from GOSL to GVWC not later
than January 1, 1998, and that an action plan for this transfer will be updated by
GOSL/GVWC by January 1, 1997 to be jointly reviewed with IDA (para. 2.14);
(c)    the sewerage charges to be put in effect by GVWC will generate sufficient revenues to
meet annually, at the minimum, cash operating expenses and debt service related to the
sewerage operations (paras. 2.14 and 5.9);
(d)    the Government will onlend US$28.2 million equivalent of the proposed credit
proceeds to GVWC for 20 years including a grace period of 5 years at 7.1% interest
rate per annum (para. 3.8);
(e)    the Government will establish two project accounts in the names of SLRA (for the
implementation of the low cost sanitation component) and GVWC (for the
implementation of the sewerage component and studies on behalf of DOEP) with an
initial deposit of Le 50 million each (para. 3.9);
(f)    GOSL, GVWC and IDA will jointly review the findings and recommendations of the
study on possible role of private sector in enhancing GVWC's operating efficiency not
later than January 1, 1996 and agree on target dates for implementing agreed
measures; and that GVWC will undertake to implement those measures in accordance
with the agreed target dates (para. 4.7);
(g)    SLRA will have the project accounts, special account and statement of expenditures
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA within six months after
close of the year (para. 4.19);
(h)    mid-term project review will be held by August 31,1997, about two years from the
date of credit effectiveness (para. 4.21); and
(i)    the GOSL departments and agencies will make payments for GVWC's water bills not
later than 30 days upon receipt (para. 5.10).
7.2    Agreements have been obtained from GVWC that:
(a)    GVWC will prepare a Project Implementation Manual prior to the project launch
workshop, i.e. by October 1, 1995 (para. 4.21);
(b)    GVWC will resume the metering of domestic water supply by July 1, 1995 and
complete the installation of meters for existing domestic connections by March 31,
1996. GVWC will implement a new tariff structure based on metered consumption by
December 31, 1995, and adjust tariffs from time to time to enable the company to eam
a rate of return on average revalued net fixed assets in operation of not less than 1% in
1995/96, 2% in 1996/97, 4% in 1997/98, 6% in 1998/99 and 8% in 1999/2000 and
thereafter (para. 5.8);
(c)    GVWC's accounts will be audited annually and will be submitted to IDA within six
months after year end, and such accounts and audits will also include the project
accounts, special account and statement of expenditures (paras. 4.18 and 5.13);



28
(d)    GVWC will revalue its asscts annually (para. 5.18);
(c)    GVWC wvill rcduce its rccelvables to 90 davs in ycar 1995 and 60 days thereafter
(para. 5.19); and
(f)    GVWC will maintain a debt scrvicc coverage ratio of at Icast 1.5 (para. 5.20).
7.3    Before credit effectivencss:
(a)    The Government will exccutc the subsidiary loan agreement with GVWC satisfactory
to IDA (para. 3.X8)
(b)    the Governmcnt will cstablish two Project accounts with an initial deposit of Le 50
million each (para. 3.9), and
(c)    GVWC will appoint a scxwcragc cngincer to assist in the implementation of sewerage
component (para. 4. 1).
B. Recommendation
7.6    Based on the above agreements, the proposed project is suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 24.5
million (US$36.0 million equivalent) on standard terms to the Republic of Sierra Leone.
Westem Africa Department
March 13, 1994



-29-                                       Annex 2-1
TELEPHONE NO.: 226566 OFFICE                                 SECRETARY OF STATE   Page 1 of 5
DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY I AND POWER,
ELECTRIc=Y HOUSE
SLAKA STEVENS S.REEr.
9  S   @      ; ~FREETOWN
NPRC
...I........ 19..
Mr. Lewis T. Preston
President
World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.
USA
Dear Mr. Preston,
RE: SIERRA LEONE'S WATER SECTOR POLICIES
We have been working with your staff on the Urban Water Supply Project which
is due to go to the IDA Board in March 1995. In order to place this project in its proper
policy context and in advance of its Board presentation, we are writing to inform the
International Development Association of the initiatives we are taking in the water supply
sector in Sierra Leone. The government attaches high priority to the sector's role in
increasing human welfare and economic growth. This letter highlights the sectors main
constraints and the government's strategies to address them. This policy and strategy
framework will be used to underpin the design and implementation of the proposed IDA
supported Urban Water Supply project, as well as other donor supported projects.
BACKGROUND
During the first decade after independence in 1961, the economy of Sierra Leone
grew at about 4 percent and averaged over 3 percent GDP growth in the first half of the
seventies. Thereafter, the economic situation deteriorated sharply and GDP growth
slowed down to about 1 percent a year in the period 1975-80. Budgetary revenues fell
and major cuts in capital expenditures followed. Investments in social and physical
infrastructure and maintenance virtually ceased, causing rapid decay in existing facilities.
In 1989, the government adopted a reform program aimed at stabilizing the economy.
This included liberalization of the exchange rate and trade, decontrol of prices and
interest rates, strengthening of revenue collection and expenditure controls, and a
revamping of mining and fisheries policies. Rehabilitation of infrastructure has also
begun, with support from IDA and other official multilateral and bilateral agencies.



-30-                                        Annex 2-1
Page 2 of 5
The government's broad development objectives are to stabilize the economy and
create a macroeconomic and sectoral environment conducive to sustained growth and
poverty reduction. The success of macroeconomic policies will be demonstrated by
generation of increased production and poverty reduction. To re-establish and maintain
serviceable levels. This requires large investments in rehabilitation, and strengthened
institutional mechanisms to maintain newly rehabilitated facilities. Within the water
supply and sanitation sector, rehabilitation and improvements have begun with assistance
from IDA, and the Africa Development Bank will join IDA in future programs.
An initial assessment of the environment and resource management points to the
existence of significant environmental problems across all sectors, particularly in respect
of access to water, sanitation and health impact. Access to basic health services, safe
drinking water and health and sanitation are out of reach of the majority of the
population. At most 10 percent of the rural population and 60 percent of the urban
population has access to drinking water. Deficient water supplies are a serious
environmental problem because of their effect on human welfare and economic growth.
In Freetown's Kroo Bay area, 30 percent of childhood deaths are caused by diarrhea and
25 percent by malaria both associated with stagnant or polluted water and solid waste
contamination. The benefits of target interventions can be measured in terms of reduced
medical costs and increased productivity. The revival of the urban economy is essential if
urban centers are to serve as the nucleus of growth in the economic recovery of the rural
areas and the country as a whole.
There has been almost no investment in the water sector for several years due to
the economic problems facing the country. The neglect of operations and maintenance of
the water infrastructure eroded the existing production capacity and increased the loss of
water in the distribution network. The resulting shortages in supply due to dysfunctional
systems have created large backlog in demand, over an above the new demand generated
by the growth of population and economic recovery. The government's objectives for the
water sector are to provide adequate water of acceptable quality in both urban and rural
areas, to deliver potable water to 50 percent of the rural and 100 percent of the urban
population by the end of the decade, to ensure physical, financial and institutional
sustainability of the rehabilitated systems, and to improve access of low income areas to
water supply and sanitation. In this regard it is necessary to determine which
investments in water and sanitation should be marketed at full cost and in which cases
public funds should be used where there are extensive communal benefits for low income
groups.
To achieve the above objectives, the government's main strategies include: repair
and rehabilitation of water production and distribution systems, strengthening and



-31-                                      Annex 2-1
Page 3 of 5
building the institutional capacity of water utilities to meet the water needs of rural and
urban areas, to ensure sustainable water operations, improve the financial viability of
water companies, and to repair and expand gradually the existing sewerage system. The
government has been implementing these strategies through policy and investment
programs financed by IDA such as the Water Supply and Sanitation Sector Study (1983),
on the ongoing Freetown Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project (FIRP) (1993), and the
proposed Urban Water Supply Project (UWSP). The last two address the most
immediate water needs of the capital, Freetown, which houses 22 percent of the total
population.
STRATEGIES AND ACTIONS
Access to Water Supply. In the short and medium term the government is seeking to
improve access to water supply through increased supplies and demand side
management. The water supply components under FIRP and UWSP increase the supply
of water through rehabilitation of the production facilities and reduction in leakage in
the distribution system of Freetown managed by the Guma Valley Water Company
(GVWC). On the demand side, the ongoing universal metering of water connections in
Freetown is expected to promote water conservation by consumers. At the same time,
more standpipes will be provided by GVWC to ensure access to water especially in the
areas where metered connections are not practicable. The water systems in the urban
centers of Bo, Kenema and Makeni have recently been brought back into operation using
our own resources but they are in urgent need of further rehabilitation. They are the
responsibility of the Sierra Leone Water Company (SLWC) and will be the subject of
studies under the proposed UWSP. Water supply in the rest of the country is the
responsibility of the Water Supply Division in the Department of Energy and Power.
Institutional Strengthening. Under FIRP and the proposed project, the management and
operations of GVWC, which is an autonomous public utility, are being modernized and
strengthened. It is our intention to preserve the autonomy of GVWC. The establishment
of autonomous, self-supporting water utilities for urban areas outside Freetown is also
under consideration. These may be set up on the pattern of GVWC and/or the local
private sector may be involved via management service contracts to manage these
systems. Former employees of GVWC would be potential candidates for such contracts.
The water supply systems in the Northern Province are currently being managed under a
management contract supported by a grant from the European Economic Community.
We are currently exploring the feasibility of community owned and managed water
supply systems in rural and semi-urban areas. We will continue to seek the support of
the international donor community to supplement our own efforts in these areas. In
order to improve the operations of the existing sewerage systems in Freetown, the



-32-                                        Annex 2-1
Page 4 of 5
government and GVWC are committed to transfer the responsibility for this sewerage
system from the Department of Energy and Power (DOEP) to GVWC. This transfer will
be effective not later than July 1997, taking into consideration the time required for
GVWC to complete its organization and management modernization/improvement
program, to carry out in the next two years the heaviest workload of implementing the
FIRP and the proposed project, and to plan and implement the various steps prerequisite
of this transfer.
Cost Recovery and Financial Viability. The tariff structure for water use in Freetown is
currently being revised to ensure both cost recovery and financial viability of the Guma
Valley Water Company. The block tariffs build into their structure the incremental cost
of supplying additional units of water and incorporate incentives to conserve water use.
While the tariff structure will reflect the cost of operations and capital investments, a
"lifeline tariff" will be charged to the poorest consumers to allow them access to basic
needs at an affordable price. The tariff structure in the sector will be fixed in real terms
to allow for inflationary changes, and in order to allow gradual adjustment of domestic
consumer expectations and behaviour, the new tariff rates in Freetown, in particular,
will be applied gradually each year over the next 3 years. The new tariffs will reduce the
present large cross-subsidization between the industrial and commercial consumers and
the domestic sector. To maximize health benefits from more and better quality water, it
is necessary for the public to understand the relation between water usage and disease
incidence. To promote such understanding we will undertake public education campaigns
which will also provide information on the need to pay for water. The combined efforts
on the supply and demand sides will, we expect, allow us to defer the prohibitive expense
of constructing Orugu Dam, an alternate source of water supply for the Greater
Freetown Area. In the water companies to be established in other urban centers also, the
government is committed to promoting commercial operations with consideration for
basic water needs of the poor.
Sanitation. An initial effort at addressing the health and sanitation conditions in
Freetown in being made under FIRP. In its slum upgrading component, FIRP includes
the provision of waste collection and disposal facilities and ablution facilities particularly
in the low income areas. These efforts are being extended in the proposed project, which
will be community-based and demand driven. The proposed project also strengthens the
sewerage department and repairs and expands, on pilot basis, the existing sewerage
system. These initial steps, it is hoped, will maximize benefits from existing facilities and
stimulate future development of the Freetown sewerage systems.
Investment and Expenditure Policy. Due to absence of proper planning and funding in
the previous years, there have been no structured investment and expenditure policy in



-33-                                       Annex 2-1
Page 5 of 5
the sector. However, the Government will ensure that future investment should be based
on clearly defined economic considerations and maintenance will receive the highest
priority over rehabilitation or expansion.
Regulatory Framework. At present, GVWC is completely autonomous with respect to
investment expenditures and tariff setting. The rest of the sector, which is operated by
the Water Division of DOEP and the Sierra Leone Water Company (SLWC), is under
the control of DOEP. The regulatory framework for the water sector will be reviewed
under the Organization, Management and Finance Study (for the water sector outside
Freetown). To be financed under the proposed project.
Private Sector Participation. In order to promote efficiency in the water sector, the
government is committed to involve the private sector in the water utilities operations
wherever possible. To ensure an orderly transition to private sector involvement in the
sector, a study will be financed under the proposed Urban Water Supply Project on
possible role of Private Sector in Enhancing Operating Efficiency within GVWC. The
implementation of this study's recommendations would be used as a basis for the whole
sector.
Government Arrears. The government has settled all arrears on water bills with GVWC
and is committed to remit payment to GVWC for water charges to government
departments and agencies within 30 days of billing.
SeCrey of Se frama
Secretary of State for Energy and Power



-34-
Annex 3-1
Page I of 4
SIERRA LEONE
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT SCOPE
The proposed project will increase the capacity of the water source in the Guma Reservoir
(currently 72,000 m3/d), rehabilitate and improve the treatment plants at Guma and Kongo and
improve the transmission capacity and the distribution network pipelines. These will be achieved
through the execution of the following components:
A. Water Source
(i)    Rehabilitation and repair work on Guma Dam intake tower and raising the
spillway top level by 1.5 meters so as to increase storage to give yield of
up to 90,000 m3/d.
(ii)    Construction of weirs and a canal to divert wet season flows from a small
subsidiary catchment (Little Guma) into the Guma Reservoir to increase
water supply capacity and improve reliability by providing incremental
yield of about 13,000 m3/d.
B. Treatment Plant
Refurbishment of the Guma Water Treatment Plant, including replacement of obsolete chemical
dosing and other equipment, refurbishment of filters, and modifications to increase capacity to
match the supply capacity of the Guma Reservoir and transmission pipelines to Freetown, of about
90,000 m3/d.
C. Bulk Transfer Mains
Provision of new bulk transmission mains as follows to increase transmission capacity across
Freetown towards the Wellington area:
- Congo Cross to Lumley Street       - 700 mm diameter, 4.06 km long;
- Lumlev Street to Dan Street        - 600 mm diametcr; 1.34 km long;
- Africanus Road to Wellington       - 600 mm diamcter; 4.90 km long;
- New outlet to Wellington Reservoir  - 600 mm diameter, 0.50 km long,
- Installation of flow control valves at the Wellington Rescrvoir.
D. Distribution Extensions
Extensions to the distribution system to ensure that the projected 2005 demands can be met. These



-35-
Annex 3-1
Page 2 of 4
would include the following:
(i)  Spur Road Zone
-    200 mm diameter of 1.34 km length along King Hartman Road;
-    250 mm diameter of 0.68 km length along Circular Road;
-    250 mm diameter of 0.27 km length along Macauley Street;
-    Installation/Replacement of 7 No. x 150 mm diameter pressure reducing
valves to control the flow of water between pressure zones.
(ii) Wellington Zone
-   Secondary distribution network to serve the high population growth in the
zone including about 6 km of 500/600 mm diameter pipeline and 4 km of
150 to 300 mm diameter pipeline;
(iii) Tower Hill Zone
-    Provision of a new 400 mm diameter common inlet/outlet main for the
Tower Hill reservoir.
(iv) Income Tax Zone
-    Provision of a bypass arrangement to the Income Tax Break Pressure
Tank.
E. Reservoirs' ImDrovements
-    Refurbishment of Dan Street and Income Tax Reservoirs and re-
integrating them into the distribution system;
-    Provision of new concrete reservoirs of increased capacity to replace
leaking steel reservoirs at Governor's Lodge, Kotright and Wilberforce
Village.
F. Kon2o SUPply
Improvement of supply to high level zones, and reducing pumping costs by:
-    Provision of a packaged treatment plant of 1,600 m3/d capacity with the
source of raw water being the existing Kongo Reservoir;
-    Replacement of the old Gloucester Service Reservoir with a concrete one;
-    Provision of a fully equipped pumping station.
G. Secondary Distribution Reinforcement
The supply of about 24 km of distribution pipelines of less than 100 mm diameter to be laid by
GVWC over a period of about 4-5 years.



-36-
Annex 3-1
Page 3 of 4
H. En2ineering
Consultancy services will be required for the design and supervision of installation/construction of
some of the components outlined above. These will comprise the following:
(a)  Water Sources - Supervision of all construction works for the diversion
weirs, canals in the Little Guma catchment, repair works on the Guma
Dam intake tower and the raising of the dam spillway,
(b)  Treatment Plant - Supervision of the installation of all plant and equipment
as well as civil works required for the modifications of the treatment works
and the final testing and commissioning of the plant;
(c)   Bulk Transfer Mains - Assist in the devaluation of bids for supply of
pipes, fittings and specials and for the associated civil works and the
installation of flow control valves at Wellington reservoir; supervision of
the civil works and the installation of the valves.
(d)   Distribution Extension - Preparation of detailed designs, working
drawings, tender documents and the evaluation of tenders for the supply of
pipes fittings and specials and the supervision of their laying/installation;
(e)   Reservoir Improvements - Preparation of detailed designs, working
drawings, tender documents and evaluation of tenders for the construction
of the three new reservoirs at Governor's Lodge, Kortright and
Wilberforce Village; the refurbishment of the Dan Street and Income Tax
Reservoirs; and the supervision of their construction/refurbishment.
(f)   Kongo Supply - Prepare detailed specifications and tender document for
the procurement of a package treatment plant, pumping station and
reservoir; assist in the evaluation of the bids for supply and
installation/construction; and supervision of their
installation/construction.
(g)  Secondary Distribution Reinforcement
(i)    Assist GVWC to thoroughly examine the distribution
network and make recommendations concerning the old
pipes, fittings and specials that need to be replaced.
Prepare bid documents and evaluate the bids for the
supply of all the replacement items.
(ii)    Prepare detailed workshop designs, working drawings
and bid documents for the supply and installation of all
recommended workshop and other
construction/maintenance equipment as well as for the
procurement of other routine distribution and store
supplies as per GVWC's requirements; evaluation of



-3 7 -
Annex 3-1
Page 4 of 4
the bids, and the supervision of their supply,
construction or installation.
I. GVWC institutional strenethenin2
(i)  supply of computer system and software for accounting and management
information systems;
(ii)  supply of vehicles and electro mechanical tools and equipment for
maintenance;
(iii)  technical assistance to implement computerized system, identify roles for
private sector participation in water supply operations to help GVWC
manage increased investment programs and operations and to develop a
public relations and education program; and
(iv) training of GVWC staff.
J. Development of SLWC
(i)  provision of consulting services for preparation of water supply master
plans, feasibility studies and designs for major towns (including Bo,
Kenema and Makeni) and an organization and finance and management
study for the water sector including the water supply operations in these
towns; and
(ii)  institutional support related to the development of SLWC including office
equipment and vehicles.
K. Sanitation
(i)  technical assistance to plan low cost sanitation including the design of a
community outreach system involving NGOs and/or other private
agencies;
(ii)  provision of about 10 new ablution facilities in low income areas in
Freetown;
(iii)  rehabilitation and pilot scale extension of the existing sewerage system;
(iv)  rehabilitation of macerator stations and extension of the sea outfalls.
(v)  management and consultant services for supervision; and
(vi)  related institutional support including office equipment and vehicles.



-38-
Annex 3-2
Page 1 of 6
SIERRA LEONE
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION COMPONENT
Terms of Reference
Background
1.    Environmental sanitation (sullage disposal, drainage, human and solid waste
management) in urban areas has become a major issue, as urban populations continue to grow
at high rates and the need for provision of adequate services becomes more pressing. The
Wellington area of Freetown will be receiving its first distribution system. Hence, there is a
need to ensure that the water being brought in does not create an additional environmental
burden. Management of sanitation is divided up among several agencies although the limits
of responsibility are not clearly defined. The key agencies are the ministries responsible for
water and health and the Freetown City Council (FCC). Several others play limited roles.
2.     There are two main ways in which sullage (kitchen and bath water) currently is
disposed of. The majority of owners drain their sullage out into the adjacent pathway where
it eventually finds its way into public drains which are often blocked by garbage, weeds and
sediment. Other homes tend to dispose of their sullage on site either by surface spreading or
in seepage pits. Off site disposal results in ponded water and muddy pathways that make
walking difficult and allow mosquitos to breed. Human waste is disposed of by pit latrines
and by septic tanks/vaults with soakaways. There is sewerage in only the old central part of
Freetown. Garbage is a problem since only a limited collection system has been established.
It is generally dumped at official or unofficial sites. Existing water sources are surface
waters, a few open wells, standpipes and house connections. Surface waters and well water
are usually highly polluted and management of standpipe sites is usually inadequate.
Objectives
3.    The primary objective of the environmental sanitation component is to reduce possible
adverse environmental effects caused by the water which will be brought into the Wellington
area of Freetown by the project. In order to achieve this: (i) provision will be made for
wastewater disposal and management of new water points; (ii) extension agents will be trained
to better promote improved environmental sanitation; (iii) planning activities will be carried
out to improve existing domestic sanitation management practices including human waste,
sullage disposal, stormwater drainage, and solid waste; and (iv) support will be provided for
the organization of neighborhood user groups. In doing this, special attention will be paid to
increasing the skills of sector staff and local consultants in working on sanitation issues.



-39-
Annex 3-2
Page 2 of 6
Methodologv
4.    The sanitation planning, promotion and hygiene education activities will be
implemented by a full time, multi-disciplinary team of sector personnel (Government and
NGO) and two long term consultants (engineer and community development expert) based in
a lead agency such as FCC. The team will be supported by an advisory committee
comprising sector agencies involved in environmental sanitation management and short term
local and international consultants. Subsequent to completion of the activities described in the
component, the local teams will be in a position to continue planning activities, assisting other
urban areas and coordinating and monitoring implementation of new projects. Detailed terms
of reference for each member of the team as well as the consultants will be jointly prepared in
an initiating workshop attended by Government officials, NGOs, special consultants and Bank
specialists. There will be two components, one aimed at developing policies and broad
guidelines for promulgation by the Government, and one aimed specifically at improving
sanitary conditions in the Wellington area.
5.    It will be necessary to ensure that standpipes sites include appropriate drainage
(soakaways or trenches for the wastewater produced at the water point) and that buildings
with direct connections have appropriately dimensioned soakaways or trenches. Same
households which have multiple taps have adequate wastewater disposal through septic tanks
and infiltration trenches but for others, infiltration trenches function poorly, and effluent finds
its way to surface drains. Means of ameliorating this situation are needed. Sound
management of standpipes to ensure that the water points are not vandalized and that the
surrounds are kept clean can be achieved by several means to be decided upon. Sub-
contracting or franchising of the standpipes to private citizens to sell water, or putting in place
a workable maintenance and management system which will be the responsibility of GVWC,
are two options.
6.    The promotion and hygiene education activities will include providing additional
training skills and tools to health inspectors and extension agents so that they can promote the
new water supplies and encourage better water use practices and proper disposal of sullage
including on-site soakaways and the upkeep of community drains. Sanitation planning will
consist of first reviewing existing conditions, institutional arrangements, policy and legislative
provisions, technology choice, financing and the willingness of the population to pay for
services, and social and cultural conditions. Subsequently additional work will result in
recommendations on policies, guidelines and actions that can be taken to improve
environmental sanitation conditions.
7.    To promote efficiency and accountability to consumers, neighborhoods will be
assisted, possibly through NGO involvement to organize themselves into user groups to be
able to: (a) aggregate and communicate their preferences for service, technology choice and
how much they are willing to pay for their preferences to the GVWC (or to those planning
the new services); (b) mobilize and contribute resources (cash and/or in-kind resources)
towards capital, operation and maintenance costs; and (c) hold the GVWC and other service
providers accountable for the quality of service they provide.



-40-
Annex 3-2
Page 3 of 6
I. Sanitation Management Guidelines
8.    In order to assist better management of sanitation services, it will be necessary to
develop clear guidelines and policies on the responsibilities of the various institutions involved
in the sub-sector, as well as on technology choice, financial and legislative issues and on the
role of the population. It is important that the guidelines for management of the sanitation
(human solid waste management, sullage disposal, and storm water drainage) services are
prepared by government officials who will be responsible for updating them. A team of
government officials from the relevant agencies and long term consultants will therefore
conduct a study to develop the guidelines. These terms of reference therefore describe the
work to be done and indicate where consultants will be required to assist in its
implementation.
Scope of Work
9.     The main phases of the work to be conducted which will lead to recommendations to
be adopted by Government, are as follows:
(a)    review of existing sanitation conditions in Freetown including levels of
service, and coverage;
(b)    detailed analysis (organizational structure, human and financial resources,
equipment, roles) of the institutions (public and private including NGOs)
involved in providing sanitation services;
(c)    sanitation survey in representative parts of Freetown, including information on
types of excreta and sullage systems used by the population, water supply
sources, how much they pay for collection and disposal of solid and human
waste and other related services, how such services are organized, preferences
and thoughts about existing alternative services, determination of the
willingness to pay for improved services. The survey will be based on
representative sampling and will require preparation of a questionnaire,
definition of a sampling procedure, identification and training of enumerators
and their supervisors and development of a database to process the results;
(d)    review of actual financing mechanisms for services (loans, subsidies, etc.) and
options for cost recovery and review of existing policies, legislation, edicts
and regulations and on the basis of actual need;
(e)    review of current technologies used and recommendations on criteria for
technology choice for the collection, treatment and disposal of human and
solid waste, sullage, and stormwater; and
(f)    recommendations to be acted on by Government for new policy decisions and
guidelines on institutional, financial, and technical aspects reviewed in order
to improve management of services.



-4 1-
Annex 3-2
Page 4 of 6
Roles of Consultants, Timing, and Reporting
10.   It is expected that this study will take six months. Two long term local consultants
(part of the project team) will be responsible for coordinating activities, providing technical
assistance to the teams and assisting with report writing. An expert consultant will be
required for 2 months to assist with the sanitation survey and additional input will be required
from other short term local consultants.
II. Sullage Disposal, Drainage and Sanitation Plans
11.    The additional standpipes and house connections to be introduced into the Wellington
areas as a result of the project will need to be better managed than the ones currently in place.
Furthermore, improved disposal of the wastewater produced is needed. Solid waste
management is an important aspect to consider since poor management often contributes to
drainage and wastewater disposal problems.
Scope of the Work
A.    Analysis of the Existing Situation
12.    A review will be made of actual sanitation services in the Wellington area including
the following:
(a)    Existing water supply and sanitation facilities (domestic (individual or
communal), commercial, industrial). Assessment of completed, current and
planned waste treatment and disposal facilities (and projects). Current needs
for sanitation and the deficiencies in sanitation services.
(b)    Determination of the costs of the different levels of sanitation service, who
pays for services and what are the current financing mechanisms.
(c)    Review of the status, operation and responsibilities of agencies and
organizations involved in the provision of individual and communal sanitation
services including their institutional, human resource, operation and
maintenance capabilities and financial situation.
(d)    Review of the current involvement of the private sector NGOs and the
population in sanitation services, for example septic tank emptying,
construction of on-site excreta disposal and soakaway systems, construction
and management of communal facilities, collection of garbage, construction
and cleansing of drains, and an assessment for the capacity of the private
sector for participation improving sanitation services.
(e)    Examination of housing types and densities, demographic, socio-economic and
industrial growth patterns and population growth projections.



-4 2 -
Annex 3-2
Page 5 of 6
(f)    Review of neighborhood, topographical and drainage maps and aerial
photographs and environmental considerations including soil and groundwater
conditions.
(g)    Review of legal and policy guidelines as well as options for enforcement of
regulations.
(h)    Review of community organizations that may exist in the Wellington area to
include the types of organizations (whether based on neighborhoods, gender,
religion, ethnic origin, etc.), rules governing behavior within the
organizations, how the organizations relate to other bodies, methods of
conflict resolution, and mechanisms for providing rewards and sanctions.
B.     Technologv Options
13.    A proposal will be made of appropriate technology options for different areas based
on the criteria for choice developed in the management study and on the willingness of the
population to pay for services.
(a)    Identification and proposal of feasible technology options to meet sanitation
needs taking into account institutional, financial, human resource, legal, policy
and social and cultural considerations and using the criteria developed in the
management study.
(b)    Comparison of technological options for collection, treatment and disposal
taking into consideration the costs of the different alternatives as well as other
relevant factors and proposing of feasible options for the different parts of the
Wellington area including assessment of rehabilitation, upgrading and service
expansion options.
C.     Financing Options
14.    Options for financing services will be proposed.
(a)    Review the mechanisms for financing the different services and identify the
most suitable cost recovery mechanisms, determine the levels of subsidy
required, determine the need for credit to individual homeowners and propose
suitable administrative procedures for loans (such as through commercial
banks and or revolving funds).
D.    Institutional Options
15.    The results of the management study will be the basis for institutional
recommendations on management of sanitation services in Wellington.
(a)    Review the options for institutional support and organization (public, private,
the population) for the different technology choices proposed for the town.



-43-
Annex 3-2
Page 6 of 6
(b)    Review the existing human resource capacity and propose solutions for
providing adequate human resources for management and implementation of
the plan. All training requirements (immediate and future) should also be
included.
E.    Implementation Strate,rv
16.    Preparation of a package of projects and activities (sanitation plan) to be financed by
the population and Government with the assistance of external financing as appropriate,
including an implementation schedule and investment plan. An on-going planning process
will be identified for each service level.
F.    Sullage Disposal and Drainage
17.    An analysis of the existing sullage disposal and drainage systems in Wellington will be
made and recommendations made on improvements required in the management of the
systems. The recommendations will include: the roles to be played by public and private
institutions as well as the population being served; description of new or improved systems to
be constructed and training requirements for artisans and the population; community
organization, promotion and sensitization activities; financing requirements from government,
population and external sources.
Cost Recovery
18.   Cost recovery for the community-based sanitation component will be achieved in two
ways, to reflect the share of the cost burden to be borne by the two distinct groups of
beneficiaries, as follows: (a) Direct cost recovery by applying a nominal charge for the use
of the facilities, paid by the user. The present rate for existing facilities is Le 20.00 per visit;
(b) Indirect cost recovery by levying an additional City Council Rate on property owners
whose premises lie within the catchment area of the facilities, and therefore whose resale and
rental value will be increased due to their proximity to improved urban services. The rate of
the direct cost to be levied on the users should be calculated to cover the operation and
maintenance cost of the facilities, including attendant's salary, cost of cleansing materials and
an allowance for periodic refurbishment. The quantum of the indirect cost to be added to the
City Council rate to be levied for the properties within the catchment area should approximate
to a figure calculated to recover the capital costs, over a reasonable time period.
Roles of Consultants. Timing and Supervision
19.   The planning process will take about 12 months, and will begin at the end of the
management study. Several consultants will be required to assist the team of Government
officials and NGOs for periods of up to two months each. A sanitation plan will be available
at the end of the 12 months.



-4 4 -
Annex 3-3
Page 1 of 3
SIERRA LEONE
GUMA VALLEY WATER COMPANY
STUDY ON POSSIBLE ROLE OF PRIVATE SECTOR
IN ENHANCING OPERATING EFFICIENCY
Draft Termns of Reference
Background
1.    The Guma Valley Water Company (GVWC) was incorporated in 1961 when the
Guma Valley water system was completed with financial assistance from the Commonwealth
Development Corporation (CDC) of the United Kingdom. The 1961 Act by Ordinance vested
in GVWC all necessary rights and authority required to meet the general purposes of the
company which are:
*  To procure a supply of water and to distribute it within the limits of supply and
elsewhere.
*  To supply water in bulk within the limits of supply and elsewhere.
*  For the above-mentioned purposes, to accept the vesting in it the Guma lands, the
Guma works and the transferred undertakings and to construct and maintain the
Guma dam and other works authorized in other sections of the Act.
2.    GVWC is owned by the Government of Sierra Leone (90%) and the Freetown City
Council (10%), and controlled by a Board of six members, three appointed by the
Government, two by CDC and one by the City Council. Its day-to-day management is in the
hands of a General Manager/Engineer-in-Chief. With a total staff of around 310 including 14
professional engineers and accountants. GVWC operates its water supply system with an
installed capacity of 18 Imgd. Most of the water available is being used to serve more than
600,000 people through some 10,000 (unmetered) connections and 520 standpipes, and 1,600
commercial/industrial/institutional customers through metered connections.
3.    GVWC is required to conduct its business on sound commercial principles and to
generate adequate revenues to meet all its operating expenses, debt service and taxes, make all
proper provisions and reserves and earn a reasonable return on its capital. It has done a
commendable job of providing potable water within its jurisdiction under adverse economic
conditions in the country. Prior to 1981, GVWC fully met its financial obligations. Since
that time and until a recent agreement with the Government on its capital restructuring, the
company was unable to meet all its financial obligations although it always maintained positive
operating incomes. This was largely due to massive devaluations of the Leone during this
period. And as a result, GVWC's water systems are in need of rehabilitation and expansion.
4.    A recent IDA credit for the Freetown Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project (FIRP)
include provision for immediate actions to improve GVWC's water supply operations: a
concentrated leakage detection and repair program; metering of all domestic connections;



-45-
Annex 3-3
Page 2 of 3
expanding the reticulation network and providing metered connections to the plots that are not
being served as well as additional standpipes to ensure access to water in the needy areas. At
the same time, a computerized billing system is being implemented for GVWC to be
operational in November 1994. Furthermore, studies have been carried out to update
GVWC's water master plan and review/recommend measures to improve the organization,
management and finances of the company. These studies formed the basis of the proposed
Urban Water Supply Project to be financed by IDA. Also, it is expected that the
responsibility for the sewerage operations in Freetown will be transferred from the
Department of Energy and Power (DOEP) to GVWC in the next 2-3 years. With a view
towards further improving the efficiency of its operations, GVWC management desires to
investigate possibilities for using services of the private sector to perform the function(s) or
service(s) where appropriate and justified in terms of net savings to the company.
Objectives
5.     Public water utilities in Africa and elsewhere are experiencing many difficulties,
especially as their operations expand over time. Although GVWC is fairly well-managed at
the present time, difficulties might arise in the future as its operations expand. The main
objective of the study is to identify the specific function(s) and service(s) of GVWC which
could be "privatized" and the possible form(s) of privatization, and to assess the feasibility of
such possible course of actions.
Scope of Work
6.     The scope of work will include, but not necessarily be limited to:
*  Review the various functions and services being performed by GVWC staff,
including billing and collection (for the entire system, individual communities,
standpipes, etc.), operation and maintenance (of part(s) of the water system, such
as the Guma dam, Guma water treatment works, transmission and distribution
networks, etc.), support services (such as stores management, vehicle
maintenance, data processing services, etc.), etc., as well as those to be performed
by GVWC with respect to the future take-over of the sewerage operations in
Freetown.
*  Identify the specific function(s) and/or service(s) which may be good candidates
for further consideration and analysis for possible "privatization". Also,
determine the likely form(s) of privatization for each of these identified functions
and services.
*  Assess the availability and capability of the (most likely local) private sector to
undertake such functions/provide such services and estimated costs.
*  Assess the financial viability of each of the technically feasible options for
"privatization" as arrived at through the above steps. Detailed calculations will be
made on the resulting net cost savings to GVWC, taking into account, among
other things, the costs (to GVWC) of managing and monitoring the contractual
arrangements involved.



-46-
Annex 3-3
Page 3 of 3
* Assess GVWC's ability to manage any resulting contracts, and whether any
strengthening or change in structure might be appropriate for GVWC's
organization.
Consultancv Requirement
7.    It is envisaged that consultants with expertise on privatization of water utility functions
and knowledge of the Freetown environment will be required for the study for a total of about
4-5 man-months. The study will be carried out over a period of about 4 months.
Reporting
8.    A draft report will be submitted to GVWC for review within 3 months after the start
of the study. This report will be finalized taking into account the comments of GVWC.



Annex 3-4
-47-                                           Page  1 of  3
SIERRA LEONE
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
(Base is early 1995)
SSS '000                       LE '000000
LOCAL   FOREIGN   TOTAL    LOCAL   FOREIGN    TOTAL
A. WATER SUPPLY
1. GVWC PHYSICAL WORKS
SOURCE WORKS
Mfintenance/Safety Work Gums Dam                     140.1       245.2      385.3       84.8       148.3     233.1
Divert Little Gums                                   294.1       571.5      865.6      177.9      345.7      523.6
Raise Gums Dam Spillway                               67.7        99.6      167.3       41.0        60.3      101.2
TREATMENT WORKS
Rehabilitate Gums Treatment Works                    1374.3     2673.3    4047.6       831.4      1617.3    2448.7
SUPPLEMENTARY SUPPLY
Improvements to Kongo Supply                         476.8       916.0    1392.8      288.4       554.2      842.6
TRANSMISSION
Congo Street to Dann Strecet
- Supply of pipes                                    498.7      1329.1    1827.8       301.7       804.1     1105.8
- Civil Works                                        987.3      1635.9    2623.2       597.3       989.7    1587.0
Africanus Road to Wellington
- Supply ofpipes                                     440.3      1132.4    1572.7       266.4       685.1      951.5
- Civil Works                                        866.5      1393.0    2259.5       524.2       842.7    1367.0
DISTRIBUTION
- Extend distribution - Wellington                   1534.9     2277.8    3812.7       92S.6      1378.0    2306.6
- Spur Road                            337.7       438.9      776.6      204.3      265.5       469.8
- Income Tax                             14.0       28.9       32.9        8.5        11.4       19.9
Replace old distribution                            248.2       475.0     723.2      150.2       287.4      437.5
- Improve Service Reservoirs                         798.0      1521.1    2319.1       482.8       920.2    1403.0
- Refurbish Dan St & Income Tax Reservoirs            34.3        57.4       91.7       20.8        34.7       55.5
Improve distribution                                 26.9        44.8       71.7      16.3        27.1       43.4
Routine distribution and stores                    1338.9      2550.0    3888.9       810.0     1542.7    2352.7
CONNECTIONS
Meters, connections and supplics                     381.1       725.8    1106.9       230.5       439.1      669.6
ENGINEERING
Design and Supervision                                110.2     1805.0    1915.2        66.7      1092.0    1158.7
SUEBTOTALGVWC- PHYSICALwORKS                        9970.0    19910.7   29880.7    6031.6    12045.6   18077.2
PKYSICALCONTINGENCIES                               1477.5     2929.0    4406.5       S86.5      1757.4    2643.9
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                                  451.8     1106.2    1558.0    1625.4        3347.7    4973.1
SUBTOTAL GVWC. PHYSICAL WoRKS                       12899.3    23945.9   35845.2    8543.6    17150.6   25694.2



Annex 3-4
-48-                                         Page  2 of 3
SIERRA LEONE
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
(Base is early 1995)
SS$ '000                     LE '000000
LOCAL   FOREICN   TOTAL   LOCAL   FOREIGN   TOTAL
2. GVWC INSTrrUrIONAL STRENGTHENING
Technical assistance                               33.4      259.2     292.6      20.2       156.8     177.0
Training                                           27.8       96.0     12.3.8      16.8       58.1      74.9
Equipment and vehicles                            135.7      247.0     382.7      82.1       149.4    231.5
Public Relations Campaign                          11.6       90.0     101.6       7.0        54.4      61.5
SUBTOTALGVWC[NSTrrLrrioNALSTRE?RENarHDOG          208.6      692.2    900.8       126.2      418.8     544.9
PHYsICAL CONTrNGENCIES                             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
PRICECONTINGENCIES                                 5.7       25.5      31.2      23.3        83.1     106.4
SUBTOTAL GVWC INSTIrrTTIONAL STRENGTHENING        214.2      717.7     931.9      149.4      501.9     651.3
SUBTOTAL GVWC                                   10178.5    20602.9   30781.4    6157.8    12464.3   18622.1
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                          1477.5     2929.0    4406.5     886.5      1757.4    2643.9
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                              457.5     1131.7    1589.2    1648.7     3430.8    5079.5
SUBTOTAL GVWC                                   12113.6    24663.6   36777.2    8693.0    17652.5  26345.5
3. DOLEP/SLWC TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE and ST1UDIES
Master Plan                                     307.4     2385.0   2692.4    16.0        1442.9    1628.8
Organization and FLnance                         58.0      450.0    508.0        35.1      272.2     307.3
Office equipment                                 37.1       63.0      100.1     22.5        38.1      60.6
SUBTOTAL DOLEP/SLWC                               402.5     2898.0   3300.5      243.5      1753.2    1996.7
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                            40.6      289.8     330.4      24.4      173.9      198.2
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                               15.5      140.8     156.3      59.1      445.6     504.7
SUBTOTAL DOLEP/SLWC                               458.6     3328.6    3787.2     327.0     2372.7    2699.7
B. SANITATION
Sanitation
Technical assistance and planning               101.5      262.5     364.0      61.4       158.8    220.2
Studies                                          58.0      450.0    508.0       35.1       272.2     307.3
Ablution facilities                             185.6      240.0    425.6       112.3      145.2     257.5
Institutional Support                           213.4      360.0     573.4      129.1      217.8     346.9
SuBToTALLOwCOSTSANrTATION                         558.5     1312.5    1871.0     337.9       794.0    1131.9
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                            56.3      131.3      187.6     33.8        78.8     112.5
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                               22.6       66.6      89.1      84.8       208.9     293.7
SUBTOTAL LOW COST SANITATION                      637.4      1510.3    2147.7    456.5      1081.7    1538.2



Annex 3-4
-49-                                            Page  3  of 3
SIERRA LEONE
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PROJECT COST ESTIUATE
(Base is early 1993)
$SS '000                      LE '000000
LOCAL   FOREIGN   TOTAL    LOCAL   FOREIGN   TOTAL
Sewerage
Rehabilitation of existing                        142.1      297.5      439.6      86.0       180.0     265.9
Outfall extenaion                                 249.4      425.0      674.4     150.9       257.1     408.0
Sewer network revamping                           595.1     1140.0    1735.1      360.0       689.7    1049.7
Engineering                                        20.3      332.5      352.8      12.3       201.2     213.4
Management                                         46.4       10.0       56.4      28.1         6.0      34.1
SUBTOTALSEWERAGE                                   1053.3     2205.0    3'58.3      637.2      1334.0    1971.2
PHYsYcALcoNTINGENclEs                              106.2      220.5      326.7      63.7       132.3      196.0
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                                 57.8      142.9      200.8     186.5       404.0     590.4
SUBrOTALSEWERAGE                                   1217.3     2568.4    3785.7      887.4      1870.2    2757.6
SUBTOTAL SANITATION                                1611.8     3517.5    5129.3      975.1     2128.0    3103.1
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                             162.5      351.8     514.3       97.5      211.1      308.6
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                                 80.4      209.5     289.9      271.3      612.8      884.1
SUBTOTAL SANITATION                                1854.7     4078.7    5933.5    1343.9      2951.9    4295.8
GRAND TOTAL BASE COST                             12192.9    27018.4   39211.3    7376.4    16345.6   23722.0
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                            1680.6     3570.6    5251.2    1008.4      2142.3    3150.7
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                                553.4     1482.0    2035.4    1979.1      4489.2    6468.3
GRAND TOTAL                                       14426.9    32071.0   46497.8   10363.9    22977.1   33341.0



SIERRA LEONE
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
GUMA VALLEY WATER COMPANY
Organization Chart
DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY & POWER
|  BOARD OF DIRECTORS
GENERAL MANAGERIENGINEER IN CHIEF
INTERNAL AUDITOR               PUBLIC RELATION OFFICER
CHIEF ENGINEER     l|FINANCIAL CONTROLLER-]
|DEP CHIEF ENGINEER  |                         DER FIN. CONTROLLER|l
DEV EGINEE              OPERAIO             PESNE               COM  RCA             EDP                           SEN.     |
DEV. ENGINEER t            L ENGINEERS             OFFICER              MANGER                                        ACCOUNTANT
<  | |   PROD    l           [   ~~~~~DIST  |r                                                                 STORE     l
MANAGR                   MANAGER  ll                                                                 SUPERVISOR 
WASTE  SEN    PLAT                                       CIVIL       METER       BILLING/    CUSTOMERCHE
OFFICTER    SURVEYOR      SUANT                                      UT         REDN CEH   lVOLLECTIONI  SERVICE     CASHIER    STORE KEEPER
WASTE & METER                        V         PLANT    E        SI         DI
ek/sadstW50575



-51-                                            Annex 4-2
Page 1 of 2
SIERRA LEONE
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Sierra Leone Roads Authority - Organization Chart
Board of
Directors
Director
General
Division
Deputy'~ ~~                  Internal Audit
Deputy Director    |
General
Equipment &
Supplies               Development             Administration            Maintenance             Feeder Roads
Department               Department              Department                Department               Department
Area Engineers
Offices
cak\c\W53465A



-52-
Annex 4-2
Page 2 of 2
SIERRA LEONE
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Project Management and Coordination Unit (PMCU/FIRP)
Steenng
Committee
Director General
SLRA
Project
Manager
I
Assistant
Project Manager
Proureen                                      Accountant |
Specialist
cak\c4\W21 83



SIERRA LEONE URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
94              1995        |      1996               1997              1998               1999
ID    Name                                                     Q3  Q4  Q1  Q2  Q3  Q4  Ql1 02  Q3  Q4  01  Q2  Q3  04  Ql  02  Q3  Q4  Ql  Q2  0304
1    PHYSICAL WORKS                                                                                                                                          :
2
3        SOURCE WORKS                                                       . .
4             Maintenance/Safety Work Gums Dam 
Divert Little Gums                                         1/                "
6             Raise Guma Dam Spillway                          V [/"' /
7
8        TREATMENT WORKS                                                711
9             Rehabilitate Guma Treatment Works                                    , _                      ,
10
11        DISTRIBUTION 
12            Congo Street to Wellington                                       *                        ....
13                Supply of Pipes
14                Civil Works                                                            , .
15            Others
16                Supply of Pipes                                              7/7
17                Civil Works                                              '              ,
19        ENGINEERING
20            Design and Supervision
21                                                                    _    .
rD t D
Project:               |Critical                                    Progress                        Summary 4  
Date: 3/10/95            |Noncritical                               Milestone            *Rolled Up                                                                         t fi 
Page 1



SIERRA LEONE URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT- PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
94             1995       1       1996              1997              1998              1999
ID    Name                                                   Q3  04  0 Q1  02  Q3  0 Q4  0 Q1  0 02  0 Q3  0 04  01  0 Q2  0 03  0 04  0 Q1 I 02   3 |04  0 Q1  Q2  03  Q4
22   INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING FOR GVWC
23
24        Supply of Vehicles
25        Supply of Operational Equipment
26        Supply of Office Equipment
27        Public Relations Campaign
28        Training
29__
30    SEWERAGE AND SANITATION
31
32        Engineering and Supervision
33        Sewerage works
34
35        Sanitation                                                                                 f      U
36            Technical Assistance and Planning
37            Ablution Block Construction
38
39    TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE & STUDIES (DOLEP/SLWC)
40
41        Master Planning; Secondary Cities
i  42   |   Organization and Finance; Secondary Cities
Project:                            Critical           =          Progress                       Summary o 
0 1
Date: 3/10195                       Noncritical                   Milestone           *          Rolled Up 2
Page 2



PROCUREMENT PACKAGES
$$$ '000             Procurement            No. of
LOCAL  FOREIGN   TOTAL method                      packages
I. Guma Dam spillway and maintenance              248.5      417.0    665.5 LCB                              2
2. Diversion works                                335.6      657.6    993.2 LCB                               I
3. Treatment works rehabilitation                1639.6     3216.0   4855.6 ICB                               I
4. Kongo                                          568.8      1102.0    1670.8 ICB                             I
5. Bulk distribution                             3347.6     6617.3    9964.9 ICB                              I
6. Wellington Distribution                       2543.6     3855.6   6399.2 ICB                               I
7. Reservoir and distribution improvements        993.0     1899.0   2892.0 ICB                               1
8. Secondary distribution supply                 1650.3     3161.4   4811.7 ICB                               1
9. Meters, standposts etc                         440.5      846.1    1286.6 ICB                              I
10. Engineering                                   131.6     2173.9    2305.6  Consultant Guidelines        I Firm
11. GVWC Equipment and vehicles                   139.1      255.3     394.5 LCB & Shopping                several
12. GVWC TA and PR                                 46.3      362.3     408.6 Consultant Guidelines         3 firms
13. GVWC Training                                  28.8      100.1     128.9 -
14. SLWC Master Plans                             230.8     2464.4   2695.2 Consultant Guidelines           I firm
15. SLWC Investigations                           120.0      280.0    400.0 LCB                               I
16. SLWC Organization Studies                      65.4      511.7    577.1 Consultant Guidelines           I firm
17. SLWC Office equipment                          42.4       72.5     114.9 Shopping                      several
18. Sewerage works                               1140.6    2171.0   3311.6 ICB                                1
19. Sewerage engineering & spn                     23.4      385.8    409.1 Consultant Guidelines           I firm
20. Sewerage management                            53.4        11.6     65.0 SS                           I (GVWC)
21. Institutional Support (sewerage)              243.6      414.3    657.8 Shopping                        several
22. Sanitation studies and planning               162.0      639.9     801.9 Consultant Guidelines   I firm & 2 individuals
23. Equipment for sanitation studies               20.0      180.0    200.0 Shopping                       several
24. Ablution facilities                           211.8      276.2     488.0 LCB                              3
TOTAL                                           14426.9    32071.0  46497.8
e >
m  m
oQ  1
tD-
ol



SIERRA LEOINE
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
PROC UREM0ENT SCIIF])LIE
I Q95  196                         997                         998                        1999
rocstLkmrnt            ~~~~~IFNV \1 1 iAS  ON]FMA JJA   ()NI)I                  F MAJm3 AAONDJf IlA                   IJ  AISIOINID   F MIA MI IJA S(\'C.D PAYM',ENT   REMARKS
LOA-N T[MLNG                                                                                                                {
CIV II. WORKS
(;uma Da.r spill-\v & marnt                                                                                                                                                       0. 6( L.CB, 2 Lots
DiThcrOon scorks                                                                                                                                                                  i. 00  LCB. 1 Lot
Treatmennt scorks rchab                                                                                                                                                          4.86  ICB, I Lot
I3clk dktrribution                                  i9.96  ICB, 1ILt
Rec-r,ois & di,t. ump.                                                                                                                                                            2.89 ICB. I Lot
Kioneo Ss-tmrn                                                                                                                                                                    1.67 ICB,ILot
Vclstndistri1,utios                                                                                                                                                         6.40 ICB, I Lot
A\blution Nciulitisc0s4   LCB, 3 Lts
S--crge ssorks                                                                                                                                                                    3.31 ICB, 1 Lot
III-ANT AND ) OUIPMEN I
\letcos. lt-dpolts tc.                                                                                                                                                            1.29  LCB, ShLotp
(,VW(? E          aipn ntd                                                                                                                                                        0.3hLC3  hopin
-SLWC Offske equrPtcnct                                                                                                                                                           0.11 Shopping
S-rodars di,trib. sUppI,                                                                                                                                                         4.91 ICB, 2 Lots
Sw.it.tion Studies                    .                                                                                                                                          020 Shopping
TECILNICA-L ASSISTA-NCE
Enginecring                                                                                                                                                                       2.31 Other, I Lot
(3VW,C TA and PR                                                                                                                                                                  04    te,3Lt
OjVWAC Truining                .0.413  Other,     t
SIAVC Master Plarnsi                                                                                                                                                              2.70 Other, I Lot
SUWC ln,estigations                                 I                                                                                                                             040  LCB, I Lot
SLWVC Organiztion Studies      I                                                                                                                                                  0.58 Other. I Lot
Scs.trage tng.& spn.                                                                                                                                                              0.41 Other, 1 Lot
Sanitation studica &plan         [0.80 Other. 3 Lots>
Institutional support (ae,,)                   I0.66 is. Several lots
Se,,erage management                                                                                                                                                              0.06 Other, I Lot
TOTAIS                                     2.3                         17.82                       18.0                        4.75                        3.80                  46. 50                                       -
IDA Financed Component                  1.51.814.10                                                                        3.67                        2.50                  36 .00  _____h_    ~                         ;C1
K)i



-57-
Annex 4-5
SIERRA LEONE
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Disbursement             Africa Profile
Semester    Cumulative      /          Water
Bank FY    Semester                 (US nillion)                  %
1995       I             -            -            -          0.0
II           -            -            -          3.0
1996       I             1.40         1.40        3.89        6.0
II           2.10         3.50         9.72       14.0
1997       I            4.00          7.50       20.83       22.0
II           4.80        12.30        34.17      34.0
1998       I             5.10        17.40       48.33       46.0
II           5.20        22.60        62.78      54.0
1999       1            5.90        28.50        79.17       66.0
II           5.0         33.50        93.06      78.0
2000       1             2.50        36.00       100         86.0



-58-
Annex 4-6
Page I of -2
SIERRA LEONE
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN AND KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Approximate                                      Expected Skill        Staff Input
Date                 Activity                Requirements         (Staff-Week)
06/95      Supervision Mission           Task Manager                   9
Sanitary Engineer
Procurement Specialist
Financial Analyst
Low Cost Sanitation
10/95      Supervision Mission           Task Manager                   6
Sanitary Engineer
Financial Analyst
02/96      Supervision Mission           Task Manager                   8
Sanitary Engineer
Financial Analyst
Low Cost Sanitation
06/96      Supervision Mission           Task Manager                   8
Sanitary Engineer
Financial Analyst
Low Cost Sanitation
10/96      Supervision Mission           Task Manager                   8
Sanitary Engineer
Financial Analyst
Low Cost Sanitation
02/97      Sup)Ce-vision Mission         Task Manager                   8
Sanitary Engineer
Financial Analyst
6/97       Mid-term Review              Task Manager                   10
Sanitary Engineer
Economist
Financial Analyst
Urban Planner
L-ow Cost Sanitation
10/97      Supeivision Mission           Iask Manager                  10
Sanitary Engineer
Financial Analyst
Economist



-59-
Annex 4-6
Page 2 of 2
Approximal                                  E.xp)ecied, ki/I            Staff lsiput
Dale                 Activity            Requirements              (Staff Weeks)
02/98       Supervision Mission          Task Manager                    8
Sanitary Engineer
Financial Analyst
Low Cost Sanitation
06/98      Supervision Mission           Task Manager                    6
Sanitary Engineer
Financial Analyst
Economist
10/98      Supervision Mission           Task Manager                    6
Sanitary Engineer
Financial Analyst
02/99      Supervision Mission           Task Manager                    6
Sanitary Engineer
Financial Analyst
06/99       Supervision Mission (PCR)    Task Manager                    8
Sanitary Engineer
Financial Analyst
=____________   ______ ___ _= __   Econom ist



-60 -
Annex 4-7
Page 1 of 6
SIERRA LEONE
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT AND MITIGATION PLAN 1/
1.    The Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) has been carried out to assess the
environmental impact of the project which is under Environmental Category B. This report,
which is being finalized to take account of the Bank's comments among others, is expected to
be made available by the Guma Valley Water Company (GVWC) in Sierra Leone at some
public place accessible to affected groups and local NGOs prior to project appraisal. GVWC
will officially send it to the Bank to be made available to the Public Information Center (PIC).
2.     The EIA addresses the environment impact of the following components of the
proposed Urban Water Supply Project: raising of Guma Dam spillway level; diversion of
waters from the Little Guma and Upper Sussex catchments into the Guma Dam reservoir; and
trunk distribution mains from Congo Cross to Dan Street reservoir and from Africanus Road
reservoir to Wellington reservoir. The environmental impact study involved field survey,
interviews and discussions with Water Company personnel and local inhabitants by a
multidisciplinary team of the consultants Hloward Humphreys & Partners Ltd (UK) in
association with Engcon Ltd. (Sierra Leone). The dam site and sites for the construction of
weirs, access roads and channels were visited and water samples collected. An analysis of the
major issues was made taking cognisance of the factors important to environmental
management and resource use.
Works to Improve the Yield of Guma Dam
3.     Guma dam was constructed in the early 1960's and is situated within the Forest
Reserve of the Western Area of Sierra Leone approximately 13 km due south of Freetown. It
impounds the Guma River which is one of the rivers forming the upper reaches of No.2
River. About 90% of the annual average inflow to the reservoir occurs in the four months of
July to October. The dam is of earth and rockfill construction and is about 70m high. The
catchment area is 866 ha and the lake area at a top water level of 261m a.s.l (spillway crest
level) is 93 ha. The dam impounds approximately 21 million cubic meters. During
construction the forest area upstream of the dam was cleared of vegetation to the 872 ft
(266m) contour, which is the same level as the top of the dam. The side channel spillway has
been designed for a flood of 210 m3/s. The present spillway could be raised by up to 1.5m
and still accommodate the flood without any other work having to be carried out to the dam.
4.     The yield of Guma dam can be improved by diverting flows from the adjacent
catchments of the Little Guma, Stoney and Water Chute rivers, which form part of the lower
Guma/No.2 River catchment. The Upper Sussex catchment of the Sussex river could also be
1/  Source: GVWC - Water Master Plan and Feasibility Study - Possible Immediate Works -
Environmental Impact Considerations, January 1994.



-6 1-
Annex 4-7
Page 2 of 6
diverted into the Guma reservoir. In addition, the yield and reliability of Guma can be
improved by increasing the storage capacity by raising the spillway level of Guma dam.
5.    The lay-out of the Upper Sussex diversion would comprise a 3m high concrete
diversion weir at approximately 350m elevation and a trapezoidal unlined channel which
would intercept run-off from the various subsidiary catchments. The channel would have a
capacity of about 5m3/s which is three times greater than the estimated peak monthly flow in
the period 1947 - 1992 of 1.65m3/s. Only a negligible quantity of water will be lost in spills.
As with Upper Sussex, it is proposed that diversions from Little Guma should be effected by
means of an open channel. The catchment considered comprise three sub-catchments, with
approximate areas as follows: Little Guma - 139 ha; Storey river - 47 ha; and Water chute -
42 ha.
6.    The findings of the EIA are summarized below:
7.     Land Loss and Land Degradation. The catchment areas of the Guma dam, Little
Guma, Stoney, Water Chute and Upper Sussex rivers all form part of the Guma Protected
Area. The existing catchment for Guma Dam occupies an area of 866 hectares whereas the
total area of the four additional sub-catchments is 420 hectares (i.e. Little Guma 139 ha,
Upper Sussex 192 ha, Water Chute 42 ha and Stoney 47 ha). The catchments areas are hilly
and mountainous and generally unsuitable for agriculture. There is no agricultural or
economic activity taking place at present either in the catchments or in the areas proposed for
the diversion weirs, channels and access roads.
8.    The top water level of the Guma lake is 857 ft (261 m) a.s.l and floods an area of 93
ha. Raising the top water level by 1.5m will increase the dam capacity to about 23 million
cubic meters gallons and the flooded area will be increased to 100 ha. At present, the area
above top water level is almost free of any significant vegetation. This area constitutes a free
board area of 4.5m in depth. Any increase in storage will be accommodated within this area
with no need for further vegetation clearing. No significant exposure of land clearing that
could facilitate land slip, landslide, serious erosion hazards or land degradation was observed
within the catchment areas or in the areas proposed for the diversion weirs, channels or access
road. The proposed development areas are devoid of any form of settlement or any form of
economic activity. The only major land use is the development works done by Guma Valley
Water Company during the construction of the dam and allied components.
9.    River Flows. The Guma, Little Guma, Stoney and Water Chute rivers all form part
of the upper catchment area of the No. 2 River. There are four more major tributaries
further downstream. Due to impoundment by Guma dam, the Guma catchment contributes
flow to No. 2 River for no more than three months in the wet season when the dam is
spilling. The remaining three catchments are estimated to contribute about 0.3m3/s as an
annual average with virtually no flow from January to May. Those people who depend on
water from No. 2 River live at the bottom of the catchment. An estimate of discharge at the
road bridge near the Forestry Compound Settlement at the end of December 1993 was 90
c.f.s or 2.7m3/s. That part of the Upper Sussex catchment which is likely to feature in any
catchment transfer is estimated to have also a mean annual flow of about 0.3m3/s. This is
only a very small portion of the total flow in the Sussex River which like No. 2 River is only
utilized in its lower reaches. The diversion of water into Guma lake is expected to have little
effect on the river regime in the lower reaches.



-62-
Annex 4-7
Page 3 of 6
10.   Fish. Aquatic Life and Water Weeds. The lake and rivers are almost free of any
algae or water lilies. Mud fish and catfish were observed in the rivers and the Guma lake.
Tilapia which has been introduced into the Guma lake were also observed. There was a
complete absence of blackflies and snails along the rivers or the lake.
11.   Flora and Fauna. The catchment areas are well protected as they lie within the
declared Government Forest Reserve. The forest reserve falls under the category of Tropical
Moist Evergreen Forest formed on mountains and hill slopes. Presently, the reserves consists
of closed high forest, secondary forest and forest regrowth, with relatively high humidity and
high annual average rainfall of about 250 inches (6350mm) with 3-4 months of dry season.
The forests serve a wide range of ecological functions including the protection and enrichment
of the soils and the natural local regulation of the hydrologic cycle especially the flows of
surface and groundwater.
12.   Animal species found in these forests are: Jonticks Duicker, Diana Monkey, Red
Colobus, White-necked Picathartes, Chimpanzee, and a colorful array of insects, bush fowls,
reptiles, etc. The forests provide a very rich and wide habitat for these animals. The
diversion of the Little Guma and Upper Sussex rivers would have a minimal effect on plant
and animal life as less than I % of forest reserve will be affected and also these animals are
not sedentary but roam wildly in search of food and shelter. Thus the diversion weirs,
channel and access road which will have a width of less than 16m will not limit the free
movement of animals nor affect much of the vegetation which is made of forest regrowth,
shrub and bush. The clearing will, therefore, not adversely affect the closed high forest as
the species are not endangered along the entire channel/access road route which follows
approximately the 350m contour. In addition, the very high annual rainfall and average
yearly temperature would encourage forest emergence to clothe any of the lands which had
been cleared during construction.
13.   Health. Observations along the shoreline of the Guma lake and the rivers showed no
evidence of snails and blackflies which are intermediate hosts for the transmission of
schistomiasis and Onchocerciasis. From interviews it was established that few mosquitoes are
present. Guma Valley Water Company workers and inhabitants reported not to have suffered
from schists or Oncho, but only from malaria. It is quite likely that the few small ponds in
the vicinity of the Guma compound close to the coastal area serves as breeding grounds for
mosquitoes.
14.   Based on the water quality data and analysis of the water sample collected from Little
Guma River and relevant international standards, it can be concluded that the water quality of
the rivers to be diverted to the Guma Reservoir will not in any way impair the existing water
quality of the Guma Reservoir.
15.   Socio-Economic and Socio-Cultural Factors. Interviews carried out with a cross
section of the local populace downstream of the dam area with a view of investigating the
effect/impact of the construction on the local community revealed that:
(i)    The immediate community have been availed with the supply of pipe-
borne water supply of good quality and of electricity sometime ago.



-63-
Annex 4-7
Page 4 of 6
(ii)    The communities downstream have not experienced any serious
shortage of their normal water supply needs in areas where pipe-borne
water is not available.
(iii)   Flooding has never been reported. Never has there been any loss of
life or property due to any hazard.
(iv)   No serious erosion, landslides or any form of land degradation has
been reported.
(v)    No water-borne disease or serious health hazard have been reported as
a result of the dam.
(vi)   Agricultural or economic activities are absent in the Guma Reserve.
(vii)   Degradation is minimal in the immediate environs of the reserve.
(viii)  There is limited land use and no settlement in the upper and middle
catchment areas of the study area.
(ix)   There is effective restriction entry and regular patrolling of the Guma
Reserve.
16.    Conclusions and Recommendations.
(i)    The construction of access road and channel to conduct flows from
Little Guma and Upper Sussex catchments to Guma lake will have
minimal effect on the land, forest and animal resources of the whole
of No. 2 river catchment area as less than 1 % of the catchment area
will be disturbed.
(ii)    By increasing the top water level from 261m to 262.5m a.m.s.l.,
about 7 ha of additional land surrounding the lake surface will be
flooded. This will not entail additional forest clearing as these areas
presently form part of the cleared free board of the lake.
(iii)   The chemical composition of the rivers to be diverted into the Guma
lake are very similar to the lake water composition. It is therefore
expected that these rivers will not affect the aquatic life of the Guma
lake for both fish and plant species.
(iv)   No inland fishing is carried out in the Guma lake or along the river
banks of No. 2 River. Fishing is done only along the coastal creed of
the river.
(v)    There are more major tributaries of No. 2 River downstream of Guma
dam. These contribute water to maintain a reasonable flow in the dry
season for domestic use and the dilution of water in the mangrove
ecology along the coast.



-64-
Annex 4-7
Page 5 of 6
(vi)   The Upper Sussex river is not part of the No. 2 River catchment in
which the Guma Lake is situated. Diverting water from the Upper
Sussex catchment into the Guma lake will not increase the risk of
flooding downstream.
(vii)   Very large flood flows would not be diverted into the Guma. Flow in
excess of the carrying capacity of the catchwater channel would
continue down the Sussex river.
17.    Trunk Distribution Extensions. The proposed project entails the laying of two
sections of relatively large diameter pipes (500mm to 700mm diameter) through built-up areas
of the city. The first would be from the termination of an existing DN 700 main on Congo
Town Main Road to Dan Street reservoir. The length of this main is about 5 km and it will
pass through the low cost housing and densely populated area of Kroo Bay as well as the busy
commercial section of the city. Engineering considerations preclude any alternative route.
The second main, also about 5 km long, would convey water from Africanus Road reservoir
to Wellington reservoir. This DN 600 main would be laid in or alongside the Kissy By-pass
road.
18.    Neither of the two pipelines will have any significant long-term environmental impact.
Following construction and reinstatement of all surfaces, the only visible evidence of the
pipelines existence will be valve chambers and short sections of exposed pipe where crossing
the deeply incised river valleys. Care should be taken when siting pipe fittings to ensure, as
far as possible, unobtrusive locations for any chambers, the covers of which should be flush
with the road surface or slightly proud on verges. Exposed pipes should be protected against
corrosion using bitumen-based paints with colors selected to be unobtrusive and to blend with
the surrounds.
19.   Major impacts will occur during the construction stage where the route through
Freetown's relatively narrow, congested streets will inevitably result in increased noise and
traffic disruption. Local traffic control regulations should be enforced and every effort made
to minimize disruption by cooperating with the requirements of the local authorities and the
traffic police. Access to properties affected by the works should be maintained as far as
possible by:
(i)    limiting the amount of trench permitted to be open at any time;
(ii)   limiting contractor's stringing operations to avoid long lengths of
unlaid pipes strung by the roadside;
(iii)   providing financial incentives within the contract for prompt
temporary reinstatement of trenches;
(iv)   restricting the dumping of trench spoil in unsuitable or inconvenient
locations; and
(v)    ensuring the provision of adequate road plates to enable trench
crossing.



-65-
Annex 4-7
Page 6 of 6
20.    Dust and noise could become a nuisance but strict control of contractor's activities
should minimize these effects. However, the anticipated large quantity of rock to be
encountered will mean that jack hammers, rock breakers and possibly even blasting may be
required. If so, elaborate measures will need to be taken to safeguard people and property.
21.    Traffic control will be a major concern. In the central business district, sufficient
alternative routes exist to minimize congestion; however, in the areas of Congo Town,
Ascension Town Road, Goderich Road and Kissy Street, significant disruption to traffic must
be expected. Well-marked alternative routes are required.
Sewerage System Rehabilitation and Extension
22.    The extension of the existing sewerage system will have no long term significant
adverse environmental impacts. Following the construction of the works the only visible
evidence of the extended system will be the manhole covers on the lower sides of the roads
carrying the new sewers. These will be flush with the road pavement. New housing
structures for the screening facilities within walled compounds will replace the existing
structures although the precise locations have yet to be decided. Major impacts will arise
from the construction of new sewers in the relatively narrow, heavily congested streets of the
central city area in terms particularly of increased noise and traffic disruption. Traffic control
measures will be strictly enforced in cooperation with local authorities and the traffic police.
Alternative routes will be well marked. Access to private properties and public buildings
must be maintained by limiting the length of trench permitted to be open at any time, avoiding
storage of pipes in the streets, ensuring that any discharge from dewatering operations, if
necessary, is disposed of in an adequate manner, ensuring that trench spoil is not dumped in
unsuitable locations, that trenches are (temporarily or permanently) reinstated promptly, that
safety barriers and fencing are used and that road plates are provided for trench crossings.
Dust and noise will be significant short term impacts but will be mitigated by controlling the
contractors' activities, dousing dry surfaces and restricting high noise generating activities in
the late evenings. Screening may be necessary to reduce noise and safeguard the public
where jack hammers or rock breakers are in use or if blasting is required.
23.    An important beneficial impact of the extension works will arise from connecting the
eastern part of the system to the main outfall at Government Wharf. This will eliminate the
existing outfall in the Naval Base and thus provide improved control over the proposed
sewage disposal system.
24.    The preferred form of disposal of sewage effluent for Freetown adopted for the
project is by means of sea outfalls which discharge offshore and take advantage of the
assimilative capacity of the deep waters of the estuary to render the wastes harmless through
dilution, dispersion and oxidation. The construction of plastic pipe sea outfalls to serve the
immediate requirements of the city will provide significant improvement to the existing
conditions of the estuary foreshores. Two outfalls will be constructed to discharge the raw
sewage offshore into a depth of water of between 5m and lOm from the sewerage system in
the CBD.



-66-
Annex 5-1
SIERRA LEONE
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
GUMA VALLEY WATER COMPANY
INCOME AND CASH FLOW STATEMENT
(LEONE 000)
(AT NOMINAL PRICES)
---------------   ------------- -------------- ----------------  A   CT   U   A L  -------------   -------------
1982        1984        1987         1988          1989       1990       1991       1992       1993
REVENUE FROM WATER                                          3529        4274       40366        74676         77034     131518    265113    684374    838295
OTHER REVENUE                                                362         576        1468         4916          8583      20070      28714      45934      90938
TOTAL REVENUE                                               3891        4850       41833         79593        85617    151588    293827    730308    929233
UNCOLLECTABLE                                                300         450        2440         2650          5639       8440      33907      90301      33583
NET REVENUE                                                 3591        4400       39393        76943         79978    143148    259920    640007    895650
EXPENSES
OPERATING EXPENSES                                           590         985        7424          9219        12262      16396      27648      50846    391386
REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE                                      508         715        7363          8355        13591      24796      62766     133968    217125
ADMINISTRATION EXPENSES                                      395         492        2242          3150         6807      13684      35087      54375    127076
DEPRECIATION                                                 305         561       12200         12375        12916      17832      19041      21562      27168
TOTAL OP. EXPENSES                                          1798        2753       29228         33098        45576      72708    144542    260751        762755
OPERATING INCOME                                            1793        1647       10165        43844         34402      70440     115378    379256       132895
INTEREST                                                     587        1065       14914        55471         35104     123094     101418     120335         560
NET INCOME/LOSS                                             1206         582        4749        -11627         -702    -52654       13960    258921       132335
EXCHANGE LOSS                                                                      29809       -116042      -205525   -915985   -303144   -195877    796232
NET INCOME/LOSS BEF DEB. RED. FUND                          1206         582       25060       -127669      -206227   -968639   -289184        63044   -707804
TRANSFER TO RED. FUND                                        215         349        5614          9937        15795    -61289    138714             0
PROFIT/LOSS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR                           991         233       19446       -137606      -222022  -1029928    427898        63044   -707804
PROFIT/LOSS CARRIED FORWARD                                 1728       -3840    -208719        -346325      -568347  -1598275  -2026173  -1963129  -2670933
RATIOS
OP.COST/REVENUE (%)                                         0.50        0.63        0.74          0.43         0.57       0.51       0.56        0.41       0.90
RETJRN ON AVERAGE
NET FIXED ASSETS IN OP.                                       10          13           4            17           13         26         44         142         51
(AT CONSTANT PRICES)
REVENJE FROM WATER                                         10379        7632        8073         11146         7133       5743       5701      14718       18028
OTHER REVENUE                                               1065        1029         294           734          795        876        618        988        1956
TOTAL REVENUE                                              11444        8661        8367         11879         7928       6620       6319      15706       19984
UNCOLLECTABLE                                                882         804         488          396           522        369        729       1942        722
NET REVENUE                                                10562        7857        7879         11484         7405       6251       5590      13764      19261
EXPENSES
OPERATING EXPENSES                                          1735        1759        1485          1376         1135        716        595        1093      8417
REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE                                     1494        1277        1473          1247         1258       1083       1350       2881       4669
ADMINISTRATION EXPENSFS                                     1162         879         448          470           630        598        755        1169      2733
DEPRECIAIION                                                 897        1002        2440          1847         1196        779        409        464        584
TOTAL OP. EXPENSES                                          5288        4916        5846         4940          4220       3175       3108       5608       16403
OPERATING INCOME                                            5274        2941        2033         6544          3185       3076       2481       8156       2858
INTEREST                                                    1726        1902        2983         8279          3250       5375       2181       2588          12
NET INCOME/LOSS                                             3547        1039        -950         -1735          -65      -2299        300       5568       2846
EXCHANGE LOSS                                                 (1           0        5962        -17320        19030)   -39999       -6519       -4212     17123
NIT INCOME/LOSS BEF DEB  RED  FlJND                         3547        1039        5012        -19055       -19095    -42299       -6219       1356    -15222
TRANSFER TO RED. FUND                                        632         623        1123          1483         1463       2676       2983           0
PROFIT/LOSS FOR TIHE FINANCIAI YEAR                         2915         416        3889        -20538       -20558    -44975       -9202       1356    -15222
PROFIT/LOSS CARRIED FORWARD                                 5082       -6857       41744        -51690       -52625    -69794    -43574    -42218    -57439



-67-                                                          Annex 5-2
SIERRA LEONE
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
GUMA VALLEY WATER COMPANY
BALANCE SHEET
ILEONE 000)
(AT NOMINAL PRICES)
ACTUAL                   ACTUAL
1982        1984        1987          1988         1989       1990        1991       1992       1993
NET FIXED ASSETS                                            11792       12768      259063       251266        268831     272802    260454    267835    251461
WORK-IN-PROGRESS                                            3980         3300        8063          8100         8376       9268      20066       19101      66984
INVESTMENTS                                                   169         155         155           155          155         155        155        150         150
SPECIAL RESERVE INVESTMENTS                                   480         480         480           480          480        480         480        480        48()
16421       16703      267761       260001        277842    282705    281155    287566    319075
CURRENT ASSETS
INVENTORIES                                                   372         433        3203         5607         66589      76227      85628      114396    147426
DEBTORS FOR WATER                                            1451        2371       18929        44179         63126      83665     188741      359484    178664
OTHER DEBTORS                                                671          734        4014         4235          4617       5542           0
CASH AT BANK                                                 1980        4315       11915        42933         55811      87580    103479    285413    681850
4474        7853       38061         96954       190143    253014    377848    759293    1007940
CREDITORS FALLING
DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR                                          1503        3920       78721       141368        251860    372248    567096    694488    213053
NET CURRENT ASSETS                                          2971         3933      -40660        -44414       -61717    -119234    -189248       64805    794887
19392       20636      227101       215587        216125     163471      91907    352371    1113962
SHARE CAPITAL                                               5469         5469        5469          5469         5469       5469        5469       5469   1223872
RESERVES                                                    5768         1800       64392        -63277      -186425  -1155064  -1444248  -1381257  -2115231
CAPITAL                                                     11237        7269       69861        -57808      -180956  -1149595  -1438779  -1375788   -891359
LONG TERM LOANS                                             8155        13367      157240       273395        397081    1313066   1530686   1728159   2005321
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES                                     19392       20636      227101       215587        216125     163471       91907    352371    1113962
Ratios
Current Rtio(%)                                                 3           2           0             1             1          1          1           1          5
Accounts Receivables (days)                                   136         178          165          203          269         201        234        180         70
Debt as % of DebtlEquity(%)                                    42          65          69           127          184        803        1665        490        180
(AT CONSTANT PRICES)
NET FIXED ASSETS                                           34682        22800       51813        37502         24892      11913        5601       5760       5408
WORK-IN-PROGRESS                                            11706        5893        1613          1209          776        405         432        411       1441
INVESTMENTS                                                   497         277          31            23            14          7          3          3           3
SPECIAL RESERVE INVESTMENTS                                  1412         857          96            72           44          21         10         10          10
48297       29827       53552         38806        25726       12345       6046       6184       6862
CURRENT ASSETS
INVENTORIES                                                  1094         773         641           837         6166       3329        1841       2460       3170
DEBTORS FOR WATER                                           4268         4234        3786          6594         5845       3653        4059       7731       3842
OTHER DEBTORS                                                1974        1311         803           632          428         242          0       6138      14663
CASH AT BANK AND IN HAND                                     5824        7705        2383          6408         5168        3824       2225       6138      14663
13159       14023        7612         14471        17606      11049        8126      16329      21676
CREDITORS
FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR                                  4421        7000       15744        21100         23320       16255      12196      14935       4582
NET CURRENT ASSETS                                           8738        7023       -8132         -6629        -5715       -5207      -4070       1394      17094
57035       36850       45420         32177        20012        7138       1976       7578      23956
SHARECAPITAL                                                16086        9766        1094           816          506         239        118        118      26320
RESERVES                                                    16965        3214       12878         -9444       -17262    -50439    -31059    -29704         -45489
CAPITAL                                                    33051        12981       13972         -8628       -16755    -50201    -30941        -29587     -19169
LONG TERM  LOANS                                           23985        23870       31448        40805         36767      57339      32918       37165      43125
CAPITAL AND LIABIUTIES                                     57036        36850       45420         32177        20012       7138        1976       7578      23956



-68-                                                                 Annex 5-3
SIERRA IONE
8 RBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJE(CT
GLIMA VAlLEY WATER COMPANY
FI NDS FLOW STATEMENT
(LEONE 0J0)
(AT NOMINAL PRICES)
ACTI AL                  ACTI, Al.
1982       1984        1987         1988        1989       1990       1991      1M92       1993
SOURCE OF FUNDS
DEFICIT BEFORE DEBENTUIRE REDEMPTION                      1206        582       25049       127669      206227    968639   -2891U4       63045    928567
DEPRECIATION                                               30S        S61       12200        12374       12916      17831      19d41     21562      27168
PROFIT ON DISPOSAL O: TANGIBLE ASSETS                       -4          2                                           -1131
LOSS ON EXCHIANGE                                           0           0       2980        I 1I6042    206761    915985    303144    195877   -796232
TOTAL GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS                          1507        1141       7444          747        13450      35954     33101    280484    159503
LESS DEBT SE RVICE INTEREST                                                                                                   85524                  7962
PRINCIPAI                                    126                                                                                      91559
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                      126                                                                 85524         0      99521
NI-lT (ASH GENERATION                                     1381       1141        7444         747        13450    -35954    -52523    280484        59982
EXTERNAL BORROWING
IDA   -n (FIRP)                                                                                                                                    174t0
Prp-ed IDA Credn
GOSL                                                                                                                                              .342406
FEIJNDS FROM OTHER SOURCES
PROCEEDS FROM  DISPOSAL OF FIXED ASSETS                     5           2                                            1131
WOAN REPAYMENT                                              13
ADB-LOAN I
ADB-LOAN 2                                                 108
CAISSE CENTRALE-LOAN                                      351          63
ISLAMIC DEVELOPMENT BANK                                              489
TOTAL FUNDS GENERATED                                     1858       1695        7444          747        13450    .34323    -52523    280484    576388
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
PURCHIASE OF FIXED ASSETS                                  875        954       145         4496        30755      22694      17491     26428      54676
DEBENTURE REDEMPTION
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE
TOTAL FUNDS LSED                                           875        954        1845         4496       30755      22694    103015      26428      66638
983        739        5599        -3749       -1730S    -57517    -70014    254056    509750
INCREASES(DECREASE) IN WORKING CAPITAL
STORE                                                      -92        -44        1888         2404       60982       9638      9401      2876h      33030
DEBTORS                                                   249         465       13626       25472        19328      21464      99534    170743    180820
CREDITORS                                                 -404      -1090      -16068       -62644     -11 0492   -120388   -194848   -127392   -213053
MOVEMENTS IN LIQUID FUNDS
CASH AT BANK                                              1230       1049        6153        31019        12877     31769      15899    181937    691850
983        739        5599        -3749       -17305    -57517      70014    254056    682647
DchS rkI,c(fi-,s)                                           12          0           0           0            0          0         0          0          2
(AT CONSTANT PRICES)
SOURCE OF FUNDS                                          3547        1039        5010       -19055      -19D95    -42299       -6219      1356      19969
....--------                    .897                              I102        2440         1847         1196        779       409        464       584
DEFICIT BEFORE DEBENTURE REDEMPTION                        -12         -4           0            0           0        -49          0         0          0
DEPRECIATION                                                0           0       -5961        17320       19145      39999     6h19        4212    -17123
PROFIT ON DISPOSAL OF TANGIBLE ASSETS
LOSS ON EXCHANGE                                         4432        2038        1489          III        1245      -1570       710       6032       3430
TOTAL GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS                              0          0           0            0           0          0       1839         0        171
371          0           0            0           0          0          0         0       1969
LESS DEBT SERVICE- INTEREST                               371           0           0           0            0          0       1839         0       2140
PRINCIPAL                                   4062        2038       1489          III         1245      -1570     -1130       6932       1290
NET CASIH GENERATION                                      371           0          0            0            0          0       1839         0       2140
EXTERNAL BORROWING
8         0
IDA Lon (FIRP)                                                                                                                               0       3742
PrIposed IDA Crdit                                                                                                                           0          0
GOSL                                                                                                                                         0       7364
ADB-LOAN I                                                1032        113           0           0            0          0          0         0          0
ADB-LOAN 2                                                  0         873           0           0            0          0          0         0          0
CAISSE CENTRALE-LOAN
ISLAMIC DEVELOPMENT BANK                                 5465        3027        1489          IH1        1245      -1521     -1130       6032      12395
TOTAL FUNDS GENERATED                                    11671       6050        2978         223         2491      -3091      3239      12064      31212
APPLICATION OF FUNDS                                     2374        1704         369         671         2944        991        376       568       1262
......--------------                                        0           0           0           0            0          0         0          0          0
PURCHASE OF FIXED ASSETS                                    0           0           0           0            0          0         0          0          0
DEBENTURE REDEMPTION
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE                                      2574        1704         369         671         2U8         991       2215       568       1433
TOTAL FUNDS USED                                         2891        1320        1120         -560        -1602     -2512      -1506      5464      10962



-69-
Annex 5-4
SIERRA LEONE
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
GUMA VALLEY WATER COMPANY
HISTORY OF WATER TARIFFS
(Per 1000 gallons)
I Tariff as at   Tariff as at | Tariff as at   Tariff as at   Tariff as at   Tariff as at   Tariff as at
30 Apr        I Jan 1990    1 Jul 1990    1 Sept        1 Jun 1992    1             INov. 1994
1989                                      1991                        Nov.1993
Metered Supply
1 .Comm'l./lndustria   Le 120.00    Le 160.00    Le 300.00         Le         Le            Le 2500.00   Le 2,500.00
1,500.00      2,500.00
2. Shipping           Le 365.00    Le 480.00    US$10.00       7 US$20.00     US$20.00      US$20.00       US$20.00
3. Educational        Le 12.00      Le 16.00      Le 50.00      Le 150.00    Le 300.00    Le 300.00    Le 300.00
buildings, Churches
and Mosques
General Water Rate
30 Apr.                     1                                         1               Nov. 1994
1989         Nov.1990      Nov.1991                     Nov .1992     Nov.1993
Le 1.60c/    Le 2.80        Le 5.00                     Le 10.00      Le 20.00      Le 30.00
//of Annual Rateable Value



Base Cae                                                                                   SIERRA LEONE
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
GUMA VALLEY WATER COMPANY
PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENT
(LEONE 000)
ACTUAL   ACTUAL   ACTUAL                           ---- PROJECTED- ----
1992         1993          1994        1995         1996          1997        199S         1999       2000
TOTAL PRODUCIION(ig)                                 5110000000   5110000000   5150000000  5200000000  5200000000    5200000000  5200000000  5200000000 5200000000
ANNUAL LOSS %                                                54            54           45           40          35             33          32          30           30
DEMAND/SUPPLY PROJECTIONS(ig)                        5110000000   2350600000   2832500000  3120000000  3380000000    34S4000000  353600C000  3640000000  364000000
AVERAGE TARIFF(LE/10001G)                                133.93       356.63       420.00       420.00       710.00       1060.00        1450       150          2200
USSt10001G                    0.24          0.69         0.70         0.70         1.14          1.46         1.S8        2.26        2.53
USS/cu.m.                     0.05          0.15         0.15         0.15        0.25           0.32        0.41        0.50         0.56
% increae(decres) vol. oonsumption                                      -0.54         0.21         0.10        0.08           0.03        0.01        0.03         0.00
% ave. tariff increase in rea terms                                      1.12         0.02         0.00        0.63           0.28        0.29        0.20         0.10
Inflation                                                                                18          10           10            10          10           10          10
REVENUE FROM WATER                                       684374        831295      1102543      1310400     2636400       3693040      5127200     6734000      8008000
MANAGEMENT FEE                                                                           0        15249       54541          31203         974           0
OTHER REVENUES                                            45934         90938        55127        65520      131S20         184652      256360      336700       400400
TOTAL REVENUES                                           730308        929233      1157670      1391169     2122761        390SS95     5384534     7070700      8408400
UNCOLLECTABLE                                             90301         33583        33076        39312       79092         110791      153816      202020       240240
NET REVENUES                                             640007        895650      1124594      1351857     2743669        3798104     5230718     6868680      8168160
EXPENSES
OPERATING EXPENSES                                        50846        391386       414096       539119      636132        751126       888506     1052720      1249103
REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE                                  133968        217125       235038       254552      275818        299001       324283      351862       381956
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES                                   54375        127076       146646       162238      179849         199765      222316      247878       276886
DEPRECIATION                                              21562         27168       462894       73S228     1384278        1794114     1991957     2231475      2405363
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                                 260751        762755      1258673      1694894     2476077       3044006      3427062     3883935      4313308
OPERATING INCOME BEFORE INTEREST                         379256        132895      -134079      -343036      267592        754098      IS03656     2914745      3854852
INTEREST                                                 120335           560        16119      422468       412280        381633       337444      758892     2622291
OPERATING INCOME AFTER INTEREST                          258922        132335      -150198      -765505     -144689        372466      1466212    2225853       1232562
TAX                                                                     43907        54700       65733       133375         184695      254419      334091      397297
NErTINCOE/LOSAFTERTAX                                    13S587         88428      -204898      -831238     -271064         I87771     1211793     1891762       835265
EXCHANGE LOSS                                            195S77        796232       308511      364939       686682        1587713     2136092     2260483     2284604
PROFIT/LOSS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR                       -57290       -707804      -513409    -1196177      -964746       -1399942     -924299     -368720    -1449339
PROFIT/LOSS CARRIED FORWARD                            -1963133      -2670937     -31S4346    -4380523    -5345269        -6745211    -7669510    -803S230    -9487570
Ratios
Operaing cot/Revenue(%)                                    0.60          0.90          1.17        1.30        0.95           0.85        0.70        0.61         0.58
Ret.on Average Fixed Assets(%)                             0.00          4.01        -2.41        -2.46         1.10          2.10        4.33        6.62         8.05



Base Case                                                                                               SIERRA LEONE
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
GUMA VALLEY WATER COMPANY
PROJECTED BALANCE SHEET
(LEONE 000)
ACTUAL       ACTUAL ------------------------------  --     -    PROJECTED ---           --------    ------------------------
1992          1993         1994         1995         1996          1997         1998         1999        2000
NET FIXED ASSETS                                         267S35        251461      10856703    17003195    31768753        40220530    43174663    46931124    48872973
WORK-IN-PROGRESS                                           19101         66984
INVESTMENTS                                                  150           150           150         150          150            150         150          150          150
SPECIAL RESERVE INVESTMENTS                                  480           480          4X0          480          4S0           480          4S0          480          480
287566        319075     10857333    17003825    31769383        40221160    43175293    46931754    48873603
CURRENT ASSETS
INVENTORIES                                               114396        147426       1S801       254234       371412        456601       514059       582590      646996
DEBTORS                                                   359484        178664       289418       222587       451642        625423       861525      1131312      1345344
CASH AT BANK AND IN HAND                                  285413        68150       736576      1431841      1299930       2728492      3182497      3772824     4447068
759293       1007940      1214795      1908662     2122984        3810516      4558081      5486727     6439408
CREDITORS
FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR                               6944S8        213053       456554       776521      1281308       1922604      2691082      3607763     4652056
NET CURRENT ASSETS/LIABILTIES                              64805        794887       758241      1132141       841676       1887912      1866999      1378964      1787352
TOTAL ASSETS LESS CURR. LLAB.                             352371       1113962      11615574    18135967    32611060       42109072    45042292    4S810718    50660955
CAPITAL AND RESERVES
CALLED UP SHARE CAPITAL                                     5469       1223872      1223915      1223958      1224001       1224044      1224044      1224044     1224044
RESERVES                                                -1297828      -2115231      5266111      5836596      5778624       6431884      7358447      9222392     9457448
CAPITAL                                                 -1292359       -891359      6490026      7060554      7002625       7655928      8582491    10446436    10681492
LONG TERM LOANS                                          1644730      2005321       5125549    11075412    25608434        34453144    36459S01    33364282    39979463
LIABILITIES                                               352371       1113962     11615575    18135966    32611059        42109072    45042292    41810718    50660956
Ratios
Cudeat ratio(tnmes)                                         1.09          4.73          2.66        2.46         1.66           1.98         1.69        1.52         1.38
Accosat Rectivabl(dys)                                       IS0            70            91          90           60             60          60           60           60
Debt a % of Debt+Equity                                   466.76        180.02         44.13       61.07        78.53          81.82       80.95        78.60        78.92
Det as % of Debt+Equity
Exdc1n  Exchanse Lose                                     374.40        119.29         39.74       55.19        70.24          73.04       72.30        70.61        78.92



Base Cas
SIERRA LEONE
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
GUMA VALLEY WATER COMPANY
PROJECTED FUNDS FLOW STATEMENT
(LEONE 000)
ACIUAL       ACTUAL                                           PROJECTED
1992         1993         1994         1995        1996         1997         1998        1999       2000
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Cash Generation
Net Incone before tax+ intrst                          379256        132895      -134079    -343036      267592         754098    IS03656    2984745    3854852
Depreciation                                            21562        27168       462894      738285    1384278         1794114    1991957    2231475    2405363
Toa Internal Cash Generation                           400818        160063      32S815      39524       1651870      2548212    3795613    5216220    6260216
Less Debt Service:          Interet                         0         7962         16119     422468       412280        381633      337444     758892    2622291
Principal                       0        91559        109121      193172      362123        367183      356000     667000    2332239
Tobd Debt Service                                           0        99521        125241     615640       774404        74S816      693444    1425893    4954530
Net Cash Generation                                    400818        60542       203574    -220392        877466       1799396    3102169    3790327       1305685
External Borrowings
IDA Loan(FIRP)                                                       174000     2400000      1303261      477400             0
Proposed IDA Credit                                                                    0      179765   10307722        5897108    2368588      1143833           0
GOSL                                                                328881
Other Sources
Govt                                                                  13525      622616      1508844    3254390        1722012       53734           0           0
Change in current liabilities                          127392       -481435      243501       319967      504787        641296      768478      916681     1044293
Total Sources                                          528210         95513      3469691    3091444   15421765        10059813    6292969    5850841    2349978
Avolications
Capital Expenditure-(FIRP) Project                                    10793     3208136    2082258        762756             0           0           0           0
Capital Expenditure (TWSP) Project                                                     0      249587   14311312        8187585    32S8563    1588105             0
Work in Progrea                                                       47S83                        0           0             0
Other expenditure                                       26428                                                                      2000000    3000000      1000000
Other Avolieations
Inventory                                               28768        33030         41375       65433      117178         85189       57458       68531       64406
Debton                                                 170743       -180820      110754       -66830     229055         173781     236102      269787      214032
Tax                                                                               54700        65733      133375        184695      254419      334091      397297                    (D
Total applications                                     225939        -89114     3414964    2396180   15553676         8631251    5836543    5260513        1675735                   Ln
(Imge in cash                                          302271       14627         54726      695264     -131911       1428562      456427      590328      674244
Annual Debt Service Coverage
Ratio(tines)                                              0.00         0.00         2.63        0.64        2.13          3.40        5.47        3.66         1.5



-7 3-
Annex 5-8
Page 1 of 3
SIERRA LEONE
GUMA VALLEY WATER COMPANY
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
A.    GENERAL
1.    Financial projections have been carried out for GVWC's water supply operations.
They have been prepared in current Leones ranging from Le 600/US$ and in 1994 to Le
868/US$ in year 2000. In addition the domestic annual inflation rates were 17.9% in 1994
and thereafter constant at 10%.
B.    INCOME STATEMENTS
Revenues
3.    The projections for water sales were based on the consultants' Final Water Supply
Master Plan Study, which took into consideration the effects of the implementation of
universal metering effective April 1, 1996 and the implementation of the rehabilitation of
the water supply expansion and distribution systems under the proposed project. The
unaccounted-for-water was assumed at these percentages: 45% in 1994,40% in 1995;
35% in 1996; 33% in 1997; 32% in 1998 and 30% thereafter. These percentages for
unaccounted for water are in line with the actual results from other parts of Africa.
Management Fee
4.    DOEP will enter into an agreement with GVWC by end-July 1994 for the
management of the sewerage sub-component and procurement of office equipment and
vehicles and the processing of payments and credit withdrawal applications for the two
studies for DOEP/WSD and SLWC for a management services fee of 4% based on the
value of the contract processed during the year.
5.    Tariffs: The tariffs in the projections have been determined by the future financial
requirements of the company. However, a new tariff structure will be effective from
December 1995.
6.    Expenses: Operating costs (mainly electricity and chemicals) and repairs and
maintenance (mainly spare parts) are assumed to increase in proportion to the quantity of
water supplied, and for the domestic element a 10% annual increase has been assumed.



-74-
Annex 5-8
Page 2 of 3
Administration expenses (the domestic element) has been increased by 25% for 1994 in
anticipation of payroll increase and 10%, thereafter; the international inflation has been
assumed for the imported elements of the above expenses at 5% annually.
7.    Uncollectables: These are projected as a percentage of revenues; 12% in 1995 and
10% thereafter.
8.    Depreciation: Depreciation has been calculated on a straight-line basis at an
average annual rate of about 4%. This rate reflects the current weighted average
depreciation rate.
9.    Income Tax: The current tax regulation stipulates that income tax is 47.25% of
10% of the gross revenue.
10.  Interest on borrowings: It has been provided for all the borrowings.
C.    BALANCE SHEET AND FUNDS FLOW STATEMENT
11.   Revaluation: Revaluation of fixed assets was completed in 1993/94 as
covenanted in the FIRP Project and the actual figures are reflected in the 1994 accounts.
12.  Import Taxes: These have been capitalized in the fixed assets and long term loans
and will be amortized over the same duration as the loans. The 1995 duties and import
taxes have been based on actual to date and anticipated disbursements to the end of the
year.
13.   Borrowings: The proposed project will be funded by a total of approximately
$28.2 million from IDA. The IDA credit will be on lent to GVWC over a duration of 20
years with 5 years grace period at 7.1% interest rate per annum.
14.   As agreed under the FIRP, GOSL negotiated successfully on behalf of GVWC to
reschedule the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) debenture loan with a
current outstanding balance of Le 2.1 billion (£2.6 million) to September 1995, when debt
service will commence to repay the loan fully over 10 years. The Government also agreed
to convert the Le 1.2 billion debt forgiven by Caisse Centrale into equity. In return,
GVWC will service: (a) with effect from July 1, 1993 for a duration of 2 years, the
remaining ADB loan balance of US$92,727.27 (which GVWC has paid off); and (b) for a
duration of 5 years at 3.4% interest, the total of Le 301 million net due to GOSL for Le
108 million net paid to ADB by GOSL (Le 748 million paid to ADB less Le 640 million
paid into the Public Debt (External) Sinking Fund Account by GVWC) and the total
arrears of Le 193 million up to June 30, 1993 for the Caisse Centrale loan (Le 6 million)
and Le 187 million due to the Islamic Development Bank.



-75-
Annex 5-8
Page 3 of 3
15.   Working Capital
(a)   Inventories - Inventories have been assumed to be at levels equal to 15%
of total operating costs.
(b)   Cash and Bank Balances - This represents the cumulative cash generated
during the operations of the entity.
(c)   Accounts Receivables - The projected accounts receivables analysis is
given below:
Year                  1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000
% of receivables to
revenues               40       25      16      16      16       16      16
In days                 91      90      60      60      60       60      60
GOSL arrears were settled on February 15, 1995 and payment of subsequent bills by
GOSL will be within 30 days of submission.
The establishment of a Commercial Division with responsibility for billing and
collection and the water supply cut-off measures from universal metering will reduce the
receivable levels to 60 days by 1996.
(d)   Accounts Payable - This represents loan interest and 15% of total
operating costs.



-76-
Annex 6-1
Page 1 of 2
SIERRA LEONE
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Notes on the Economic Analysis
1.    The incremental water supply (see table below) as a result of the implementation of the
leakage detection program under FIRP and the rehabilitation and expansion of the water supply
under the proposed project valued at an average tariff of Le 540 per thousand Ig, which will be
effective in 1994/95 when the initial benefit of the components begin to accrue and the present
value benefit of deferring the capital outlay of the Long Term Works (Orugu Dam) as a result of
implementing the latter projects, will result in an 8% economic rate of return. All costs related to
the leakage detection program, physical works, engineering designs and construction supervision
and physical contingencies were included in the analyses and adjusted to exclude duties, taxes.
The standard conversion factor of 0.93 to adjust the foreign cost of the component was used.
2.     Sensitivity analyses indicate that with a 10% increase in costs, rate of return would be 8%
and with a 10% reduction in the volume of water saved, the rate of return would be 7.4%. A
combination of 10% increase in costs and 10% reduction in the volume of water saved would
lower the rate of return to 7%.
3.    The ERR understates the full benefits to arise from the future increase in tariffs as the
delivery of water services improve with the implementation of the above components. In addition
the ERR does not take account of the benefits from positive externalities such as improved health
and productivity as the result of the better availability and quality of water cannot be quantified.
Incremental revenue at
Year       Volume Savings             Le 540/lg
(million Ig)          (Le million)
1993
1994             775                    418
1995             919                    496
1996             1135                   612
1997             1225                   661
1998             1321                   713
1999             1402                   757
2000             1521                    821
2001-->



-7 7 -
Annex 6-1
Page 2 of 2
SIERRA LEONE
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
GUMA VALLEY WATER COMPANY
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
LEAKAGE DETECTION PROGRAM AND PHYSICAL WORKS
LEAKAGE DETECTION
NET           AND PHYSICAL WORKS                  NET CASH
YEAR              SAVINGS                EXPENSES                        FLOW
1               8,613.6                    93.5                     8,520.1
2                 329.3                  1,332.1                   (1,002.8)
3                 447.2                  3,918.8                   (3,471.6)
4                 593.1                 11,172.3                  (10,579.1)
5                 680.0                  7,930.5                   (7,250.5)
6                 737.9                      0.0                      737.9
7                 832.9                      0.0                      832.9
8                 860.7                      0.0                      860.7
9                 860.7                      0.0                      860.7
10                 860.7                      0.0                      860.7
11                 860.7                      0.0                      860.7
12                 860.7                      0.0                      860.7
13                 860.7                      0.0                      860.7
14                 860.7                      0.0                      860.7
15                 860.7                     0.0                       860.7
16                 860.7                     0.0                       860.7
17                 860.7                     0.0                       860.7
18                 860.7                      0.0                      860.7
19                 860.7                      0.0                      860.7
20                 860.7                      0.0                      860.7
21                 860.7                      0.0                      860.7
22                 860.7                      0.0                      860.7
23                 860.7                      0.0                      860.7
24                 860.7                      0.0                      860.7
25                 860.7                      0.0                      860.7
26                 860.7                      0.0                      860.7
27                 860.7                      0.0                      860.7
28                 860.7                      0.0                      860.7
29                 860.7                      0.0                      860.7
30                 860.7                      0.0                      860.7
31                 860.7                      0.0                      860.7
32                 860.7                      0.0                      860.7
33                 860.7                      0.0                      860.7
34                 860.7                      0.0                      860.7
35                 860.7                      0.0                      860.7
35                 860.7                      0.0                      860.7
36                 860.7                      0.0                      860.7
37                 860.7                      0.0                      860.7
38                 860.7                      0.0                      860.7
39                 860.7                      0.0                      860.7
40                 860.7                      0.0                      860.7
ERR                       8%
NOTES:
1/ The exchange rate is Le 600/US$. The standard factor
is 0.93 to adjust the foreign cost of the component.



-78-
Annex 7-1
SIERRA LEONE
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
DOCUMENTS ON PROJECT FILES
1.     Sierra Leone Roads Authority Act, 1992
2.     Guma Valley Water Ordinance, 1961
3.     GVWC - Annual Reports, 1993
4.     GOSL - White Paper on the Report of Commission of Inquiry, Vol. Two, June 1993, pp.
13-14
5.     SLRA - Action Plan for Implementation of Low-Cost Sanitation
6.     GVWC - Action Plan for Implementation of Organization, Management and Operational
Improvements
7.     Environmental Impact Assessment Study, January 1994
8.     Water Supply Master Plans (Three Towns) and Preparation of Bid Documents - Termns of
Reference
9.     Organizational, Operational and Financial Review of the Sierra Leone Water Supply
Sector - Terms of Reference



MAP SECTION






IBRD 2571 2R
SIERRA LEONE                                                                    MURRAY
URBAN WATER SUPPLY PROJECT                                                                         WN                          FREETOWN
GUMA VALLEY WATER COMPANY
WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
1VA PROE   C01 \PONENTS:
-----DNRSRDN Of WUT SEASON FLOWS
_TRANSMISSION PPESNES                                                                                                   R
*        wwmCockerill
KPMPNG STATIONS
Bay
MAJOR TRtANSMISSION PIPELINES
* SERVICE RESERVOIRS
(Z   PUMPINO STATIONS
~]TERRAIN ABOVE 600 a.ELEVATION                                                                  a 
.~NZRIVERS
-    tRIA.EMAIN ROADS                                         ^ 
~5URBAN AREAS                                          ~SP                                                                                                            ELN;
iNTERNATIONAL BOUtNDARIES
O-,'''                        I' 2        T                                       \M  Sc-Sn
BUAK~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~l
2  iINEc^L t1        ~ ~M A L I~                            A T L A N T I C                %-   
0 >. ;~ '~- - Y '. l"' 2                               0 C E A N1 '_
Fm. IP  E RNEjR - Acc
|     - 9,o4       ' E,             -- N Eh                                                                    \ COT'E
1-11IE    i   -aA
Atlantic  ~ ~ ~       ~        ~       ~          a-~~ A.no..s   onS ~~~4-.d  Mn.a.
Ocean   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .y pApa-onIon A.  I m. olooy t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nita-y. on o,onoIo'onon.a ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      Ax~  W



