Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2702 SL
                       Development Credit Agreement
                       (Urban Water Supply Project)
                                  between
                         REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                            Dated May 15, 1995
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2702 SL
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 15, 1995, between the REPUBLIC OF
SIERRA LEONE (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Borrower has stated in a letter, dated February
10, 1995 its policies and objectives designed to implement its
water supply and sanitation sector development programs (the
Policy Letter);
      (C)   Parts A and B (2) of the Project will be carried out
by the Guma Valley Water Company (GVWC), a company established
and operating under the laws of the Borrower, and Part B (1) of
the Project by the Sierra Leone Roads Authority (SLRA), a
statutory corporation established and operating under the laws
of the Borrower, all with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
GVWC and SLRA proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided in
this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
Page  2
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and
in the following Agreements, namely, the Project Agreement of
even date herewith between the Association and GVWC (the GVWC
Project Agreement) and the Project Agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and SLRA (the SLRA Project
Agreement);
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "GVWC Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and GVWC of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the GVWC Project
Agreement;
      (b)   "SLRA Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and SLRA of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the SLRA Project
Agreement;
      (c)   "the Project Agreements" means the GVWC Project
Agreement and the SLRA Project Agreement;
      (d)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and GVWC pursuant to Section
3.01 (b)(i) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
      (e)   "GVWC Special Account" means the account opened in
the name of GVWC and referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement;
      (f)   "SLRA Special Account" means the account opened in
the name of SLRA and referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement;
      (g)   "Special Accounts" means the GVWC Special Account and
SLRA Special Account;
      (h)   "GVWC Project Account" means the account opened in
the name of GVWC and referred to in Section 2.01 (c) of the
GVWC Project Agreement;
      (i)   "SLRA Project Account" means the account opened in
the name of SLRA and referred to in Section 2.01 (c) of the
SLRA Project Agreement;
      (j)   "Project Accounts" means the GVWC Project Account and
the SLRA Project Account;
      (k)   "GVWC" means the Guma Valley Water Company
established and operating under the GVWC Act;
      (l)   "GVWC Act" means the Guma Valley Water Act, 1961 of
Page  3
the Borrower, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
      (m)   "SLRA" means the Sierra Leone Roads Authority
established and operating under the SLRA Act;
      (n)   "SLRA Act" means the Sierra Leone Roads Authority
Act, 1992 of the Borrower, as amended to the date of this
Agreement;
      (o)   "DOEP" means the Borrower's Department of Energy and
Power; and
      (p)   "Leone" or "Le" means currency of the Borrower.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty-four million five hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 24,500,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars two special deposit accounts in a
commercial bank or banks on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association, including appropriate protection against
set-off, seizure or attachment. One such Special Account shall
be opened in the name of GVWC (the GVWC Special Account) and
the other Special Account (SLRA Special Account) shall be
opened in the name of SLRA. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount of the
Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed
the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the
accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii)
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified
in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Page  4
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each
year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each June 15 and December
15, commencing June 15, 2005, and ending December 15, 2034.
Each installment to and including the installment payable on
December 15, 2014 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent
(2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product
per capita, as determined by the Association, shall have
exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive
years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors
of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in
lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed
with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in
the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change
the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines
that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to
the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall, without any limitation
or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement, cause GVWC and SLRA to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreements all
the respective obligations of GVWC and SLRA therein set forth,
shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable GVWC and SLRA to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
      (b)   The Borrower shall out of the proceeds of the Credit:
            (i)   relend to GVWC an amount equivalent to
Page  5
                  $28,200,000 or such other amount or amounts as
                  shall be allocated to GVWC in Schedule 1 to
                  this Agreement under a subsidiary loan
                  agreement to be entered into between the
                  Borrower and GVWC, under terms and conditions
                  which shall have been approved by the
                  Association and which shall include: (A)
                  interest at 7.1%  per annum; (B) repayment of
                  principal in 20 years (including 5 years of
                  grace); (C) assumption by GVWC of any foreign
                  exchange risk; and (D) capitalization of
                  interest during construction; and
            (ii)  make available to GVWC, as a grant, on terms
                  and conditions satisfactory to the Association
                  an amount equivalent to: (A) $2,800,000 for the
                  carrying out by GVWC, on behalf of DOEP, of the
                  sewerage system rehabilitation components of
                  the Project, and (B) $3,300,000 for the
                  carrying out by GVWC, on behalf of DOEP, of the
                  water supply master plan studies and the
                  institutional, management and finance study
                  included in Part A (3) of the Project, the said
                  amounts being subject to change as and when
                  amounts of the Credit are reallocated in
                  accordance with the provisions of this
                  Agreement applicable to Schedule 1 thereto.
      (c)   The Borrower shall out of the proceeds of the Credit
make available to SLRA, as a grant, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association an amount equivalent to
$1,700,000 or such other amount or amounts as shall be
allocated to SLRA in Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the
carrying out by SLRA of Part B of the Project.
      (d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.
      Section 3.02. The Borrower shall pay into each of the
Project Accounts: (i) an initial amount of its counterpart
contribution to the costs of the Project of fifty million
Leones (Le 50 million) equivalent; and (ii) quarterly in
advance such amounts of the said counterpart contribution as
the Borrower, the Association, GVWC and SLRA shall jointly
determine.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall carry out the actions
described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement to the satisfaction
of the Association.
      Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 1 to the Project Agreements.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower and the Association hereby
agree that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04,
9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of: (i) Parts A and B (2) of the
Project shall be carried out by GVWC pursuant to Section 2.03
of the GVWC Project Agreement, and (ii) Part B (1) of the
Project shall be carried out by SLRA pursuant to Section 2.03
of the SLRA Project Agreement.
Page  6
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, no later than August 31,
1997 carry out jointly with the Association, GVWC, SLRA and
DOEP a mid-term review of the Project. The review shall, among
other things, assess:
            (i)   the progress made in carrying out the various
                  components of the Project, including (A)
                  compliance with financial, audit and other
                  covenants relating to the Project; (B) the
                  carrying out of the water systems
                  rehabilitation and expansion, institutional
                  strengthening and sanitation and sewerage
                  components of the Project; (C) implementation
                  of GVWC's water tariff structure based on
                  metered consumption; (D) the success of private
                  sector participation in GVWC's operations and
                  the possibility of expanding the scope of such
                  participation in said operations; and (E)
                  GVWC's continued management autonomy and
                  capacity to manage its expanding operations
                  efficiently and profitably; and
            (ii)  corrective measures that need to be taken
                  including changes, if any, in the scope and
                  content of the Project;
      Section 3.07. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare and furnish to the Association not later than
six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
Association, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, for the future operation
of the Project;
      (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan; and
      (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
taking into account the Association's comments thereon.
                                ARTICLE IV
                       Financial and Other Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to
which withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the
basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in
                  accordance with sound accounting practices,
                  records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
            (ii)  ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures are retained until
                  at least one year after the Association has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
                  Account was made; and
           (iii)  enable the Association's representatives
                  to examine such records.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for
                  the Special Accounts for each fiscal year
Page  7
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the
                  Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as
                  available, but in any case not later than six
                  months after the end of each such year the
                  report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                  scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested, including a
                  separate opinion by said auditors as to whether
                  the statements of expenditure submitted during
                  such fiscal year, together with the procedures
                  and internal controls involved in their
                  preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals; and
           (iii)  furnish to the Association such other
                  information concerning said records and
                  accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Association shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
            (i)   a situation has arisen which shall make it
                  improbable that the policies and objectives
                  stated in the Policy Letter, or a significant
                  part thereof, will be carried out;
            (ii)  GVWC shall have failed to perform any of its
                  obligations under the GVWC Project Agreement;
           (iii)  SLRA shall have failed to perform any of
                  its obligations under the SLRA Project
                  Agreement;
            (iv)  as a result of events which have occurred after
                  the date of the Development Credit Agreement,
                  an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
                  which shall make it improbable that GVWC or
                  SLRA will be able to perform its obligations
                  under the GVWC Project Agreement or SLRA
                  Project Agreement;
            (v)   the GVWC Act or the SLRA Act shall have been
                  amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
                  waived so as to affect materially and adversely
                  the ability of GVWC or SLRA to perform any of
                  its obligations under the GVWC Project
                  Agreement or SLRA Project Agreement;
            (vi)  the Borrower or any other authority having
                  jurisdiction shall have taken any action for
                  the dissolution or disestablishment of GVWC or
                  SLRA; and
           (vii)  the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                  proceeds of any loan, credit or grant made
                  to the Borrower for the financing of the
                  Project shall have been suspended,
                  cancelled or terminated in whole or in
                  part, pursuant to the terms of the
                  agreement providing therefor.
Page  8
      (b)   Paragraph (a) (vii) of this Section shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
Association that: (i) such suspension, cancellation,
termination or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Borrower to perform any of its obligations under such
agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. (a) Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
            (i)   any of the events specified in paragraphs (a)
                  (ii) and (iii) of Section 5.01 of this
                  Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
                  period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
                  have been given by the Association to the
                  Borrower; and
            (ii)  any of the events specified in paragraphs (a)
                  (v), (vi) and (vii) of Section 5.01 of this
                  Agreement shall occur, subject, in the case of
                  the event specified in paragraph (a) (vii) of
                  said Section, to the proviso of paragraph (b)
                  of Section 5.01.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
      (a)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and GVWC;
      (b)   the Project Accounts have been established and the
Borrower has paid into each of the Project Accounts an initial
amount of Le 50 million; and
      (c)   GVWC has appointed a sewerage engineer to assist with
the carrying out of the sewerage component of the Project.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
      (a)   that the Project Agreements have been duly authorized
or ratified by, and are legally binding upon, GVWC and SLRA in
accordance with its terms; and
      (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and GVWC and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and GVWC in accordance with its
terms.
      Section 6.03. The date 90 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Secretary of State for Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
Page  9
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            The Financial Secretary
            The Department of Finance
            Freetown
            Sierra Leone
            Cable address:                      Telex:
                  MINFIN                        3363
                  Freetown
                                                Telefax:
                                                225353
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
                  By /s/ T. K. Kargbo
                                                Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated              % of
Page  10
                          (Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                  SDR Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1) Civil Works:                                  100% of foreign
                                                  expenditures and
    (a)  GVWC                 14,400,000          90% of local
                                                  expenditures
    (b)  SLRA                    350,000
(2) Goods and                                     100% of foreign
    Equipment:                                    expenditures and
                                                  90% of local
    (a)  GVWC                  2,850,000          expenditures
    (b)  SLRA                    130,000
(3) Consultant's                                  100%
    services and
    training:
    (a)  GVWC                  3,660,000
    (b)  SLRA                    540,000
(4) Unallocated:
    (a)  GVWC                  2,440,000
    (b)  SLRA                    130,000
                              __________
        TOTAL                 24,500,000
                              ==========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.  The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
for expenditures under contracts for: (i) goods not exceeding
$50,000 equivalent; (ii) services of (A) consulting firms not
exceeding $100,000 equivalent, and (B) individual consultants
not exceeding $10,000 equivalent; and (iii) works not exceeding
$100,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve water
supply and sanitation services in Freetown; (ii) make water
supply and sanitation services more accessible to the urban
poor; (iii) strengthen GVWC and other agencies involved in the
water supply and sanitation sector; (iv) encourage private
sector participation in the said sector; and (v) assist in the
preparation of water master plans and development programs for
the major towns outside Freetown.
Page  11
    The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Water Supply
(1)       Rehabilitation and expansion of GVWC's water system
including:
    (a)   the carrying out of rehabilitation and repair work on
the Guma Dam intake tower and the construction of weirs and
canals to provide an incremental yield of about 13,000 cubic
meters per day;
    (b)   the refurbishment of the Guma Water Treatment Plant,
including the replacement of obsolete equipment, replacement of
filters and modifications to increase the capacity of the Plant
to 90,000 cubic meters per day to match the supply capacity of
the Guma reservoir and transmission pipelines to Freetown;
    (c)   construction of new bulk transfer mains to improve
supply to the eastern areas of Freetown, including: (i)
construction of mains from (A) Congo Cross to Lumley Street,
(B) Lumley Street to Dan Street, (C) Africanus Road to
Wellington, (D) a new outlet to Wellington Reservoir; and (ii)
installation of flow control valves at the Wellington
reservoir;
    (d)   extensions to the distribution system, including: (i)
pipelines extension to, and installation of pressure reducing
valves in, the Spur Road Zone; (ii) extension of a secondary
distribution network to serve the high growth/influx population
Wellington Zone; (iii) provision of a new common outlet main
from the Tower Hill Reservoir; and (iv) construction of a
bypass to the Income Tax Break Pressure Tank;
    (e)   improvement and reintegration of reservoirs into the
distribution system, including: (i) refurbishment of the Dan
Street and Income Tax reservoirs; and (ii) construction of new
reservoirs at Governor's Lodge, Kortright and Wilberforce
Village;
    (f)   refurbishment of the subsidiary supply at Kongo,
including provision of a package treatment plant and
replacement of the old Gloucester Service Reservoirs;
    (g)   secondary distribution reinforcement, including the
supply of: (i) pipes and fittings for replacement of old mains;
and (ii) other materials and items for routine expansion of the
distribution system; and
    (h)   provision of consultant services for supervision of the
above components of the Project.
(2)       Strengthening of GVWC, including:
    (a)   acquisition of computers and software for accounting
and management information systems;
    (b)   acquisition of vehicles and tools for maintenance;
    (c)   provision of technical assistance: (i) for the
installation and operation of computerized systems; (ii) for
the carrying out of a study to identify the specific functions
and services of GVWC which can be appropriately carried out by
private sector institutions under contract or other suitable
arrangement with GVWC including an assessment of the
feasibility and possible forms of such contract or arrangement;
(iii) to assist GVWC in the management of its investment
programs and operations; and (iv) for the development of a
public relations and education program; and
Page  12
    (d)   training of GVWC's staff.
(3)       (a)   Improvement of water supply operations in major
towns other than Freetown, including:
          (i)   the carrying out of the following studies: (A)
                water supply master plan studies for major urban
                centers outside Freetown (e.g., Bo, Kenema and
                Makeni); and (B) an institutional, management and
                finance study of the water sector operations in
                Sierra Leone but outside Freetown, including a
                study of the development of an appropriate
                institutional framework for water supply in the
                above-named towns;
          (ii)  strengthening of water sector institutions and
                agencies in Sierra Leone (other than GVWC),
                including the provision of office equipment and
                vehicles to the said institutions and agencies.
    (b)   Provision of technical assistance for the above
components of the Project.
Part B:   Sanitation
(1)       (a)   The carrying out of sanitation management studies
and the development of sanitation management guidelines.
    (b)   The design of a community outreach system in which Non-
Governmental Organizations and other private institutions and
agencies can participate.
    (c)   Training of extension agents in the promotion of
improved environmental sanitation.
    (d)   Improvement of domestic sanitation management
practices.
    (e)   The organization of neighborhood user groups to comment
and offer advice on services provided by GVWC and other service
providers.
    (f)   Improving waste water disposal and management of new
water points.
    (g)   Construction of ablution facilities in low income areas
of Freetown.
    (h)   Acquisition of equipment and vehicles to institutions
and agencies participating in the carrying out of Part B (1)
(a) through (g) of the Project.
    (i)   Provision of technical assistance including management
and consultant services for the carrying out and/or supervision
of Part B (1) (a) through (g) of the Project.
(2)       (a)   Rehabilitation and pilot scale extension of the
existing sewerage system and extension of the outfalls.
    (b)   Strengthening of institutions and agencies providing
sewerage services, including the acquisition of equipment and
vehicles for the said institutions and agencies.
    (c)   Provision of consultant services for supervision of
Part B (2) (a) of the Project.
                              *      *      *
    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
                                SCHEDULE 3
Page  13
                             Special Accounts
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount to be
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule into: (i) the GVWC Special
Account equivalent to $800,000; and (ii) the SLRA Special
Account equivalent to $100,000; provided, however, that unless
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $450,000
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed
$1,500,000 equivalent.
2.  Payments out of a Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of a Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                requests for deposits into the Special Account at
                such intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories,
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special
Page  14
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into a Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
    (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section
4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for
the Special Account;
    (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified
the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions; or
    (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the total amount of
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in a Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of a Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association: (A) provide such additional
evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in a Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the
Page  15
Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
                                SCHEDULE 4
           Actions referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement
1.  (a)   The Borrower shall cause GVWC, acting on behalf of
DOEP, to carry out the institutional, management and finance
study included in Part A (3) of the Project no later than June
30, 1996.
    (b)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Association no later
than September 30, 1996 for its review and comments: (i) the
results of the study referred to in paragraph (a) above, and
(ii) an action plan for the carrying out of the recommendations
of the said study as shall be satisfactory to the Association.
2.  The Borrower shall no later than: (i) January 1, 1997
update, and furnish to the Association for its review and
comments, the action plan for the transfer to GVWC of DOEP's
sewerage functions in Freetown; and (ii) January 1, 1998
transfer to GVWC the said functions.
3.  The Borrower shall furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the
Association copies of all consultants' reports and studies
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, including those
prepared for DOEP.
4.  The Borrower shall take action adequate to ensure that each
of its departments and agencies shall at all times settle in
full each of its water bills no later than 30 days from the
date of receipt by such department or agency of the bill.
5.  The Borrower shall by May 31, 1995 announce its policy on
metering of domestic water supply including a statement on the
resumption of metering of domestic water supply.
