Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
CA /. - AC)
Report N.- P-4100-MOZ
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 45.5 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
FOR A
REHABILITATION PROGRAM
May 30, 1985
ITs document bh  a resricted dlsbuow and my he used by reciplents only In the perfermace of
tei soffica dade. lb content mya o orwise be dsco   widho  Wed Bak ahdutiou. 



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Metical (pl. Meticais)
US$1           =  42.85 Meticais (April, 1985)
M1.00          =  US$0.023
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGRICOM        - State Enterprise for Trade in Rural Areas
BOM            - Bank of Mozambique
BOROR          - State Agricultural Input Supply Enterprise
CNSP           - National Wage and Price Commission
FRELIMO        - Front for the Liberation of Mozambique
(National Governing Party)
IFAD           - International Fund for Agricultural Development
HIDROMOC       - State Enterprise for Hydraulic Equipment
INTERQUIMICA   - State Enterprise for Foreign Trade of Chemical and
Plastic Products
INTERMAQUINA   - State Enterprise for Foreign Trade of Industrial Equipment
INTERMECANO    - State Enterprise for Foreign Trade of Vehicles
INTERMETAL     - State Enterprise for Foreign Trade of Metals
PAE            - Economic Action Program, 1984-86
PU             - Procurement Unit
RITES          - Rail India Technical Services
UDAT           - Directorate of Maintenance of the State Secretariat of
Road Transport
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Mozambique: January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
MOZAMBIQUE
REHABILITATION PROGRAM
SUMMARY OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
Borrower:             People's Republic of Mozambique
Executing Agencies:   Ministries of Agriculture; Industry and Energy;
Construction and Water; Ports, Railways, and Merchant
Marine; and the State Secretariats of Road Transport
and Light Industry, under the coordination of the
Bank of Mozambique.
Credit Amount:        SDR 45.5 million (US$45 million equivalent)
Terms:                Standard
Purpose:              The proposed IDA Credit-the Bank Group's first
operation in Mozambique-would help meet
the country's priority economic rehabilitation needs
within the context of the Government's Economic
Action Program (PAE) for 1984-86. The PAE is
designed to initiate the process of correcting
structural imbalances and rehabilitating the
economy. It focusses on increasing agricultural
production and trade, and calls for actions to
improve the supply of inputs and basic consuner goods
to smallholder farmers, to provide price incentives
and to improve the financial situation of enter-
prises. The PAE also provides for the introduction
of a tighter credit policy, changes in interest
rates, and a review of exchange rate policy. While
implementation of the PAE is just beginning, its
directives provide a reference point for the proposed
first IDA lending operation focussed on the rehabili-
tation and maintenance of those investments and
economic services which may be expected to generate
some immediate production response. The proposed
credit would help finance part of the Government's
1985/86 program of imports of equipment, spare parts
and raw materials, as well as related technical
assistance, in the key industry, transport, and agri-
culture sectors.
This document has a resticted distnbution and may be used by recpients ondy in the perornne ofr
their official duties Its contents may not otherwie be discosed without World Bank authotion.



- ii -
Risks:                The main risk associated with the proposed credit is
that procurement and deployment of goods and services
to be financed under the credit and the related
induced production may be hampered by the Govern-
ment's limited implementation capacity and the diffi-
cult security situation which affects parts of the
country's rural areas. Appropriate consideration was
given to these aspects at the design stage. Emphasis
placed on detailed identification of beneficiary
activities and entities, simplification and clarifi-
cation of operating arrangements, as well as sharply
focussed technical assistance measures, would help
mitigate the risk associated with implementation
capacity constraints. Attempts are currently being
made to improve the overall internal security situa-
tion through diplomatic channe-ls. While security
conditions remain difficult in some rural areas, the
impact on activities to be supported under the credit
should be minimal, since every attempt has been made
to target the activities to be supported under the
credit to the more secure areas. A long term risk is
that the Government might delay initiating key
economic reforms provided under the PAE or defining
concrete ways to tackle the needed reforms, thus
failing to create a sustained recovery environment.
Estimated Disbursements:                      -US$ millions-
IDA FY     1986      1987      1988
25.0      15.0       5.0
Economic Rate of Return:    Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:     None
IBRD 18436



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
FOR A REHABILITATION PROGRAM
1.        I submi: the following report and recommendations on a proposed
rehabilitation program credit to the Republic of Mozambique for SDR 45.5
million (US$45 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The People's Republic of Mozambique becsme the 148th member of
the World Bank in September 1984. An economic report entitled -Mozambique:
An Introductory Economic Survey", which is based on the findings of an
economic mission that visited Maputo in November 1984, is being prepared
for distribution to the Executive Directors in early June 1985. These
findings are summarized below. Basic economic data and selected social
indicators are summarized in Annex I.
3.        Despite a relatively well-endowed natural resource base,
Mozambique has been beset with financial and economic difficulties since
Independence in June 1975. In part, these difficulties can be traced back
to the socioeconomic conditions which the country inherited at
Independence, natural calamities, and difficult security conditions. These
factors, combined with policy shortcomings associated with the Government's
approaches to the development of the economy, have contributed to the
critical situation which Mozambique faces today.
Country Background
4.        The People's Republic of Mozambique, located on the southeastern
coast of Africa, is bounded on the north by Tanzania, on the south by
Swaziland and the Natal Province of South Africa; and on the west by
Malawi, Zambia, Zimbabwe, and the Transvaal Province of South Africa (see
map IBRD 18436 attached to this report). It has a total area of 799,380
square kilometers, larger than England, France, and Portugal combined. It
has a lengthy coastline of 2,470 kilometers with some major and minor
ports. The three principal ports - Maputo, Beira, and Nacala - provide
outlets for the trade of neighboring landlocked countries and the Transvaal
Province of South Africa.
5.        There are almost 100 river basins in the country, the most
important being the Limpopo, Save, Zambezi, Lurio and Rovuma. Nany of
these rivers have considerable potential for hydroelectric power generation
and irrigated agriculture. Mozambique also appears to have sizeable
mineral resources, although geological surveys are still incomplete. Few
mineral resources have been exploited so far. Coal is the most abundant
mineral, with reserves estimated at 7.5 billion tons. There are also



- 2 -
deposits of tantalite, iron ore, bauxite, zinc, tin, copper, manganese,
asbestos, fluorite, uranium, and natural gas. Extensive in-shore and
off-shore petroleum exploration is presently being carried out by foreign
firms under risk contracts.
6.        Mozambique's population was estimated at 13.6 million on January
1, 1985, and is overwhelmingly rural (87 percent of the population lives in
rural areas). Population growth has accelerated to 2.6 percent per annum
in recent years (from 2.4 percent per annum in 1970-75 and 2.0 percent per
annum in 1960-65).  Population projections for the year 2000 vary between
20 and 24 million. The Government has no policy of intervention to modify
fertility or the overall rate of population growth. The average population
density in January 1985 was 17 inhabitants per square kilometer.
Socioeconomic Conditions at Independence
7.        FRELIMO (Frente de Libertaclo de Mocambique) assumed power in
1975 after a ten-year armed struggle to liberate the country from
Portuguese rule. The new government inherited an economy largely geared to
the service needs of South Africa and other neighboring countries, and an
incipient high-cost industrial sector based on imported raw materials and
spare parts and on a steady supply of easy credit. The economy also
exhibited other serious distortions. In agriculture, the land was divided
between some 1.7 million traditional African farms averaging 1.4 hectares
and 4,500 European commercial farms averaging over 500 hectares.
Non-Africans dominated modern sector employment by force of superior
education opportunities.
8.        The development of Mozambique as a service economy to South
Africa was linked to the surge of coal and gold mining in the Transvaal
region since the late 1890s. This event greatly expanded South Africa's
demand for cheap labor and for a convenient port through which to export
its mineral output. Mozambique was in a good position to satisfy both
these requirements. It provided an average of more than 80,000 workers per
year to the South African mines, and carried trade flows via the railroad
linking the Transvaal Province with the port of Lourenco Marques (now
Maputo). Under agreements with the Portuguese Government, 60 percent of
the workers' wages were withheld, and an equivalent amount in gold, at the
official price of US$34.13 per ounce, was credited to Portugal, which sold
the gold at the higher market rate. As workers received the deferred wages
in escudos at the official rate of exchange, the difference between the
official price of gold and its free market price represented a profit for
Portugal. These profits, along with revenues from transit services to
South Africa, Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe), Zambia, and Malawi, were usually
sufficient to offset chronic deficits in Mozambique's merchandise trade
account.
9.        Mozambique was extremely vulnerable to the mass exodus of
Portuguese settlers that occurred at Independence.  It is estimated that
between 1974 and 1976, the number of Portuguese permanent residents fell
from 250 thousand to 15-20 thousand. This population movement decimated
whole sectors of the economy. For example, the critical port and railway
sector lost some 7,000 skilled and semi-skilled workers. Gone also were
most of the plantation and factory owners, settler farmers, shopkeepers,



-3-
government administrators, and professionals. To make matters worse,
departing settlers destroyed factories and farms, depleted inventories, and
in some cases either slaughtered livestock herds or transferred them to
South Africa. Despite the Government's substantial recourse to external
technical assistance and the high priority given to education, lack of
skilled and semi-skilled workers continues to be, ten years after
Independence, a major constraint to the country's development efforts.
Exogenous Constraints to Development
10.       Service Exports.  Mozambique has found it difficult to maintain
its traditional exports of services since Independence. Trade flows have
been diverted from Maputo since the completion of the South African ports
of Richards Bay and Saldanha Bay in the mid-1970s. Mozambique's earnings
remittances have been reduced because South Africa cut back the number of
Mozambicans working in its mines. Starting in 1978, South Africa also
stopped paying part of the Mozambican workers salaries in gold at the fixed
price of US$34.13 per ounce. Moreover, from 1976 to 1980, Mozambique
closed its borders with Rhodesia in support of United Nations' sanctions.
This action is estimated to have cost Mozambique about US$150 million per
year in foregone foreign exchange earnings.
11.       Internal Security.  In addition to the direct losses from the
border closure, Mozambique's support for the liberation movement in
Rhodesia exposed it to other retaliatory measures and led to the formation
of armed bands which have since been operating against the Government of
Mozambique with support from various other external sources. Over the
years, these bands have concentrated their attacks on economically vital
targets: the transport network, the transmission lines of the Cahora Bassa
dam, the oil pipeline, and rural stores. Despite the Nkomati Accord
between South Africa and Mozambique, signed in March 1984, the conflict has
not abated. Today, armed bands operate in most of the country's eleven
provinces.
12.       Natural Calamities.  Rainfall in Mozambique is generally
favorable for crop production. However, the country has suffered greatly
from erratic rainfall patterns in certain regions since the mid-1970s.
Severe flooding in 1977-78, prolonged droughts starting in 1982 and
extending into 1985 in parts of the country, and a cyclone in 1984, have
devastated large areas in the central and southern regions. The recent
droughts have substantially reduced the water flow in several of the main
rivers, contributed to shortfalls in agricultural production, and caused
losses of human life and economic assets. According to UN sources, as many
as 100,000 people may have died in the southern provinces of Gaza and
Inhambane alone, during the worst 12-month period of 1982-83.
Progress in the Social Sectors
13.       The Government has attempted to pursue its stated objectives for
the country under difricult conditions, and some notable successes have
been achieved, particularly in the social sectors. Today, the country's
literacy rate is 28 percent as compared to only 7 percent in 1975. The
effects of the high priority given to education are apparent in the 1980
census data, which show literacy rates for the 15-24 years cohort reaching



-4-
40-50 percent, as opposed to less than 8 percent for the over-60
population. However, much still needs to be done to eliminate the country's
shortage of technical skills.
14.       The Government has also given a high priority to upgrading health
services. The proportion of central government expenditures now devoted to
health -- about 7 percent in recent years -- is slightly higher than the
norm (about 5 percent) for Sub-Saharan Africa. Some 3,250 workers (the
majority paramedics) have been trained since 1975. Moreover, Mozambique
has been a pioneer among developing countries with regard to the
establishment of a broad-based primary health care system, and the use of a
restricted list of essential drugs. It is estimated that today about 50
percent of all Mozambicans have access to preventive health care, and about
one-third to curative care. Average life expectancy has been raised from
41 years of age in 1975 to 44 years today. The supply of high level
personnel has not yet regained pre-Independence levels. Despite the
Government's efforts, there are still only 404 physicians in Mozambique,
yielding an average population per physician ratio of 33,000.
15.       Wnile having accomplished much to reduce illiteracy and disease,
the Government has not been as successful in the economic sphere.  Some of
the reasons for this were mentioned earlier (paras. 10-12). Others have to
do with the unrealistic choice of priorities in the allocation of resources
and weaknesses in economic management.
Socialization of the Economy
16.       Development priorities in Mozambique are determined by FRELIMO.
Twu Party congresses have been held since Independence. The Third
Congress, held in 1977, determined the policy of socialization of the
economy followed by the Government up to 1983. The Third Congress directed
the State to: (i) develop and consolidate its role in the economy; (ii)
promote socialization of the agricultural sector; (iii) accelerate the
industrialization process, with emphasis on heavy industry in the
medium and long-term; (iv) prepare a Ten-Year Plan for the 1980s; and (v)
improve training and economic management.
17.       Development of the State Sector.  Government intervention in the
private sector had already been going on since Independence, prompted by
the need to keep activities going after the mass departure of Portuguese
residents. After the Third Congress, this process continued, in part
because of continued abandonment or economic sabotage. The Government also
nationalized the coal and petroleum industries on grounds of strategic
importance to the country, and created new enterprises. Today, state-owned
and managed enterprises dominate the economy. The only activities
with significant private involvement are road cargo transport, retail
trade, petty services, and smallholder agriculture. The performance of
state enterprises has been generally disappointing.
18.       Socialization of the Agricultural Sector.  At the Third Congress,
the move toward construction of socialism was stated to require, in the



- 5 -
agricultural sector, the accelerated development of state farms and of
producer cooperatives, around which communal villages (aldeias comunais)
would be established. State-owned enterprises were considered the quickest
means to satisfy the country's export requirements and the raw materials
needs of industry, as well as urban food requirements. The development of
communal villages was expected to facilitate the provision of agricultural
training, social services, and the resolution of transportation and
marketing problems.
19.       The attempt to socialize the agricultural sector has so far
succeeded only in the limited sense that the State has come to dominate
marketed production. However, production of state farms has been hindered
by a number of factors, including management difficulties, chronic
shortages of spare parts, fuel and other agricultural inputs, and poor
maintenance of equipment.
20.       Although the Third Congress held that the development of
cooperative farms was to be  actively supported,  this objective was
clearly in a distant second place to the development of the state farms.
During the four years following the Congress, only 2 percent of
agricultural investment was allocated to cooperative farms as compared to
90 percent allocated to state farms. The smallholder family subsector,
which accounts for the bulk of the rural population, was neglected, except
for the Government's attempt to develop -People's Shops- to stimulate trade
in rural areas. These shops, for lack of managerial skills, mismanagement
of warehouses, inadequate transport infrastructure and vehicles, and
corruption, were transfered to the private sector in 1979.
21.       Acceleration of the Industrialization Process.  For industry, the
Third Congress determined short-term priorities to include State assumption
of concrol over the sector; production increases coming mainly from
existing capacity; and promotion of both export-oriented and
import-substituting industries. However, agriculture as well as other
sectors were unable to generate sufficient foreign exchange to accommodate
purchases of imported raw materials, spare parts and capital goods. As a
result, the industrial sector today operates at only a fraction (estimated
at 20-30 percent) of installed capacity.
22.       Ten-Year Plan.  Directed by the Third Congress, the Government
prepared a Ten-Year Plan which expressed the determination to achieve three
main objectives by 1990: (i) development of a powerful and efficient state
sector, particularly in agriculture; (ii) collectivization of the
countryside, where communal villages would include ten million people (60
percent of the population projected for 1990); and (iii) the effective
launching of heavy industry, particularly iron and steel. Projects related
to the achievement of these objectives were to absorb a large proportion of
the public investment program's expected resources. Other objectives
included increasing production of consumer goods and improving training.



-6-
23.       The public investment program included projects to produce
agriciltural commodities, textiles, iron and steel, machinery, aluminum,
gas, basic chemicals, coal, electricity, construction materials; building
of dams, bridges, roads; and the initiation of oil prospecting. Some
projects envisaged in the agricultural sector, textiles, electricity, and
dam and road projects, have been concluded, and others, including oil
prospecting, are underway. Among these projects high priority has been
given to developing a powerful state sector in agriculture, where large,
heavily mechanized projects would be expected to produce export crops and
substitute for food imports consumed in urban areas.
24.       The priority given to the state sector in the allocation of
resources in agriculture has implied a continued scarcity of resources for
producer cooperatives, which in the plan were expected to produce the bulk
of the fooderops consumed by the rural population. This, combined with
successive natural calamities, internal security problems, and the nearly
total neglecr of support for family farms contributed to the critical food
shortage which exists in the countryside today. Moreover, the emphasis on
state farms has pushed the achievement of the plan's second main objective
(rural collectivization) - which depends on the spontaneous movement of
families into communal villages - well beyond 1990. Achievement of the
third objective, acceleration of the industrialization process, is also
threatened by the poor performance of state farms, which were counted upon
to generate the additional investment resources.
25.       Implementation of the directives described above has run into
considerable problems - as reflected in Mozambique's macroeconomic
performance, discussed below - related, iater alia, to the lack of
effective mechanisms for choosing among alternative investments and the
rehabilitation needs of the economy; excessive centralization of decision
making; neglect of economic and financial considerations in the resource
allocation process; and shortage of management skills.
Macroeconomic Performance
26.       Economic Growth.  Mozambique's GDP is estimated to have declined
at an annual average rate of about 2 percent in real terms between 1973 anti
1983. Except for a halt in this downward slide during 1976-80 (when GDP Ls
estimated to have expanded at an average annual rate of 2.5 percent in real
terms), GDP is estimated to have declined, by 1983, to about two-thirds of
its level in 1973, or a fall of 50 percent in real GDP per capita. The
recovery observed in 1976-80 reflected a resumption of economic activities
following the disruptions in the years prior to and immediately following
Independence. However, this recovery was short-lived, partly as a tesult
of the exogenous factors described in paragraphs 10 to 12 above, but also
due to deteriorating equipment and other infrastructure, and inadequate
supplies of spare parts and raw materials.
27.       Monetary and Fiscal Aspects.  In recent years, government
expenditures have consistently exceeded revenues, and state enterprises



- 7 -
have suffered persistent operating losses. This has had as a counterpart
substantial recourse to credit from the banking system, and external
borrowing. As a result of sWostantial credit expansion to the public
sector in recent years, the money supply rose from 44 percent of GDP in
1980 to nearly 95 percent of GDP in 1984, inevitably leading to sustained
pressure on domestic prices. There are no comprehensive statistics on
consumer prices cr other indices of inflation. The National Wage and Price
Commission has estimated that the official price of traded goods doubled
between 1974 and 1983. However, official prices are not representative of
prices actually prevailing in the economy through the black market
reflecting, as acknowledged by the Fourth Congress, the problems of 'too
much money chasing too few goods, and price controls associated with
rationing.
28.        Balance of payments.  High levels of imports, combined with a
collapse of commodity and service exports, have led to current account
deficits averaging 23 percent of GDP in recent years. Foreign borrowing
has not been sufficient to close this gap. As a resu?t, not only has the
Government experienced a total loss of reserves, but it accumulated
payments arrears, at end 1984, after rescheduling (para. 30), amounting to
US$545 million. As a reflection of this deterioration of the country's
balance of payments and its highly distorted price system, the domestic
currency (metical) trades on the parallel market at up to 1,500 per US$
while the official rate is maintained at 43.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
29.       At end-1984, Mozambique's outstanding debt reached US$2.4
billion, inluding arrears. Over 95 percent of the debt is bilateral
public debt, oi -vhich 40 percent is owed to OECD member countries, 27
percent to centrally planned econcmies, and 21 percent to OPEC countries.
30.       Faced with grim foreign exchange prospects, and having
accumulated arrea~rs at end-1983 which it could not honor, the Government of
Mozambique approached its creditors to reschedule its debts. It requested
that the US$285 million in arrears, at end-1983, plus principal and
interest of about US$1 billion due in 1984-86, be rescheduled for repayment
after 1990. At a Paris Club meeting in October 1984, it was agreed to
reschedule debt service on long-term obligations falling due in 1984 and
the first half of 1985. Ninety-five percent of these service payments have
been postponed to 1990-1995. However, this still leaves an estimated
US$550 million in payments due in 1984-86 to be rescheduled, an effort in
which the Government has been engaged in the past year.
31.       In addition to efforts to improve the maturity structure of the
debt, the Government is relying on official sources for the bulk of the
external resources :equired to support its program to rehabilitate the
economy. Moreover, given the country's extremely difficult economic
conditions, future debt service obligations will have to be kept as lot' as
possible. Consequently, Mozambique will have to depend on assistance at
concessionary terms over the next few years.



-8-
PART II - PROSPECTS FOR ECONOKIC RECOVERY
32.       The Fourth Party Congress (held in 1983) began a process of
change of some of the earlier directives which it recognized were in part
responsible for the deterioration of the economy. It allowed for greater
participation of the domestic and foreign private sectors in economic
activities (a new foreign investment code was issued in 1984 which reads
favorably to foreign investors); proposed a slowdown of socialization of
the agricultural sector; increased support to smallholder family production
and private commercial farmers; directed that resources for the industrial
sector be allocated to rehabilitation needs, rather than to new investment;
and postponed the completion of some development projects. On the basis of
its diagnosis of conditions in agriculture and in othe- sectors, and a
reassessment of macroeconomic policies, the Fourth Congress set up a number
of broad directives which, along with an Economic Action Program for
1984-86, are expected by the Government to help stem and reverse the
country's economic deterioration.
Economic Action Program, 1984-86
33.       The Government's Economic Action Program (PAE) -  which served as
the basis for the 1984 debt rescheduling under the auspices of the Paris
Club -- constitutes a promising effort toward economic adjustment. The PAE
focuses primarily on measures designed to implement the Fourth Congress'
directives regarding the agricultural and industrial sectors, and
macroeconomic management.
Agricultural and Industrial Policies
34.       The Fourth Congress directed that state farms should be
consolidated and restructured. The present medium-term objectives for
state farms are: to maximize the use of land presently uuder cultivation,
minimize new investment, and use existing equipment more efficiently. The
Fourth Congress also directed that greater attention be given to the
smallholder family and private commercial subsectors. In order to promote
the family subsector, the Government was directed to mobilize resources,
guarantee the marketing of production, and establish producer prices that
would provide a real financial return to the farmer. With regard to the
private commercial subsector, the stated policy is to provide sufficient
rural credit, and to pursue fiscal and price policies that would enable
such operations to increase production profitably. Reflecting the new
focus on the smaliholder family subsector in agriculture, industrial
priorities emphasize production of basic consumer goods.
35.       In line with the new directives, the PAE proposes that the
smallholder family subsector i^ to receive, in addition to farm implements,
seeds, and consumer r,oods, training in appropriate agricultural techniques,
and in technical and economic management. It also proposes that producer
prices be adjusted in a manner which will provide sufficient production
incentives.   Rehabilitation in industry wiil focus on firms producing
textiles, shoes, garments, tools, household goods, and agricultural
implements.



-9-
Macroeconomic Policies
36.       The PAE also proposes measures regarding public finance,
employment, wages and prices, and credit, to address the balance of
payments and budgetary difficulties, and the large deficits of state
enterprises.
37.       Public Finance and Investments.  ntere is a general call for
increased efficiency in the collection of tax and nontax revenue. In order
to reduce the State's current expenditures, the Government will, regarding
the wage bill: (i) sustain effective expenditures at existing levels; (ii)
restrict and control new recruitments; (iii) exercise strict discipline in
promotions and professional reclassification; and (iv) compensate warranted
salary increases with reduced employment of less skilled labor.
Expenditures on materials will be governed by 'rules on expenditures' which
aim at greater rationality and austerity, particularly in the use of
imported materials.   New investments may be undertaken, but only if they
pass tests of technical and financial viability, bring a positive
contribution to the balance of payments, and are assured of having the
necessary human, material, and financial resources. The focus in the short
to medium-term is to be on improving the efficiency of investment, and on
completion of ongoing projects which will have a positive impact on the
balance of payments. The state enterprises are to be restructured into
more manageable units, are to adopt accounting practices appropriate to
effective management, and are to be given administrative anud financial
autonomy to facilitate response to new incentives.
38.       Employment, wages, and prices.  The PAE states that the
Government will streamline its operations and transfer managers from the
state apparatus to the productive sectors. Prices will be linked to the
normal costs of production and enterprises will be encouraged to reduce
costs. The PAE proposed an additional measure to improve the performance
of export enterprises: a foreign exchange retention system, whereby export
enterprises will be allowed to retain a portion of their foreign exchange
earnings, for purchase abroad of needed inputs.
39.       Money and credit.  The Bank of Mozambique will complete a review
of its credit portfolio and reschedule enterprises' debts in line with
assessments of the enterprises' recovery possibilities. Lending, limited
to the real needs of the enterprises, will be strictly controlled. The
banking network will be expanded to encourage personal savings. The PAE
also stated that a study would be undertaken to evaluate the possibility of
adjusting interest rates. A study is also under way to update the basket
of currencies to which the metical is linked.
Balance of Payments and External Capital Requirements
40.       The requirements of external resources to support the
Government's PAE have been assessed for the period 1985-87. (See Annex I
for detailed balance of payments projections and underlying assumptions.)
Assuming that the Mozambican authorities will be able to reschedule debt
service payments due in 1984-86 (US$550 million), net additional resource
transfers averaging about US$150 million over the three-year period would



- 10 -
be required to finance imports of raw materials, spare parts, and consumer
goods to avert continued decline in capacity utilization and family sector
production. The cumulative financing gap of about US$450 million would
have to be financed by concessionary loans and grants, so as not to
aggravate further Mozambique's critical external debt situation.
Program Implementation
41.       The Government has started implementation of some of the measures
proposed. It has, inter alia : (i) transferred to family farmers,
cooperatives, and private commercial farmers, land and equipment belonging
to a large agricultural enterprise, and is giving these subsectors support
in the form of technical assistance, inputs and consumer goods; (ii)
doubled the producer price of cashews, the bulk of which are produced by
family farmers, as well as increased the price of other agricultural
products; (iii) liberalize the prices of some animal products and food
crops; (iv) restructured some state enterprises into more manageable units,
and endowed them with technical personnel to improve management; (v)
allowed a number of export enterprises to benefit from the foreign exchange
retention system; (vi) raised the official prices of some consumer goods
and services; (vii) issued credit guidelines which demand greater rigor in
lending and control over the use of funds; and (viii) started a national
savings campaign, and created 250 'savings boxes' in enterprises,
cooperatives, state agencies, and military facilities, for the sale of time
deposit certificates.
Additional Measures Required
42.       The Government's current stabilization and rehabilitation
efforts should at least contribute to stemming the country's economic
deterioration. Prudent management of government resources is an essential
element of the PAE, as well as the measures to improve the performance of
state enterprises, and the devolution of some activities to the private
sector. Another important factor is the availability of external resources
for accelerating the inflow of imports of raw materials, spare parts, and
consumer goods so essential for the successful implementation of the PAE.
Curtailment of monetary growth, improvement in local food supplies, the
increased volume of imports of raw materials, spare parts, and consumer
goods, careful husbanding of budgetary resources, and physical
rehabilitation of infrastructure should generate the necessary impulses for
bringing about the necessary turn-around in the economy.
43.       Of the various problems that would remain unresolved despite
implementation of the PAE, two merit special mention. First, the current
shortages and excessive black market price levels of goods in the country
can be largely attributed to three closely-interrelated factors: (i)
overvaluation of the currency; (ii) low levels of domestic production and
import availability; and (iii) price controls. Devaluation and increased
volume of imports may minimize the interaction of the first two factors.
However, black market price levels may persist with a continuation of
general price controls. The situation could be exacerbated if the import
supplies needed to facilitate a decline in prices were not forthcoming. It
will also take some time before increases in domestic production capacity
can augment the supply of local goods and thus affect price levels.



- 11 -
44.       The second area of major concern has to do with the limited
capacity of economic institutions. The supply of managerial and technical
skills required to operate the vast system of state enterprises is well
below the current requirements of the economy, in quantity as well as in
quality. The Government is well aware that the country's overextended
public sector hinders economic recovery and has embarked on redeploying
workers to productive employment. It has also begun to enhance the state
enterprises' management and financial accountability. However, given the
extremely difficult economic conditions and the need to cope with immediate
issues of economic stabilization, it will be some time before any
significant results can be achieved, and progress on institutional reforms
can be made only gradually.
45.       While emergency rehabilitation efforts proceed, the Government
should also undertake measures that would help to set the stage for
sustained economic development in the future. Such measures should
include: (i) improving the institutional and policy environment for
private sector activity generally, and for smallholder agriculture in
particular (including, for example, further liberalization in marketing and
pricing); (ii) the carrying out of a critical assessment of public
enterprises, including the identification of measures to reduce their
deficits; (iii) a review of the country's current and future manpower and
training needs; and (iv) developing a public expenditure program that would
facilitate a more efficient allocation of resources and a reduction of
budgetary deficits.
46.       The country's economic ills are complex and the adjustment
process to modify the course of the economy will require time and will have
to rely on substantial concessionary external assistance. The Government's
time frame for implementation of the Economic Action Program is 1984-86.
But this time frame was predicated on the assumption of a marked
improvement in the security situation following the signing of the Nkomati
Accord in March 1984. Since the internal security situation has not
improved, it is likely that the period of implementation will need to be
extended. There also remain some aspects of the program for which
implementation mechanisms are still to be developed. Therefore, it will be
some time until appropriate relationships between prices, costs, incomes,
and production are established and the impact of existing distortions is
eased out of the system. The risks of failure of the program lie in a
possible weakening of political commitment and willingness to run the full
course, attempts to abort or modify the program in the wake of emerging
transitory problems, in the continuation of a difficult security and
economic environment, and less than the required availability of external
resources to support the program.
PART III - PROPOSED BANK GROUP STRATEGY
47.       The Government's Economic Action Program (PAE) for 1984-1986,
described in Part !I above, identifies many of the principal economic and
institutional constraints facing the country and signals a willingness on
the part of the Government to follow a more pragmatic approach to economic
policy. It is expected that the discussion of the Bank's first economic
report on Mozambique will permit the Bank to initiate a policy dialogue



- 12 -
with the Government. Nonetheless, given the newness of the Bank's
relationship with Mozambique, it will take some time before a comprehensive
country strategy can be developed. For example, considerably more economic
and sector work is required before some aspects of macroeconomic and
sectoral policy issues can be discussed in detail with the Government.
48.       Relations between the Government of Mozambique and the IMF are
also at an early stage of development. The IMF Article IV consultation
mission which visited Mozambique in late March-early April 1985 reviewed
the economic situation and will recommend measures regarding, inter alia,
public revenues and expenditures, exchange rate adjustments, and pricing
policies. While interested in IMF assistance in principle, the Government
has stated that it will take some time to develop the internal consensus,
detailed analyses, and statistical base required for a comprehensive IMF
program. Our emerging strategy for Mozambique is being closely coordinated
with that of the IMF.
49.       In light of the critical economic situation prevailing in
Mozambique, and steps being already taken, the Bank should support the
Government's emergency rehabilitation efforts. At the same time, the Bank
should begin to assist with the design and implementation of institutional
and policy reforms needed to ensure that short-term injections of foreign
exchange will ultimately result in the sustained recovery and development
of the Mozambican economy. The focus of these reforms, and of Bank
operations, in the coming years is expected to be on : (i) improving the
institutional and policy environment for private sector activity generally
3nd for smallholder agriculture in particular; (ii) encouraging government
to streamline and improve efficiency of the state sector; (iii) increasing
the supply and rationalizing the allocation of skilled manpower; and (iv)
developing a public expenditure program consistent with a more rational use
of government resources. In addition, the Bank can play an important role
in promoting human resource development through support of the Government's
continuing efforts to improve the country's health and education systems.
50.       It is clear that the Government's program to rehabilitate the
economy will take several years to implement. Therefore, it is expected
that the first rehabilitation credit, presented in this report, will be
followed up by a second-phase operation. This proposed second
rehabilitation credit would help to sustain the largely procedural reforms
gained in the first operation and would also provide a vehicle for
supporting the implementation of macroeconomic and sector policy measures
expected to be introduced by the Government.
51.       Over the coming year, work will begin on a number of tasks
designed to set the stage for a longer-term policy dialogue and project
pipeline. A Bank Energy Assessment Mission visited Mozambique in April-May
1985 t_ investigate that sector's problems and prospects.  It is expected
that the Report of the Energy Assessment Mission will identify ways in
which the Bank could best support priority rehabilitation and technical
assistance needs in the power sector. The more general issue of the
country's critical shortage of skilled manpower (particularly in the area
of economic management) would be addressed through a separate technical
assistance credit for which an identification mission is planned for
mid-1985.



- 13 -
52.       The economic and sector work program for FY86 further emphasizes
the need to support improvements in economic management and the speedy
rehabilitation of key sectors. To these ends, the ESW program provides for
a study of Mozambique's planning and budgeting system and sectoral reviews.
The Government has also agreed in principle to carry out a critical
assessment of the country's public enterprises. This proposed assessment
would seek to identify the major problems currently facing the most
important of these enterprises - management, pricing and exchange rate
policies, manpower shortages, and so forth -- and on the basis of these
findings propose a plan for their rehabilitation or, where circumstances
warrant, their liquidation or transfer to private ownership. The findings
of the various missions and studies would serve as the principal inputs to
the formulation of a comprehensive country strategy.
PART IV - PROPOSED REHJAILITATION PROGRAM AND CREDIT
Background to the Credit
53.       Tie proposed program credit was identified in the course of the
Economic Mission to Mozambique in November 1984. At that time the
Government of Mozambique presented an outline five-year Emergency
Rehabilitation Program defining priority foreign exchange needs for all
sectors. It was agreed to limit the focus of possible IDA support to the
industry, transport, and agriculture sectors which are the key sectors for
implementing the Government's strategy for economic rehabilitation.
Subsequently the Government prepared and sent to the Bank a more detailed
proposal covering the immediate imports and technical assistance needs in
these sectors. An appraisal mission which visited Mozambique February
4-16, 1985 completed the process of reviewing the Government's proposals
and detailing criteria for selecting specific beneficiary activities and
entities, and related implementation arrangements.
54.       The proposed credit was negotiated in Washington, D.C., May 6-9,
1985.  The Mozambican delegation was be led by Ms. Yasmin Patel, Director
of International Relations of the Bank of Mozambique. There is no separate
staff appraisal report for the proposed credit. A Credit Sutmary is at the
front of this report and supplemental data are contained in Annex III.
Objectives and Description
55.       The proposed IDA credit would help meet Mozambique's priority
economic rehabilitation needs within the context of the Government's
Economic Action Program (PAE) for 1984-86 designed to initiate the process
of correcting structural imbalances and rehabilitating the economy (see
paras. 33-41). While implementation of the PAE is just beginning, its
directives provide a suitable reference point for the proposed first IDA
lending operation oriented to Mozambique's immediate economic needs and
focussed on the rehabilitation and maintenance of those investments and
economic services which may be expected to generate some immediate
production response. The proposed credit would help finance part of the
Government's 1985/86 program of imports of equipment, spare parts and raw
materials, as well as related technical assistance, in industry, transport,



- 14 -
and agriculture, which are the key sectors for economic rehabilitation.
The specific beneficiary institutions and activities to be supported in the
three sectors have been identified on the basis of demonstrated needs for
inputs requiring foreign exchange as well as availability of complementary
inputs such as qualified staff and production, distribution, and
organizational capabilities necessary to increase output rapidly.
Technical assistance would be provided to strengthen institutional and
technical capacity and to help the Government carry out policy and
sectoral studies.
56.       It is clear that there must be continuity and a gradually
increasing policy content to efforts to assist the Government of Mozambique
with its rehabilitation program in order to maximize the chances that
injections of foreign exchange and technical assistance inputs will result
in the resumption of sustained economic growth and development. It is
expected that assistance for rehabilitation of the economy would be
continued in the years to come, building on the experience in implementing
this credit, on the results of economic and sector work currently under way
or planned, and on the expected detailed discussions of the Government with
the Bank and the IMF on macroeconomic questions.
57.       Industry.  The Government's policy in the industry sector is to
increase capacity utilization, especially of firms manufacturing consumer
goods, to gradually lift the controls on enterprises, and to encourage
private entrepreneurs. The proposed credit would help to finance the
import requirements of enterprises producing basic consumer goods. The
bulk of these goods would be sold in rural areas and act as incentives for
agricultural production. Firms which produce essential intermediate goods
or goods which have the potential to earn foreign exchange would also be
assisted. The firms selected all have considerable unused capacity and
have the technical and managerial capacity to increase output quickly.
58.       Twenty firms producing the following consumer products -  food
products, cigarettes, beverages, textiles, shoes, hygiene goods, bicycles,
and motorcycles - were selected as beneficiaries of credit proceeds.
Three firms producing the following intermediate products - paints, glues,
and wooden handles for agricultural implements, as well as a firm repairing
heavy agriculture, transport, and construction equipment - were selected.
The two firms producing tires and batteries were selected since they
provide intermediate products essential for the proposed vehicle
maintenance program described in para. 59 below. Three sugar refineries
were included since these enterprises produce a consumer product, and also
have a potential for earning foreign exchange through filling their export
quota to EEC countries and the USA. Altogether 33 manufacturing
enterprises were selected from the country total of 300. Under the credit
these firms would be able to purchase raw materials (US$14.4 million),
spare parts (US$9.1 million), and equipment (US$4.0 million), and to
contract for technical assistance (US$1.9 million). About US$100,000 would
be provided for a study of the structure and recent performance of the
sector, which would assist the Government in establishing its institutional
and investment priorities in the sector. Annex V provides further details
on the sector and the selected beneficiaries.



- 15 -
59.       Transport.  In addition to generating foreign exchange through
provision of transit services (rail and port) to neighboring countries, the
transport system provides agriculture with the necessary inputs and moves
agricultural produce to the urban centers or to the ports for export.
However, along with other sectors, transport traffic in Mozam ique has
declined significantly over the last ten years. The Government's strategy
for recovery is to catch up with deferred maintenance of ports and railways
infrastructure, improve availability of locomotives, improve coastal
shipping, and maintain roads and vehicles. Since timely normal maintenance
is the most effective means of increasing transport reliability, preventing
further deterioration in transport services, and extending the life of
vehicles to prevent cost,'ler rehabilitation efforts, the credit would
support spare parts requirements for maintenance of large trucks, small
trucks, and four wheel drive vehicles (US$6.4 million), as well as for
locomotives (US$1.9 million), over a twelve-month period. Equipment for
truck workshops (US$0.3 million) and locomotive workshops (US$0.4 million)
and technical assistance (US$0.4 million) would be provided. In addition,
US$100,000 would he provided to, inter alia, update the 1978 Transport
Survey, which would assist the Government in establishing its transport
investment policies. Annex VI provides further details on the sector, the
proposed maintenance component, and the selected beneficiaries in the
transport sector.
60.       Agriculture.  The most urgent priority at present in agriculture
is to provide basic inputs principally to smallbolder farmers to help
ensure that they can produce basic foodstuffs for themselves and their
families and for sale on the market. Assistance would conform to low-input
farming systems that rely on family labor, hand tools, and non-hybrid
seed. On this basis the credit would provide US$1.7 million in foreign
exchange for 1,500 tons of certified seed for the major food-crops (e.g.,
maize, beans, groundnuts, sorgbum). This represents about 30 percent of
the total estimated annual requirements of seed for the smallholder
sector. The proposed credit would also provide US$1.4 million in foreign
exchange for importing 500,000 hoes, 500,000 machetes, 50,000 axes, 50,000
files, and US$0.8 million for importing I mili'-n jute sacks.  There are
also significant shortages of spare parts for pumps and engines used by
commercial irrigated medium scale and smallholder farmers operating in the
vicinity of Maputo whose output is essential for feeding the urban
population. The credit would therefore provide US$0.5 million for purchase
of up to 50 new irrigation pumps plus accessories, as well as US$0.5
million for spare parts required to repair existing irrigation equipment.
The Ministry of Agriculture would identify local farmers or cooperatives
with demonstrated managerial skills who could benefit most effectively from
such replacement pumps or spare parts. Annex VII provides further details
on the agricultural sector and selected beneficiaries.
Costs and Financ-ing
61.       The proposed credit of US$45 million equivalent would be
allocated as follows: US$29.5 million for industry, US$9.6 million for
transport, US$5.0 million for agriculture, and US$0.9 million for program
implementation and studies. The table below summarizes key
items to be financed in each sector. The credit would finance about 5



- 16 -
percent of Mozanbique's non-oil merchandise imports in the period 1985-86
and meet about 19 percent of the gross external capital requirements of the
country for the same period.
Sector or               Raw Materials      Equipment    Technical
Activity                and Spare Parts   and Tools    Assistar e    Total
-       --------US$ million-
Industry                    23.50             4.00          2.00       29.50
Transport                    8.25             0.70          0.65        9.60
Agriculture                  2.20             2.80           -          5.00
Program Implementation        -               0.05          0.85        0.90
TOTAL             33.95             7.55         3.50        45.00
The Government estimates that the local currency costs of implementing the
rehabilitation activities to be supported by the proposed credit, for
purchase of local raw materials and equipment, hiring of additional
workers, and local transport, would be more than US$101 million equivalent
Cbased on the official exchange rate). Of this amount US$95 million
equivalent would be incurred in the industrial sector, including purchase
of locally grown agricultural produce (such as sugar cane) for processing.
The Government would ensure that these required local funds, including
credit resources, would be made available in a timely fashion to the
various executing agencies (Section 3.01 of the Development Credit
Agreement).
Coordination with Other Agencies
62.       In 1982 bilateral and multilateral agencies provided an estimated
US$244 million to Mozambique for capital investments and US$80 million for
technical assistance and cooperation, of which about half went to the
agriculture sector. Since that time, because of Mozambique's deepening
economic crisis, the bilateral agencies, including those representing
France, Netherlands, the Nordic countries, Switzerland, United Kingdom, and
USA, have increased their support for importation of key raw materials,
spare parts, and equipment to more than US$50 million in 1984-85. The
proposed credit has been designed to complement the foreign exchange
support of these agencies. Support for maintenance of vehicles and
locomotives would be an important complementary input to support by other
agencies for ports and railways rehabilitation. Support for seeds and
agricultural implements would complement efforts by several agencies to
meet Mozambique's short-term needs in this area and would take effect about
the time a US$12 million IFAD credit for seeds and tools is completed in
June, 1985.
Program Implementation
63.       The Bank of Mozambique (BOM) would he responsible for
coordination, monitoring, and supervision of program implementation, and
for preparing disbursement applications. The BOM has cppointed a Program
Coordinator, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
Association, who participated in negotiations of the proposed credit.



- 17 -
A Procurement Unit (PU) would be established in the Ministry of External
Trade to help implement the key procurement and distribution activities
associated with the credit. A condition of credit effectiveness would be
that the PU is established, fully staffed, and operational under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Section 5.01 of the Development Credit
Agreement). The PU would include staff seconded from the major state-owned
trading firms, as well as an expatriate procurement adviser, accounting
adviser, and logistics adviser whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment would be satisfactory to the Association. The
Unit would be responsible for, inter alia, review and approval of: lists
and specifications of goods and technical services to be purchased, methods
to be used in procuring such goods and services, award of contracts, and
methods for the distribution of such goods. INTERQUIMICA, the staLe
trading firm responsible for procuring raw materials and chemicals,
INTERMETAL, responsible for procuring metals, INTERMAQUINA, responsible for
procuring equipment, or INTERMECANO, responsible for procuring vehicles and
related spare parts, would be formally responsible for procurement and
award of contracts, subject to approval by the PU. An interministerial
committee made up of representatives of the Ministries of Agriculture,
Ports, Railways and Merchant Marine, Industry and Energy, Construction and
Water, and Foreign Trade, and the State Secretariats of Road Transport and
Light and Food Industry was responsible for preparing the Government's
request. The same participating agencies would nominate designated
officials to serve as liaison persons with the Program Coordinator, who
would convene meetings with these officials and with the PU regularly to
review progress and to recommend steps to improve implementation if
necessary (Schedule 4 of the Development Credit Agreement).
64.       With the minor exception of pumps and accessories to be distribu-
ted to farmers in the Maputo area, the specific heneficiaries, activities,
and amounts to be supported under the credit were identified at appraisal.
In industry the selected beneficiaries would submit detailed equipment,
spare parts, and raw materials lists to the responsible Ministry or
Secretariat, who would in turn submit these lists to the trading firms and
the PU, for review and approval. Many of these beneficiaries have already
completed these draft lists. In transport the twenty dealer organizations
in Mozambique would submit detailed lists, on the basis of the criteria
agreed at appraisal, to the Secretariat for Road Transport. A Rail India
Technical Services (RITES) team currently under contract witb the railways
would help prepare the locomotive maintenance equipment list. In agricul-
ture specifications for seeds would be prepared by BOROR, the parastatal
organization responsible for distribution of seeds, for hand tools and jute
sacks, by AGRICOM, the parastatal organization responsible for agricultural
marketing, and for irrigation pumps, accessories, and spare parts, and by
HIDROMOC, the state enterprise responsible for distribution of hydraulic
equipment and for related services.



- 18 -
65.       No special on-lending mechanism is required, since imported goods
would be provided to beneficiaries on a cash basis. A significant number
of beneficiary enterprises would have no problem coming up with the
required local funds and, given the fact that these enterprises would be
engaged in high priority activities, if necessary they would be able to
borrow funds.  The Government would ensure that loans in local currency
would be provided to participating firms and enterprises as required,
subject to normal procedures (Section 3.01 (b) of the Development Credit
Agreement).
66.       Purchase  of imported goods by beneficiary institutions would be
on the basis of official exchange rates. It is, however, unlikely that the
prevailing differences between the official and parallel market exchange
rate would lead to windfall profits to intermediaries from illegal
resales. Existing distribution arrangements in Mozambique limit the degree
to which economic rents can be appropriated by intermediaries. Firms are
required to sell their products through established channels at
Government-administered prices and the state run distribution system
targets goods to specific consumer groups. In the transport sector dealer-
ships operate a system of recording purchases to ensure that individuals do
not purchase excessive numbers of spare parts.
Pricing Measures
67.       The Government has, in its PAE, committed itself to improve the
incentives to food and export crops production and the financial situation
of enterprises. In addition the Government has provided assurances that it
would take all necessary measures to ensure that prices for goods produced
by participating industrial enterprises are established at levels which are
at least equal to actual costs, including appropriate allocation for
administration, interest payments, adequate maintenance, and depreciation
(Section 4.02 of the Development Credit Agreement). This would serve as an
initial step towards the more comprehensive changes necessary to create
incentives for increased production which will be developed in the course
of discussions by the Government with the Bank and the IMF as well as
through a proposed study of parastatal enterprises under discussion with
the Government.
Procurement
68.       All items to be financed under the credit are needed most
urgently and procurement speed is therefore important. The Procurement
Unit described in para. 63, which would include technical assistance
experts familiar with Bank procurement procedures, will play a key role in
ensuring proper screening of and expediting procurement decisions.
Procurement under the proposed credit would be in accordance with the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits'. All
individual supply contracts of US$1 million and above would be subject to
international competitive bidding (as modified for structural adjustment
and program loans). Purchases of goods costing between US$250,000 and US$1
million would be under limited international bidding procedures. Goods
costing less than US$250,000 would be under international shopping. Local
shopping would be permitted for purchases of vehicles, office equipment,
and furniture necessary for program implementation. Specific brands of



- 19 -
spares made only by one manufacturer would be purchased directly from the
manufacturer; all such contracts of US$250,000 or above would require prior
review by IDA. A contract with procurement consultants at an estimated
cost of US$700,000 would be financed under the proposed credit.
Disbursement and Retroactive Financing
69.       Disbursements would be made against the foreign exchange costs of
eligf.ble imports, against the total costs of services provided by
consultants for technical assistance and for studies, and against the total
costs, less taxes, of vehicles, office equipment, and furniture for program
implementation. To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account would be
established by the BOM with a foreign commercial bank satisfactory to the
Association (Section 2.02 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement). An
amount of US$5 million would be withdrawn by the Government from the credit
account and deposited into the Special Account upon effectiveness of the
Credit Agreement. Upon receipt of satisfactory evidence that expenditures
financed out of the Special Account are eligible for financing and that
goods are purchased in accordance with the agreed procurement procedures,
the Special Account would be replenished by IDA through further
disbursements. For contracts or purchase orders of less than US$200,000
equivalent, reimbursements would be made against statements of
expenditure. Supporting documents related to these contracts would be
retained in the BOM and made available on request to the Association. In
order to ensure early implementation of the program, the Government may
shortly request a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) advance of up to
US$500,000 to establish the PU and to contract procurement consultants.
Upon credit effectiveness the amount e pended under the PPF together with
accrued charges would be withdrawn from the credit account. Retroactive
financing of up to US$1.7 million for purchase of seeds would be required.
The credit is expected to be fully disbursed by March 31, 1988. It is
expected that the bulk of purchases of goods would be completed in one year
with technical assistance and studies to be completed by June 30, 1987.
Accounts, Aud it, and Monitoring
70.       The BOM would maintain records and separate accounts in respect
of the proposed program. These accounts and financial statements would be
audited each fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association and the audited accounts and records and auditors' report would
be furnished to the Association not later than four months after the end of
each fiscal year. The BON would also maintain records adequate to record
and monitor the progress of the program, and would prepare and furnish to
the Association a complecion report on the costs and benefits resulting
from the program.
71.       During supervision Bank staff would selectively monitor the
distribution of agricultural inputs. In the case of inputs to rural areas,
this would be handled through visits to provincial warehouses and through
review of distribution records. An ongoing IFAD project is utilizing this
method, and records of various state-owned distributing firms and agencies
are reported to be well kept.



- 20 -
Benefits and Risks
72.       The proposed credit would support the Government's initial steps
towards economic recovery and provide a basis, along with the Economic
Report and Government/IMF discussions, for a dialogue on macroeconomic and
sectoral policy issues upon which future Bank operations in Mozambique
would be based. The credit would help the Government carry out sectoral
studies and would also help to strengthen the institutions responsible for
foreign trade.
73.       The proposed credit would lead to increased output of consumer,
intermediate and export goods through increased capacity utilization and
physical output of participating firms. The improved supply of basic
consumer goods would, in turn, provide a greater incentive to farmers to
produce marketable surpluses. In transport the credit would help to end
further deterioration in transport capacity and result in increased
distribution of goods to and from rural areas. Over 13,000 trucks and four
wheel drive vehicles and eighty locomotives would be maintained by means of
inputs financed under the credit. In agriculture smallholder farmers
would be enabled to plant about 37,500 ha of maize, 18,000 ha of groundnuts
and 3,500 ha of sorghum.  Irrigation equipment would contribute to
increasing the area of double-cropped irrigated land significantly.
74.       The main risk associated with the proposed credit is that
procurement and deployment of goods and services to be financed under the
credit and the increased induced production may be hampered by the
Government's limited implementation capacity and the difficult security
situation which affects parts of the rural areas. Appropriate
consideration was given to these aspects at the design stage. Emphasis
placed on detailed identification of beneficiary activities and entities,
simplification and clarification of operating arrangements, as well as
sharply focussed technical assistance measures would help mitigate the risk
associated with implementation capacity constraints. Efforts are being
made through diplomatic channels to improve the overall security
situation. While security conditions remain difficult in the rural areas
the impact on activities to be supported under the credit would be minimal,
since every attempt has been made to target the activities to be supported
under the credit to the more secure areas. A long term risk is that the
Government might delay initiating key economic reforms provided under the
PAE or defining concrete ways to tackle the needed reforms, thus failing
to create a sustained recovery environment. It should be recognized that
the process of reforming the Mozambican economy is bound to be long and
difficult. Appropriate kinds and levels of donor assistance during the
critical initial years of adjustment would greatly contribute to sustaining
this process.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
75.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's
Republic of Mozambique and the Association and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 21 -
76.       A condition of effectiveness would be the establishment,
staffing, and operation of a Procurement Unit under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. Other special conditions of the project
are listed in Section III of Annex III to this report.
77.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
78.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 30, 1985



-22                                             A141  T
- SOCIIAL rKDTCIL0U IRTA SIB=                pFg I of 7
NOZMDI1              - socia zuDIcAm DATA inDEAT
MesT            (MST RiCl! ESTIMATE) 
R@LNT 1    tO  INC    AIPCA        MIDDLE INcUS
196W0'b    197A     RSIiATa       S08OFH IS SANM        ARICA S. Or 8AEAUA
AMA (TuN0CS Se. U)
TOAL                              799.4    I  799.4      799.4
ACRICUILTUAL                      466.5       470.1      470.8
CGP rim C A (0)                         ..          ..      150.0           249.1                1112.9
(KULOONtS1 oF OIL EQUIVALENT)      65.0        114.0      86.0            62.8                 529.0
OUTS S VIT L STATS
POPULATION.MID-TEAR (tROUSANS)    7583.9      9389.7   13082.8
UBnAN iUATIOI (C Or TOTAL)          3.7         5.7       12.6            19.2                  29.7
POraLATnow  PROJ  S
rOhiTION IN lEAR 2000 (aiLL)                            23.5
STATIONAR  POPULATION (KIL)                             82.2
POPUATION                                                2.0
POPULATIONSf
PER q.Q. UK.                      9.4         11.7      16.3            32.5                   55.8
PER SQ. WI. AGII. lAID           16.3         20.0      27.8           119.2                  111.5
POPULATION ACE STEICTURE (2)
0-14 URS                         40.7        42.4      45.3            45.6                   45.4
15-44 ITS                        56.2        54.4       51.0            51.5                  51.7
6S AND ABOVE                       3.1         32        2.9             2.9                    2.9
POPUATIUoI ClR031 RATE (t)
TOTAL                              1.4         2.2       2.6             2.8                    2.S
URBAN                             5.7         6.5        9.0             6.2                   5.2
CH    11 NINT RATE (PER tOUS)      40.0        47.4       46.4            48.6                  47.0
CoRwD DEATH RATE (PM TROWS)        28.7        23.0       19.2            17.7                  15.2
CROSS REPRODUCTIO  RATE             2.9         3.2        3.2             j.2                   3.2
TAMML  PIANNIE
ACCWTORS. ANUAL (TiIOUS)           ..          ..
-uss (K wr  mnmR   unsw            ..          ..        ....
FOD sD mIION
3NOU OF FOOD PROD. PU CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      93.4        101.0      54.0            85.8                  91.6
PER CAPIA SPIPLT OP
CALORIES (I if XEQUISIET)        92.0         90.0      67.0            86.4                  98.2
PROTEIDS (CRMS PER DAY)          42.0        40.0       27.0            49.9                  56.7
OF WICI  ANIKAL AND PULSE       10.0         9.0       7.01c          18.3                   17.0
CI  (ACES 1-4) EATH RATE           34.0        27.0       20.0            23.8                  18.7
LIF  EPECT. AT BlAIR (YEARS)       36.9        41.N       45.4            48.4                  51.7
1WASrIT. RATE (PR TIS)               ..          ..      150.0           117.5                 102.7
ACSS TO SAFEP WATE (Xn)
TOrAL                               .                                   Z .8                   35.6
RBAN                               .. .RI                               61.5                  54.1
RURAL                              ..          ..         ..            14.2                   27.3
ACCSS TO IUWGDA DISPOSL
(2 O POPUIATION)
TOrAL                               ..          ..      12.3            32.0
URA                                .            ..      61.3            69.2
RURAL                              ..          ..        5.0            24.8
POPUATIN PER l-SICIA            23630.0      18850.0   33300.n         27477.8               11948.3
POP. PER  NRSING PERSON          5470.0      5420.0    5610.0           3396.2                2248.9
POP. PMR HOSrAL NtD
TOTAL                           1250.0       870.0     920.1,         1089.0                  986.9
URa                                ..          ..         ..           395.2                  368.7
RURAL                              ..          ..         ..          3094.0                 4012.1
ADNISSIONS PFO BOSPITAL BED                      ..           ..
D-
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TSrOS L.                                        ..
4Na                                ..          ..
RURAL                               .           ..
AVERAE NO. OF PERSIIS/ROOI
TOTAL                                     ..         ..
URAN                               ..          ..
RUtAL                              ..          ..
ACCEss.7T ELECT. (I OF DVzLINVE)
TOIAL                               .           ..
.                                  ..          ...
IURAL                              --



-23-                                            ANu I|
PFap 2 of 7
NOZANIIOUR             -SOCIAL INDICAT1RR DATA SHEEt
NOZLAIQE                    RE-EREN G R0OS  WIuam  AVEtACU) /-
308?            (3031 RECtNT ESNSTDATE) 7
RECURT     LOW INCOM  AFRICA         miMi  INCOME
19601b     197db .     STiiAT        SOMUTH OF SAHARA      APRICA S. or SAHARA
RWAION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                     48.0         47.0      104.0             69.2                    91.0
KALE                     60.0         62.0      119.0             78.8                    90.5
TDIALE                   36.0         31.0       72.0             57.6                    73.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                     2.0          5.0        6.0             13.1                    17.4
MALE                      3.0          6.n        9.0             17.6                    23.7
FEMULE                    1.0          4.0        4.0              8.3                    14.8
VOCATIONAL (Z OF SECONDARY)           74.1         35.1        9.9              7.2                     5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRILMR                              95.0         69.0       56.0             46.1                    38.6
SECONDARY                           21.0         17.0       35.0             25.9                    24.3
ADULT LImtRACY RATE (z)                7.7           ..       28.0             44.3                    35.6
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP             ..          9.6         ..              3.8                    20.7
RADrO RECEIVERS/TMOUSAND POP            ..         11.1       21.3             61.9                   100.8
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP               ..           ..        0.1              2.0                    18.5
NEWSPAMER ("DAILY CENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER TEOUSAND POPULATION               ..          6.8        3.6              5.L                    17.2
CINEMA AtNUAL ATrENDAICE/CAPITA        0.3          0.4         ..              1.s                     0.3
O Fce
TO1AL LABOR FORCE (TROUS)           3140.0       3770.0    5580.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    26.2         26.0       25.4             36.5                    33.8
ARICULTURE (PERCENT)                  ..           ,.       84.0             77.4                    57.1
INDUSTRY (PERCErr)                   *.            *-        4.9             9.8                     17.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               41.4         40.1       46.1             41.0                    36.3
KALE                                62.5         60.5         ..             52.1                    47.6
FEMALE                              21.2         20.5         ..             30.2                    25.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.1          1.1        1.1              1.2                     1.4
*KEDbM DISTRIBUTIlON
PFRCVSP OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
NIGCEST 5T OF HOUSEHOWLDS             ..
;ICREST 2n0 OF HOUSERDLDS             ..
LOWEST 20! OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..
LOWESr 40! nF HOUSEHOLDS              ..
POVE3RT  TARGJT CNUNPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
L6VEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
nRBAN                                 ,,           ,,         ,.            168.3                   525.3
RURAL                                 ,,           ..         ..             90.8                   249.0
ESTDMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOCE
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
llgBAN                                ..           ..         ..            107.7                   477.4
RURAl                                 ..           ,,         ,,             65.0                   186.0
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVE (C)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..             34.7
RURAL                                 ,.           ..         .,             65.4
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
la   The group averages for each Indicator are populstion-weighted arith.etic means. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availabitity of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise notpd, 'DAta for 1960) refer to any year between 1950 and 1961; 'Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Fstlmate" between 1980 and 1983.
Ic   1977.
may 2, 1985



-24-                                                                            ANNEX I
ieetebaaatus  atat  aaaadind dtsitt.eat                   S ta  stinlbdat.  b dtaPate   3   of   7
Imms.  ataheab tha att.   Cc. tena  mu*na waca~-tl  Diet  i  at   lhatteaftt  aod cstiabta. Ito *tald Mt- I. andtedttai iha  -, M  b.a   Iiittwttkiatlp
nwmb  godeger o   im   w   ndosmw  womittmtadcmm"" mate hr daiPalwatae,a mml    .e[M.  tod .WeL    ve. infthmtn wt ul e to I
eti. sea   at4 . ws.t  tattate. toe.5t. ........... asist .aJa -j    ittian.. hastesmtttt
lb. tatmisma laraf a   it) Iate.   effa-uaot.tbjSmrl .ml Cal a anetty  eamp  1ttb !.!amash  boalotb  ataat tnlo thn th. taMfir gass  ot lb.
.mbjaal flayv (..ap   Pm,   pta tm-n It  m.em          ge    ht 'MIeda. i.-   With Attlas cad MdUli. late  It abmaaa batel ot atllow. aaat-sItertt
cram ha dina  tat that idalttc. tInC. tha...t    at am.Mtta-tan    lb- IStiatwn` ota ds at lb. .cmtbttya  hI.. os tarn  -4 Pats, atm- nt ha
.aacttaI I.  aint"td mcmtnltf.on %iRmtta  R. a.ait.  SToo. lCoon. at. nIF atlat 6e A-garii  itb oan-  F -   itdetanr at t Ititaon  Sb. antsm  at
la   thni  u..)IMIltWlam mcti Al.idmd                                                                                                    byma. at6 pamatt.t
-  at  uic   .Manatat %tate Atda at tita. nta..; tWO.                            aimie       t1tasolisnadln    da    as       tatc tt
18atdil dafta                                                                                                                                        R      Illttcta.  e              fpttetta   inb   tmne.
illS awt itli daa                                                                        P..."F..ealowotnapn .  " Jar. otf.flt d FORMt  tat..,w   nleat  d- Ft.at.. liit
go~ - -    -"I" etbad .a hard loo al   tiil1l.ll- bet. It                      tttahitttielS   iatftm   laaIptittt met asai abeam  pat.mattt  MtaJid
t,,W. itoe. at sut data                                                                    t at tattl. a  pptlttt  t""t.tt Am. watidictz ptialp.a,i na adt
ate  a  sat Icadd        -1s  hptidttl. baa..le. tItn." baith at
"FLIR WO         ant.- Aaat.t .ntc-at ceaaaptino M tcett                              eAtta  sane  Mat p--an-tty nails hc a ptpmtAtno (ht hi a easel
IF    Wt at tamt. pttaiaah, etut-i la. at tydt-. -lbt-                           aniatatk, -t. atat. ai.D..tl a it.to it-votiaa anan adgtia  atd
Mad Iiat%.-I tttitt.9.ti  1. t.itart  it tat timllamas  t   captics9 til.                  pnatm a tiatald c          -at mait  mitlitia.
tin. ead taai dat...                                   ~itatjfhI                                                      T -'Ma  aac at taint... teaW diadittga
ta..- P-sai. :a.ata!rt-tt.attt.t   atiptmatttItti  ala sac a  taittdal  Sb aht. tttm                                                                         tan
dlitomcttdttttnt                c. a_a  arfte C-p-ctlJty at dci.                                         -Ita. a,a..  A bata  -  1-tmdacaa  -  o  W tb. Ionith  im
Ronm ac-tatal    0 i Isft.k, cileaC  datc.                                              tha hatA ttid i.ntctteatI-  patamai
i irt 715w   cal a  at that. atchttay at tanittey                             a-tattst. teptatt-t.  awlitlamg macta. qte,-p - - ot att.att  na
Lati   --Met  Ittt ata san  at hIts6 tc-att  atit aacy. pa                           sraait I'tcetalt-ia km "            ttIatamt -i t-c.tla      ad r..c
tent.. dadt-ta is tattt  atatctaaF     t  tea-   tatoad    pat.1 orItati,1 11k                                   ao .1
Y-tVaatn ptctaeLum.  tacLM.atty%6. tle a-iLate  a  ti                                                                       -P-Itin
amlttta a     r-ttttttadtarCt Itti  ctad.- tat pajdttte pac-4A.                   ll tcai t
:1..-it-  5 tta                       at I   -tsett  nctttp .                                                                et itt  at   tt
c.psatia  attIL   .  m.d cpaplctat. i. hint rat. Iteatam aalbt  AnS   aIitrctit-iastha1- at pattaty                                       _ tata C-qtt
la-t .     t.  it. tsbct.,a.a...,tc   .a.   aaa.cdl -4                                    P,.-, 5t  ataMat .91t               14 aeInatdma aatc.d ilfi   G-tt
=acab te   tac-t.. lb. mimk ar  c.pM1.ttnac me eittta -         t tha c..att                     tmctmamRel ated1 .     I-okm. ti tnatta  that    . f
210   ttatt   tiS.  titt ta.   Ma . a                 n amtattit Ct.                  atSt. t attl. at teat ta-  a-. atf.U -tpmad cc am  tt.           ta
200calati  Casi  -.  a  mIt1 maadae  tatl. pacaatttehi          imrpai. t. Cmtta.                                       s  lamat..  Pca-ti  P".t."it to"ati
boromn ab  tin that tmpttemutl4m.  Itatitty h.. tn cIttad; thu                           popia. amity .l ii t. if vIca at no: tCcmtpaodtme ancta ait
It.. an tret- I. as Caatdatta  tat. ham .attd -it.V  Wb.                                  tecaIF am.a.d..
a atcPaItaiti  a. tb. Wa.,  It ---am   - a -ma. at Ch.scten   catt  lat-ma  atecedc   - Yaatatlmtlat
etitLt  "I-.laaY pn-atmet  I. tha pmcaatt  is ih. 7atc   git.                          tetdmtattla I it.caa  t.  cnsmeh ".p.c
at.aaptl            f-tat Lttttty catai  ml tacita.  ta5 tct ac                        tpame ltt  at   d.miae   t tmda atitatica.
CRoMco   maOI &asmt                                                                  rmtittta           -ei -acen ad          i .elv- ?w., -tad.  ..tttd Ia.
helmet.. imeit.                                                     p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~satac  as  maatn   e. atatad by .ea.. d5 meba. tlb
.t.l. eaL list, tit, as tilt dAta.                                                   tall II,- rate  tetI) - Ittam-. tall, (IS. 6. came at atttmt
cm. at. ha. _ccmanitae- t       amitin      ft. ta   a            I.sima "tm               p-ttam.4 ian talyptttl d It yaat atct
talyt tral, titi adl2.   es
paatte; .tS  19tO, at  ti9 dat.                          t.   atite   ta ata  aatm   Wmtd   dima~tmat  a
ftttn  ca    . ta-ci - a...t -  ea   cr-tb ca   a -ata  Md-at   t5ttt  atepttea  a   mmat~   ld
c-n  ictdtmta tt.- datac  a-hat It dmgteaa to- att  tt Mdc                             M. MeaCi.  aotit daateSb  rttmcat  at IVea               ita
it    t;cpsate   atdi a    ettacac ctmet                                                imaecCsctsln tat' ibatd.T.l   -1 sa    a.cr
paclrta,                                                          c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ptchctm al dtctid ononacI,tdm  tmata I. da te-t. ttetAt at
am-  tIt .tttd-tA-ctt. am tata  caactiPtr-- atslatht-ta_
OdId-b-'aft   A-VRI IV  ~  ~       ~       ~ ~ ~~e..maaatccti a..ibtaCt Sraiaa am.ttaac.e
ma er Caalt , ma.lim.tn    lat. atper  eliay4pc~1 c F .Butt   tabt P                   t..  catsi  attt-     tt     mca
hated at emiacatacre ttmaa..t ctca atithata ith-ti. Liiif .ad.it  at.tilt dttc
data.lacatltsi n ttt  itea-a  - tatt.   t.1 at Palmo  1- Pa                                                                                       low.mtt   a
tat   raitbc atcia'.eaatied.aa.te padmttm ..."yta  tam                     iid.l,aell dt.ta.m   aa  -   tWa pmtttmaa ta
at.at. tateci ~ tA  haad m ialliceecttee. tp mra                       ceamte.. imae.1 cat. -. -aci at1 "t "lta I-ac  it ah  a   eai
art.tt  mc hatith    ..asd tt-m ase-.ra.c   mant.   -patd.                          cla a1ihac mae 19paat1 4--    a  aed -3lod1.5I4).       nnL-
atae-m1artct ItpaMtatn  at aitatm I        I pattt ta 
-are.td taut: titi-9-_-al  il  adie   ac                                        Ista  ait.tsfll                             s-)
at~~~   ~~ mut  tIa   a  m.titmci  tte   tdett  t.am           -ccac.ccat2.pc.                                     ctae.t It cetc atm ma ftaica   IV tat-. tI
fi..aa   t-  Ict c  timi c-emit p. dat at Zi acm  I..airta
at Vlpati   .a a.mmtt  bmcl  Rcp .e haIt  Ia -hf.htd ha iaitpcsa  dubtmtldat. etaiat
Thidbs           aul?; Iftit-A. till -Ae Itn  dsit.                                   cmCta  imli  Pets  imr    e   t   mttl.     chta   at
cac       =                      'Mottcli   tml  rt  a    WcI mi  - P-sMi. -pct. at tea                                  .Lsstatty  entc   mthItatc    at bMaama
darte  cca  te  t  ta .-                 P-er    pat.a; tthi-h. Sit -d  itt             e-arI_tisatl  wdat din  ci-ta            "Itua  itetd ramla A. ant
ChIi camI-t bthhat (t. hm al   Smiteehoayt.a   t                             aitdtciecmccttatn   i -acetit  f- atbi ta  ctc
tact .4th  Cdat alt   ttt. -n  at19 tita          isatntes
itae.it -ctl    actmea)  I-       o heel 4-ca   at 4 tta.t adet en                                                                                   oM
taeat l  .  tattd tin4 httha  til,,ilti  d  tia  iic
ta-a a   al tatttmc-hta amala it.) - tatal   tte       .actl --1
aacicmtc eSlm  c_m pnaeat  tI-i Cnp i 41pcmla ten   team
at.. at. a- pmbtit tait M      aad.tt.cc   t   a   htSCttt
ftee C bAt !gp it r.Iicm  athtemci  emat   at    tta
sit dap tt atIt t.-et.. nItb ad11t.C~ 1%_.~
ttt,  a  tcc  at.ea -     tccaea atpalt  -              Pat. '.cbt taWaa
nha. trp.'et                       ct  aatata  t   ttt   lcm 



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 7
Mbmiguidiqe - EcaniciI Iidicators
Gross mikestic Product In 1984                  kmAsl Rate of Growth of GDP at Coastent 1980 Prices (Z)'?
US$ MmU.     Z                  1973-76        1976-60         1980-83
GlP atlMket Prices          2,012       100                  -9.8           2.5              6.3
Iuvesteat                     238        12
Growss Domestic Saving       -172        -8
Resaurce Balsac              -410        20
Eports of Goods and NFS       153         8
linports of Goods and NIFS    563        28
GoUvEINHt Finamne                    Geral GbnEsnDaent b/
Mt hilicn          Z of (MP
1984         1984      1980-84
Ctrent Revenue                 24.7         28.9        28.0
Q2rrent xpendintue            23.6         27.6        23.4
Current surplus                 1.1          1.3         4.6
Capital Expenditure            10.6         12.4        16.2
x    and Cedt c/
1980      1981        1982       1983        1984 d/
(Mt mWlon, exd of period)
Mxriey and Quasi-Mtbey                  35,317    45,660       59,481     72,491      80,976
Hark Credit to Central Govermxnt        -2,211      2,452       -,029     11,381      17,851
Bik Credit to Private Sector e/        51,810    59,866        73,017    91,534    100,812
(Percentages or Index lizbers)
Money as X of GDP                       44.4       56.0        69.2       93.5         94.8
AkDial Percentage Changes in:
Bank Credit to Central Governcent        ..       110.9      -101.2      293.4         56.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector a/                   15.5        22.0       25.4        10.1
Nbte: All conversicos to doUars In thls table are at the average exdibage rate prevailing during the
peiod covered.
a/ Trend rates based an least squares estiutes.
b/ Iwnludzes central, rovlndcal, and district goverrnmets.
ci  Ihere are no comprebeasive data on consumer prices or other indicators of inflatim In Mnzambique.
P1reliminry estimates.
e/ TnrlXiIs credit to state enterprises.
.. Nbt available.



-26-                           ANNEX I
Page 5 of 7
Mozwbique - Baian1e of Payints, bctel Debt
danm of Paymts          1980    1981    1982    1983    1984                     bpoHs
-(U-S AI-C      -        -                   (rae1908)
Expwtors (g & rife)     394.4   387.5   332.7   219.7   153.9                            US$ HLIu.n      Z
IRts Cs & afs)          838.9   852.7   887.5   688.8   564.2
RmEsurce pa            -444.5  -465.2  -554.8  -469.1  -410.3        Cbew NIcs             38.6        17.8
Prawn                 36.3       19.9
Net Factor Inome         22.0    -0.9   -22.1   -36.2   -65.7        Petrolem Products    36.1         16.0
Qirrent Accomt                                                       Tea                   18.8         9.8
Bulanve              -422.5  -466.1  -576.9  -505.3  -476.0        Cbttoa                15.0         8.1
94gar                 14.6        6.8
&Eficial frarsfers                                                   OCher                 44.1        21.6
(net)                  S6.0    57.5    79.5    89.6   165.7        Total                203.5       100.0
Public H & LT
BDrroefrg (net)       364.2   409.0   395.3    68.9  -144.3
9ther f,                -30.1   -69.4   -43.0   -17.6   170.9        EBternal Debt, Dieei,er 31, 1984
-USS Hfltnm
Chae in Reserves 9/
C- - inrease)         32.4    71.3   150.9    83.1    25.3         Total Outstardirg &
Bilateral Payments                                                     Dishbrsed                2,387.7 i/
AgraepIEses             -      -2.3    -5.8    -3.6    -1.7
Net ainzI Ar8nk xs
After Fashalu1lirg      -       -        -       284.9  260.1
Net Officil Rese8e
(end of period) h/    252.3   183.4    38.2    -41.4  -67.7        Debt Service Ratio for 1984
z
Total Cutst-Ai  &
Disbursed           262.3 11
Not apicable.
.pbg  Rate
1980                   1981                  1982                1983                  1984
US$1.00 = -t32.400    US$1.00 - Wt35.350  UE$1.00 - Mt37.770   US$1.00 - Mt40.183    US$1.30 = Kt42.443
Mt1.OO  = US$0.0309   Mt1.00  - US$0.0283  Mt1.00 - US$0.0265 Mt1.00 = US$0.0249         rl.O   = Us$O.O236
f/ Incldes Errors and Quwmsions and, in 1984, Paris Club debt reiWef.
I Balance of Payments data.
Data from Mmtary Accounts.
I- T ii  Arras.
.. Not available.
April 1985



- 27                         ANNEX I
Page 6 of 7
Mozambique - Balance of Payments Projections
1.        The requirements of external financial assistance to support the
Government's PAE have been assessed for a period of three years, as shown
in the table below. In this scenario, the financing gap would average
about US$330 million over the three-year period 1985-87. This financing
gap corresponds to the additional net resource transfer required to sustain
import growth of consumer goods, raw materials, and spare parts - included
in the 'other" category - over the period 1984-87 at an average rate of
about 8 percent per annum in real terms, and does not allow for an increase
in reserves. This import growth rate is not based on a rigorous analysis
of import elasticities and other factors (data are not available to
estimate these). Rather, it represents a seemingly conservative estimate
of what would be needed to avert continued decline in capacity utilization
and family sector production.
2.        Imports of equipment are projected to decline by 10 percent per
annum in real terms, as the Government has proposed. It is ass umed that
food imports will expand during the period at 7 percent per annum in real
terms. This presupposes an improvement in weather conditions relative to
the last five years, when food imports expanded at nearly 17 percent per
annum in real terms, and reflects the impact on food production expected of
the projected additional aid. The likely volume of foreign exchange to
materialize in the next few years from exports of goods and services is
projected to reflect the impact of new government policies, and a slow
improvement in the country's political situation. Projections of gross
inflows of capital have been provided by the Mozambican authorities and
reflect disbursements on the existing pipeline as well as on new
commitments.



-28 -                                ANNEX I
Page 7 of 7
-b BIqLe - Balne of Paynts Seuaio
(US$  nLllon at acrreat prices)
hkuw
Pojected                       Guch at Ciutmt
1980 PrIces (Z)
1984   1985  1986  1987   1985-87               1984-97
Exports (g & nfa)           154    150)   173   195       518                  9
TRte (g & nfs)             564    573   635   771    1,979                    4
of bch:
qpunt                     108     97    88    97        2B2                -10
Food                      126    125   140   199        464                  7
Otber                     330    351   407   475    1,233                    8
Factor Services (net)      -66    -29   -11    -6         -46
Current Acmut Ibuliane    -476   -452  -473  -         -1,507
Capital Account  alance     192    186   118   208        512
wrTlnmxg gm                  - a/  266   355   374        995
a/ Fl      g oEt  ovexa  balae of -1$284 mtl1Ifa is gLven
In theie Balan   of Paes tabe, tls Anc, wpge 5.
Source: Staff projecticxs.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP
OPERATIONS IN MOZAMBIQUE
There are no Bank loans, IDA Credits or IFC investments in
execution or fully disbursed, in Mozambique.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
MOZAMBIQUE
REHABILITATION PROGRAM CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I.    Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:  Two months
(b)  Preparation by:                  Government of Mozambique
(c)  Initial discussions with IDA:   November, 1984
(d)  Appraisal mission:               February, 1985
(e)  Negotiations:                    May, 1985
(f)  Planned date of effectiveiss;  July, 1985
Section II.   Special IDA Implementation Action
Project Preparation facility (PPF) to establish a procurement
unit and to contract procurement consulants.
Retroactive financing of US$1.7 million for seeds.
Section III. Special Conditions
(a) A Procurement Unit which would include staff seconded from the
major state-owned trading firms, as well as technical assistance
experts, to be established, fully staffed and operational as a
condition of credit effectiveness (para. 63).
(b) The Government would take all necessary measures for ensuring that
prices for goods produced by participating enterprises in the
industrial sector are established at a level no less than the costs
of production (para. 67).



- 31 -                             ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 1
MOZAMBIQUE
REHABILITATION PROGRAM CREDIT
Estimated Program Costs by Subsector and Activity
(US$ millions)
INDUSTRY
Subsector                          Items to Be Provided                        Cost
Food and tobacco                      Equipment                                   3.0
Beverages                     (1)    Raw materials, spare parts, equipment        3.0
(Ii)   Technical assistance                        0.2
Shoes                         (i)    Raw materials, spare parts, equipment        2.6
(ii)   Technical assistance                        0.1
Textiles                      (i)    Raw materials, spare parts                   4.3
(ii)   Technical assistance                        0.;
Hygiene goods                        Raw materials                                0.5
Agricultural implements               Raw materials, spare parts, equipment       0.5
Bicycles                      (i)    Raw materials, equipment                     1.7
(ii)   Technical assistance                        0.4
Motorcycles                          Raw materials, spare parts                   0.9
Repair of heavy equip.        (i)    Spare parts                                  2.0
(ii)   Technical assistance                        0.9
Sugar                                Raw materials, spare parts, equipment        4.6
Paints                               Raw materials                                0.6
Glue                                  Raw materials                               0.4
Tires                                 Raw materials, spare parts                  3.1
Batteries                            Raw materials, spare parts                   0.3
Studies                              Technical Assistance                        0.1
Sdb-Total        29.5
TRANSPORT
Activity
Maintenance of trucks         (i)    Spare parts for about 13,500 trucks
and 4 wheeldrive vebicles-             and 4 Wheeldrive vehicles               6.4
(ii)   Tools and workshop equipment                0.3
(iii)  Technical assistance                        0.3
Locomotive maintenance        (i)    Spare parts for 80 locomotives               1.85
(ii)   Tools and workshop equipment                0.4
(iiI)  Technical assistance                        0.25
Studies                              Technical assistance                         0.1
Sub-Total         9.6
AGRICULTURE
Activity
Provision of seeds            1,500 metric tons                                   1.7
Provision of hand tools       500,000 hoes, 500,000 machetes,
50,000 axes, 50,000 files                          1.5
Provision of produce bags    1,000,000 produce bags                               0.8
Provision of irrigation
PumIps                     50 pumps and accessories                           0.5
Provision of spare parts      Spare parts for pumps and other
agricultural eauipment                             0.5
Sub-Total         5.0
PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION        Technical assistance, eauipment and
vehicles and pre-investment studies                0.9
GRAND TOTAL   45.0



- 32 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 7
MOZAMBIQUE
REHABILITATION PROGRAM CREDIT
ASSISTANCE TO THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Sectoral Issues and Problems
1.        Manuf zturing now accounts for 10X of GDP, compared to 15% ten
years ago, a. . production in most sub-sectors is now estimated at 10-50% of
production ten years ago (see Table 1). There is an absolute shortage of
basic consumer goods such as shoes, beverages, food products, textiles and
bicycles, as well as shortages of intermediate goods necessary for other
manufacturing sub-sectors.
2.        There are three main ^zauses for the sharp decline in industrial
output. The first is that of a vacuum left by the massive departure of
immigrant owners of enterprises as well as skilled workers after
Independence. The government had to take over more than half 3f all
enterprises and the new managers and technical cadre were untrained, and
unexperienced.  The second cause of a decline in industrial output has been
the virtual elimination of market mechanisms in allocating resources and
their replacement by administrative controls along the lines of a centrally
planned economy. While to some extent state intervention was necessary
because of the departure of expatriate owners, the pervasive nature of
these controls has led to inefficiencies and severely reduced incentives
for increased production. These controls affect prices, wages, employment,
production, aad purchasing. The prices of a number of -basic necessities'
such as food, tobacco, edible oils, and cement are fixed by the National
Commission for Salaries and Prices (CNSP). Some of these prices are set at
levels below the cost of production, and, especially with reduced output,
many industries are suffering severe financial losses which are covered by
bank loans. Under a regime of "agreed prices" (precos condicionados),
enterprises submit to the CNSP a price proposal which is based on
production costs plus a margin for profit. When enterprises in the same
sub-sector have different production costs, the price is set on the basis
of the highest cost structure, with profits in excess of the margin being
paid into the Ministry of Finance. Wages are also fixed by the Government
and labor mobility is extremely limited. Production goals are assigned to
individual state-owned enterprises by the Ministry in charge. In addition,
private enterprises are required to buy their inputs, whether imported or
local, from state monopolies or through the ministries in charge of their
sector, and to sell their output to predetermined wholesale buyers, also
state monopolies.
3.       The third reason for the decline in industrial production has been
an acute shortage of fore_.gn exchange, brought about by sharp decreases in
export earnings and higher prices of imported goods. As a result most
firms have been able to get only a small portion of their foreign exchange
needs compared to previous years. In order to allocate the available
foreign exchange, each ministry reviews requests from enterprises under its
administration and then subvits these to the Ministry of Planning for
approval. Subsequently these decisions are communicated to the Bank of
Mozambique which is usually unable to provide these already reduced



- 33 -
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 7
allocations, and the responsible ministry then completes a final allocation
process. Under these conditions industries have a high degree of
uncertainty about the availability of foreign exchange.
Proposed Rehabilitation Program Credit
4.       The Government's Economic Action Program acknowledges the failures
of past economic policies and proposes a process of reform which would
include encouraging private enterprise and permitting enterprises to set
their own pricing and wage policies. This reform process will be
constrained by the overall slow decision making apparatus of the state
bureaucracy as well as shortages of adequately trained personnel.
Nonetheless the Government's overall policy direction, as well as its
strategy to create the conditions for expanded output in the industry
sector as a means of making available incentive goods which would encourage
increased agricultural production, is a start in the right direction.
5.       On this basis the credit would support importation of raw
materials, spare parts and equipment, as well as provision of related
technical assistance, to those enterprises which have been found to have
the technical and managerial capacity to increase output quickly, giving
priority to those enterprises producing basic consumer goods, important
intermediate goods that save foreign exchange, or goods that have the
potential to earn foreign exchange. Thirty-three enterprises were selected
from a total of some 300 enterprises which comprise the manufacturing
sector. In all these enterprises there exists considerable useable excess
capacity and production could increase relatively quickly through the
provision of raw materials, spare parts, and equipment.  These enterprises
produce food, cigarettes, beverages, textiles, shoes, hygiene goods,
bicycles, motorcycles, agricultural implements, glue, paint, tires,
batteries, and sugar; one enterprise is responsible for repair of farm and
construction equipment. Nineteen of these enterprises are private and 14
are 'intervened,- i.e., taken over by the state when their expatriate
owners fled the country after independence.
6.       The following is a description of the enterprises to be assisted
by subsector. Table IV-2 summarizes support by subsector and type.
7.        Food and Tobacco.  Eleven enterprises, eight of which produce
basic foodstuffs (wheat flour, corn flour, dough, and yeast) and three of
which produce cigarettes, together employing 2,800 workers, would benefit
from Credit proceeds. US$1.3 million would be allocated for spare parts
and US$1.7 million to replace worn out equipment. Detailed lists of spare
parts and equipment have already been prepared.
8.        Beverages.  A state-run holding company for ten individual
production units (SOGERE) responsible for about 95 percent of national
beverage production and employing 1,300 people would benefit from credit
proceeds. Spare parts worth US$1.2 million, equipment valued at US$1.3
million, raw materials for US$.5 million, and technical assistance at US$.2
million would be financed. The tax on bear amounts to 80 percent of the
sales price and therefore increased beer sales would provide significant
government revenues. The company estimates that the new equipment will
result in a 40% increase in output to reach the 1980 level.



- 34 -
ANNEI V
Page 3 of 7
9.        Shoes.  Six enterprises employing about 1,500 people would be
financed under the credit. Four of these enterprises produce finished
shoes and the other two intermediate products for the shoe industry.
US$2.8 million would be for raw materials, US$.2 million for spare parts
and another US$.2 million for minor equipment and technical assistance.
The shoe companies are operating at less than one-third their available
capacity.
10.      Textiles.  Textafica, a private enterprise which produces blankets
and various types of cloth, would be supported through the provision of raw
materials (US$3.3 million), spare parts (US$1.0 million) and technical
assistance (US$.3 million). This company employs 4,000 people, equal to
about 34 percent of total employment in the sub-sector, and is the largest
and best organized firm in the sub-sector. As a result of the assistance
from this credit, the company estimates that its output will increase from
14,000 m2 to 20,000 m2 p.a.
11.      Hygiene Products.  US$.5 million of raw materials would be
provided for three enterprises producing tooth paste, shampoo,
disinfectants, soap powder, etc. These enterprises, employing about 150
people, have been operating at about 12 percent capacity.
12.      Bicycles.  This private company produced 55,000 bicycles in 1977
while in 1932, 1983 and 1984 it averaged less than 10,000. It employs
about 200 people. Assistance would amount to US$2.1 million, of which
US$1.3 million would be for raw materials, US$.4 million for spare parts
and another US$.4 million for technical assistance. The firm estimates
that production could be increased to 48,000 and that there is a good
market for export to neighboring countries.
13.      Motorcycles.  This privately operated company has a production
capacity of 3,500 units per year, but because of lack of foreign exchange
had no production in 1981-84.  The proposed financing of US$.9 million for
raw materials will enable the company to produce 1,500 units.
14.      Agricultural Implements.  This company produces the wooden handle
used  for various agricultural implements.   It requires spare parts and
simple equipment costing a total of US$.5 million. Proposed assistance has
been coordinated with the Ministry of Agriculture.
15.      Paints.  This company employing 64 people has been operating at
about 15 percent of its installed capacity. The raw material imports
financed by the credit (US$.6 million) would be used to produce paint
which, among other uses, is essential for maintenance of transport and
other equipment.
16.      Glues.  This company produces glues for the shoe factories and for
other industrial uses. It employs 40 people and because of lack of raw
materials, it has been operating at 15 percent capacity. The credit would
finance US$.4 million of imported raw materials.
17.      Repair of Heavy Equipment.  STEIA is a well organized firm
employing 870 workers that provides spare parts and maintenance of heavy
equipment (mostly Caterpillar) in the sugar industry, agriculture,



- 35 -
ANNEX V
Page 4 of 7
construction and ports. US$2 million worth of spare parts and US$.9
million of technical assistance would be financed by the Credit.
18.       Sugar.  The sugar processing firms in Mozambique employ 42,000
workers and have a production capacity of 312,000 tons a year. Average
production between 1971 and 1980 was 261,000 tons per year. In 1982,
production was 125,000 tons, in 1983, 74,000 tons and in 1984 about 40,000
tons which was inadequate to meet quotas for export to the USA and the
EEC. The proposed financing under this credit complements an ongoing
program of South African technical assistance as well as a small amount of
emergency assistance for rehabilitation provided by the United Kingdom.
Assistance to be provided to three firms, to include raw materials (US$1.0
million), spare parts (US$2.4 million), and equipment (US$0.7 million),
will enable the sugar industry to increase production to meet the quotas
for export to the EEC and the USA as well as to satisfy internal demand,
and could be the first stage of a larger oroposed rehabilitation program.
19.       Tires.  The privately owned Mabor tire factory in Maputo has good
facilities and in the past was able to establish an export market in
neighboring countries. Because of the foreign exchange constraint present
capacity utilization is only 49%. To supply the local market with an
adequate supply of tires for one year capacity utilization should be
increased to 78% requiring import of additional raw materials such as
nylon, steel wire and rubber (US$2.8 million) and of spare parts
(US$300,000).
20.       Batteries.  The Tudor battery factory in Maputo is a  private
company producing a range of batteries. Present capacity utilization is
only 10%. To supply the local market with an adequate supply of truck
batteries for one year capacity utilization should be increased to 50Z.
This would require the import of additional raw materials such as
separators, rubber and chemicals (US$250,000), and of spare parts
(US$50,000).
21.       Studies.  About US$100,000 would be provided for a study of
recent developments in the sector, to assist the Government in establishing
its institutional and investment priorities in the sector.
Implementation
22.        Most of the above firms have already prepared draft equipment
lists. These lists will be reviewed by the responsible Ministries (e.g.
Ministry of Construction and Water for repair of heavy equipment, Ministry
of Industry and Energy for intermediate goods, Secretariat of Light and
Food Industry for all other firms) and then passed on to the Procurement
Unit and trading firms for review and preparation of bidding documents.
INTERMAQUINA, INTERMETAL, and INTERQUIMICA, the state trading firms
responsible for importing equipment, metals, raw materials respectively,
would be formally responsible for bidding, contract award and delivery to
enterprises.



- 36 -
ANNEX V
Page 5 of 7
Expected Outcomes
23.        The result of the assistance to be provided would be major
increases in production, principally of consumer goods. While it is
difficult to estimate the specific increases, most firms are trying to
return to their production levels of 1980 and earlier when shortages of
foreign exchange were not severe. The state internal trading companies
would distribute goods throughout the country, with emphasis given to areab
of potential agricultural production where these goods would act as
incentives for increased production.
24.       In order to help ensure longer term industrial develo1ment, the
Government would take measures to ensure the financial viability of
participating enterprises, including ensuring that prices of goods they
produce are established at levels at least equal to production costs. This
policy change would serve as an initial step towards the more comprehensive
changes necessary to create incentives for increased production, which
would be developed on the basis of the proposed study described above, and
a study under discussion to review the role of parastatal enterprises, as
well as through ongoing discussions on economic policy by the Government
with the Bank and the IMF.



-37-
ANNEX V
Page 6 of 7
YDZAMBIQIJE
REHABILITATION PRO0GRM CREDIT
Table I.       CAPiA       UILIZAT= IN S       EIJ911RIES, 1983
uniLt              Cpacity /Year  Probtion  Capacity Utilization (Z)
S1w1e plows          Nber (000)                  50.0           5.3             10.6
IMes                 Number (000)              1,000.0         134.4            13.4
BI%cycles            Nuber (000)                  67.5          13.0            193
I) l-ceU batteries   Nuer (000)                   30.0          10.6            35.3
Cement               Tons  (0C0)                 600.0         188.1            31.9
cast iron            Tons                     1,50.0           447.0            29.8
Hand soap            Tons (000)                   5.7            1.0            17.5
Vegetable oil        TLmS (000)                  35.0           13.8            39.4
Soft drinks          liters (miUL.)             128.2           12.8            13.0
Wheat fl]rw          Taos (000)                 204.8           31.8            15.5
Salt                 Tons (000)                 150.0           35.0            23.3
CLSarettes           Naiber (bill.)               3.2           0.9             28.1
CAnxliaas            Square w-tezs (.m11.)       15.0           4.7             31.3
Shows                Pain (000)               4,000.0        1,350.7            33.8
Source:   a       Plang  czmLsion



- 38 -
ANNEX V
Page 7 of 7
MIOZAMBIQUE
REIABILITATION PROGRAM CREDIT
TABLE 2: SUMMARY OF ASSISTANCE TO INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
(US$ Millions)
No. of Firms           Raw                      Tech-
Inter-   Mate-   Spare   Equip-  nical
Total    Private  vened    rials   Parts    ment   Assist Total
In entive Goods
Food and Tobacco        11         9         2     _       1.3      1.7      -      3.0
Beverages                1         -         1     0.5     1.2      1.3      0.2    3.2
Shoes                    6         2         4     2.8     0.2      0.1      0.1    3.2
Textiles                 1         1         -     3.3     1.0     -         0.3    4.6
Hygiene Goods            3         2         1     0.5     -        -        -      0.5
Bicycles                   1       1         -     1.3     0.4     -         0.4    2.1
Motorcycles              1         1         -     0.7     0.2      -        -      0.9
Intermediate Goods
Agricultural
Implements          1         -        1      0.2     0.1     0.2       -      0.5
Repair of Heavy
Equipment           1         1        -      -       2.0     -         0.9    2.9
Paints                   1         -         1     0.6                       -      0.6
Glues                    1         -         1     0.4     _ -               -      0.4
Tires                    1         1         -     2.8     0.3      _        -      3.1
Batteries                1         1         -     0.25    0.05    -         -      0.3
Export Goods
Sugar                    3         -         3     1.0     2.4      0.7      -      4.1
Studies                  3         _-               -       -       -        0.1    0.1
TOTAL                   33        19        14    14.35    9.15    4.0       2.0   29.5



- 39 -
ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 9
MOZAMBIQUE
REHABILITATION PROGRAM CREDIT
ASSISTANCE TO THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
1. Sectoral Issues and Problems
1.        Transport System
Mozambique's transport system (see map IBRD 18436) essentially
consists of:
i)   three main ports - Maputo (in the south), Beira (in the centre)
and Nacala (in the north);
ii)  three separate, not interconnected railway systems - South,
Central, North - totalling some 3000 km and each serving one of
the three main ports and connecting these ports with neighbouring
countries - Malawi, Zimbabwe, Swaziland and South Africa - and
with some inland production centres - e.g. Noatize (coal);
iii) a road network of some 4500 km of asphalted roads, some 500 km of
constructed gravel roads and some 20,000 km of earth roads;
iv) a number of minor ports - e.g. Quelimane, Pemba and Inhambane -
which together with the main ports permit coastal shipping;
v)   seven airports/airfields allowing the national airline to
interconnect the capital and the six most important provincial
towns in Mozambique; and
vi)  a 310 km oil pipeline from Beira to Zimbabwe.
2.        Traffic.  Over the past 10 years, transport activity in
Mozambique has declined by 70-80%.  The ports and ra''ways system
largely catering to the international traffic of neighbouring
countries -- carried about 18 million tons in 1973. By 1984, it handled
some 4-5 million tons (see Table 1). Similarly, the national vehicle fleet
(cars, buses, trucks) over the same period declined from over 100,000
vehicles to some 27,000 vehicles while the utilization per vehicle also
declined.
3.        Importance of the Sector.  The transport sector is an important
part of the Mozambique economy: it accounts for over 101 of the GNP and is
potentially of vital importance as an earner of foreign exchange. Before
Independence, the considerable deficit on the merchandise account (import
and export of goods) of the balance of payments was financed mainly through
the surplus of the transport services account (transit traffic). This
situation has changed radically with the steep decline of the transport
sector and the merchandize deficit is now largely financed (and determined)
by the flow of foreign aid. Though it is not suggested that the dramatic
decline of the Lraaisport sector as a foreign exchange earner could be fully
reversed and f:he pre-independenze position re-established, it is suggested
that the transport sector can and should play a much more important role as
a foreign exchange earner than it does at present.



- 40 -
ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 9
4.        In addition to generating foreign exchange, the services provided
by Mozambique's transport system are essential to provide agriculture with
the necessary inputs and to move agricultural produce to the urban centers
for consumption and/or to the ports for export. Similarly, bus, railway,
and aviation provide mobility to Nozambique's population.
5.        Mozambique's neighbors also have a vital interest in Mozambique's
transport system. They are very muclk interested in having additional and
cheaper transport options providing access to the sea. Moreover, for its
landlocked neighbours -Malawi, Zimbabwe, and Swaziland- Mozambique helps
meet the objective of reducing their dependence on South Africa for their
international transport needs. The unique position of Mozambique within
southern Africa is also reflected in the fact that some 60% of SADCC
planned transport investments for the region will be in Mozambique.
6.        Constraints.  A number of factors account for the decline of the
transport sector.  These are:
(i) The backlog of maintenance of port and railway fixed facilities
at the time of Independence as a result of insufficient
maintenance during the decade before independence and the
continued neglect of those facilities since independence; the
total maintenance backlog now spans a 20-year period.
(ii) The massive withdrawal at the time of Independence of the
Portuguese residing in Mozambique. As a result, the managerial
and technical cadre in the transport sector was decimated and
this affected both the operational efficiency and the maintenance
and repair of the physical facilities (vehicles, locomotives,
rolling stock, cranes, forklifts, roads, railway lines, port
facilities) reducing their availability and thus productivity,
their reliability, and their life. In addition, the vehicle
fleet was substantially reduced as large numbers of vehicles -as
well as the capital to replace them - were taken out of the
country.
(iii) Centralized control and wage policy. Partly as a result of
managerial shortages, the Government has taken over a number of
firms whose expatriate owners fled the country and the problems
of centralized planning and price, wage, and employment controls
hamper the transport sector as it does other sectors.
(iv)  Guerrilla activities before Independence and continuing security
difficulties since Independence. These have disrupted the
transport flows and damaged the transport system (bridges blown
up; trains derailed; tracks, locomotives, rolling stock and
vehicles damaged; and system reliability decreased). In
addition, the protection by the regular army (of trains, for
example) has its price in slowing down traffic movements.
(v)  The lack of foreign exchange. As a result, spare parts,
materials and some workshop equipment are in very short supply
and maintenance of transport infrastructure, road and rail
vehicles, and port equipment suffers. This, in turn, leads to
decreased transport capacity.



- 41 -
ANNEX VI e
Page 3 of 9
2. Rationale for Transport Component
7.        Government's Strategy in Transport.  It consists of:
(i)   As a first priority, catching up with deferred maintenance of
rail and port infrastructure accumulated over the last 20 years
and rehabilitating and improving this infrastructure.  With donor
support, a start has been made with the improvement of Nacala
Port and the rehabilitation of the Nacala-Malawi railway.
Similarly, the Port of Beira is being improved and some
improvements are being made in the port of Maputo.
(ii) Improving the availability of locomotives through improved
maintenance and rehabilitation. Seven locomotives were recently
rehabilitated in South Africa. But routine and periodic
maintenance of locomotives has virtually stopped because of the
lack of spare parts and materials.
(iii) Improving the north-south connections within the country through
improved coastal shipping. Additional ships have been acquired
and some minor ports, which had been closed, have been re-opened.
(iv) As to roads, maintaining the existing network but no new road
projects are to be started. Road maintenance activities, it
seems, are limited but the roads reportedly are in fair condition
because of the continuing drought and the light traffic volumes
using the network.
(v) As to road transport, first improving the maintenance of trucks
and secondly improving the maintenance of other vehicles.
Subsequently, vehicles not in running condition should be
rehabilitated. At present, because of foreign exchange
constraints, less than 25X of spare parts requirements for
maintenance are being covered by the Government.
8.        This is basically a sound strategy.  However, more emphasis and
higher priority should be awarded to regular maintenance and repair of
transport vehicles, at present in running condition, to keep them running.
This should be followed by rehabilitation of transport vehicles and
equipment not now in running condition before large scale rehabilitation of
fixed facilities (railway tracks, ports) is undertaken.
9.        It is against this background that the proposed transport
component focusses on a one year program for the regular maintenance and
repair of trucks (US$ 7.0 million) and locomotives (US$ 2.5 million) to
help ensure that they will remain in running condition. In addition, the
transport component includes a small amount for studies (US$ 100.000). The
total costs of the proposed emergency transport component is US$ 9.6
million (see Table 2).



- 42 -
ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 9
3. Specific Activities to be Assisted
(i) Truck Maintenance and Repair Program
10.       This program is meant to help ensure for a one-year period the
proper maintenance and repair of the national truck fleet of about 13,500
vehicles and to keep them in running condition. It contains the provision
of imported spare parts, locally produced tires and batteries, some
workshop equipment and some technical assistance. Total foreign exchange
cost: US$ 10.4 million. The detailed cost estimates are discussed below.
11.       Spare Parts.  This refers to imported spare parts for trucks and
excludes tires and batteries which are locally produced and discussed in
Annex V, paras. 19-20.   The estimated foreign exchange cost of a one
year's supply of spare parts for the normal maintenance and repair of the
truck fleet is as follows:
Spare Parts Requirements
Vehicle Type                   # of Trucks1/   Per Vehicle         Total
(USS)       (US$ million)
Heavy Trucks (above 5-ton)        4,034             570            2.30
Light Trucks (below 5-ton)        5,383            316             1.70
Jeeps & other 4-Wheel Drive
vehicles                          4,035             594             2.40
Total                     13,452            476              6.40
1/   Based on detailed 1983 inventory of vehicle fleet identifying each
vehicle by type, make and province of location as well as condition
(running or not running); the vehicles referred to here are in running
condition.
12.       Workshop Equipment.  To enable the workshops to implement the one
year truck maintenance and repair program, some worn-out workshop equipment
has to be replaced. The foreign exchange required is US$ 300,000.
13.       Technical Assistance.  Finally, technical assistance (about 32
man-years) is required to assist the workshops in properly implementing the
maintenance program. The rachnical assistance required refers to
relatively low level workshop staff (supervisors and mechanics), clerks for
spare parts administration, and bookkeepers. The total foreign exchange
required is US$ 300,000.
14.       Summary of Truck Maintenance Program.  In sumsary, the one year
truck maintenance and repair program requires:
US$ million
Spare Parts                                        6.40
Workshop Equipment                                 0.30
Technical Assistance                               0.30
Total                                            7.00



- 43 -
ANNEX VI
Page 5 of 9
(ii) Locomotive Maintenance and Repair Program
15.       This program is meant to help ensure for a one-year period that
the fleet of about 80 diesel locomotives now in running condition will be
properly maintained and remain operational. The program includes the
provision of spare parts and materials, some workshop equipment, and some
technical assistance. Total foreign exchange costs: US$ 2.5 million. The
detailed cost estimates are discussed below.
16.       Spare Parts.  The estimated foreign exchange costs of a one
year's supply of spare parts and materials (e.g. steel plates) for the
maintenance and repair of locomotives Is as follows:
Spare Parts Requirements
Locomotive Type        # of Locomotives1/       Per Locomotive       Total
(US$ 000)    (Uss million)
Diesel-Electric              50                       25              1.25
Diesel-Hydraulic             30                       20              0.60
Total                     80                       23              1.85
1/   Based on October 1984 situation; the locomotives referred to are in
running condition.
17.       Worksbop Equipment.  In addition to spare parts and materials
some workshop equipment, and tools are required to replace worn-out
equipment, and tools. The foreign exchange costs are US$ 400.000.
18.       Technical Assistance.  Expatriate mechanics to strengthen the
railway workshops capability to implement the maintenance and repair
program properly, are required(about six man-years). Total foreign
exchange required: US$250,000.
19.       Summary of Locomotive Nainten-nce Program.  In summary, the one
year locomotive maintenance and repair program requires:
US$ million
Spare Parts                            1.85
Workshop Equipment                     0.40
Technical Assistance                   0.25
Total                                2.50
(iii) Studies
20.       Finally, the transport component includes an amount of USS
100,000 for studies and consultancies, including an update of the National
Transport Survey of 1978 which would help the Government determine its
national transport investment priorities.
3. Implementation
21.       Selection and distribution of spare parts and workshop equipment
for trucks would be undertaken by the dealer organizations (see Table 3)
and coordinated by the Directorate of Maintenance (UDAT) of the State
Secretariat of Road Transport.



- 44 -
ANNEX VI
Page 6 of 9
22.       Selection of spare parts and workshop equipment for locomotives
would be undertaken by the railways assisted by the RITES (Rail India
Technical Services) team at present under contract with the railways.
23.       Selection of raw materials and spare parts for the production of
tires and batteries would be done by the two factories -Mabor and Tudor-
involved.
24.       Procurement of all spare parts, raw materials and workshop
equipment would be undertaken through the established channels of the
Ministry of Foreign Trade assisted by the Procurement Unit established and
financed under the proposed Rehabilitation Program Credit.
25.       Technical assistance for truck maintenance would be coordinated
by UDAT . Technical assistance for locomotive maintenance would be
coordinated by the railways. Teehnical assistance would be acquired
through established channels and progress would be closely monitored by the
Procurement Unit.
4. Expected Outcomes
26.       The principal expected outcome in the short run of this program
component is to keep the truck and locomotive fleet running for a one-year
period through provision of adequate maintenance. Without adequate
maintenance, less trucks and locomotives would no doubt be available for
operation and the transport sector's output would be further reduced.
Also, through regular (preventative) maintenance and repair, subsequent
rehabilitation is prevented or postponed, or its costs reduced. Finally,
the technical assistance provided in the transport component, though
primarily meant to enhance the productive capability of the workshops in
the short run, in the process will also contribute to increase the skills
and experience of the local workqhop personnel.



-45 -
ANNEX VI
Page 7 of 9
MOZAMBIqUE
REHABILITATION PROGRAM CREDIT
Table 1.   RAIL TRANSPORT AND PORT THROUGHPUT - FREIGHT, 1973 - 1984
(million)
A. Rail TrasE.rt
South System Central System North System       Total 31/
Year          (Maputo)       (Beira)        (Nacala)        Systems
#_Ton Ton  m # Ton   Ton Km # Ton Ton Km    Ton    Ton m
1973              14.15  2144   3.50    456       .53   202    18.79    3400
(97Z)    (98%)
1975               9.94  1324   2.93    915       .47   167    13.40    2414
(96Z)    (98%)
1979               6.85   542   1.52    459       .48   214      8.88    1220
(89Z)    (93Z)
1983               3.47   458    .48    131       .39   186      4.37     767
(75Z)    (79Z)
1984 (Ext.)        3.13   413    .31       84     .21   100      3.68     648
1984 (Est.)
Index: 1973   100    22    19       9      18      40    50        20      19
B. Port Throughput
(million ton)
Maputo       Beira          Nacala        Total2/
1973                   14.17         2.98           .79           18.26
(83Z)
1975                   10.92         3.01           .75           14.88
(66%)
1979                    8.22          1.72           .78          10.94
(55Z)
1983                    4.08          1.61          .63            6.60
(55Z)
1984 (Est.)             3.30          1.36          .44            5.35
(58%)
1984 (Est.)
Index: 1973 - 100         23            46           56              29
1/ Total also includes the minor volumes of freight moved by the Zambezia
Railways; figures in parentheses indicate percentage of international
traffic.
2/ Total includes also the throughput of some minor ports; figures in
parentheses indicate percentage of international transit traffic.
Source: Ministry of Ports, Railways and Merchant Marine, 1984.



- 46 -
ANNEX VI
Page 8 of 9
MOZAMBIQUE
REHABILITATION PROGRAM CREDIT
Table 2.        TRANSPORT COMPONENT
(USS million)
(1)     Truck Naintenance and Repair Program.
Spare Parts                                                   6.40
Workshop Equipment                                            0.30
Technical Assistance                                          0.30
Total                                                       7.00
(ii)    Locomotive Maintenance and Repair Program.
Spare Parts                                                    1.85
Workshop Equipment                                             0.40
Technical Assistance                                           0.25
Total                                                       2.50
(iii)   Studies.
Update 1978 NatioL.Al Transport Survey and others               .10
Total Transport Component                                   9.60



ANNEX VI
47                                  Page.9 of 9
MNOZAMBIQUE
REHABILITATION PROGRAX CREDIT
Table 3. Truck and Four Wheel Drive Vehicle Dealers
and Workshops
vki. ia |m SsPts ~duhrfm'bdWm  by Proviince
-     I ~~~Pft  TH        h>"6    rot ni    1 9fs      zaszs  |  ras       ftd N%am   Cf. 081
s^    Pvkq * z                           P*ap Sam                G x ~     *,      P*
Ford      F. R-M.                                         *Lf      totr  Auooot   NwU
owLt.tAbnagt red"                                        adA*coa             rub.*n
Toyota    Ihiu a od      PoI, Sam  a uIda, oM    Lj lciaL
lolo      F. &Idur  EYAl                    Aft crcd                          bo
lum       Po*VI, Sam    Amdex, S  P , cU          5      PP, SiP p m   Pwuku*y Sm  l
LuY1w   EI                                                dD f    Eto     E
riot   I;xSto                                tano    r t&                     to
Swim    __ft                                                    I oaf  oda" ono
Voiimujn   lidn                                 n                            Adfo l
r. PL 5Lo
F. IL SLs
1Ncdrdm.                          Tladao JdAth,                    IF.Sbon
Owlmy, 9       ?, S               Pwqr, SOL"  Io*sj 5   PWrm , 9x_ Py, 9 PW.*y, 5 EAy



- 48 -
ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 8
MOZAMBIQUE
REHABILITATION PROGRAM CREDIT
ASSISTANCE TO THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Sectoral Issues and Problems
1.        Since Independence in 1975, production in the agricultural sector
has been steadily declining to the point now where not only is the country-
side unable to produce enough food to supply the urban population, but
there is serious malnutrition from reduced calorie intake in many of the
rural areas. The areas which historically have produced food surpluses are
no longer producing enough to supply the food-deficit areas. Marketed food
crop production is estimated to have fallen to about 102,000 tons in 1983,
or about one third of the production a decade ago. To make up the large
food deficit, the country in 1983/84 had to import (mostly on a grant
basis) about 400,000 tons of grain. Agricultural exports, especially of
cotton and cashews which once generated substantial foreign exchange
earnings, have been reduced to a trickle.
2.        Prior to Independence, agricultural activities comprised
essentially three distinct farming systems or subsectors: (i) traditional
smallholder farm families, comprising most of the rural population, produc-
ing mainly for subsistence as well as some export crops (cashews, cotton
and tobacco); (ii) private commercial farme mostly run by Portuguese
settlers, producing mainly high income foodstuffs such as wheat, meat,
dairy products, rice and fresh vegetables for the expanding urban populat-
ion; and (iii) large-scale company-owned commercial estates on which most
of the country's export crops were grown and processed. Obstacles
encountered since Independence have been serious. In the first place after
Independence the company estates and most, but not all, of the private
settler farms were abandoned and the new government, more by default than
design (although consistent with its own philosophy) took those enterprises
over and converted them into cooperative and state farms. There was a near
total loss of skilled manpower at all levels, which was accompanied by
wanton destruction of productive infrastructure. There have also been
adverse climatic conditions during the late 70s and again during the past
three years (poor rains, droughts and floods); and destruction of
infrastructure and equipment in the rural areas by armed bands.
3.        After Independence the Government embarked on a policy which
focussed mainly on the development of state farms, the establishment of
communal villages, and the promotion of cooperatives. The samllholder
sector benefitted very little from any kind of production support services
such as extension, research, input supply, marketing and credit. This
neglect of the needs of the peasant sector and lack of assistance to small-
holder farmers also characterised Portuguese colonial agricultural policy.
It is now generally recognized in Government circles that the heavy
emphasis on state and cooperative farms has not been successful. It has
not brought the desired increases in production and has been a significant
drain on government finances. The IVth Congress of Frelino of April 1983
decided that new investment in the state sector would be made only
selectively, the emphasis being on improving efficiency, while at the



- 49 -
ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 8
same time, support for the family, cooperative and private commercial
sector should be greatly increased. Implementation of these directives is
just beginning.
4.        Price relationships have thus far worked to the particular
disadvantage of the smallholder producer. Reflecting a policy that
emphasized production on cooperative and state farms, where quotas and
physical rationing, and not prices, guided decision making, authorities
have not felt any compulsion or urgency to adjust officially fixed producer
prices. Consequently official producer prices have remained at extremely
low levels compared to whatever else farmers might wish to buy, with the
result that farmers have very little, if any, incentive to produce beyond
their own subsistence requirements.  Furthermore, even if farmers try to
sell their crops at non-official, illegal prices, they are generally
unwilling to sell for cash since there is virtually nothing available to
buy, including the simplest consumer goods. In the final consumer markets
for food, the Government has generally pursued a cheap food policy, keeping
prices to the urban consumers at low levels. The IVth Congress also
recognized the need to provide increasing incentives to the peasant and
other non-state sectors including the need for higher producer prices. The
Government bas selectively begun to raise prices of some agricultural
products.
Rationale for Rehabilitation Program
5.      Based on the first visits to the country and exchanges of
information and views with Government officials, it is evident that under
the present conditions, there exist many urgent needs. One of the most
effective ways in the short run of assisting smallholder and cooperative
farmers is to provide them with the inputs required to at least raise
enough basic food for themselves and their famili ,. Since in Mozambique
there is no agricultural extension service as such, and since distribution
networks and supply systems, to the extent tney are operational, are
already strained, the inputs provided should be the ones farmers are
familiar with. Accordingly, they should conform to low-input farming
systems that rely on family labor, hand toels and non-hybrid seed. Serious
shortages exist also of replacements and spare parts for pumps and engines
used by commercial irrigated medium-scale and smallholder farmers operating
in the vicinity of Maputo who are an important source of basic foodstuffs
to the urban market. The proposed credit would seek to mee- some of those
most urgent needs, as described below.
Activities to be Assisted
6.      Agricultural Seed.  Under normal circumstances, Mozambique's
capacity to supply its own certified seed is very inadequate, at about
ene ton per annum, and agricultural seed is imported each year in amounts
rEnging from 2,000 T to 3,000 T (Table 1). The smallholder sector
whose estimated 2.7 million families occupy some 2 million ha, or 85-90% of
the total cultivated area and who are responsible for about 95% of the
country's total food production, would, under normal conditions, retain
seed from one year's harvest for next year's planting. However, due to
successive years of drought and famine, seed stock in the rural areas is
believed to be critically low to non-existent at present.



- 50 -                   ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 8
7.      In response to ap?eals from the Government, several donors have
recently provided assistance. IFAD in August 1982 granted Mozambique a
loan which, inter alia, included funds for the importation over a 3-year
period of 840 T of certified seed per year, for the smallholder and
cooperative sectors.l/ The last shipments under the ongoing IFAD loan,
which has a June 1985 completion date, arrived in Maputo in time for the
1984/85 planting session. USAID has been providing seed of vegetabies,
garlic and Irish potatoes for use by the private commercial sector. Small
quantities of seed have in the past also been provided by FAO.
8.      The objective of providing funding for the import of agricultural
seed would be to provide the Government with the foreign exchange required
to meet the acute needs for improved seed within the smallholder sector.
While there are no reliable statistics on the actual demand for basic
inputs such as seed, by crop variety and by region, or on the area
cultivated, particularly within the smallholder sector, Ministry of
Agriculture estimates suggest a total requirement within this sector for
seed of major foodcrops for the 1985/86 crop season of about 5,000 tons.
Details, including assumptions made to arrive at the estimates, are in
Table 2. The credit would include US$1.7 million in foreign exchange for
the import of 1,500 T of seed for the smallholder sector. This therefore
represents about 30% of the total estimated theoretical requirement for the
smallholder sector and about two times the amount imported annually during
the past 3 years with IFAD funds. Since maize, groundnut and sorghum seed
need to be at the farmgate by October 1985, retroactive financing will be
required for the purchase of seed.
9.      Agricultural Hand Tools and Produce Bags.  In a country like
Mozambique, where the principal energy input into food crop production
consists of the labor contributions by members of the farmer's family, the
availability of good hand tools is of crucial importance. The first
imports by AGRICOM of agricultural tools were made in 1981. Available
estimates (Table 3) suggest that there is a large unsatisfied demand for
good hand tools. This is confirmed also by those who have a first-hand
knowledge of the country's agriculture sector and the fact that the earlier
shipments have found ready buyers among the farmers. In addition to a need
for agricultural hand tools the:e is a large demand also for bags to store,
transport and market agricultu  .1 produce.  In 1983, total marketed volume
of foodcrops amounted to slightly more than 100,000 T (not counting the
1/ The initial plan had been to import, inter alia, seed of hybrid maize,
potatoes, soybean, in addition to some 8 T of vegetable and fruit
(tomatoes, water melons, cantaloupes) seed. It was subsequently decided
to substitute hybrid maize and potato seed with open-pollinated maize,
sorghum and sunflower seed. The latter crops, it was recognized, were
more suited to smallholder requirements and production methods.



- 51 -
ANNEX VII
Page 4 of 8
30,000 T of copra, in some statistics included with food crops) and which
was down from more than 200,000 T (minus the 54,000 T and 37,000 T of copra
in 1981 and 1982, respectively) marketed during the two previous years.
10.     The January 1985 Government emergency program requested funds for
the importation of 2 million hand tools and nearly 3 million bags. How-
ever, in order to avoid over-extending the local handling and distribution
networks, and in order also to allow for a further assessment of the demand
for the materials concerned, it was agreed with Lhe Government that the
proposed Credit would include US$1.4 million for the importation by AGRICOM
of 500,000 hoes, 500,000 machetes, 50,000 axes and 50,000 files, and US$0.8
million for the importation also by AGRICOM of 1 million jute sacks.
11.     Irrigation Equipment and Spares.  The State Secretariat of
Irrigation of the Ministry of Agriculture estimates that in Maputo Province
there are some 960 irrigation pumps and engines owned by the state (includ-
ing the sugar industry), cooperative and private sector.  This is    equip-
ment of a variety of makes and types. Maputo Province plays an important
strategic role in supplying basic foodstuffs to urban Maputo: vegetables
(including potatoes), fruits, milk, meat, eggs, etc. The production of
most of these commodities is dependent upon irrigation. The proposed
credit would provide funds for the purchase of up to 50 new irrigation
pumps plus accessories such as sprinklers and pipes, for a total of up to
US$0.5 million. In addition, US$0.5 million in foreign exchange would be
provided for the importation of spare parts required to repair serviceable
irrigation pumps.
12.       Those eligible to benefit from the proceeds of these funds would
be farmers (or cooperatives) with known and demonstrated managerial skills
and operational efficiency, living and farming in the area and producing
and marketing basic foodstuffs. They would, moreover, be farmers where
other constraints (e.g., working capital, inputs, on-farm and other
essential transportation) are judged to be manageable.
implementation
13.       The above financing of agriculture sector activities is modest,
compared to the magnitude of the overall needs. However, it would help
meet the more urgent, short-term needs, particularly of smallholder farmers
who thus far have benefitted relatively little from official, government-
funded programs. The activities proposed would not require specific insti-
tutional or organizational changes and their implementation would be
through established procedures by existing agencies. BOROR is the parasta-
tal responsible for the internal distribution of agricultural seed. It
also has responsibility for preparing the annual estimates of nationwide
seed requIrements. Having prepared the nationwide estimates, BOROR then
places its order with INTERQUIMICA, the parastatal company responsible for
the import of seed, fertilizers and pesticides (including acaracides for
animal dips). In the case of seed, INTERQUIMICA charges BOROR the c.i.f.
price plus 15X for handling charges. It needs about four months from the
moment of calling for bids to the moment of landing the seed.



_52 -                        ANNEX VII
Page 5 of 8
14.     AGRICOM would be responsible for drawing up specifications for
handtools and jute sacks. RIDROMOC would be responsible for specifications
of irrigation pumps and spares. The specialized agencies within the
Ministry of Foreign Trade would also arrange for import, distribution and
sale of items funded. Those items would be sold at government regulated
prices, which would include trarnsport and handling charges, and, where
applicable, a margin for wholesalers and retailers. Without delay steps
will have to be initiated by the Government to tender for and procure
agricultural seed, since these are to be available in the country for
timely distribution to the farmers by October 1985. Retroactive financing
will be required for this component.



a.ozutit&tpiO tSiWUs CiiDfl
Table t. Aa,eoltotol load.
C,"                  opaslts        Fch4sto         Toa                     opein 0Tu1 tbas                 ?06 T lOpetox                          prhes r         TLa UIpening                            hsets           *UI                                                         rl_tlI
god  ,,1,z,y    B s,fts    ,          ost)          sply         Sio        so              (Ineets         Suppl                   It-s  *ze"cto                   s1f@)y      $4"1 n      ste -ss n    4.1oers)   *x_tl                                   . CO- U_
I-MCO                                 114           114        113             1              N5o           S,511                                                                                              IY I  2/ SI Z  " -  44  ag qtr tl  MA sUt
O-sA                                   oa.        TtN           1              -            r3os         Tot           GM            o t13                       Tou           *1          S  n                                                         VW-.  Tast                   R ad Mu
ad*w .  is,         St.        . fuws              h.t          h..        Su.             lo.to        -bniz          ial ..      Stb            li n.)             ..t,      Set         Stb            stno          .e)            Soo!              u                 D
WA1,421.                             too            700       &I        1                       t      *     114    2 1               la      S 1             *     D *SI       01            Sa             9"             "S    . ........1 F-  rnlbsAs _ItStXr
sa-m                                  I2a              ate       ISO                            no            in          l0t         1a3                             13 133                      -             105           IOS         n               ftii2lu pp 42mto
Coots                  n                  4            204       274             -              A")      *      1S        410           29              At)           44l        It1             21             9             "            S?u d
_tll_t                                  76              74        13             I               *0             1l         so           11               3I            *)          la            St              so           [Si     
ia!,hnt                                 180            130       10            2                 t           S            *           tO              GMi           I20        *00             5              "a            Of i. F*n    t                                                s
Isgt      s                            171             Itl       11              -              tOl           1lo        tO2             -               ItO          ala         101           am                -           aF Ila                                                a     rt
Total                            23041        ICUt    1,280               A              2041          2104                      111 1,DI  -       9.041 2293             2-tti 41f                                                                  F, .15
SI r eltmjamr, ftettlz%t}         e)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      p
41  Xes    SolO  Dltftiwtoo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8



- 54 -
Annex VII
Page 7 of 8
MOZAMBIQUE
REHABILITATION PROGRAM CREDIT
Thble 2.  Estimated-Total'Seed Retairements by Sector
Cropped      Seed       Ibtal      Import
Crop           Sectorl/     Area        Rate        Vblume      Price             'Ibtal Price
I(5MPticais    (Meticais     (US$
(ha)       (kg/ha)     (Ibns)       x 103)       x 103)         x 103)
Maize Hybrid     S         23,075         25         577         72           41,544         966.1
S         12,640                   316          33           10,428         242.5
p         12,730                   318                       10,494        244.0
C          8,075                   202                        6,666         155.0
F         50,000      t20        1,000                       33,000         767.4
Sub-total         106,520                 2,413                      102,132       2,375.0
Groundnuts       F         33,000      X30         1,000         75            75,000      1,744.2
Bears            S          2,531         60         152         42            6,384         148.5
P          1,847                   111                        4,662         108.4
Sub-total           4,378                   263                       11,046         256.9
Cbwpeas          S          2,436         60         146         28            4,088          95.1
P            399                    24                          670          15.6
C            395                    24                          670          15.6
F         16,670      S 30         500                       14,003        325.6
Sub-tota3          19,900                    694                      19,431         451.9
Srghum           F         50,000       SO         2,500         61           152,500      3,546.5
Sunflowers       S          1,550         10          16         46              736          17.1
P            886                     9                          414          9.6
C            588                     6                          276          6.4
F         16,000      &  5          80                        3,680         85.6
Sub-tota3          19,024                   111                        5,106         118.7
SummEgt       S         42,232                  1,207                      63,180       1,469.3
P         15,862                   462                       16,240        377.6
C          9,058                   232                        7,612         177.0
F        165,670                 5,080                      278,183      6,469.3
Ibtal             232,822                  6,981                     365,215       8,493.2
,/S=State Sector
P-Private(com=ercia) Sector
CmCboperative Sector
F-Smallhboder Sector (Sector Familiar)
Suurce: Ministry of Agricu3ture, 1985



- 55 -
Pag. a of 8
-6AiLITATlOU P1013h   Sflr
Table 3. Agricultural Ilndtools-Demaud Prolectiona
(ThousandO Tat)
kppott Anut                 Pods
elf PsdM   *MPLTIM,  |||1a
t9fs       1982        191g3       1984        190 5 1 191 9 s 1986 7
Siv  vdlin I/             2,485      2.555       2,627       2,702       2 77        2,06%       2,936
mdthasretcald med
(or iWlid availability)
of hed tools
2 hFotly                  *.970      5,110       5.254      5.,4        5,556       5.712       5,872
1 schutsfawly             2,415      2.555       2,627       2.702       2,77!       2,956       2.936
1 GAe  f_lt              621         638         656         675         694         714         734
1 aickle/4 f_1lth          621         636         656         675         694         714         734
I f11.4 falUs             621         638         656         675         694         714         734
A. oe (4-Yer usefua  lifg)
lirtu          196I      410        410          410        410
1963                            t,031       1.031       1,031       1.031
1964                                        t,017 31    1,017      1,017        1.017
1965                                                     907         907         907        A        prc
1986                                                               2,OZ0 D    2,000          per Itoe:
197                                                                             2,000 4/ 0561.3D        3SS1.43
Total  pply               410        410        1.441      2,458       2.955       4,955       5,924
132,600.000  1382.66,0.00   1385.460.0Z0
Deficit                 4.560      4,700        3,813      2,946       2,60I         757    surplh
i. Itchute (3-er useful life)
trports        1961 2/   114         114          114
1963                              574         574         574
198S                                          496 3/     496         496
19S                                                      337        337          337       heot   Price
1986                                                               1500 4f'  1,5ZD           per _aduece:
1987                                                                           1.1004  1361.10        1SS1.21
oaw Supply                114         114         688       1,070      1,407       1.333       2,937
131,650.000 1381.,331.000 1351.961.000
Deficit                 2,371      2,442        1,939      1,632       1,371         ;23          -
C. ,   (5-r  usef  life)
Ts               nigl 2i    62        82          82          62          62
1983                              215         215         215        215         215
1984                                          156 /       156        156          156
1985                                                       95         95          95        Avenge p
1986                                                                 130 */       150         per m:
1987                                                                              120 41 U52.68        29S
TOtl Sepply                82          82         297        453          S          616         736
135402.000    13354,.000    U55756.000
Deficit                   539        556          359        222         146          93          -
D. Sidlam (3-yer useful Life)
TIOn-         g18  1/   91            91          91
1963                              219         219         219
1964                                          103 31      103        '03
M95                                                                  94          94        Aver   Prg -
1966                                                                 350 4/      35D         per dldde:
1987                                                                             3Z0 4/  MSO.S2        tSO.57
Totel Sbpply               91         91          310        322         166         547         7        S4
138182.000    138S171,000    US6353.000
Defict                    530        547          346        353         278         167    surplus
L rile. (4-year useful ltfe)
Iwvocu         1961
1983                               31          31          31         31
1964b                                         350 3/     35D         350         350
1985                                                      15D        150          150          e    price
1966                                                                 150 4/       150         per f!l;t
1987                                                                              8D 4    13.40        1,30.4
motwl Supply                                       31         381        531         661         730
DS560.000    U8535.2ZO     S365.200
Deficit                                           625         294        163          33          -
7L                                                                                                          1554.8S4,000 U5,751,200  1359.645.200
1/   *aaesat groet rate of 2.81.
7   Fat yaw of ioct.
3, Incle flit shipuC of WAD-fIe  bmd tools.
1  Qtaty tot  adId Iae to be imptd In order to eate the  peet   .d.
SDUr: AGWIf   _ Cam.



TANZANIA
ALAWI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
-   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.
:l  a.-:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
PAV R_OaDS ,;         SNUO
|~~~~~~~~ _                                                                *2   's        2.,0    .      |IO~ES
s)~~~ *\*  ri,,,  -,,, ,    ......        .............. .,  '1        * -,
3  , ZAMBI
/'HARARE2                                    n      ,   
t_ 4> \ ) t t 5 0 :, ' - FV --.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
\ZIGZAMBZABWE=ovUR O"R
) , \ ( d; i - I . ; AI-AW UR-RD " ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~201
<~~~~~MZM  IQ UE    1'..   RR   
N \     @VR.R  *, '
2:?; v                            /    /|          Aa                 ; ,               A        T       - e8  
SOUTH J u L;/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f^n R ................e,.. 1 IAOlLADIAS ............,.;'  r 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PAVFFzIE C  AD1 UtMR ,.,-C,-  OV rCAL OCurRM., ;-N-}
Y z' \ ;'--'-?;z6'5At t!il -5-SZ >~~~~~.RRT Kamm:;P.



