Report No. PIC1033
Project Name                   Tunisia-Greater Tunis Sewerage Project (@#)
Region                         Middle East and North Africa
Sector                         Water Supply & Sanitation
Project ID Number              TNPA5731
Borrower                       Republic of Tunisia
Implementing Agency            Office National de l'Assainissement (ONAS)
32, rue de la Monnaie
Tunis, Tunisia
Contact                        Mr. A. Gannoun
President-directeur general, ONAS
Phone: 011.216.1.343.810
Fax: 011.216.1.350.411
Date this PID                  April 1996
Project Appraisal Date         October 1996
Project Board Date             May 1997
1.          Background: Tunisia is located at the southern rim of the
Mediterranean Sea and has a population of approximately 8.8 million. It
is a highly urbanized country with about 60 percent of its population
living in urban areas. Rapidly increasing population in these areas,
expanding tourism, and growing industry have begun to exert intensive
pressure on Tunisia's environment. The Government is aware that in the
long run, Tunisia's development will be determined by how well it
protects and manages the environment and its scarce natural resources.
One of the highest priorities of its economic plan is to develop and
protect the country's scarce water resources. The overall objective of
the plan is to promote sustainable economic development by maximizing
the efficient use of water resources, reducing pollution, and improving
public health. The sewerage sector is one of the keys to attaining
these environmentally sound economic objectives. A fully developed
capacity to treat all waste water would not only abate urban pollution
caused by the uncontrolled discharge of urban and industrial waste and
preserve the quality of water resources, especially coastal waters; it
would also contribute to water resource conservation by making it
possible to reuse treated water for irrigation.
2.          In 1975, with World Bank assistance, the Government of Tunisia
created l'Office National d'Assainissement (ONAS), the national
institution in charge of sewage sector management, including waste water
collection, treatment, and disposal in urban agglomerations and
industrial and tourism zones. In 1993, its mandate was consolidated
under the newly created (in 1991) Ministry of Environment and Land
Planning, with increased responsibility for sewerage operations. ONAS
has also been expanded into an institution responsible for protecting
the hydrological environment, in close cooperation with the National
Environmental Protection Agency (ANPE, established in 1989), which is
responsible for overall environmental monitoring and enforcement.



3.          Responsibility for maintaining the water supply systems in
urban areas and large rural centers is assigned to Societe Nationale
d'Exploitation et de Distribution d'Eau (SONEDE), the national water
supply authority, which is an autonomous public entity overseen by the
Ministry of Agriculture. Planning, design, and construction of water
supply works in small villages is the responsibility of the Direction du
Genie Rural (DGR), a department of the Ministry of Agriculture.
4.          One of the main objectives of the Government's current water
development strategy is to improve the quality of water provided to
consumers and to preserve the environment by reducing water pollution
caused by domestic, industrial, and agricultural uses. The World Bank
is supporting the Government's efforts and has outlined its parallel
strategy in its Water Policy Paper and the MENA Water Management
Strategy. The proposed project will complement Bank involvement in the
sector, especially the Water Supply and Sewerage Project, by: (a)
enhancing investments in Greater Tunis; (b) promoting environmentally
sound sewerage operations, particularly the reuse of treated wastewater;
and (c) improving the financial and technical capacity of ONAS.
5.          Project Objectives and Description: The proposed project will
assist the Government in: (a) increasing service levels for urban
sewerage up to levels comparable to potable water service; (b) reducing
urban and coastal pollution; (c) promoting efficient reuse of effluent
from sewage treatment plants for agricultural purposes; (d) improving
ONAS' cost recovery and financial capacity, with the long-term objective
of making it more autonomous and self financing; (e) introducing
appropriate new sewage treatment technology; and (f) strengthening ONAS'
capacity in the areas of management, planning, and environmental
monitoring. The project is part of the Government's Ninth Development
Plan, covering the period 1997-2001. It includes the following
investment components: (a) construction of a Waste Water Treatment Plant
(WWTP) for the western basin of Tunis; (b) expansion and rehabilitation
of the Sud Meliane WWTP in the southern basin of Tunis; (c)
reorganization, rehabilitation, and strengthening of the Greater Tunis
sewer network; and (d) pilot projects for waste water recycling, use of
new technologies, technical assistance and studies, and acquisition of
environmental monitoring and management equipment and tools.
6.          Project Financing:   Project cost is estimated at US$144
million. A Bank loan would finance the foreign exchange part of the
project (about 60 percent of its cost). The Government and ONAS would
finance the remaining 40 percent.
7.          Project Preparation: Consultants have prepared the feasibility
study, the environmental assessment of the sector and of the site-
specific subprojects, and the economic and financial studies. These
studies, which were financed under the Japanese PHRD Fund and managed by
the Bank, were completed at the end of 1995.
8.          Project Implementation:   The project would be implemented over
6 to 7 years. ONAS, who has a substantial experience in implementing
similar projects, will be in charge of execution.
9.          Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Operations:    The Second and
- 2-



Third Sewerage Projects in Tunisia were successfully completed in 1988
and 1993, respectively. These projects involved the construction of
sewerage collection systems, treatment plants, and related
infrastructure, as well as soft components to further develop ONAS'
managerial, technical, and financial capabilities. The projects also
contributed to controlling pollution in the northern area of Lake Tunis.
Both sewerage projects were successfully implemented, which enabled ONAS
to establish strong institutional arrangements and to significantly
expand sewerage services in the country.
10..        Rationale for Bank Involvement: The Government has committed
itself to implementing a long-term strategy to satisfy the country's
water needs beyond the year 2000. Promoting the reuse of effluent from
sewage treatment plants for agricultural purposes is an integral part of
the Government's strategy, which has been devised within a comprehensive
policy and institutional framework that is in line with the Bank's Water
Policy Paper, the MENA Water Strategy, and country assistance strategy.
The Bank's assistance strategy for Tunisia is to support the
Government's efforts to strengthen the management and conservation of
its water resources; the proposed project is the result of a continuing
dialogue between the Government and the Bank.
11.         Environmental Aspects:   The project is expected to help
improve the environment because it will: (a) increase waste water
collection and treatment capacity in rapidly growing urban areas of
Greater Tunis and use environmentally safe and optimized schemes of
treatment, disposal, and water reuse; (b) reduce pollution discharge
from polluting industries through industrial pretreatment; and (c)
strengthen the national environmental monitoring capability, to
effectively preserve water quality. Taking into consideration Bank and
Tunisian regulations on environmental impact assessments, the project is
classified category A.
12.         Benefits:   The urban population will directly benefit from
better sewerage services and the resulting cleaner and more pleasant
environment. The project will improve health conditions of population
in the low-income areas of Greater Tunis who are not yet served by the
sewerage system. The reduction in urban and coastal pollution will help
improve conservation of natural resources in the area and facilitate
development of the tourism industry. Furthermore, the institutional
strengthening of ONAS will enhance sector development across the
country.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
-3 -



