                                           Document of
                                        The World Bank




                                                                  Report No: 36103

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                (TF-22633 SCL-41740 SCL-41750)

                                              ON A

                                              LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF EUR 43.88 MILLION
                                 US$60 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                             TO THE

                                     REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA

                                             FOR A

                             GREATER TUNIS SEWERAGE PROJECT




                                           June 30, 2006




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Group
Middle East and North Africa Region

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective April 1997)

                             Currency Unit = MNSIF
                                      TD 1 = US$ 0.9367
                                     US$ 1 = 1.0676

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1    December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BOT     : Build Operate Transfer
CAS     : Country Assistance Strategy
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
GOT       Government of Tunisia
MTR     : Mid-Term Review
ONAS    : Office Nationale d'Assainissement (National Sewerage Board)
PCD     : Project Concept Note
PSP     : Private Sector Participation
SAR     : Staff Appraisal Report (former PAD, Project Appraisal Document)
SONEDE    Société Nationale d'Exploitation et de Ditribution des Eaux (National Public Water
          Supply Utility)
WWTP    : Waste Water Treatment Plant

                           Vice President:     Christiaan J. Poortman
                         Country Director      Theodore O. Ahlers
                          Sector Manager       Jonathan D. Walters
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Mohammed Benouahi

                                           TUNISIA
                            TN-GREATER TUNIS SEWERAGE


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30
Annex 8. Borrower's Copletion Reports                                            31

Project ID: P005731                                                  Project Name: TN-GREATER TUNIS SEWERAGE
Team Leader: Mohammed Benouahi                                       TL Unit: MNSIF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 30, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: TN-GREATER TUNIS SEWERAGE                                L/C/TF Number: TF-22633; SCL-41740;
                                                                                                     SCL-41750
   Country/Department: TUNISIA                                                            Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Sewerage (86%); Irrigation and drainage (14%)
                  Theme: Other urban development (P); Other rural development (P); Pollution management and
                            environmental health (P); Other financial and private sector development (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 12/10/1992                                     Effective: 04/30/1998
     Appraisal: 03/14/1996                                         MTR: 12/31/2000                  06/01/2003
      Approval: 05/29/1997                                      Closing: 12/31/2004                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOV. OF TUNISIA/ONAS/MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Kemal Dervis
Country Director:               Theodore O. Ahlers                             Daniel Ritchie
Sector Manager:                 Jonathan D. Walters                            A. Amir Al-Khafaji
Team Leader at ICR:             Mohammed Benouahi                              Mohammed Benouahi
ICR Primary Author:             Daniel Coyaud


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: HS                               S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The project was structured under two Bank Loans: (i) LN 4175-TUN of US$50 million equivalent to the
Office National de l'Assainissement (ONAS) and (ii) LN-4174-TUN of US$10 million equivalent to the
Government of Tunisia (GOT). It was prepared in the mid-90s in the context of the country's new water
resource strategy.

The objective of the strategy was to safeguard the environment and control pollution by developing a larger
waste water treatment capacity. The other sub-sector's main challenges included re-using treated water for
agricultural and industrial needs and recharging aquifers.

The original development objectives, as defined by the Loan Agreement, were to assist the Government and
ONAS in:

 i. Improving service levels of urban sewerage;
ii. Promoting efficient reuse of effluent from sewage treatment plants for agricultural purposes;
iii. Reducing urban and coastal pollution;
iv. Improving ONAS' cost recovery and financial capacity, with the long-term objective of achieving its
     financial autonomy;
 v. Introducing appropriate new sewage treatment technology; and
vi. Developing private sector participation in the sewerage sector.


In order to achieve the last objective the project included the construction of a new wastewater treatment
plant (WWTP) under a Build, Operate and Transfer (BOT) scheme. This component would have allowed
ONAS and the GOT to test the opportunity of further outsourcing some of ONAS' activities to the private
sector. ONAS' interest in Private Sector Participation (PSP) was motivated by its need for additional
operational and financial leverage.

The objectives were generally consistent with the CAS, and with the Government stated goals for the
sector, as well as with the Bank's overall water sector strategy for the region.


3.2 Revised Objective:


From the onset, the project experienced serious delays mainly due to the Government's change of view on
the BOT scheme and delay in adopting the legislation necessary for the implementation of a BOT scheme.
Given the delay in the availability of the new wastewater treatment plant to provide effluent for reuse, the
Government requested a reduction in scope of the reuse component by 7.7 million Euros. The cancellation
of this amount was made effective in December 2001.

In April 2004 the project went through a restructuring process and loan 4175 was amended. The
restructuring was approved by the Bank at the Director level. In hindsight, it is recognized that this
restructuring should have been submitted to the Board.

The revised objectives, as excerpted from the amended loan agreement were to assist the Government and
the Borrower in:

A. Improving service levels of urban sewerage (unchanged).
B. Promoting efficient reuse of effluent from sewage treatment plants for agricultural purposes
     (unchanged).
C. Reducing urban pollution and promoting reduction of coastal and other recipient systems' pollution.
D. Improving the Borrower's financial capacity.
E. Introducing appropriate new sewerage technology (unchanged).
F. Developing private sector participation in the sewerage sector (unchanged).



                                                     - 2 -

The restructuring of the project included:

l The revision of two of the six PDO. The new PDO were supposed to be more realistic and reflected the
     difficulties faced by the project;
l The adoption of the project components to reflect the delays in wastewater treatment capacity extension
     in the South-West zone of Tunis;
l The revision of ONAS' financial performance targets, namely internal cash generation ratio and
     average tariff increase, and corresponding financial covenants of the Loan Agreement;
l The reallocation of funds among components. Additional funds were also allocated for strategic
     studies; and
l The inclusion of a plan to strengthen ONAS' environmental management capacity.



Accordingly, the financial covenants of the Loan Agreement 4175 were modified as follows:

l An internal cash generation not less than 14% instead of 30% (Covenant 4.03-a); and
l An increase in sewerage tariff of at least 5.7% instead of 8% for 2003 and 2004 (Covenant 4.04).

3.3 Original Components:


The components, as described in the loan agreements, read as follows:

Part A: Urban Sewerage (Loan 4175)

 i. Expansion and rehabilitation of the Tunis South (Meliane) wastewater treatment plant in the southern
     basin of Tunis to increase its capacity to about 675,000 population (approximately 70,000 m3/d);
ii. Restructuring of the Tunis West sewage collection system, including the construction of approximately
     fifty-two (52) kilometres of primary sewers, in order to divert part of the sewage to the plant envisioned
     to be constructed separately under a concession scheme associating the private sector thereto;
iii. Strengthening of the Tunis South sewage collection system and connection of the villages of Mornag
     and Rades to the Tunis South (Meliane) wastewater treatment plant, entailing the construction of a
     collection system of about forty-eight (48) kilometres of main sewer;
iv. Extension of the Tunis North sewage collection system by about thirty-three (33) kilometers,
     construction of a liaison conduit of about four (4) kilometres between the wastewater treatment plants
     of Tunis North and Choutrana, and rehabilitation of the waste water treatment plant of Tunis North;
 v. Extension, rehabilitation, and resizing of the sewage collection networks of Tunis Central and North to
     prevent salty groundwater intrusion, including the construction of about forty-five (45) kilometers of
     sewers; and
vi. Strengthening of all secondary sewer systems, requiring the construction of about two hundred and
     thirty (230) kilometres of sewers.


Part B: Re-use of Treated Sewage for Agriculture (Loan 4174)

 i. Construction of a storage basin in the El Attar Valley to store treated wastewater to be used for
     irrigation;
ii. Construction of a pumping station, balancing reservoirs, access roads, windbreaks, and water supply
     and irrigation systems for purposes of equipping an area of about one thousand (1,000) ha in the El
     Attar Valley; and
iii. Carrying out of a pilot project for groundwater recharge with purified sewage treated with an



                                                      - 3 -

     appropriate tertiary method.

3.4 Revised Components:

Upon `informal' restructuring of the project in May 2004, the revised components were changed as follows:

Part A: Urban Sewerage

 i. Rehabilitation of the Tunis South Meliane (40,000 m3/d), Choutrana (75,000 m3/d) and Cherguia
     (40,000 m3/d) wastewater treatment plants;
ii. Rehabilitation of Khalij Canal;
iii. Strengthening of sewer systems, requiring the rehabilitation, restructuring and extension of about 450
     kilometers of primary and secondary sewage collection networks in Greater Tunis;
iv. Construction of pumping stations and acquisition of operation equipments; and
 v. Strengthening the institutional capacity of ONAS.


Part B: Re-use of Treated Sewage for Agriculture

 i. Carrying out technical and feasibility studies to promote the reuse of treated sewage for agriculture;
     and
ii. Preparing a pilot project for groundwater recharge with purified sewage treated with an appropriate
     tertiary method.


These revisions permitted the: (i) reduction of the scope of the sewage treatment capacity expansion works;
(ii) increase of the scope of the sewerage network component; and (iii) discontinuation of sewerage network
works in some localized areas which were directly affected by the delays incurred so far in building the new
sewage treatment plants in the South West zone. .


3.5 Quality at Entry:


The Quality Assurance Group in 1997 rated the quality at entry of the project as highly satisfactory for the
following reasons: "Technical, environmental and economic analysis is best of the infrastructure cohort.
The project had three unique features, all a first in the Bank: wastewater reuse for agriculture, private
sector facilitation and direct lending to a sewer authority".

Given the complexities linked to the launch of a first BOT in the sector and the many complications that
have come up during preparation of this transaction which could not be anticipated at appraisal, the quality
at entry of the project is rated satisfactory. The financial projections for ONAS were too optimistic. These
projections were based on the GOT track record in terms of annual tariff increases (about 15%. annually).
The cumulative effects and impact of both water and sewer bills made it difficult for GOT to continue
raising sewer tariffs at the same level.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:


The achievement of objectives is evaluated below with regard to the original objectives since the
restructuring package was not submitted to the Board. The overall rating is "S" given the fact that the
project has substantially improved the sanitation situation of the targeted population. Though tariffs were


                                                      - 4 -

marginally increased and related covenants were not met, GOT did compensate with subsidies that covered
all ONAS losses and investments.

Development Objective A: Improving service levels of urban sewerage.               The outcome is rated
satisfactory. At the end of 2004, ONAS' total number of customers in Tunisia reached 1.25 million,
surpassing the figure of 0.99 million targeted for the end of 2005 (Annex 1, Table 1). The project's
sewerage component has connected 40,640 new customers in Greater Tunis. A population of about
192,000 people have thus already benefited from improved level of service and reduced urban pollution in
their neighborhoods. The volume of collected wastewater by ONAS in all Tunisia reached 183 Mm at the3


end of 2005, a higher figure than the 178 Mm targeted at appraisal. The volume of collected wastewater
                                                  3


in Greater Tunis has increased by about 27% from 69 Mm /year at the end of 1998 to 88 Mm /year at the
                                                               3                               3


end of 2005. The project has contributed by 42% to this increase through an incremental volume of sewage
collected of 7.2 Mm in 2005 (Annex 1, Table 2).
                      3




Development Objective B: Promoting efficient reuse of effluent from sewage treatment plants for
agricultural purposes. The outcome is rated satisfactory though the reuse scheme was not implemented
because the BOT component did not materialize. However the GOT did carry out all the necessary studies
for the reuse scheme and did implement the recharge of the aquifer component. The feasibility studies for
groundwater recharge in the Cap Bon area led to the choice of the effluent from Korba sewage treatment
plant for the recharge of the aquifer through a pilot station which is under construction under separate
financing. The results from the studies promoted a similar reuse of effluent in Djerba under a project
assisted by Japanese funds. The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) remains fully committed to realize the
reuse facilities originally projected in El Attar but with a few years delay.

Development Objective C: Reducing urban and coastal pollution. The outcome is rated satisfactory.
The project rehabilitation works in Sud Méliane, Cherguia and Choutrana contributed to the reduction of
urban and coastal pollution and alleviated the delay experienced by the BOT transaction in Tunis West
Sewage Treatment Plant and the expansion works at Sud Meliane sewage treatment plant. The works
permitted an increase of 6.9 Mm of sewage treated in the Greater Tunis area (Annex 1, Table 2). The rate
                                   3


of treatment by ONAS in all Tunisia increased from 83% in 1999 to reach 93% in 2005 (Annex 1, Table
1), which is close to the target of 96% projected at appraisal.

Today, the capacity of sewage treatment in Greater Tunis remains below the demand by 60,000 m /day.  3


ONAS will be able to solve the issue of treatment capacity through:

 i. The extensions of the Sud Méliane and Choutrana treatment plants, each by a capacity of 40,000 m     3


     /day, presently being financed by the Islamic Bank for Development which will be completed by the
     end of 2006;

ii. The construction of a 60,000 m /day WWTP at El Attar which is expected to be fiananced under a new
                                      3


     Bank Loan; and

iii. The implementation of a 45,000 m /day plant in El Allef for which tenders are launched and
                                             3


     environmental impact study were completed in December 2005 under a grant from the European
     Union.

Development Objective D: Improving ONAS' cost recovery and financial capacity, with the
long-term objective of achieving its financial autonomy. The outcome of this objective is unsatisfactory
. ONAS' cost recovery and financial autonomy performance decreased from 1998 until the end of 2002 as
a result of a tariff freeze for almost 5 years (Annex 1, Table 3). A 5.7% tariff increase, effective March
2003, temporarily improved ONAS' financial position. Although this important objective was revised at


                                                      - 5 -

restructuring with more modest financial covenants - internal cash generation not less than 14% instead of
30% (Covenant 4.03-a) and sewerage tariff increase of at least 5.7% instead of 8% for 2003 and 2004 - the
revised covenants were not met in 2004 and 2005 (Annex 1, Graphs 1 and 2). ONAS caused a new
distortion in its revenue structure in 2003 by introducing a highly subsidized tariff for the first block of
consumption.

GOT policy deliberately shifted toward subsidizing sewerage subsector while keeping drinking water self
sustained. SONEDE pays 100% of its investments and O&M. This shift was justified by the high cost of
sewage service which includes wastewater treatment. The GOT considered that sewerage sub-sector costs
are related more to general environmental and health aspects and that the middle income and the poor
classes cannot fully pay for such high cost.

Original Development Objective E: Introducing appropriate new sewerage technology. The outcome is
rated satisfactory. Under the project, ONAS was acquainted with a number of new types of studies: (i) a
BOT study, (ii) the optimization of sewerage system in relation to the location of sewage treatment plants,
(iii) a master plan for computerization of information and communication system, and (iv) the introduction
of new sewerage treatment technology (sludge dewatering and fine bubble aeration) proposed under
rehabilitation and extensions studies. In addition, ONAS staff was trained on environmental assessment. A
number of strategic studies, including a tariff and management study, were initiated but were still underway
at project closing due to lengthy procurement procedures.

Development Objective F:        Developing private sector participation in the sewerage sector.          The
outcome is rated unsatisfactory. ONAS has continued to expand PSP in its overall operations by
contracting out some of its operations to the private sector. At the end of 2005, five treatment plants, with
a total capacity of 51,130 m /day (Tataouine, Tozeur, Nefta, Bizerte, Menzel-Bourguiba), out of 83
                                3


sewage treatment plants, 1,460 km of its sewerage networks out of a total of 12,000 km, and 80 of its
pumping stations were operated by private companies. However, the first BOT contract for a new sewage
treatment plant, which was expected at appraisal to be implemented during the project construction period,
did not materialize. The reason was there was a shift in the thinking about PSP in the water and sewerage
sector both at the national and the international levels following the failure of some of the BOT schemes
implemented in developing countries. This coincided with the effectiveness of the loan and thus, the
implementation of the BOT component was no longer attractive to GOT.

However, a landmark progress was achieved in August 2004 with the approval of Law N°2004-70
allowing BOT operations in the water supply and sewerage sector. The decree related to this law was
published in December 2005.


4.2 Outputs by components:


The project achieved most of the revised components by the closing date of December 31, 2005 for the
urban sewerage component (Loan 4175), except for some studies. The Re-use of Treated Sewage
component was completed as far as the studies were concerned, but the construction of the pilot station for
aquifer recharge is being implemented outside the project's financing.

Part A: Urban Sewerage ($88.9 million equivalent at appraisal, $79.8 million equivalent ex-post)

The output of this component is rated satisfactory.

The Tunis South (Meliane), Choutrana and Cherguia wastewater treatment plants were rehabilitated
together with the Khalij Canal. The South Meliane plant had its pre-treatment facilities rehabilitated;
mechanical sludge drying equipment installed; odour control attained through covering of the treatment



                                                    - 6 -

facilities; some of the oxidation channels dredged; and water-tightness of basins strengthened. The
Choutrana plant was equipped with a sludge treatment facility to dry the sludge through a mechanical
process. The sludge aeration facilities of the Cherguia plant were completely renewed through the small
bubbles process, including the civil works to house the blowers and their electrical equipment. Four
secondary settling basins of the Cherguia plant were rehabilitated and their electrical equipment renewed.

The sewerage works in Grand Tunis allowed the connection of 40,640 new houses or buildings above the
target of 30,681 connections projected at restructuring. During project construction, the connection rate
increased steadily from 80% at the end of 1998 to 86% at the end of 2005. The sewer systems were
strengthened, through rehabilitation, restructuring and extension of 410 kilometers of primary and
secondary sewage collection networks in Greater Tunis, instead of the 500 km as projected at restructuring.
Pumping stations in 25 locations were constructed. The works were located in the city centre and in thirty
towns or areas in the Northern, Western and Southern part of Great Tunis, as shown in the following table.




                                  Table 4.1. Location of Sewerage Works

    Tunis North                   Tunis West                  Tunis Ariana                   Tunis South
   Bhar Lazragh                   Essoumrane                  El Joumhouria                     Ezzahra
      La Marsa                     Ettayarane                   Oued Ellil                   Hamman Lif
     La Goulette                    Ennajeh                   Douar Hicher                   El Bassatine
        Kram                       Ezzouhour                    Mannouba                        Radés
      El Aouina                   Cité militaire                  M'ihla                       M'hamdia
      SidiSaoud                     Essaada                    Cité Ammar                     El Mourouj
                                      Helal                        Sfaxi                        Izdihar
                                                               7 Novembre                       Naassen
                                                                 Echabeb


Operating equipments were procured with a total cost less than originally budgeted in the SAR, but as
projected at restructuring. The decrease in equipment costs was the result of the increase in the number of
PSP in operation and maintenance. A total of 18 earthmoving machines were delivered together with 15
small transport vehicles.

Technical Assistance was provided and a number of studies were implemented under the project in order to
strengthen the institutional capacity of ONAS. Completed studies were related to:

l Transitory measures to be taken urgently on the existing treatment plants and transfer systems to
    improve the quality of sewage treatment. The study was completed at an early stage of the project and
    has led to the definition of works which were implemented on the existing treatment and transfer
    systems.
l A master plan for the computerization of ONAS information and communication system. It led to the
    detailed planning of actions to be undertaken in the future.
l Training of staff and technical assistance related to environmental assessment.
l Optimization of the transfer and sewage treatment facilities in relation to the location of sewage
    treatment plants for the Southern and Western parts of Great Tunis. The cost/benefit of ten different
    scenarios were analysed and contributed to the decision taken by the Council of Ministers in May 2003
    related to the location and the phasing of future treatment plants in El Allef and El Attar.




                                                     - 7 -

The BOT study for the sewage treatment plant of Tunis West was initiated early in the project but was only
62% completed by closing date as a result of Governmental delays on legislative actions related to private
construction and operation of treatment plants.

Other studies relative to ONAS' tariff structure and level, rehabilitation and extension of 8 small WWTPs
and rehabilitation of 80 pumping stations were initiated at the end of 2005 just before the closing date.

Part B: Re-use of Treated Sewage for Agriculture ($17.8 million at appraisal, $1.2 million ex-post)

The output of this component must be rated unsatisfactory against its original contents, which committed
to the construction of storage basins and irrigation systems for reuse of effluent from the Tunis West
treatment plant.

A feasibility study and an environmental impact assessment for the installation of a system to irrigate 6,000
ha in the El Attar area by means of reusing some of the effluent produced after treatment in the South-West
of Great Tunis were carried out and completed.           However, at restructuring, detailed studies for the
irrigation of 1,000 ha and construction of the facilities were postponed until the construction of at least one
sewage treatment plant for Tunis West was well underway.

A pilot project for groundwater recharge with purified sewage treated with an appropriate tertiary method
comprised two phases. Phase 1, implemented under the project, consisted of establishing the inventory of
all the sites in the Cap Bon area susceptible to be used for groundwater recharge, studying the aquifer and
choosing the best site. At the outset of the study, the site of Korba was selected for the construction of
recharge facilities of 500,000 m /year capacity. Phase 2, implemented under the PISEAU program («
                                   3


Programme d'Investissement du Secteur de l'Eau ») which is financed separately by the Bank, consisted of
the construction and operation of the pilot station.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:


To calculate the ex-post economic rate of return (ERR) of the sewerage component of the project, a
costs/benefits analysis was carried-out based on the same 1998-2038 period as was done at appraisal.

The actual cash-flows of current investment costs of the sewerage component were used and adjusted to a
1998 base price. All investment costs were taken, including costs on sewage treatment plants and technical
assistance. As at appraisal, the investment costs were transformed into economic prices taking into account
the same conversion factors for the foreign exchange rate, unskilled labour and non-tradable goods
estimated at 1.2, 0.8 and 0.9. Recurrent expenditures used in the calculation were at 0.22 TD per m of      3


collected sewage, transformed into economic price by applying the average concession of a 0.9 factor for
investments.

The benefits of the project sewerage component were based, as at appraisal, on the consumers' willingness
to pay (WTP) for sewerage services. The WTP was taken as the difference between the willingness to pay
for water and sewerage services and the willingness to pay for water services alone based on the demand
curves for those services established in the econometric models used at appraisal. The cash-flow of benefits
was calculated by multiplying the benefit per m deduced from the appraisal report with the incremental
                                                   3


sewage collected as a project contribution in the Greater Tunis area. This additional sewage flow due to the
project reached 8 Mm /year in 2005 and is estimated to grow to 14.8 Mm /year by 2011 when the
                         3                                                         3


connection rate would reach a ceiling of 95% as estimated at appraisal.

The resulting ERR for a WTP of 1.15 DT/m is 18%, which is less than the 28% estimated at appraisal.
                                                3


The ERR varies from 12% to 23% when the WTP varies by plus or minus 25% (1.44 to 0.86 TD/m ). The       3




                                                      - 8 -

main reason why the ERR is less than what was estimated at appraisal is that in the ex-post calculation,
only the actual project contribution in the incremental sewage collected or to be collected was considered as
a benefit, i.e. only 42% of the total incremental sewage collected or to be collected in the Greater Tunis
area, since other sewerage works not financed under the project were invested in the area. In the SAR, no
distinction was made between actual project contribution and total output of incremental sewage in the
Greater Tunis area. If it were considered that the project is contributing to 66% of the incremental sewage
collected, the ERR would reach 28%. The project NPV for the period 1998-2038 at a 10% discount rate is
estimated at 33 MDT base in 1998 (or US$30 million in December 2005 in terms of economic benefits -
Annex 3).

The resulting Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for a WTP of 1.15 DT/m is 18%, less than the 28%
                                                                               3


estimated at appraisal. The ERR varies from 12% to 23% when the WTP varies by plus or minus 25%
(1.44 to 0.86 TD/m ). The main reason why the ERR is less than what was estimated at appraisal is that in
                     3


the ex-post calculation only the actual project contribution in the incremental sewage collected or to be
collected is considered as benefit, i.e. only 42% of the total incremental sewage collected or to be collected
in the Greater Tunis area, since other sewerage works not financed under the project were invested in the
area. In the SAR no distinction was made between actual project contribution and total output of
incremental sewage in the Greater Tunis area. If it were considered that the project is contributing to 66 %
of the incremental sewage collected the ERR would reach 28%. The project NPV for the period 1998-2038
at a 10% discount rate is estimated at 33 MDT base 1998 (or US$30 million (December 2005) in terms of
economic benefits (Annex 3).


4.4 Financial rate of return:


This parameter was not assessed at appraisal.

As discussed above in section 4.1, ONAS' financial capacity is unsatisfactory. The net internal cash
generation was continuously under the covenanted minimum during the project construction period (Annex
1 Graph 1). While the debt service coverage ratio was above the covenanted minimum, it was below
appraisal projections in 2004 and 2005 (Annex 1 Graph 2). The average sewerage cost in TD/m of            3


sewage was always above appraisal projections and increased in real terms (Annex 1 Graph 3). The
average sewerage tariff in TD/m of sewage was always well under appraisal projections and even
                                     3


decreased in real terms (Annex 1 Graph 4).


4.5 Institutional development impact:


The project's institutional development impact was modest. ONAS benefited from the project through the
implementation of improved financial management and accounting systems as well as from ongoing work
on tariffs structure and levels.

Among the positive institutional development impacts, the project introduced new appropriate technology in
ONAS: new types of studies, such as a BOT study, optimization of sewerage systems in relation to the
location of sewage treatment plants, master plan for computerization of information and communication
system, in addition to new sewerage technology (sludge dewatering and fine bubble aeration). ONAS staff
was trained on environmental assessment. Over the project implementation period the project contributed to
improving ONAS' overall operational performance and service delivery. Productivity as measured by staff
number per thousand connections increased since this indicator decreased from 5.5 to 4.0.             This is
attributed to increased private sector participation for small sewerage treatment plants and a low down in



                                                     - 9 -

hiring new staff. The issue of cost recovery should not be considered as a shortfall in terms of institutional
development given that the government has consistently compensated ONAS for all the losses induced by
its decision not to increase tariffs and therefore the financial viability of the institution was not jeopardized
during the life of the project. All the institutional development achieved through the project is likely to be
sustained.


The project contributed also to the institutional building of the Ministry of Agriculture through promoting
the reuse of sewage treatment plant effluent for agriculture. In fact, feasibility studies for the future El
Attar and El Allef WWTPs have been completed and construction of a pilot station for aquifer recharge is
being carried out in the Cap Bon area. The Ministry of Agriculture now has better information about the
cost of re-use of treated sewage, the technology needed for possible complementary treatment and recharge
system, and is able to verify its social acceptability and absence of sanitary risks.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The change in the international scene regarding PSP encouraged GOT to cancel the BOT planned under the
project. In addition, the changes in the Minister and ONAS' CEO, who were very supportive of the project,
contributed to the delay in project effectiveness and made tariff increase decisions more difficult to obtain.

The Bank's flexibility in dropping the BOT component and adapting the project structure to the changing
context, positively affected the project and allowed it to achieve its main objectives.

The 30% appreciation of the Euro against the Tunisian Dinar over the project implementation period
indirectly generated more resources from the loan for ONAS. This positively affected the project and
allowed for the adjustment of some components.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:


By law, operations contracts with the private sector were limited to five years maximum at the project
outset. This was a clear constraint for the development of private sector participation in the water and
sewerage sectors. It is only in August 2004 that a law allowing BOT operations in the water supply and
sewerage sector was passed, and it was only in December 2005 that the decree related to this law was
published. BOT study for El Attar Phase II sewage treatment plant for Tunis West is underway.

Lengthy procurement procedures in Tunisia contributed to the delays incurred in launching a number of
strategic studies, including tariff and management study. In addition to the Bank's no objection,
implementing agencies had to report to internal, regional, or high procurement commissions, depending on
the size and type of the contract. The prequalification of consulting firms is a mandatory step in Tunisian
procurement law, and it sometimes doubles the time needed to hire consultants. The procurement issue
could have been mitigated if the "Commission nationale des marchés" were aware of Bank procedures and
had showed a proactive attitude in the context of the project.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The strong technical capacities of ONAS and Ministry of Agriculture explain the relative success of the
project



                                                      - 10 -

5.4 Costs and financing:


The total project costs were estimated at 119.7 MDT (106.7 MUS$ equivalent) at appraisal, 95.8 MDT
(76.1 MUS$ equivalent) at restructuring and 97.5 MDT (81MUS$ equivalent) at closing date. Annex 2
gives the comparison of the costs of the project components at appraisal, at restructuring and at closing
date, both in DT and in US$. The comparison in DT is more meaningful than the comparison in US$
equivalent since the exchange rate of the US$ against the DT and the Euro (the actual foreign currency
expenses for the project) changed over time. The variations of costs reflect the large variations of scope of
the various components. They do not reflect poor estimations of unit costs at appraisal. It is however
regrettable that miscellaneous cost such as land acquisitions, ONAS staff assigned to the project,
engineering control office were not indicated in the SAR.

The financing plan comprised a Bank loan (4175-TUN) of 283 million FRF (US$50 million equivalent) to
ONAS, and 57 million FRF (US$10 million equivalent) to the Government (4174-TUN). The loan
currency initially in FF was changed to Euro and the loan amounts were converted to 43.2 million Euros
and 8.7 million Euro respectively. 7.7 Euro million from the reuse component (Loan 4174) were cancelled
in December 2001. At closing, 100% of the loans were disbursed.

At appraisal it was estimated that IBRD would finance 56.1% of the total project costs. Actually IBRD
financed about the same percentage (56%). The increase of disbursement percentage of the civil works
from 60% to 80% at time of restructuring was compensated by the variations of the exchange rates during
project construction (see also Annex 2). At appraisal it was estimated that ONAS would finance US$21
million equivalent, i.e. 19.6% of total project costs and Government 24.2%. ONAS accounting system does
not allow differentiating between the Government's and ONAS' own funds for project financing.
Considering its weak financial position, ONAS is assumed to have financed less than 19.6% of project
costs (Annex 2 Table 2.2).



6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The sustainability rating given to the project is likely. Although ONAS made operating losses from 2003
to 2005, the subsidy provided by the Government increased at a level which allowed adequate funding for
ONAS' operating and maintenance expenses. GOT financial support is likely to continue in the future. The
Government commitment to support ONAS in particular and the sewerage sector in general in addition to
the fact that ONAS intends to allocate more than 60% of its investment budget of the period 2007-2011
(The XI Development Plan period) for rehabilitation rather than extension should substantially reduce the
        th


risk of not achieving the sustainability of its operations.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Most project outputs are already integrated in ONAS' day to day business practices, which reduces the
need for special transition arrangements to regular operations. However the delays that occurred in starting
the construction of the sewage plants in the south-western part of Great Tunis have brought the existing
sewage plants near saturation. Further delays would jeopardize the full benefits of the project. ONAS and
the Government are aware of the situation and ready to finance the necessary facilities entirely with their
own funds (GOT) should external finance not materialize. The Bank has already negotiated a new project



                                                      - 11 -

to address the sewage treatment capacity issue in the Greater Tunis.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:


Bank performance in project preparation is rated satisfactory. At the time of preparation and appraisal, the
project was fully consistent with Bank policies and the Country Assistance Strategy and clearly responded
to a national priority. The project had interesting features as pointed out by the Quality Assurance Group in
its quality assessment at entry: wastewater reuse for agriculture, private sector facilitation and direct
lending to a sewer authority.


7.2 Supervision:


The Bank's performance during project supervision is rated, on balance, satisfactory. Bank staff showed
flexibility and understanding in responding to evolving circumstances. Bank teams were well staffed with a
good skill mix. Five Bank project teams led this project and the client was satisfied with the quality of the
teams and the good institutional memory which eased the transition process.

The Bank assisted the Government in deciding on the final alternative for sewage transfer and treatment
systems for the southern and western basins by suggesting and financing an optimization study comparing
ten different alternatives in December 2002. This led the Government to finally choose in May 2003 one of
the best ranked alternatives of the optimization study.

In April 2004 during restructuring, the Bank agreed with the Borrower on targets on operational indicators
specific to the project components. The performance indicators indicated in the SAR related only to ONAS
as a whole, not to Grand Tunis, the project area. The Bank also agreed to set more modest objectives on
two out of six project development objectives, to reduce the levels of ONAS' financial targets on internal
cash generation ratio and average tariff increases and reallocate funds among components but failed to
make the restructuring formal by having it approved by the Board. After restructuring, realistic
performance objective ratings in the PSRs (now ISRs) were based on the revised objectives. However, the
lapse of time between cancellation of funds from Loan-4174 (December 2001) and restructuring (April
2004) was too long.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The Bank's overall performance is considered satisfactory. The project was well designed, even though
later changes in the international environment did not favor BOTs. In spite of that, the project did achieve
its main objective of providing sanitation services for 192,000 people (beyond appraisal target). The Bank
showed helpfulness in assisting the Government to decide on a final alternative for the locations of WWTPs
for the western and southern basins, flexibility in restructuring the project and granting a one-year
extension for Loan-4175 in spite of non compliance of financial covenants in order to allow achievements
of reduced project development objectives.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:




                                                     - 12 -

Borrower performance in preparation is rated satisfactory. ONAS and the Ministry of Agriculture worked
in close collaboration with the Bank to prepare the project.


7.5 Government implementation performance:


The Government implementation performance is assessed unsatisfactory. It took 11 months after Board
approval (May 1997) to have the Loans made effective (April 1998). The Government's decision to shut
down Sud-Meliane sewage treatment plant in 1999 and the reversal of the decision in 2003 disrupted
ONAS' plans for expansion of sewage treatment in Greater Tunis, including the BOT operation and the
tripling of Sud-Meliane capacity. Loan disbursement started only early 1999.

There were no sewerage tariff increase from July 1998 to March 2003 and again no further tariff increase
until the closing of Loan 4175 in December 31, 2005.

There were delays in passing the law permitting ONAS to engage in large Private Sector Participation
contracts. The law was passed in August 2004 only and the decree of application of the law was not yet
issued at closing date.

Finally heavy procurement procedures imposed by Government on ONAS contributed to the delays
incurred in launching a number of strategic studies.


7.6 Implementing Agency:


The implementing agencies (ONAS and the Ministry of Agriculture) performance is rated satisfactory.
ONAS is technically very solid. ONAS manages an impressive number of wastewater treatment plants (83)
with a great deal of expertise. No other Wastewater Utility in the region performs as well. The number of
people served, volumes of wastewater collected and treated are the highest in the region and above the
target planned at appraisal. ONAS was very proactive in proposing to the Bank changes to the project
components in order to use available funds. Progress of project implementation was timely reported. If
ONAS cannot be held fully responsible for the lack of tariff increases that depend on Governmental
approval, it certainly can improve its performance more and reduce its costs.

The Ministry of Agriculture reacted quickly to the delays in the BOT transaction by asking for the
cancellation of part of the Loan related to the construction of the irrigation facilities in order to avoid the
commitments of funds which would have been unused, but successfully implemented the remaining
components i.e., studies related the reuse scheme and implementation of the pilot projects concerning the
recharging of aquifer at the Cop Bon site.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

The overall performance of the Borrower is rated satisfactory. The implementing agencies were qualified
to implement the project. The Government's stand on the tariff adjustment issue and delays in ratifying the
law permitting ONAS to engage in a large Private Sector Participation contract were clear factors in not
fully achieving development objectives D and F.


8. Lessons Learned

 i. The project restructuring should have been done earlier and in a formal way to allow for a formal



                                                    - 13 -

     revision of the development objectives.

ii. Considering the shift instrategic thinking about PSP in the water and sewerage sector in addition to the
     failure of some BOT schemes in developing countries, the Bank should have been less aggressive with
     regard to the promotion of PSP schemes.

iii. The Bank should also be more realistic in terms of cost recovery for sewerage and should take into
     account progress already accomplished in terms of tariff in Tunisia compared to other countries. The
     objective of having a sewerage institution fully financially autonomous was too ambitious.

iv. Financial covenants related to increases of sewerage tariffs are always difficult to obtain from the
     Government. They are usually obtained just before the loan is made when the Bank's leverage is the
     highest. Outside this period the risk of having the Government not complying with financial covenants
     is very high. Since the Bank is generally reluctant to suspend loan disbursements because of
     non-compliance of these covenants, one questions their effectiveness and their credibility.

 v. A key factor of the project's moderate success in improving overall sector performance and achieving
     most development objectives lies in ONAS strong institutional capacity and long familiarity with the
     Bank's procedures and requirements.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


GOT and ONAS acknowledged that the project significantly improved the sanitation situation in Greater
Tunis benefiting about 192,000 people beyond the initial appraisal target of 150,000. The project also
reduced pollution in the coastal area of Greater Tunis and improved the quality of water mainly by
rehabilitating the Southern Meliane and Choutrana wastewater treatment plants (WWTP). Financial and
cost recovery objectives were partially achieved with a modest increase in tariffs and by reducing ONAS'
operation costs and its performance. On the operational side, ONAS achieved a great deal. It increased the
number of its WWTPs from 69 to 83 by end of 2005 covering about 86% of the urban population and
treated about 93% of the wastewater collected. The government appreciated the Bank's good collaboration
with ONAS and its flexibility and understanding of the changing environment in the sector, particularly in
dropping the BOT component. The Borrower's completion report is attached as Annex 8.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A


10. Additional Information

N/A




                                                     - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

The operational indicators projected for ONAS as indicated in the SAR or at restructuring have been
generally fulfilled. Project construction started really only in 1999, so the project contributed to ONAS
performance only after 1999. The performance indicators indicated in the SAR related only to ONAS as a
whole, not to Grand Tunis, the project area. Even in the project area, other investments not included in the
project were made. No Log Frame Matrix was indicated in the SAR. However, during restructuring
targets specific to the project components were set.

                          Table 1- Operational Performance Indicators for ONAS as a whole

Year                                                      1999      2003        2004         2005       Remarks
OPERATIONAL
Number of connections ONAS-SONEDE (000)      Projected               920         955         990
                                                                                                     Above target
                                               Actual         835   1130        1200         1275
Connection rate for communes in the ONAS     Projected             83,0%        84,5%       85,0%
system                                                                                               Above target
                                               Actual     80%       84%         85%         85,7%
                                                                    166,0       173,0        178,0
Volume of wastewater collected (Mm3)         Projected                                               Above target
                                               Actual     163,2     193,3        208         219

                                             Projected              158,0       164,0        170,0
Volume of wastewater treated (Mm3)                                                                   Above target
                                               Actual     135        187         192         203

                                             Projected              85%         86%          86%
Rate of collection (%)                                                                               Under target
                                               Actual     85%      88,7%        81,6%       84,2%

                                           Projected at            95,0%        95%          96%
                                             appraisal
Rate of treatment (%)                     Projected at                          96,7%                Under target
                                          restructuring
                                               Actual     83%      96,7%        92,3%       92,7%

                                           Projected at              80          90
                                             appraisal
Wastewater Treatment Plants               Restimated at                                              Above target
                                          restructuring                          77

                                               Actual      60        70          78           83
                                                                    10975       11445       11845
Network (km)                                 Projected
                                                                                                     Above target
                                               Actual     9 000    11 425      12 000       12 700
                                                                    9 000       9 500        9950
Network cleaned (km)                         Projected
                                                                                                     Under target
                                               Actual     6750      7075        7 973        8 000
                                                                    82%         83%          84%
Rate of network cleaned (%)                  Projected
                                                                                                     Under target
                                               Actual     75%       62%         66%          63%
                                                                    35%         36%          37%
% of tretaed wastewater reused               Projected
                                                                                                     Under target
                                               Actual     20%       20%         20%          22%
                                                                    4750        4750         4750
Number of staff                              Projected
                                                                                                     Under target
                                               Actual     4554      5306        5 185        5 105
                                                                     5,2         5,0          4,8
Number of staff per 1000 connections         Projected
                                                                                                     Above target
                                               Actual      5,5       4,7         4,3          4,0




                                                        - 15 -

          Table 2- Contribution of the project in the operational performance in the Greater Tunis




Except for capital investments, ONAS' financial performance indicators were under target at the end of the
project as shown in the following table and graphs. The net cash generation ratio of 10.3 % for 2005 is a
provisional figure given by ONAS.       It is a figure which is based on operating revenues including
Governmental subsidy for operation.



                            Table 3. ONAS Financial Performance Indicators




                                                    - 16 -

Graph 1. ONAS Net Cash Generation Ratio Over Project Implementation Period




                                - 17 -

        Graph 2 ONAS Debt Service Coverage Ratio Over Project Implementation Period




          Graph 3. ONAS Sewerage Cost per m3 Over Project Implementation Period


                     Average Sewerage Cost


     0,8

     0,6

     0,4
TD/m3
     0,2

      0
       1998    1999   2000      2001     2002      2003       2004     2005

                                    Year

                      Cost Projected at appraisal
                      Actual Sewerage Cost (current TD/m3)
                      Sewerage Cost (real 1998 terms TD/m3)




                                        - 18 -

Graph 4 ONAS Sewerage Tariff per m3 Over Project Implementation Period




                              - 19 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by component (DT million)




Project Cost by component (US$ million equivalent)




                                            - 20 -

Table 2.2: Financing Plan-Total Costs




1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.




                                                            - 21 -

- 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Table 1: Project Costs/Benefits Analysis 1998-2038 (DT million)




                                                 - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              Feb 1993                  4    FIN ANALYST/TTL 1
                                             SANITARY ENGINEER 1
                                             ENVIROMENTALIST 1

              Sept 1993                 4    FIN ANALYST/TTL 1
                                             SANITARY ENGINEER 1
                                             ENVIROMENTALIST 1

              May 1994                  5    FIN ANALYST/TTL 1
                                             SANITARY ENGINEER 1
                                             ECONOMIST 1
                                             PRIVATIZATION SPECIALIST
                                             1
              Dec 1994                  6    FIN ANALYST/TTL 1
                                             SANITARY ENGINEER 1
                                             ENVIROMENTALIST 1
                                             ECONOMIST 1
                                             PRIVATE SECTOR
                                             SPECIALIST
              July 1995                 6    FIN ANALYST/TTL 1
                                             SANITARY ENGINEER 1
                                             ENVIROMENTALIST 1
                                             ECONOMIST 1
                                             PRIVATE SECTOR
                                             SPECIALIST 1
              Dec 1995                  5    FIN ANALYST/TTL 1
                                             SANITARY ENGINEER 1
                                             ENVIROMENTALIST 1
                                             ECONOMIST 1
                                             PRIVATE SECTOR
                                             SPECIALIST 1
              July 1996                      FIN ANALYST/TTL 1

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              Dec 1996                  4    FIN. ANALYST/TTL 1
                                             ECONOMIST 1
                                             URBAN/ENVIRONMENTA
                                             L SPEC 1
                                             SANITARY ENGINEER 1

 Supervision
              June 1997                 3    FIN. ANALYST/TTL 1               S               S
                                             ECONOMIST 1
              Oct 1997                  3    FIN. ANALYST/TTL 1               S               S
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC 1
              Dec 1997                  4    FIN. ANALYST/TTL PRIVATE         S               S



                                              - 24 -

                         SECTOR SPECIALIST /
                         SECTOR MANAGER
Dec 1998               5 FIN. ANALYST/TTL 1        S    S
                         ECONOMIST 1
                         SANITARY ENGINEER 2
June 1999              4 FIN. ANALYST/TTL 1        S    S
                         ECONOMIST 1
                         SANITARY ENGINEER 1
Nov 1999                 SANITARY ENGINEER         S    S
February 3 to 18,      4 DIVISION CHIEF1           S    S
2000                     FINANCIAL ANALYST1
                         SANITARY ENGINEER2
June 14 to 29, 2000    3 SANITARY ENGINEER/TTL 1   S    S
                         ECONOMIST/FINANCE 1
                         CONSULTANT/SANITARY1
Feb 21 to March 9,     3 SANITARY ENGINEER/TTL 1   S    S
2001                     ECONOMIST/FINANCE 1
                         CONSULTANT/SANITARY1
April 15 to May 2,     6 INFRASTRUCTURE            U    S
2002                     SPEC/TTL1
                         SANITARY ENGINEER 2
                         ECONOMIST/FINANCIAL 1
                         ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. 1
                         FINANCIAL ANALYST 1
January 6 to 22,       5 INFRASTRUCTURE            U    U
2003                     SPEC/TTL1
Mid-term review          LEAD FINANCIAL
                         ANALYST1
                         ENGINEER 1
                         ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. 1
                         SANITARY
                         ENGINEER/CONSULT 1
April 30 to Mai 3,     2 INFRASTRUCTURE            S    S
2003                     SPEC/TTL1
                         SANITARY ENGINEER 1
July 3 to 15, 2003     4 INFRASTRUCTURE            S    S
                         SPEC/TTL1
                         ENGINEER 1
                         ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. 1
                         SANITARY
                         ENGINEER/CONSULT 1
January 5 to 19,       5 INFRASTRUCTURE            S    S
2004                     SPEC/TTL1
                         FINANCIAL ANALYST1
                         ECONOMIST 1
                         ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. 1
                         SANITARY
                         ENGINEER/CONSULT 1
July 5 to 17, 2004     7 INFRASTRUCTURE            S    U
                         SPEC/TTL1
                         LEAD FINANCIAL
                         ANALYST1
                         PRIVATE SECTOR SPEC. 1



                         - 25 -

                                                           ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. 1
                                                           SANITARY
                                                           ENGINEER/CONSULT 2
                                                           ENGINEER 1
                Dec 12 to 17, 2004                    4    SANITARY EGINEER/TTL1              S    U
                                                           FINANCIAL ANALYST1
                                                           ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. 1
                                                           SANITARY
                                                           ENGINEER/CONSULT 1
                March 7 to 19,                        4    SANITARY EGINEER/TTL1              S    U
                2005                                       FINANCIAL ANALYST1
                                                           ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. 1
                                                           SANITARY
                                                           ENGINEER/CONSULT 1
                Dec 19 to 28, 2005                    4    FIN. ANALYST/TTL 1                 S    S
                                                           INFRASTRUCTURE SPEC 1
                                                           SANITARY
                                                           ENGINEER/CONSULT 2

 ICR
                ICR Feb 2006                         1     CONSULTANT 1

Source: SAP

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                               No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                              1,588
  Supervision                                                                          695
  ICR                                                                                   40
  Total                                                                              2,323
Source: SAP, Bank Budget
No. of Staff weeks calculated based on an average cost of per staff week




                                                           - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                            Rating
   Macro policies                          H      SU      M      N       NA
   Sector Policies                         H      SU      M      N       NA
   Physical                                H      SU      M      N       NA
   Financial                               H      SU      M      N       NA
   Institutional Development               H      SU      M      N       NA
   Environmental                           H      SU      M      N       NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction              H      SU      M      N       NA
            Gender                         H      SU      M      N       NA
            Other (Please specify)         H      SU      M      N       NA
   Private sector development              H      SU      M      N       NA
   Public sector management                H      SU      M      N       NA
   Other (Please specify)                  H      SU      M      N       NA


To assist in arriving at an overall outcome rating, and using a value of 5 for satisfactory and 2 for
unsatisfactory, the PSR separate outcome ratings were weighted in proportion of the share of actual loan
disbursements made in the periods when the ratings were achieved. Although the Loan 4175 closed on
December 31, disbursements continued until March 2006. The table below gives the calculations leading to
an overall weighted rating of the performance of the developmental objectives. The overall weighted value
being 3.73 corresponds to a moderately satisfactory outcome.

              Table 5.1 Weighted Rating of the Performance of Development Objectives




The value to be assigned for each rating is: Highly Satisfactory = 6, Satisfactory = 5, Moderately Satisfactory = 4,
Moderately Unsatisfactory = 3, Unsatisfactory = 2, and Highly Unsatisfactory = 1.




                                                       - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

                                              - 24 -
·    ··Staff Appraisal Report.
·    Loan and Guarantee Agreements, Amended Loan Agreements.
·    QAG Rapid Quality at Entry Assessment (1997).
·    Supervision Mission Aide-Memoires, PSRs and BTOs.
·    Mid-term review mission (July 2004).
·    Internal Memo and official correspondences on Project Restructuring.
·    Full report of Borrower's contribution on file.
·    ONAS Project implementation monitoring reports 1999-2005.




                                                - 29 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's completion reports


                                Completion Report from ONAS




       O.N.AS.                                            D.G.G.R.E.E




                                        - 30 -

AVRIL 2006


                 PROJET « ASSAINISSEMENT DU GRAND TUNIS
                     ET REUTILISATION DES EAUX EPUREES »

                               RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT

1- Preambule

Le présent rapport a pour objet de passer en revue les différentes étapes d'évaluation,
de mise en oeuvre, l`exécution et d'achèvement du projet d'assainissement du Grand Tunis et
de réutilisation des eaux épurées, objet des deux prêts suivants :

-        N° Prêts :
o        4175-TUN : Partie (A) du projet : Assainissement ;
o        4174-TUN : Partie (B) du projet : Réutilisation des eaux épurées.
-         Montant des prêts :
o        4175-TUN : 283.000.000 FF, soit 43.143.071,88  ;
o        4174-TUN : 57.000.000 FF.
-        Emprunteur / Agence d'exécution :
o        4175-TUN : ONAS / ONAS ;
o        4174-TUN : Gouvernement / Ministère de l'Agriculture et des Ressources Hydrauliques
-        Dates clés (Prêt BIRD N°4175-TUN) :
o        Evaluation du projet : avril 1997 ;
o        Signature du prêt : 19/12/1997 ;
o        Mise en vigueur : 30/04/1998 ;
o        Revue à mi-parcours : du 06 au 22/012003
o        Signature par l'ONAS de l'Amendement de l'Accord du prêt : 14/05/2004
o        Clôture du prêt : 31/12/2004 ;
o        Report de la date de clôture du prêt : 31/12/2005 ;
o        Réalisation du projet : 1998-2005

Il est à signaler que la réalisation de la partie A du projet « Assainissement » a été confié à
l'Office National de l'Assainissement et la partie B « Réutilisation des eaux usées traitées en
agriculture » a été confié à la Direction Générale du Génie Rural et de l'Exploitation des Eaux
(DGGREE), au sein du Ministère de l'Agriculture et des Ressources Hydrauliques.

2- OBJECTIFS

2.1 Objectifs d'origine

Les objectifs du projet tels qu'ils ont été définis dans l'Accord du prêt étaient d'aider à :

    (i) améliorer les niveaux de services de l'assainissement urbain ;
    (ii) promouvoir une réutilisation rationnelle des eaux usées épurées dans l'agriculture ;



                                                 - 31 -

    (iii) réduire la pollution urbaine et côtière ;
    (iv) améliorer le recouvrement des coûts de l'ONAS et sa capacité financière, avec à long
    terme d'atteindre son autonomie financière ;
    (v) introduire de nouvelles technologies appropriées de traitement des eaux usées ;
    (iv) développer la participation du secteur privé au secteur de l'assainissement.

Ces objectifs reflétaient les principales priorités du développement du secteur de
l'assainissement en l'occurrence la protection de la santé, l'amélioration du cadre de vie et
la mobilisation de nouvelles ressources d'eau non conventionnelles (les eaux épurées).
Le rapport d'évaluation du projet, établi en avril 1997, comportait une série d'indicateurs pour
suivre ces objectifs et la performance de l'ONAS.

2.2 Objectifs révisés

Le projet a fait l'objet d'un rapport d'évaluation à mi-parcours en avril 2002, et ce en vertu de
l'Accord du prêt (Annexe 5 - Section 2). Cette évaluation a recommandé la mise en place d'un
plan d'action portant sur la restructuration physique du projet, l'amélioration de la situation
financière de l'ONAS et le renforcement de la participation du secteur privé dans                  le
domaine de l'assainissement.

Ainsi, les objectifs révisés du projet sont comme suit :
    (i) Améliorer les niveaux de service de l'assainissement urbain (reste inchangé) ;
    (ii) Promouvoir une réutilisation rationnelle des eaux usées épurées dans l'agriculture (reste
    inchangé) ;
    (iii) Réduire la pollution urbaine et promouvoir la réduction de la pollution côtière et d'autres
    milieux récepteurs d'eaux épurées ;
    (iv) Améliorer le recouvrement des coûts de l'ONAS et la situation financière de l'ONAS ;
    (v) Introduire de nouvelles technologies appropriées de traitement des eaux usées (reste
    inchangé) ;
    (vi) Développer la participation du secteur privé dans le domaine de l'assainissement (reste
    inchangé).

2.3 Degré de réalisation des objectifs

Objectif 1 : Améliorer les niveaux de service de l'assainissement urbain

Cet objectif a été atteint, voir même dépassé. En effet, les travaux d'extension du réseau
d'assainissement entrepris dans le cadre du projet ont fait bénéficier environ 192.000 habitants
contre 150.000 habitants prévus à l'évaluation du projet avec des impacts positifs sur la santé,
les conditions de vie des populations desservies et la salubrité des zones couvertes par le
projet. Cette extension du niveau de service, a contribué aussi d'une façon directe à réduire le
volume d'eaux usées déversées directement dans la nature et par conséquent à la réduction
de la pollution urbaine et ses impacts sur l'environnement. Le volume d'eaux usées collectées
au niveau du Grand Tunis a passé de 55 millions de m3/an en 1998 (début du projet) à environ
70 millions de m3/an fin 2005.

La prolongation de la période de validité du prêt d'une année a contribué à l'achèvement de la
totalité des travaux inscrits, à l'exception des études : étude tarifaire et de gestion de l'ONAS,
étude de réhabilitation et d'extension de 8 stations d'épuration et étude de réhabilitation et



                                                   - 32 -

d'extension de 80 stations de pompage qui seront achevés au delà de 2005.

Objectif 2 : Promouvoir une réutilisation rationnelle des eaux usées épurées dans le
Grand Tunis

Cet objectif a été affecté par le retard enregistré dans le démarrage du projet de construction
du nouveau pôle d'épuration pour le bassin Ouest du Grand Tunis.                   Il est attendu
que la réalisation de la 1ère tranche de la station d'épuration El Attar permettra de mobiliser
des quantités d'eau usée épurée pour environ 2000 ha à l'horizon 2011.

Objectif 3 : Réduire la pollution urbaine et promouvoir la réduction de la pollution côtière
et d'autres milieux récepteurs d'eaux épurées

Cet objectif était lié à :

l l'avancement des actions prévues dans le cadre du projet pour le renforcement des
    capacités d'épuration des eaux usées dans le Grand Tunis pour faire face à l'évolution des
    besoins liés au développement du service d'assainissement dans la région ;
l l'amélioration de la qualité des eaux épurées au niveau des Stations d'épuration existantes
    ;
l la réduction des impacts y afférents sur le milieu marin dans la région du Grand Tunis.
Globalement, cet objectif a été atteint malgré le démarrage tardive des travaux d'extension des
stations d'épuration de Choutrana et Sud méliane (Financement : Banque Islamique de
Développement) et les retards enregistrés au niveau de la station d'épuration d'El Attar, dont
les études d'exécution étaient financés par la Banque et dont les travaux ont été récemment
proposé à la Banque pour financement. Par ailleurs, , le projet a contribué à l'amélioration de
la qualité des eaux épurées au niveau des STEP's à travers des travaux de réhabilitation des
stations d'épuration de Sud méliane (filière de prétraitement), de Charguia (bassins d'aération,
équipements électriques,...etc), de Choutrana (filière de traitement des boues) et du Canal
Khelij des eaux épurées de la STEP Choutrana.

Objectif 4 : Améliorer le recouvrement des coûts de l'ONAS et la situation financière de
l'ONAS

Cet objectif a été partiellement atteint. Il importe de signaler que la révision des clauses
financières de l'Accord du prêt a porté sur les indicateurs financiers suivants :
o       L'augmentation annuelle des tarifs d'assainissement à 5,7% ;
o       La diminution du taux de couverture du coût par la redevance à un niveau supérieur ou
égal à 67% à la fin du contrat ;
o       La diminution du ratio d'autofinancement à un niveau supérieur ou égal à 14% ;
o       Le maintien du taux de couverture du service de la dette supérieur ou égal à 1,3 par
an.


o       Ainsi, les réalisations financières de l'ONAS pour l'année 2005 font ressortir un respect
relativement satisfaisant de ces objectifs financiers.


Néanmoins et afin d'honorer ses engagements, l'ONAS a entrepris des mesures portant
essentiellement sur :



                                                 - 33 -

l La maîtrise des charges d'exploitation par l'optimisation de l'utilisation des moyens
    matériels et humains, loi cadre, programme d'économie d'énergie , gestion des stocks,
    participation du secteur privé, programme de prise en charge, ...etc.);
l L'augmentation des recettes par des moyens autre que les ajustements tarifaires
    (facturation des eaux dont la source est autre que la SONEDE, recouvrement des arriérés,
    re-codification des usagers de l'ONAS, incitation au branchement, ...etc.) ;
l La mise en place d'un programme d'amélioration des performances sur                       les plans
    technique, administratif et financier ;
l L'engagement d'une étude tarifaire et de gestion de l'ONAS, en cours de réalisation.

             Cette étude va fournir entre autre les résultats suivants :

l Une évaluation du système tarifaire existant ;
l Une proposition de grille tarifaire ;
l Un modèle de simulation de l'équilibre financier et de détermination du tarif pour chaque catégorie
    d'usagers ;
l Les modalités d'application de la nouvelle grille et un échéancier de mise en oeuvre ;
l Une stratégie de recouvrement des coûts ;
l Une capacité de l'ONAS renforcée en matière de gestion du système tarifaire et notamment de son
    adaptation progressive en vue de répondre aux objectifs et principes établis ;
l Des mécanismes visant à améliorer la coordination entre la tarification de l'eau potable et celle de
    l'assainissement.
Objectif 5 : Introduire de nouvelles technologies appropriées de traitement des eaux
usées

Cet objectif a été atteint même dépassé. Ainsi le nombre des stations d'épuration réalisée
durant l'exécution du projet a passé de 69 stations en 2002 à 83 stations fin 2005 contre 80
prévues à l'évaluation du projet.
Objectif 6 : Développer la participation du secteur privé dans le domaine de
l'assainissement

Cet objectif a été globalement atteint. En effet, l'ONAS a fait des efforts importants pour faire
participer le secteur privé dans ses activités telles que l'exploitation des réseaux                ou des
stations d'épuration des eaux usées. L'opération pilote de sous-traitance de l'exploitation du
réseau d'assainissement de la zone El Menzah dans le Grand Tunis a démarré en 1997 et a
été étendu pour 1460 km et 5 stations d'épuration (fin 2005).

Aussi la participation du secteur privé a été renforcée par la promulgation d'une nouvelle
législation permettant l'opération BOT et autres formes de PSP dans les secteurs
d'assainissement. Les textes d'application de cette loi sont aussi approuvés.

3- COMPOSANTES DU PROJET

3.1 Composantes d'origine

Les composantes du projet, définies par l'accord de prêt, se présentaient comme suit :

 Partie " A " : Concerne le volet " Assainissement "




                                                  - 34 -

Cette partie porte sur :

     i. L'extension et la réhabilitation de la station d'épuration de Tunis Sud (Méliane) afin
         d'accroître sa capacité à environ 675.000 équivalents-habitants (environ 70000 m3/j) ;

    ii.   La restructuration du système de collecte de Tunis Ouest, comprenant la construction
         d'environ 52 km de réseaux primaires, afin de réorienter une partie des eaux usées
         vers la nouvelle station d'épuration prévue d'être programmée dans le cadre d'une
         concession associant le secteur privé à sa réalisation ;

    iii. Le renforcement du système de collecte des eaux usées de Tunis-Sud et le
         raccordement des zones de Mornag et Radès à la station d'épuration de Tunis Sud, ce
         qui nécessitera la construction d'un réseau de collecte d'environ 48 km ;

   iv. L'extension du système de collecte des eaux usées de Tunis Nord d'environ 33 km,
         construction d'une conduite entre les stations d'épuration de Tunis Nord et de
         Choutrana d'environ 04 km et réhabilitation de la station d'épuration de Tunis Nord ;

    v. L'extension, la remise en état et le recalibrage des réseaux de collecte de Tunis Centre
         et Tunis Nord (pour empêcher l'intrusion d'eau saumâtre), ce qui nécessitent la
         construction d'environ 45 km de réseaux d'assainissement ;

   vi. Le renforcement de tous les systèmes de réseaux secondaires, ce qui nécessitera la
         construction d'environ 230 km de réseaux d'assainissement.

 Partie " B " : Réutilisation des eaux usées épurées en agriculture

Exécution d'un programme visant à promouvoir la réutilisation des eaux épurées dans
l'agriculture et comprenant :

     i. Construction d'un bassin de stockage dans la vallée d'El Attar pour le stockage des
         eaux épurées aux fins d'irrigation ;
    ii. Construction d'une station de pompage, de réservoirs de régulation, des voies d'accès,
         de brise-vent, de réseaux d'adduction d'eau et d'irrigation dans le but d'équiper une
         superficie d'environ 1.000 ha dans la vallée d'El Attar ;
    iii.  Réalisation d'un projet pilote pour la recharge de nappes souterraines avec des eaux
         usées ayant subi un traitement tertiaire approprié.

Dans ce qui suit on s'intéressera uniquement à la partie A.
3.2 Composantes révisées

Suite à la restructuration du projet en juin 2003, les composantes physique du projet ont été
révisées comme suit :
     i. La réhabilitation des stations d'épuration de Tunis Sud (Sud méliane), Choutrana et
         Cherguia ;
    ii. La réhabilitation du canal Khalij ;
    iii. Le renforcement des systèmes de collecte des eaux usées, la réhabilitation, la
         restructuration et l'extension d'environ 450 km de réseaux primaires et secondaires de
         collecte des eaux usées du Grand Tunis ;
   iv.   La construction de stations de pompage et l'acquisition du matériel d'exploitation ;
    v. Le renforcement des capaciés institutionnelles de l'ONAS.




                                                - 35 -

Les travaux de réhabilitation de la STEP Côtière Nord ainsi que le transfert des eaux usées
correspondantes vers la STEP Choutrana ont été éliminés pour des raisons de disponibilité
des fonds.
Le projet a été prorogé de 12 mois pour atteindre pleinement les objectifs physiques du projet.

4- RESULTATS ENGENDRES PAR LE PROJET

Les résultats du projet, par composante, se présentent comme suit :

 Réhabilitation des stations d'épuration (STEP) :

l STEP Sud méliane (Mesures d'accompagnement) : Tous les travaux programmés sont
   achevés ;

l STEP Cherguia (Réhabilitation du système d'aération, des équipements électriques et des
   décanteurs secondaires) : les travaux programmés sont achevés.

l STEP Choutrana : Les travaux d'amélioration de la filière de traitement des boues ont porté
   sur la réalisation d'une unité de déshydratation des boues dont les travaux de génie civil et
   d'équipement sont achevés.


 Réhabilitation du canal Khalij des eaux épurées de la STEP Choutrana : travaux achevés.

Réorganisation et extension du réseau d'assainissement dans le Grand Tunis : Les travaux
ont porté sur la pose d'environ 450 km et le raccordement d'environ 32.000 logements au
réseau public d'assainissement. Tous ces travaux sont achevés dans les délais, à l'exception
de quelques travaux de finition qui sont en cours d'achèvement.

 La construction de stations de pompage et l'acquisition d'équipements d'exploitation :

l Stations de pompage : Les travaux réalisés ont porté sur la réalisation de 12 nouvelles
   stations de pompage et la réhabilitation de 11 stations de pompage sont achevés
l Matériels d'exploitation : la totalité du matériel a été livrée et réceptionnée.

 Etudes :

o  Etude du projet de BOT de la STEP Tunis Ouest : Dossier de pré-qualification des
   promoteurs validé. Les phases restantes de l'étude sont les suivantes :
l l'assistance pour la pré-qualification des promoteurs ;
l la préparation des documents d'appels d'offres ;
l l'assistance à l'évaluation technique et financière des offres ;
l l'assistance à la négociation.


o  Elaboration du Schéma Directeur de l'Informatique de l'ONAS : achevé ;
o  Programme de renforcement des capacités de l'ONAS en matière d'évaluation
   environnementale : Programme achevé ;
o  Appui technique dans la gestion des aspects environnementaux relatifs au projet : achevé ;
o  Etude tarifaire et de gestion de l'ONAS : Cette étude a démarré courant le mois de
   septembre 2005 pour une durée de 13 mois ;
o  Etudes de réhabilitation et/ou d'extension de 8 stations d'épuration : Cette étude a démarré
   courant le mois de décembre 2005 pour une durée de 16 mois ;
o  Etude de diagnostic et de réhabilitation de 80 stations de pompage : Cette étude a



                                               - 36 -

     démarré courant le mois de décembre 2005 pour une durée de 8 mois.
A noter que suite à la clôture du prêt au 31/12/2005, l'étude tarifaire et de gestion de l'ONAS
ainsi que les études de réhabilitation de 8 stations d'épuration et 80 stations de pompage,
initialement prévues dans le cadre du présent projet, seront financées dans le cadre du
reliquat du prêt KfW destinés à l'assainissement des villes du bassin versant de
la Medjerdah.


5- DECAISSEMENTS

Le coût total du projet (Partie : Assainissement), incluant les aléas physiques et financiers,
était estimé à l'évaluation à 108,042 millions de DT (106,81 millions de $EU), taxe et droits de
douanes compris, et 99,06 millions de DT (97,923 millions $EU) taxe et droits de douane
exclus. Le financement de la Banque avait été fixé à 283 millions de FF, soit l'équivalent de
43,143 millions d'Euros. Le coût réel du projet est estimé à                  94,6 millions de DT,
taxes et droits de douane compris. Au 31/12/2005, les décaissements sur le prêt ont atteint
42,464 millions d'Euros. Les montants en cours de décaissement s'élevaient à 0,679 millions
d'Euros. Alors qu'au 31/03/2006, le montant du prêt a été totalement consommé.


6- EVENENEMNTS MAJEURS DANS LE CYCLE DU PROJET

La performance de la Banque a affecté le projet positivement :

·       La conversion de la monnaie du prêt du Franc Français en Euro ;
·       L'augmentation du seuil de financement de la partie Génie civil de 60% a 80%.
·       L'évaluation à mi-parcours du projet a permis de le mieux structurer ;
·       La prolongation de la date de clôture du prêt a permis l'achèvement des différentes
composantes du projet ;
·       La promulgation des textes réglementaires pour les projets BOT constitue un succès
pour le projet.

7- PERFORMANCE DES INTERVENANTS aU PROJET

7.1 Performance de la Banque

La performance générale de la Banque est satisfaisante. Des équipes compétentes ont
participé à la préparation du projet et à la supervision de son exécution. Les missions de
supervision comportaient l'expertise requise et des cadres qui ont constamment suivi les
activités du projet. L'une des réussites du projet a été l'emploi de consultants locaux
hautement qualifiés lors de la préparation et surtout pendant la supervision. La Banque a
également été flexible en ajustant les objectifs et les composantes du projet (lors de la revue à
mi-parcours). La Banque a aidé l'ONAS a achever les composantes du projet en reportant la
date de clôture du prêt d'un année.

Enfin, les recommandations de la Banque ont été intéressantes. Ainsi, c'est grâce à ce projet
que des actions de formation (Renforcement des capacités de l'ONAS en matière d'évaluation
environnementale) et d'assistance ont été réalisées et qu'une étude tarifaire et de gestion de
l'ONAS est en cours de réalisation.

7.2Performance des consultants et des entrepreneurs




                                                - 37 -

Les études d'exécution afférentes au projet, financées dans le cadre du prêt BIRD
N°3782-TUN, ont été réalisées en grande partie par des groupements de bureaux d'études
étrangers et tunisiens. Ces groupements ont fournis des prestations de bonne qualité malgré
quelques retards et les bureaux d'études tunisiens ont profité de ce fait pour acquérir de
l'expérience.
Les entreprises locales ont participé à l'exécution de la totalité des travaux de pose des
conduites. Certains travaux d'équipements des stations de pompage prévus dans le projet ont
été confié à des entreprises étrangères (exemple : Entreprise « AUTEL »). Les ouvrages
réalisés sont conformes aux dispositions prévues par les études d'exécution et aux standards
de qualité requis.

7.3. Performance de l'ONAS

L'ONAS a porté toute son assistance technique et ses moyens matériels et humains durant
toute la période d'exécution du projet. De plus, une unité de coordination et de gestion du
projet a été crée au sein de l'ONAS. Cette unité qui est composé d'un coordinateur et d'un
chef de projet a contribué au bon suivi du projet. Généralement, la performance de l'ONAS est
satisfaisante. La complexité du projet a été très bien gérée et les changements survenus lors
de l'exécution du projet ont été bien maîtrisés.

7.4. Performance du Gouvernement

Le Gouvernement a soutenu l'ONAS quant au déroulement du projet et a approuvé toutes les
recommandations de la BIRD que ce soit durant l'évaluation du projet que pendant son
exécution à l'exception des ajustements tarifaires. Ces tarifs ont été gelés depuis juillet 1998 à
l'exception de l'augmentation de mars 2003 et ce pour les raisons suivantes :
·       Les conditions climatiques (sécheresse) qu'a connu le pays durant les dernières quatre
années (1999-2003) ;
·       La conjoncture internationale causée par les événements du 11 septembre 2001.

8- CONCLUSION ET LECONS TIREES

Ce projet a permis d'améliorer la performance du secteur de l'assainissement, d'atteindre des
objectifs de développement et de renforcer les capacités de l'ONAS. D'autres leçons peuvent
également être tirées de l'expérience de l'exécution de ce projet, notamment les suivantes :

l La plupart des objectifs physiques du projet ont été dépassés. Les ouvrages réalisés ont
    amélioré l'état sanitaire dans les villes du projet et ont un impact certain sur la protection de
    l'environnement et l'amélioration des conditions de vie des habitants ;

l De même, et grâce à ce projet, l'ONAS a amélioré sa capacité technique, institutionnelle et
    financière ;

l Il est souhaitable à ce que la BIRD adoptera dorénavant l'approche de « Programme de
    financement » au lieu de la notion « projet » s'avère contraignante pour introduire
    des nouvelles composantes nécessaires pour le bon fonctionnement du projet ;

l Le délai réaliste pour l'exécution d'un tel projet ne peut pas être inférieur à 8 ou à 9 ans. Ce
    délai doit servir aux prochaines évaluations de projets de taille similaire ;

l La finalisation des études d'exécution avant la mise en vigueur du projet est essentielle
    pour éviter des retards dans le démarrage des travaux et la finalisation du projet. Le
    financement des études d'exécution dans le cadre d'un projet en cours (Projet                «



                                                 - 38 -

  Eau potable et Assainissement » - Prêt BIRD N°3782-TUN) a raccourcit les délais ;

l Le seuil de 100 mille Dollars fixé par la BIRD pour effectuer des paiements directs s'est
  avéré contraignante pour la procédure de décaissement. Il est souhaitable de diminuer
  ce seuil pour les prochains projets.

l Il est vrai que la BIRD demeure toujours un partenaire pour l'ONAS et non pas un simple
  bailleur de fonds. En effet, la contribution financière de la BIRD pour la réalisation des
  projets d'assainissement a enregistré un accroissement important au cours des dernières
  années (à titre d'exemple : la part de financement par la BIRD pour les projets de l'ONAS à
  financement extérieur représente environ 11%). Ainsi, il est souhaitable que cette
  coopération financière soit développée davantage dans les prochaines années.




                                               - 39 -

                           Completion Report from the Ministry of Agriculture


                                                         *

                                                       *   *




    REPUBLIQUE TUNISIENNE
   MINISTERE DE L'AGRICULTURE                                                         Avril 2006
ET DES RESSOURCES HYDRAULIQUES
                 ***
DIRECTION GENERALE DU GENIE RURAL
   ET DE L'EXPLOITATIONS DES EAUX




CONTRIBUTION AU RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT

                                                        DU

                         PROJET DE REUTILISATION EN AGRICULTURE

           DES EAUX USEES TRAITEES DES STATIONS D'EPURATION

DE TUNIS OUEST




Devant l'aridité du climat en Tunisie, l'irrégularité des apports pluviométriques et le déficit hydrique
croissant suite au développement des différents secteurs économiques et particulièrement dans le domaine
agricole, gros consommateur en eau (80% de la demande totale), la valorisation agricole des Eaux Usées
Traitées a été considérée comme une composante essentielle de la politique rationnelle et intégrée de gestion
des ressources hydrauliques.

L'expérience tunisienne, en réutilisation des Eaux Usées Traitées date depuis 1965 avec l'irrigation du
périmètre de Soukra , situé dans la banlieue nord de Tunis et couvrant au départ 1200 ha (la superficie
irriguée est réduite à 600 ha suite à l'urbanisation) afin de sauvegarder les vergers d'agrumes irrigués
traditionnellement à partir de la nappe phréatique qui est devenue surexploitée.

Depuis les années 1980, le Gouvernement tunisien s'est orienté avec détermination vers la réutilisation des
Eaux Usées Traitées aussi bien pour la préservation d'un périmètre existant occupé également par des
agrumes, au Gouvernorat de Nabeul (le PI de Oued Souhil) que pour la création de nouveaux périmètres
irrigués.

Ensuite, après le comblement des lacunes réglementaires concernant la réutilisation des EUT, soit la
parution de l'arrêté relatif à la liste des cultures irrigables par les EUT (arrêté du Ministre de l'agriculture



                                                       - 40 -

du 21 juin 1994), celui approuvant le cahier des charges fixant les modalités et les conditions particulières
de l'utilisation des EUT à des fins agricoles (arrêté des Ministres chargés de l'agriculture, de
l'environnement et de la santé publique du 28 septembre 1995), et conscient de l'importance du potentiel
hydraulique y afférent, le ministère de l'agriculture et des ressources Hydrauliques a élaboré une stratégie
fondée sur l'extension à grande échelle de la réutilisation des eaux traitées en toute sécurité. Pour se faire,
tous les éléments importants aussi bien techniques, sociaux, institutionnels qu'environnementaux, sont pris
en considération afin d'éviter tous les risques de contamination ou de pollution possibles (techniques
d'irrigation appropriées, choix des cultures, encadrement des agriculteurs, etc.).

Toutefois, la réutilisation des EUT dans les périmètres irrigués affronte encore certaines contraintes d'ordre
psychologique, agronomique et sanitaire qui limitent son plein développement malgré l'apport non
négligeable de ces eaux en matières fertilisantes. En effet, la valorisation économique de l'eau dans des
conditions culturales restrictives, limitant le revenu des agriculteurs, constitue une des contraintes au
développement de ces périmètres.

Par ailleurs, les projets de grande envergure (tels que Tunis Ouest) méritent une réflexion approfondie sur
certains aspects (stockage inter-saisonnier, lacs collinaires, recharge de nappes, traitement complémentaire
éventuel...).

I-Stratégie de Réutilisation des Eaux Usées Traitées (EUT):

1-Potentiel d'utilisation :

Les disponibilités en eaux usées traitées sont de 200 Mm3 à l'an 2005 et atteindraient 300 Mm3/an à
l'horizon 2011. On recense actuellement plus de 8000 ha de périmètres aménagés dont plus de la moitié
(55%) se situent autour de la ville de Tunis. La quantité maximale exploitable en EUT par ces périmètres,
est de 40 Mm3/an (20%).

Le potentiel d'utilisation en agriculture couvre près de 15.000 ha (dont les besoins seraient de 75 Mm3/an),
compte tenu du niveau de traitement actuel, de la qualité chimique des eaux (salinité), du manque de
stockage ainsi que de la législation restrictive actuelle qui ne permet pas de mettre à profit la totalité des
eaux usées traitées.

Ce potentiel peut augmenter à long terme avec l'amélioration du niveau de traitement (filtration,
maturation...) que ce soit directement pour l'irrigation ou pour la recharge des nappes. Le stockage des
EUT en surface y contribuera également suite à un report inter-saisonnier en vue de subvenir aux besoins
de pointes de l'irrigation.

Les problèmes particuliers rencontrés dans les STEP existantes ne sont pas insurmontables. En effet, des
correctifs à caractère technique (traitement complémentaire, réhabilitation et/ou curage des ouvrages,
maintenance ou remplacement des équipements, extension des STEP...) sont programmés ou en cours de
réalisation par l'ONAS dans plusieurs STEP.

De même, des aménagements de transport, de stockage, de maturation sont programmés dans quelques
projets afin de ne pas occasionner d'effets négatifs sur le milieu récepteur qui seraient dus au rejet des EUT
excédentaires non utilisées. Les aménagements compensatoires, prévus dans le cadre des études
environnementales, ne doivent pas non plus être prohibitifs de la réalisation des projets de réutilisation. Une
maîtrise des coûts s'avère nécessaire.

Il y a lieu de veiller au respect des normes et des textes réglementaires avec une large circulation de
l'information (résultats des analyses physico-chimiques et bactériologiques) entre tous les intervenants, en
vue de prendre à temps les mesures qui s'imposent.

Des efforts conjoints de coordination entre l'ONAS, les organismes distributeurs des EUT (les CRDA), les



                                                     - 41 -

usagers (GIC/GDA) et les services régionaux du Ministère de la Santé Publique sont attendus dans les
projets nouveaux de réutilisation.

2-Conditions d'approvisionnement et qualité des eaux traitées:

Des variations journalières et saisonnières très importantes ont été constatées au niveau de
l'approvisionnement en eau aussi bien qu'au niveau des besoins agricoles en relation avec les conditions
climatiques et les assolements pratiqués par les agriculteurs. Dans la plupart des cas, les pointes de rejets
des effluents traités et des besoins agricoles ne correspondent pas. Des solutions de régulation entre l'offre
et la demande sont donc à envisager dans toutes les situations: soit une recharge artificielle pour un
stockage important en milieu souterrain, soit l'identification de sites de barrages pour une accumulation de
surface. Cette dernière alternative n'a pu encore être mise en pratique jusqu'à ce jour. Les grandes stations
de traitement se trouvent en effet, dans des régions côtières démunies de sites favorables pour la réalisation
de tels barrages dans des conditions économiques. Des volumes importants en EUT sont rejetés dans le
milieu récepteur suite à cette contrainte.
En ce qui concerne la qualité des eaux épurées fournies aux périmètres irrigués, celle-ci est souvent
aléatoire.

   -     Bien que l'exploitation des EUT n'a pas engendré de problèmes sanitaires dans les périmètres
   concernés, l'aspect physico-chimique présente encore certaines insuffisances (couleur et odeur variables
   dans le temps, d'où effet psychologique et rejet par les usagers). Il en a résulté des taux d'utilisation qui
   n'ont jamais dépassé les 20% des eaux disponibles.

-        Le taux des matières en suspension est parfois élevé entraînant une usure prématurée des
équipements hydromécaniques des réseaux d'irrigation, des dépôts importants dans les réservoirs...
-        La salinité des eaux usées traitées est parfois élevée (ayant un impact négatif sur le sol et les
rendements des cultures).

3-Aspects sanitaires :

Le contrôle sanitaire et épidémiologique est réalisé gratuitement par les services de la santé publique
uniquement pour les maladies courantes. D'après la réglementation, la couverture sanitaire est payante pour
les usagers des EUT. L'examen médical périodique et les vaccinations sont pourvus uniquement aux agents
des CRDA.

Les usagers reçoivent une campagne de sensibilisation uniquement lors des études technico-économiques et
sociales. L'éducation sanitaire reste insuffisante eu égard aux risques encourus de sorte que les usagers
n'adoptent pas les mesures préventives préconisées. Cet aspect est à renforcer pour les projets futurs.

II- Projets d'utilisation des eaux usées traitées de Tunis Ouest :

1-Etude des périmètres irrigués :

a-Options techniques et considérations environnementales:
Les options de réutilisation et de recharge ont toutes des conséquences environnementales importantes à
plus ou moins long terme. Par conséquent, les conditions suivantes constituaient des précautions à prendre
en considération par l'étude du projet afin de minimiser les effets négatifs éventuels :

a- Ainsi, les solutions qui envisageaient un rejet des EUT dans l'Oued Chaffrou ou dans la sebkhat Sejoumi
ont été écartées ; en effet :

-        La sebkhat Séjoumi est un plan d'eau fermé. Par conséquent il y a lieu d'éviter de perturber son
équilibre naturel et de risquer l'inondation des agglomérations avoisinantes en cas de crues.
-        De même, le rejet des eaux traitées dans l'oued Chaffrou, puis vers l'oued Medjerda constitue un
danger éventuel de pollution sachant que la Medjerda est à usage multiple (eau potable, irrigation publique,



                                                     - 42 -

pompage individuel...) et on ne pourrait pas circonscrire les risques que pourrait engendrer un mauvais
fonctionnement ou une surcharge de la station d'épuration et le rejet des EUT dans la Medjerda.
Ainsi la position du Ministère de l'Agriculture et des Ressources Hydrauliques était de réaliser une étude
plus approfondie qui envisagerait la décharge des effluents traités dans l'Oued Méliane qui constitue un
cours d'eau secondaire (en aval du barrage Bir Mcherga) par rapport à l'Oued Medjerda.

b-Stockage et traitement des eaux usées traitées :

Trois sites de stockage ont été retenus parmi les sites étudiés dans l'étude de faisabilité du projet de
réutilisation des EUT de Tunis Ouest, soient les sites 1 et 2 pour la zone d'El Attar-Mornaguia (1 Mm3 par
site) et le site 10 pour la zone     d'El Allef- Mohammedia (de 3 Mm3).

Le choix de ces sites a été basé particulièrement sur des critères techniques et environnementaux. En effet,
les différentes variantes de stockage ont été proposées en fonction des caractéristiques géologiques et de
configuration des sites et du volume de stockage. La variante retenue présente le maximum de stockage
permettant une réutilisation plus importante et un minimum de frais d'énergie (5Mm3). Il est à signaler
néanmoins que la première tranche du projet peut être faite avec un pompage au fil de l'eau et ne nécessite
donc pas un stockage inter-saisonnier.

c-Changements multiples du site de la station d'épuration de Tunis Ouest :

Le projet d'utilisation des eaux usées traitées (EUT) de Tunis-Ouest était prévu initialement à partir d'un
grand pôle d'épuration à gérer en BOT. Plusieurs sites ont été proposés, d'abord à El Attar, puis à
Meghira, puis à El Allef. L'étude de faisabilité de la réutilisation, les études hydrauliques et
environnementales, y compris l'étude des différents sites de stockage potentiels, ont été réalisées pour les
deux options mentionnées: avec la STEP de Tunis Ouest à El Attar puis avec la STEP à El Allef. Suite à
des considérations environnementales et de gestion, le pôle d'épuration unique a encore éclaté en deux
stations d'épuration de dimensions plus réduites, l'une à El Attar (en deux phases) et l'autre à El Allef avec
une extension de la STEP de Sud-Méliane dont les travaux sont en cours d'exécution.

Selon cette dernière option les capacités respectives de traitement des eaux usées de Tunis-Ouest se
présentent comme suit :

-         El Attar de 60 000 m3/j en première tranche qui s'achèvera en 2007 et        50 000 m3/j en 2ème
tranche prévue d'être mise en eau en 2010. Le débit total sera ainsi porté à 110 000 m3/j.
-         El Allef de 40 000 m3/j, dont l'exécution est prévue pour 2007.
-         L'extension de Sud Méliane est de 40 000 m3/j, soit un total de 80 000 m3/j pour les deux
tranches.
Les études de faisabilité et environnementales du projet d'utilisation des EUT (DGGREE
/SCET-BRLi/1999/2002) ont couvert une superficie totale potentielle de 6000 ha (bruts) situés
principalement entre les deux gouvernorats, celui de la Manouba et celui de Ben Arous, avec près de 500 ha
dans le Gouvernorat de Tunis.

Le périmètre agricole identifié et étudié ne sera pas sujet à de grandes modifications dans le cadre de cette
dernière option d'assainissement. Une étude pédologique (à l'échelle 1/25 000) a été réalisée sur une
superficie totale de 8000 ha en vue de sélectionner les meilleures zones potentielles à irriguer. Une première
enquête sur la motivation des agriculteurs vis à vis de l'utilisation des EUT a été réalisée menant à un choix
plus précis des exploitations potentiellement favorables couvrant près de 6000 ha.

Par ailleurs, vu les modifications importantes consenties au niveau de la localisation des STEP et de leurs
débits respectifs, la conception et le dimensionnement des réseaux d'adduction et de distribution vont
relativement changer. En effet, les études hydrauliques initiales ont considéré un débit moyen de 100
000m3/j provenant d'une seule STEP, soit El Attar ou El Allef, vers les zones à irriguer. Le site de la



                                                     - 43 -

STEP      El Attar se situe au Nord du périmètre et au Sud-Ouest de Sebkhet Sijoumi, le site     El Allef se
situe au Sud-Est du périmètre étudié et en bordure de l'Oued Méliane. De longues adductions et des stations
de relèvement de fortes pressions étaient nécessaires (70 m à partir d'El Attar et plus de 100 m à partir d'El
Allef).

Dans la nouvelle conception du projet, il sera considéré des réseaux hydrauliques séparés à partir de chaque
STEP pour la réutilisation. Les études respectives seront engagées par les Commissariats Régionaux au
Développement Agricoles (CRDA) concernés, soit pour :

-        Le périmètre à irriguer avec le débit total de la STEP El Attar couvrant 3100 ha nets, situés dans le
Gouvernorat de Manouba (dans les régions de Mornaguia et de El Fejja avec 500 ha au Gouvernorat de
Tunis).
-        Le périmètre d'El Allef (2300 ha net), situé au Gouvernorat de Ben Arous à irriguer à partir de la
STEP El Allef et qui tiendra compte d'un débit supplémentaire apporté par l'extension de la STEP de Sud
Méliane.
Il est à préciser que les études du projet selon les deux versions précédentes (réalisées en 1999 et en 2002),
comprenaient la faisabilité technico-économique, la prospection des sites de stockage inter-saisonnier et
l'étude environnementale des 6000 ha (bruts) considérés potentiellement favorables à l'utilisation des EUT.
La phase Avant Projet Détaillé a été entamée pour une tranche de 1000 ha situé dans le Gouvernorat de Ben
Arous qui a fait l'objet d'une étude pédologique et topographique et des séances de sensibilisation des
agriculteurs à l'utilisation des EUT. Cette étude a été arrêtée suite aux changements multiples dont le site
de la STEP de Tunis Ouest a fait l'objet.

d- Résultats de l'étude de faisabilité :

Le projet d'utilisation des EUT de Tunis Ouest contribuera, suite à la réalisation de sa première tranche, à
l'augmentation de la superficie irriguée à partir des eaux usées traitées d'environ 2000 ha à l'horizon 2011
(soit 1000 ha dans le Gouvernorat de Ben Arous et 1000 ha dans le Gouvernorat de Manouba). La
répartition des surfaces irriguées par Gouvernorat et pour les différentes zones identifiées est présentée en
annexe.

D'après l'étude de faisabilité le coût d'investissement du projet s'élève à 45 MD pour les 6000 ha, soit
environ 7500 D/ha. Le taux de rentabilité du projet est tout au moins de 9,2%. Le prix du m3 d'eau
actualisé varie de 202 à 208 mill/m3 selon la variante. Ce prix inclut les frais de fonctionnement et les
remplacements des équipements dont la durée de vie est inférieure à celle du projet.

2- Etude de recharge des nappes :

L'objet de l'étude est l'identification et la mise en place d'un site pilote pour la recharge artificielle des
nappes phréatiques à partir des eaux usées traitées. Le choix a été porté au Gouvernorat de Nabeul qui
souffre le plus du problème de surexploitation des nappes.

L'objectif de cette recharge est :
·        d'augmenter le potentiel en eau des nappes souterraines ; et
·        de préserver la qualité physico-chimique des eaux des nappes surexploitées contre la salinisation.

Le projet sera considéré comme un ``pilote'' dans la mesure où il permettra :
·        des avancées scientifiques qui pourront se développer à partir du programme de suivi à proposer
par l'étude ;
·        la mise en oeuvre de techniques maîtrisables par les gestionnaires pour les différents composants
d'un système de recharge de nappe(traitement complémentaire éventuel, système de recharge,...) et ceci
dans des conditions économiques acceptables ; et



                                                      - 44 -

·        la vérification de l'acceptation sociale du projet ainsi que de l'absence de risques sanitaires.

L'objectif quantitatif est la recharge d'un minimum de 500 000m3/an au démarrage du projet et de 1
million de m3/an en période de plein fonctionnement.

Quatre sites ont été présélectionnés à l'issue du diagnostic préliminaire. Le choix a été porté sur le site de
Korba selon des considérations environnementales et financières. Le dispositif proposé comporte 3 bassins
dont 2 seront en fonctionnement et 1 au repos. Les 2 bassins en service seront alimentés alternativement.
Le coût global au niveau du site de Korba varie de 61 MD à 136 MD selon que le système de recharge est
respectivement par bassin ou par aspersion se répartissant comme suit :

  (Coûts arrondis en MD)                     Bassins                          Aspersion

Amortissements                                   16                              12,5

Renouvellement                                   23                               25

Charges d'exploitation                           22                              98,5

Coût annuel global (MD)                          61                              136

Coût du m3                                 (0,122D/m3)                       (0,272D/m3)

Le coût d'exploitation du m3 d'eau rechargé revient au total à 122mill/m3 avec les bassins et à 272mill/m3
en utilisant le système par aspersion.

Voir en annexe les graphiques des coûts comparatifs.




                                                     - 45 -

                                          ANNEXE I

Répartition des superficies irriguées par Gouvernorat et par étage de pompage



       Secteur irrigué            Superficie irriguée nette    Superficie irriguée brute
                                            (ha)                         (ha)

 Gouvernorat de Ben Arous

Etage n°1 Ben Arous Central                1427                         1586

Etage n°2 Haut Ben Arous                    322                          362

Etage n°3 Mhammedia                         171                          190

Etage n°4 Bou Rbia                          403                          448

           Total 1                         2323                         2586

Gouvernorats de Manouba et
            Tunis

Etage n°1 Mornaguia                        1455                         1617

Etage n°2 EL Fejja                         1156                         1285

Etage n°3 Attar                             490                          550

           Total 2                         3101                         3452

        Total Général                      5424                         6038




                                                 - 46 -

                                              ANNEXE II


            MARCHE D'ETUDE DU PROJET D'UTILISATION
                               DES EAUX USEES TRAITEES
          DE LA STATION D'EPURATION DE TUNIS-OUEST


Dans le cadre du Projet Assainissement du Grand Tunis et réutilisation des eaux épurées, financé par la
BIRD (Prêts 4175 et 4174 TUN) la Direction Générale du Génie Rural et de l'Exploitation des Eaux a
entamé depuis Mars 1999, la réalisation d'une étude se rapportant à l'utilisation des eaux usées de la
station d'épuration de la région de Tunis-Ouest.

1- Situation de l'étude :

L'étude confiée à BRLi-SCET Tunisie en 1999 pour un montant total hors taxes de 542.318 DT, a été
menée en deux phases :
-        Phase 1- : Etude de faisabilité et environnementale d'un périmètre irrigué de 6000 ha.

Cette phase a fait l'objet d'un avenant suite au changement du site de la STEP par L'ONAS et a été
totalement achevée en 2001.
-        Phase 2- : Etude d'avant projet détaillé d'une première tranche de 1000 ha.

L'étude a été arrêtée en Juillet de l'année 2002, après que la réflexion sur la 1ère tranche, les travaux
topographiques, parcellaires et pédologiques de détail aient été bien avancés sur la base du site EL ALLEF
pour la station de traitement.

La décision, d'annuler la part du prêt 4174-TUN concernant la réalisation de la première tranche du projet
de réutilisation, a été prise en 2001.

La remise du rapport d'avancement par BRLi/SCET Tunisie a été effectuée le 08 juillet 2003.


2- Situation financière :

- Montant total hors taxes (part hors budget)              : 542.318,000 DT
 (Marché + Avenant)

- Paiements réalisés au 31/12/2005                                :417.730,065 DT soit

                                                                  :352.858,17 Euros,




                                                     - 47 -

                                              ANNEXE III




                    MARCHE D'ETUDE DU PROJET PILOTE

                              DE RECHARGE DES NAPPES

                          PAR LES EAUX USEES TRAITEES


Le contrat d'étude du projet de recharge des nappes du Cap-Bon à partir des eaux usées traitées (études de
faisabilité, environnementale, d'avant projet et d'exécution),
a été conclu entre le CRDA de Nabeul et le groupement de bureaux d'études BURGEAP/STUDI pour un
montant de 643.064 DT en date du 6/2/ 2002.
Un comité de suivi et de pilotage de l'étude a été constitué et a regroupé des représentants du CRDA de
Nabeul, DG/RE, DG/GREE, INRGREF, ONAS, ....

1-Situation de l'étude :
-        Démarrage de l'étude               : Mars 2002
-        Délai d'exécution                  : 12 mois

Suite à la réunion du comité de suivi en date du 20/12/2003, avec le bureau d'études concernant la phase 1
(étude de faisabilité), le site de Korba, a été choisi pour les phases suivantes (Etude Environnementale,
Avant Projet Détaillé, Etude d'Exécution).
Ce site a été choisi sur la base de la comparaison entre les frais d'exploitation des différents sites étudiés vu
que les frais y afférents étaient les moins importants. L'option technique choisie a consisté en la réalisation
de bassins de recharge situés dans la zone proche de la Sebkha de Korba.

Un retard important a été enregistré dans la réalisation de cette étude qui s'est achevée à la fin de l'année
2004.

2- Situation financière :

- Montant total hors taxes                  : 231.936 DT et 282.900,7 Euros
                                             Soit 584.604,000 DT.

- Montant payé sur le prêt                  : 618.762,638 DT soit 391.795,94 Euros.




                                                     - 48 -

- 49 -

