Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Repmt No. 13749
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CAPE VERDE
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1954-CV)
DECEMBER 2, 1994
Industry and Energy Division
Country Department V
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENT AND EXCHANGE RATES (Yearly Averaaes)
Currency Unit = CV Escudo
Year                                              CV Escudo/USS
August 19, 1988   (President Report)                 69.30
1988                Yearly Average                   72.10
1989                                                 77.90
1990                                                 70.00
1991                                                 71.41
1992                                                 66.09
1993                                                 74.50
1994 (January 1-June 1 average)                      82.71
GOVERNMENT OF CAPE VERDE FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
MEASURES AND EOUIVALENTS
1 Ton (t)                  =  1 metric ton = 1,000 Kg. = 2,205 lbs.
1 Kilovolt (kV)            =  1,000 volts (V)
1 Kilovolt ampere (kVa)  =  1,000 volt-amperes (VA)
1 Kilowatt-hour   (kVh)  =  1,000 watt-hours
1 Megawatt-hour   (MWh)  =  1,000 kilowatt-hours (kWh)
1 Gigawatt-hour   (GWh)  =  1,000,000 kilowatt-hours (kWh)
1 barrel (bbl)             =  0.16 cubic meter
1 ton of oil equiv.(toe) =  About 7 bbl of crude oil
1 meter (m)                =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)           =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 metric ton (t)           =  2,205 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCV             Bank of Cape Verde
ELECTRA         National Power Company
ILO             International Labor Organization
INIT            National Institute of Technological Research
MIE             Ministry of Industry and Energy
MPW             Ministry of Public Works
TRANSCOR        National Transport Company



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 2, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Cape Verde
Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1954-CV)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Cape Verde - Infrastructure Rehabilitation
and Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1954-CV) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No Part
II was prepared by the Borrower. The US$4.7 million Credit was approved in September 1988;
US$4.2 million were disbursed, the balance canceled, and the Credit was closed, after three
extensions, on December 31, 1993.
The Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Technical Assistance Project was to increase the
efficiency and productivity of the transport and energy sectors in a country with 370,000 inhabitants
and a total fleet of 26 buses in 1993. The ambitious project design and lack of performance
indicators called for more systematic supervision than was carried out, but in spite of this, institution-
building did take place in two parastatal corporations, road transport was liberalized and physical
capacity was expanded. Measures suggested by IDA did improve accounting, inventory management
and control. However, the electricity company's financial situation is precarious and deteriorating.
The project outcome is rated as satisfactory and its institutional impact as substantial. The
sustainability of benerits is rated as likely because of recent successes involving the private sector.
The PCR is silent on project identification but gives an adequate account of implementation.
No audit is planned.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT (PCR)
CAPE VERDE
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1954-CV)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Palo No.
Preface ...............................................i
Evaluation Summary ....................................i
PART I:         PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
I.      Project Identity ..................................                              1
II.    Project Background ................................                               I
III.   Project Objectives and Description ................                               2
IV.    Project Design and Organization ...................                               3
V.      Project Implementation ............................                              3
VI.    Project Results ...................................                               8
VII.   Project Sustainability ............................                               10
VIII. Bank Performance ..................................                                11
IX.    Borrower Performance ..............................                               12
X.      Project Relationship ..............................                              12
XI.    Consulting Services ...............................                               13
XII.   Project Documentation and Data ....................                               13
PART II:        PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The Borrower did not submit Part II ...............                              14
PART III:    STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related Bank Loans/Credits ..............................                                15
Project Timetable .......................................                                15
Credit Disbursement .....................................                                16
Project Cost and Financing ..............................                                17
Project Results
.Direct Benefits ..............................                                  19
.Economic Impact ..............................                                  19
.Studies ......................................                                  19
Status of Loan Covenants ..........................                                      20
Use of Bank Resources  (Missions) ..................                                     22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.l






i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT (PCR)
CAPE VERDE
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1954-CV)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Infrastructure
Rehabilitation and Technical Assistance Project in Cape Verde, for which Credit
1954-CV in the amount of US$4.7 million (SDR3.5 million) was approved on
September 8, 1988.
As of May 31 1994, total disbursements under this credit amounted to
SDR3,239,725 (about US$4.21 million). The undisbursed balance of SDR260,275.220
(about US$380,000) will be cancelled. The PCR was prepared by the Industry &
Energy Operation Division, Country Department V, Africa Region.
The preparation of this PCR is based, inter alia, on the President's
Report (No. P-4749-CV); the Loan and Guarantee Agreements; supervision reports;
correspondence between the Bank and Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.






ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT (PCR)
CAPE VERDE
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1954-CV)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.          The overall objectives of the project were to improve the efficiency
of the road transport and power sectors, support private sector development in
the transport sector, strengthen local institutions, examine the possibility of
developing indigenous sources of energy, and preserve the capital investment
already made in the country's road network. Specifically, in the transport
sector, the project essentially aimed at eliminating restrictive regulations in
order to increase efficiency and permit private sector participation.
Strengthening Transcor's management and rescinding its exclusive rights to
operate in some of the islands in order to make it more efficient and capable of
competing with the new private transport operators were the other project
objectives. In the power sector, the main objectives were to increase the
generating capacity, reduce the cost of electricity, strengthen local
institutions and to the extent feasible, promote indigenous alternative sources
of energy.
Implementation Experience
2.          The President's Report was completed in August 1988 and the Credit
and Project Agreements signed in October 1988. The Credit became effective in
March 1989, following some delay in the finalization of the subsidiary credit
agreement between the Government, Transcor, Electra and the Bank of Cape Verde
(BCV).
3.          The project was essentially designed to increase the efficiency and
productivity of the transport and energy sectors (para 11). Responsibility for
project implementation was given to the Ministry of Public Works and Transcor for
the transport component, and to Electra for the power component. Part of the
proceeds of the credit was to be used by private operators in the transport
sector through a special account at BCV in exchange for CV Escudos. These CV
Escudos were available as a grant to BCV under a subsidiary agreement between the
borrower and BCV, and BCV had overall responsibility for using these counterpart
funds for recurrent expenditures and/or for financing priority projects in the
transport sector.
4.          Overall, the Borrower, i.e, the Republic of Cape Verde, supervised
adequately the implementation of the project by the Ministry of Public Works,
Transcor, Electra and BCV. However, these beneficiaries had some difficulty in
complying with some of the covenants. For instance, there were delays in
obtaining audited and unaudited reports from Electra and BCV, mainly because of
their lack of experience in these matters (para. 49 - 51).
5.          The appraisal mission took place during the Bank's reorganization in
1987, upon which staff who had been working on the project were reassigned. The
President's Report was the only source of data for supervision and project
implementation. The lack of performance indicators on several aspects of the
project made effective supervision difficult but all the more necessary. A
successful implementation of the project required a combination of timely, well
prepared field supervision, high quality technical assistance and firm commitment
on the part of the new Government that took office in April 1991 as well as its



iii
executing agencies. Regarding socially sensitive transport, water and electricity
tariff issues, the Government and its executing agencies (Transcor and Electra)
lacked the ability and/or capacity to take certain decisions. Probably because
of its small size and cost factor, the project had only four main field
supervision missions.  A certain amount of supervision took place within the
context of other missions and most of the supervision updates were carried out
from Washington (para. 39).
6.          The original closing date of December 31, 1991 was extended three
times to December 31, 1993, in order to complete the main objectives of the
project and give the newly elected Government sufficient time to develop a
working relationship with the Bank and familiarize itself with its procedures (in
particular auditing; procurement and utilization of special accounts). The first
extension (to April 30, 1992) was mainly aimed at continuing to support the new
Government initiatives, the second extension (to December 31 1992) aimed at
facilitating Transcor and Electra's restructuring and increase their management
efficiencies. The third extension (to December 31, 1993) allowed to complete the
important electricity and water tariff study and finalize the implementation of
the project.
Project Results
7.          The project has had mixed results, with the most positive ones being
in the reform of policies and in the improvement in the management effectiveness
of Transcor and Electra where a substantial amount of capacity building took
place. The latter resulted from the reforms introduced in the management of the
two institutions and the technical assistance which was provided for that
purpose. The impact of the technical assistance is very encouraging in the
management of roads and transportation as well as the loss reduction in power
distribution. The improvements achieved in greater management effectiveness have
been sustained during project implementation and they are expected to continue
beyond the life of the project. In the transport sector, the acquisition of
necessary materials for the maintenance of roads and transportation vehicles and
the line of credit for small private operators increased the use of existing road
capacity  and  services  by  the  private  sector  operators  (para.  25).  The
liberalization of the road transport did take place and now the private transport
operators are actually competing with Transcor.
8.          As a result of the policy measures taken in the power sector, a
substantial improvement was registered in the accounting as well as in the
inventory management and control systems. An amount of US$2.7 million was used
to increase generating capacity, reduce power losses and improve the management
of the sector. Furthermore, most of the investments and technical assistance
services were successfully implemented. The exception was the new diesel power
generator of 1250 kVa on the island of Sal where technical installation problems
have reduced the full utilization of the diesel generator and the problem is
actually in dispute with the supplier (para. 17).
9.          The project's conditionalities on road transport tariff increases and
audit requirements were implemented with delays. There were also delays in
auditing and in the use of special accounts mainly because of the lack of
experience of the Government and its institutions in dealing with IDA procedures.
In the power sector, the master-plan was finished with delay in December 1992 and
the electricity and water tariff study, which is being finalized, will be sent
to the Bank in July 1994 (para. 33). Furthermore, the borrower did not comply
in reducing the level of Electra's receivables to neither five months nor three
months due largely to unpaid bills from Government institutions.



iv
Project Sustainabilitv
10.         The project, through its power capacity and management productivity
increases, efficiency and constructive investments as well as technical
assistance support, is expected to be sustainable (paras 36 - 38). In addition,
the introduction of a competitive road transportation environment for private
sector transport operators, has already benefited all participansts in the
sector. Indeed, between 1990 and 1992, Transcor and the newly created private
sector operators have already been servicing 27% more clients, because of
increasing demand for road transportation (para. 25).   In the power sector,
Electra is also facing more than 10% annual increase in electricity demand. As
a result, the project is not only sustainable beyond its economic life but it has
also created a new dynamic environment in which the sectors and country can
prosper.
Lessons Learned.
11.         The main lesson learned from the review of this project is that
project design should be tailored to the institutions' implementation capacity.
It also shows that timely supervision missions, including annual or as necessary
quarterly/semiannual reviews, are one of the conditions for successful project
implementation. Some of the problems experienced in this project, such as the use
of initial deposit in BCV's special account, the high level of Electra's
receivables (six months and over) and delays in electric and water tariff studies
can easily be traced to an insufficient field supervision and lack of adequate
communications between the borrower and the Bank. There is no doubt that timely,
well prepared field supervision can contribute significantly to the successful
implementation of a project (para 39).
12.         The  review  also  underscores  the  importance  of  an  adequate
administrative arrangement for project implementation, particularly when several
institutions are involved. In the case of the project under review, the solution
would probably have been to hire a project manager, with an in-depth knowledge
of the functioning of the Government as well as IDA's procedures, to coordinate
the various project components and to serve as a bridge between the Government
and the Bank. The availability of such a manager who can issue timely "warnings"
during the implementation period of the project can not only increase the level
of performance but also help capacity building through on the job training and,
can even prove quite cost effective. Also, insufficient definition of roles and
responsibilities of the institutions involved contributed to the implementation
problems of the project (para 40).
13.         Furthermore,  the experience with the project clearly shows the
significance of having, both for technical assistance and investment, key
performance indicators by which supervision mission can evaluate the
implementation process and the quality of the technical assistance (para 41).






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT (PCR)
CAPE VERDE
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1954-CV)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
I.          Project Identity
Project Name             : Infrastructure Rehabilitation and
Technical Assistance Project
Credit Number            : CREDIT 1954-CV
RVP Unit                 : Africa Region
Country                  : Cape Verde
Sector                   : Infrastructure
Sub-sector               : Energy, Transportation and
Technical Assistance
II.         Background
1.          Cape Verde, consisting of ten islands scattered within 165 kms.
radius, is a small country with a land area of about 4,000 square kilometers.
Only nine islands are populated with a resident population of less than 370,000.
Actually, there are more Cape Verdeans (about 650,000) outside of the country
than in country itself due to heavy immigration to the USA, Europe and
continental Africa. Nearly one third of resident population is concentrated in
the capital city of Praia and the industrial city of Mindelo. Difficult living
conditions and limited employment opportunities in Cape Verde have traditionally
been inducing this immigration. Overall, the country has a very limited natural
resource base. Lack of water resources severely limit most economic activities
and this is especially acute in the urban centers. Mindelo relies entirely on
water desalination and Praia on far away ground water sources.
2.          The transport sector has an essential role to play in facilitating
the movement of people and goods, and in supporting the economic integration of
the islands.   The existing highway network (about 940 kmi.), built before
independence, needs to be improved. The productivity of the transport sector has
been low because of weak management and over-staffing of the institutions
involved, outdated regulations, and controlled prices. The appraisal mission of
the project found that technical assistance was needed and that there was a
shortage of materials and spare parts to satisfy the needs of the road transport
industry. Inefficiencies as well as archaic and restrictive regulations reduced
the National Public Transport Company's (TRANSCOR) productivity.   The large
backlog of road maintenance works due to lack of expertise, spare parts and
materials were other major problems of the sector.
3.          This project was the Bank's first operation in the Energy Sector.
Cape Verde's domestic energy resources consists of biomass (fuelwood, charcoal,
and agriculture residues), wind, geothermal and solar energy. Only firewood and
biomass for household energy has been traditionally exploited on a significant
scale.   This consumption, however, has put severe pressure on the country's
scarce vegetation cover and it was estimated that 70% of the total area of the
islands was wasteland. The basic rationale for IDA's involvement in this project
was to enhance the private sector development initiative particularly in the road



2
transport sector, increase direct investments into high priority projects,
emphasize institution building and organize the aid coordination to the country.
III.        Prolect Obiectives and Description
4.    Proiect Obiectives.      The project was essentially designed to:
(a)   improve the efficiency of the transport and power sectors;
(b)   support  private  initiatives  in  the  transport  sector
development;
(c)   examine the possibility  of developing  indigenous  source of
energy;
(d)   preserve the capital investment already made in the country's road
network and;
(e)   strengthen and make more efficient the local institutions.
5.          Transport Sector: The project aimed at removing some of the obstacles
of the land transport through:
*     changing  the  institutional  framework  to  eliminate  the
restrictive regulations that prevented private sector
participation in the sector;
*     rescinding Transcor's exclusive right to operate in some of
the islands and, at the same time, strengthening Transcor's
management to make it more efficient and capable of competing
with the new private sector transporters;
*     helping strengthen the road maintenance organization.
6.          Power Sector: The objectives of the power component were to:
*     improve overall efficiency of the energy sector;
*     reduce the cost of electricity;
*     where possible, promote indigenous sources of energy and;
*     strengthen local institutions within the energy sector.
7.    Pro-ect Description.    The project comprised elements of policy reforms
as well as investments. Policy reforms focused essentially on the modification
of the institutional framework to eliminate restrictive regulations in the
transport sector and to rationalize transport and power tariffs. On the
investment side, the project financed the purchase of vehicles and spare parts
for Transcor and private sector operators, the construction of a workshop for
Transcor as well as the purchase of equipment and spare parts for Electra. In
addition, the project financed technical assistance and related studies designed
to strengthen Transcor, Electra as well as the Road Maintenance Unit in the
Ministry of Public Works in areas of management information, planning and
programming. Based on the description above, the main benefits expected from the
project were:
8.          TransDort Sector:
*     reduced vehicles operating cost;
*     higher availability rate of equipments and longer economic
life of vehicles;
*     cost reduction in land transport;
*     longer preservation of existing expensive capital investment
in the country's road network.



3
9.          Power Sector:
*     substantial reduction in the need to import petroleum products
for the power sector;
*     reduction in the costs of power generation and distribution
and increasing reliability of the system;
10.         Public Institutions:
*     greater autonomy and enhanced capabilities of the public
companies, Transcor and Electra;
*     increased productivity and effectiveness of the Ministry of
Public Works to maintain the large and costly investments made
in road sector.
IV.         Proiect Design and Organization.
11.         The project was essentially designed to increase the efficiency and
productivity of the Transport and Energy Sectors. Responsibility for project
implementation was assigned to the Ministry of Public Works and Transcor for the
transport component and to Electra for the power component. The project was
designed in such a way that a part of the proceeds of the credit in foreign
exchange had to be used, through a special account at Bank of Cape Verde (BCV),
by private operators in the transport sector in exchange for Escudos. These
Escudos would be available as a grant to BCV under a subsidiary agreement between
the Borrower and BCV with BCV having overall responsibility for administration
of those funds. Only materials and goods for the transport sector were eligible
for these sources. Local currency counterpart funds generated by the sale of
foreign exchange provided by the Credit would be deposited into a counterpart
fund account in BCV. Agreement was reached that those funds would be utilized to
finance part of the recurrent or capital expenditures of priority projects in the
transport sector. A small project unit was to be established in the BCV for
purposes of project coordination. The initial completion date for the project was
set for June 30, 1991.
V.          Proiect Implementation.
12.         Credit  Effectiveness and Proiect  Start-up.  Credit  1954-CV was
approved on September 8, 1988 and the Credit and Project Agreements were signed
on October 13, 1988. There was some delay in the signing of the Subsidiary Credit
Agreement for Transcor and Electra as well as a delay in signing agreement for
the administration of funds by BCV. These delays were not critical and finally
the Credit became effective on March 21, 1989.
13.         Implementation  Schedule.        The project was  scheduled to be
implemented over 4 years and its estimated cost was US$5.1 million (about SDR3.5
million) equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$4.7 million (SDR3.5
million which represent 92% of the project cost). The President's Report
projected to spend US$1.73 million (34%) for the Transport sector, US$2.74
million (53.7%) for the Power sector and US$0.63 million (12.3%) for the physical
and price contingencies. As of May 1994, the implementation schedule has
generally been in line with these projections with the exception of Electra's
water tariff study, which cost US$117,000 instead of the US$250,000 provisioned,
and Transcor's undisbursed amount of about US$154,000. As of May 31, 1994, the
Credit is about 92 % disbursed (SDR3.2 million).
14.         Transport Sector Policy Actions.       Most of the policy measures that
had been planned for the sector were implemented, although sometimes with delay.
This was mainly due to the lack of understanding and experience of the new
Government in dealing with the Bank's procedures rather than the reluctance to



4
take required actions. The following table indicates the details of the projected
and actually implemented policies and actions.
Proi./Actual         Date                         Action
a) Projectod   June 30, 1989          Eliminate all Government price controls in
the land transport industry except for the
taxi service industry;
Actual      June 30, 1989          Complied  with.   Newly  created  private
companies are actively doing business under
free market conditions;
b) Projected   June 30, 1989          Prepare corporate strategic plan covering
the next five years and management
information system to control costs;
Actual      June 30, 1989          Complied  with.   Management   information
system, cost control as well as corporate
plan are actually in place;
c) Projected   June 30, 1989          Eliminate restrictive government licensing
practices   except   those   justified   on
technical and safety grounds;
Actual      June 30, 1989          Complied with. All expendable Government
restrictions are eliminated;
d) Projected   Sept.30, 1989          Prepare and furnish to the Association for
its review draft performance contract
between the Government and Transcor;
Actual      Dec.31, 1990           This action was revised on May 22, 1990 in
order to give more time to the Government
for the preparation of the performance
contract.   Revised  date,   however,   was
respected (Dec. 31, 1990);
a) Projected  Sept.30, 1989           Design and implement all actions needed to
improve Transcor's management, including
restructuring of its tariffs;
Actual     Sept.30, 1989           Complied with. Transcor's management and
its   tariffs   were   reorganized   and
restructured; Tariffs were also adjusted
for FY91 and FY92; further adjustment is
needed to improve Transcor's financial
situation.
f) Projected  Dec. 31, 1989           Effectively eliminate Transcor's status as
exclusive land transport operator in Praia
and  San  Vincente  and  all  Government
subsidies;
Actual     March 31, 1991          Revised  on  May  22,  1990.  Transcor'B
monopoly  position  and  subsidies  were
eliminated before the end of the revised
date of March 31, 1991;
g) Projected Dec. 31, 1989            Sign a performance contract between the
Government and Transcor acceptable by the
Association;
Actual                             Complied with delay; see 4A;
h) Projected   Yearly                 Submit to the Association for review and
comment the draft work program and budget



5
for operation of the equipment used for
road maintenance works;
Actual      Yearly                 The latest report was submitted to the Bank
during the negotiations of "Transport and
Infrastructure Project" in November 1992,
covering the "1993-1996" period.
i) Projected   General                Utilize  funds  in  the  counterpart  fund
account (at BCV) to finance part of the
recurrent or capital costs of priority
projects in the transport sector.
Actual      General                Complied  with;  at  the  beginning  some
understanding problems, on how to use this
account occurred but later on, the problem
was solved.
j) Projected Disbursement cond.       Recruitment  of  technical  assistance  for
Transcor was a condition of disbursement
for the transport component.
Actual                            Complied    with.    Consequently    the
disbursements were not delayed.
15.         TransDort Sector Investments.   The President's Report projected to
invest a total of US$1.73 million for the improvement of the transport sector.
During project implementation, all programmed credits were used as projected
except Transcor's US$0.15 million. The following table indicates projected and
actual use of transport sector investments.
Amount USS million                          Investment
Prolected    Actual
1.10         0.94        Purchase  of  new  vehicles,  including  buses,
minibuses, pickups, spare parts, tires, workshop
equipment for both Transcor (US$0.56 million) and
private sector (US$0.54 million);
0.33         0.33        Technical  assistance and spare parts  for the
Ministry of Public Works for road maintenance;
0.20         0.20        Construction of new workshop for Transcor; and
0.10         0.10        Technical assistance to strengthen Transcor's
management unit.
1.73         1.57
16.         Energv Sector Policy Measures.        The project included a set of
policy measures and reforms designed to promote a higher sectoral economic and
operational efficiency.   The following table indicates the details of the
projected and actually implemented actions:



6
Proi./Actual        Date                 Actions
a) Projected       Dec. 31, 1989      Electra  to  implement   new  accounting,
inventory management and control system;
Actual          Dec. 31, 1989      Through technical assistance,  significant
improvements   were   made   in   Electra's
accounting,   inventory   management   and
control systems; however, the auditors were
still not able to certify Electra's 1992
financial statements; much remains to be
done in terms of accounting and management
procedures
b) Projected    Dec.31, 1989/92       Electra to reduce receivables to an average
level of five months of electric power
sales in Dec.31,1989 and provide a plan to
reduce them to the level of three months by
December 31, 1992;
Actual         Not complied        Electra  did  not  comply  to  either  five
months   or   three   months   levels   of
receivables due to unpaid bills mainly from
public sector customers; As of Dec.31,
1993, the receivables were still at a 7.69
month level;
c) Projected         General          Electra to  implement measures  needed to
reduce power losses;
Actual                             Electra successfully implemented technical
measures which reduced power losses from
21-22% to 14-16%. Further loss reduction
should be encouraged to reach the industry
standard level of about 8-10% ;
d) Projected         General          Government to implement the recommendations
of the power sector master plan and power
tariff studies;
Actual                             The power sector master plan was sent to
the Bank in January 1993 and is being
implemented; the draft of the electricity
and water tariff study was sent to the Bank
in January 1994.
17.         Energv Sector Investments.    The project proposed to spend a total
of US$2.74 million in order to reduce the power transmission losses and improve
the management of the sector. During project implementation, all the resources
were used as projected. Overall, despite some setbacks, the physical
implementation of the sector's investments as well as the technical assistance
services were satisfactory, except for the output of the new diesel power
generating group of 1250 kVA in the island of Sal. The new generator could not
give more than 60-70% of its capacity due to technical construction deficiencies
which were acknowledged by the supplier. The compensation form and package is now
under discussion. Also, the extension and rehabilitation of the distribution
lines, in particular at Mindelo, is being implemented as projected. Assembly work
of the equipment for Mindelo has been be completed. Based on the new equipment
and technical assistance, the electricity distribution losses already decreased
from 22% in 1987 to 15% in 1992. This level could even go lower to industry
standards of 8-10% in 1994 and beyond.



7
18.         The President's Report had also projected that Electra would acquire
computer software and hardware in order to improve its management information and
accounting systems, particularly the management of client accounts. This was
expected  to  result  in  a reduction  of  receivables  that  would  facilitate
improvements of Electra's financial situation. The company did not proceed with
the acquisition of these facilities.
19.         Procurement.        At the outset of the project, Transcor and Electra
were unfamiliar with IDA procurement procedures. This resulted in some delays.
Procurement of vehicles, spare parts, materials and workshop equipment with
respect to each contract costing the equivalent of US$100,000 or more followed
special procedures under IDA credits. Miscellaneous equipment, tools and vehicles
costing the equivalent of less than US$100,000 for a total of US$1.0 million were
procured after receipt of quotations from a minimum of three suppliers from at
least two different geographical locations. Procurement by the private sector was
in accordance with procedures followed by the Bank of Cape Verde (BCV). Contracts
for amounts over US$100,000 equivalent were subject to prior review by the Bank.
Consultants and technical assistance personnel, financed by IDA, were appointed
in accordance with the Bank group guidelines. At the beginning, the procurement
and consulting services were slow but later, with the help of IDA, this problem
disappeared.  No  other  major  procurement  problems  were  identified  in the
supervision reports.
20.         Project Costs.    The  total  cost  of  the  project,   including
contingencies, was estimated at US$5.1 million (SDR3.8 million), of which US$4.7
million (SDR3.5 million) represented foreign exchange cost and US$0.40 million
(about SDRO.3 million) local cost. The Transport component of the project
represented 34% (US$1.73 million) of the total while the Power component 53.7%
(US$2.74 million) and the physical and price contingencies amounted to 12.3%
(US$0.63 million). The estimated cost and actual implementation of the project
is given in Part III-4B. The actual costs of the project were about 13 % less
than the projected costs mainly because the physical and price contingencies were
lower than expected at the time of project appraisal.
21.         Project Financing.       The estimated cost of the project was US$5.1
million (SDR3.8 million). The project involved a total credit of US$4.7 million
(equivalent of SDR3.5 million at the time of appraisal), to be utilized by
Transcor, Electra, the Ministry of Public Works and the Private Sector Transport
Operators. The IDA credit represented 92% of the project financing, the remaining
8% (US$0.4 million or about SDRO.3 million) was projected to be financed by the
Government. The actual project financing was conform to the projections; however,
because the price and physical contingencies were high (14% of the project cost)
and the use of contingencies was not needed, the project was able to reach its
main objectives without using the Government financing part.
22.         Disbursements.    Because  the  project  covered  two  sectors  and
financed essentially imports of vehicles, materials and equipment,  existing
disbursement profiles were not used. The credit was projected to be fully
disbursed by December 31, 1991 but a late start and a change in the country's
Government somewhat delayed the disbursements. Estimated and actual IDA
disbursements were as follows:



8
USS Million/IDA Fiscal Year
Estimated IDA disbursements: 1989   1990        1991   1992  1993   1994
Annual                          1.3      2.8     0.4      0.2     -    -
Cumulative                      1.3     4.1      4.5      4.7     -    -
Actual IDA disbursements (as of May 27, 1994):
Annual                          0.5      1.0     1.4      1.0    0.3   0.1
Cumulative                      0.5      1.5     2.9      3.9    4.1   4.2
23.         In 1989 and 1990, the slow pace of disbursements was essentially due
to the hectic political climate and the elections which led to the installation
of a new Government in March 1991. Although most of the project objectives have
now been reached, a small part of the credit (SDRO.260 million) is still
undisbursed and will be cancelled.
VI.          Project Results
24.         Despite some shortcomings in terms of policy reforms, project design
and organization, it is fair to say that the project has reached its main
objectives.
25.         Transport Sector.         In the transport sector, the policy measures
implemented, the investments made and the management reforms carried out together
with the technical assistance provided, resulted in a greater management
effectiveness in the institutions. Also, there is no doubt that the acquisition
of necessary materials for the maintenance of roads and transportation vehicles
and the line of credit for small private transport operators, increased the use
of existing road capacity and services of private operators in the sector.
Indeed, the passenger traffic was higher than appraisal projections (5.5 million
vs. 4.8 million in 1990). The same passenger traffic increased to 7.0 million in
1992 (27% increase in two years, between 1990 and 1992).
26.         On the other hand, IDA's conditionalities on tariff increases and
audit requirements have been implemented with certain delays. The main reason for
delays in auditing was the administration's lack of experience and familiarity
with IDA procedures. Delays in tariff increases, however, were essentially due
to the local emphasis on "social" pricing for transport services. More frequent
supervision missions as well as more front loaded conditionalities might have
produced better results.
27.         Because of the postponement of the credit effectiveness, which was
due to a delay in complying with the effectiveness conditionalities, some agreed
actions were postponed accordingly. Some other actions were complied on time
while others were partially or never complied with. For example, while the
investments and policy actions as well as the measures to strengthen Transcor's
management have been successfully completed, the preparation and application of
the legal documents by the local authorities for the regulation of the private
sector activities have recently been finalized with delay. In practice, however,
entrance barriers into business have been abolished earlier and the private
sector operators are actually in operation and competing with Transcor.
Acquisition of the necessary materials for the maintenance of the roads and
technical assistance for the Ministry of Public Works have been successfully
implemented.



9
28.         The Credit Agreement specified that, every year, the annual programs
and budgets of the road transport sector should be prepared and discussed with
the Bank. During the negotiations of the recent Transport and Infrastructure
project,  the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport has submitted these
documents to the Bank for the period of 1993-1996.
29.         Concerning the license delivery for the private road transport
activities,  the Bank underlined that clarifications should be made in the
following areas: (i) the attributions and responsibilities of the Division of
Road Transport (Direction des Transports Terrestres); and (ii) the criteria for
license delivery which should be limited to only security aspects of the
activities.  The mission that visited Cape Verde in April 1994 discussed the
matter with the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. It was informed that
a study would be undertaken to define the criteria to be applied for license
delivery and that, thereafter, the function would be delegated to the
Municipalities.
30.         The Credit Agreement specifies that, during the life of the project,
the audit reports of Transcor and Electra as well as the reports for components
A2 (road maintenance by Ministry of Public Works) and A3 of the project (credit
line for small private transport operators) should be sent to the Bank each year,
within a six-month period after the end of the fiscal year. In general, the audit
reports were not sent on time. The reports for Transcor and Electra concerning
FY91 were sent to the Bank at the end of FY92 with a six month delay and the
reports for FY92 were sent with a five month delay. Even worse, the audit reports
for component A2 and A3 were never submitted on time by BCV which, according to
Section 4.01 of the Development Credit Agreement, was responsible for the
preparation of these reports. This incompliance was due to the fact that the
function of BCV in that respect was not adequately reflected in the subsidiary
agreement between the Government and BCV. Early supervision missions did not pay
sufficient attention to the preparation of these audit reports. A December 1992
supervision mission requested BCV to prepare and submit these audit reports to
the Bank as soon as possible. The Bank has now received the audit reports up to
and including FY92 for component A2 but the reports for component A3 have not
been sent yet.
31.         The latest audit reports underline that the financial situation of
Transcor is in the process of rapid deterioration. The accumulated losses of the
last three years put the future of the enterprise in danger unless the Government
infuse a new supplemental capital for its survival. It is also important to
underline that Transcor's financial statements could not be certified because its
legal form/status has not been clearly established.
32.         Power sector.      The Power component of the project has, also,
generally reached its main objectives. However, it is important to underline here
the steady deterioration of Electra's financial situation essentially, due to
high cost of water and power production, lack of appropriate tariff adjustments
(same price of electricity since 1988; ECV14.8/kWh), subsidies to the water
consumption and a high level of customers arrears (six-month or more) in
particular with the public sector customers.
33.         In order to reduce these problems,  two important studies were
financed under the credit: (i) the power sector development masterplan, which was
sent to the Bank in January 1993; and (ii) the electricity and water tariff
study, which was sent, in draft, to the Bank in January 1994 (the final version
is to be sent to the Bank in July 1994).   They provide a useful basis to
understand the basic problems of the sector and give the Bank the opportunity to
discuss with the Government the development of an appropriate strategy for the
country and sector.
34.         In addition, the supervision mission that visited Cape Verde in April
1994 was informed that the two following studies, which are likely to result into



10
important actions for the development of the power sector, are being carried out:
(i) the restructuration of Electra (within the framework of the Privatization of
Public Enterprises project); and (ii) the preparation of a new legal and
regulatory framework for the generation and distribution of electricity.
35.         As of the end of the project, the overall situation of the power
sector and Electra is as follows:
-     power generation has increased by 12% in 1992 and 9.4% in 1993
-     in  order  to  satisfy  this  increasing  demand,  Electra's
generating and distributing capacity is being expanded;
-     the distribution system, particularly in Mindelo, has been
extended and rehabilitated; as a result the technical losses
decreased significantly;
-     there have been improvement in technical performance of its
personnel and administration;
-     Electra's    financial    situation    is   precarious    and
deteriorating (mediocre results in FY91 and ECV74 million
losses in 1992);
VII.         Pro-ect Sustainability
36.         The project,  through its technical  assistance,  programming and
management  capacity  building  components,  is expected  to  perform  benefits
throughout its economic life and beyond.
37.         As Electra, Transcor and the newly created private sector operators
are servicing more and more clients and the demand for transportation and power
consumption is constantly increasing, the project is assuring its sustainability
even beyond its economic life through efficiency improvement in programming and
management capabilities in the sectors.
38.         The impact of the technical assistance iB very encouraging in the
management of roads and transportation as well as the loss reduction in power
distribution.
39.         Lessons Learned.  The main lesson learned from the review of this
project is that project design should be tailored to the institutions'
implementation capacity. The shortcomings in the project design, its lack of
performance indicators and data base made it imperative that timely field
supervision missions be carried out. However, probably due to its small size
(USS 4.7 million IDA credit) and cost factor, the project had only four main
field supervision missions. A certain amount of supervision took place within the
context of other missions and most of the supervision updates were carried out
from Washington. In addition, the duality of the project and its being split
between two divisions (at the beginning of implementation) did not help
supervision performance. Some implementation problems such as the use of initial
deposit in BCV's special account, the high level of Electra's receivables, delay
in electric and water tariff studies can easily be traced to insufficient field
supervision and lack of communication. Also, insufficient definition of functions
and responsibilities of the institutions involved contributed to implementation
problems of the project. Timely, well prepared, field supervision are definitely
a prerequisite for successful project implementation.
40.         The project experienced implementation problems which were partially
the result of an inadequate institutional arrangement, a changing political
environment and especially the lack of experience on the part of the local
officials. As mentioned in various PCRs, many IDA projects have encountered
similar difficulties. The solution, for the project, would probably have been to
hire a project manager, with an in-depth knowledge of the functioning of the
Government and its institutions as well as IDA's procedures, who would coordinate



11
the various project components and serve as a bridge between the Government and
the Bank. The availability of such a manager who can issue timely "warnings"
during project implementation can not only increase the level of performance but
also help capacity building through on-the-job training.
41.         The President Report was not detailed enough to give sufficient data
to compare projections with actual results. In certain important components, such
as petroleum savings, loss reduction in power distribution, productivity
increases, it was difficult to compare the implementation results with
projections, because projections as well as the actual data were non existent for
some of the project components. In addition, the lack of a data base and key
performance indicators in the project design have created difficulties in
preparing supervision as well as project completion reports.
42.         Furthermore, technical assistance and investment components have to
incorporate some key measures by which supervision teams can evaluate the
implementation process and the quality of technical assistance. The main
objective of this project was to increase the efficiency and productivity of the
sectors but the project, as documented, did not give an adequate basis for
critical assessment of whether, and to what extent, the objectives of efficiency
and technical assistance were being met.
43.         In order to ensure the implementation of key policy actions or
covenants, the project agreement needed to integrate and relate the
implementation of these actions to investment financing or disbursement. Indeed,
in Cape Verde, the socially sensitive electricity and water tariffs did not
change for more than 5 years. The financial position of Electra is deteriorating,
but it is still subsidizing the water sector. The same is true in reducing the
level of Electra's receivables which were supposed to be at a three months level
before December 1991 but still remains at the level of six months.
44.         During project implementation, it became clear that the institutions
involved (Transcor, Electra and BCV) did not have any experience dealing with
World Bank's procedures, including the preparation of the subsidiary agreements
(because of this the project's signature was delayed), the use of special
accounts (BCV did not know how to use it), procurement procedures (delayed many
procurement) and audit reports (importance was not appreciated and compliance was
lengthy).  As a result,  the implementation of the project was substantially
delayed. This could be prevented by organizing appropriate seminars for the staff
of the institutions involved in project implementation and by close field
supervision and monitoring of the project.
VIII.       Bank Performance.
45.         It is important, in reviewing the performance of the project, to
place it the context in which it was developed. On the basis of the project
documentation, it is clear that the initial project concept and objective of the
appraisal mission that followed was to help support Cape Verde's balance of
payment. However, in the field, the appraisal mission did not find sufficient
justification to develop a project geared specifically toward balance of payment
support. In the context of the 1987 Bank reorganization and the change of task
manager at that time, the project objective quickly changed into infrastructure,
energy and technical assistance support without the thorough preparation that
normally goes with the traditional investment operations of the Bank.
46.         Through the implementation of the Infrastructure Rehabilitation and
Technical Assistance Project, the Bank has made a significant contribution to the
physical, technological and institutional development of the transport and power
sectors. However, while the preparation of the project was conceptually sound in
its attempt at integrating the objective of efficiency increase in these sectors
with institution and program strengthening, limits in the country's absorptive
capacity made progress and development slower than expected.



12
47.         The project had two main components in two different sectors,i.e
transport and infrastructure. Even though, the AF5IE Division was responsible for
the project, the transport component was supervised by the Infrastructure
Division. At the beginning, this duality created some supervision coordination
and data collection difficulties but at a later stage the problem was solved.
48.         The performance of the Bank from identification through completion
of the project was rather satisfactory. However, probably due to the small size
of the project (only US$4.7 million IDA credit) and political changes in the
country,  the field supervision missions were rather limited.   Indeed, the
available documents indicate that, the Bank had only four important field
supervision missions for this project. The smaller supervision missions of 1-4
days were used mostly to update the project and were combined with other tasks.
The supervision reports did not include key performance indicators, comparative
and quantitative analysis due to lack of information and unreliable data in the
sectors involved. Indeed, one of the main objectives of the project was exactly
to create this analytical capacity through a more effective management and the
development of a reliable database.
IX.         Borrower Performance.
49.         The Borrower,  the Republic of Cape Verde,  overall,  supervised
adequately the implementation of the project by the beneficiaries which included
Transcor, Electra, the Ministry of Public Works and Private Sector Transport
Operators. The Borrower and IDA generally seemed to be in agreement on critical
issues such as increasing the management performance of Transcor through
technical assistance, liberalizing road transport, increasing the technical
performance of Electra, implementing a loss reduction program in power
distribution, reducing Electra's receivables and improving its financial
performance.
50.         However, as mentioned in the risk analysis in the President's Report,
potential reluctance of the Government and the public sector companies to carry
out politically and socially sensitive reforms, including removal of subsidies
were more difficult and time consuming than projected. This risk factor, however,
was reduced by the interest of the Government to assure IDA's continued
involvement in the transport and power sectors. Indeed, the new Transport and
Infrastructure Project (US$78.4 million) of February 1993, assures this
continuity not only with the Bank but also with the entire donor's community
through the Bank's aid coordination.
51.         The beneficiaries (Transcor, Electra and BCV) had some difficulty in
complying with agreed covenants. There were delays in obtaining audited and
unaudited reports from Electra and BCV, not only because of the lack of
experience in the subject but also because of a lack of understanding in the
requirements of the project (A2 and A3 components of the project). In addition,
as there is no registered auditing firm in the Country, all auditing tasks must
be done by costly foreign firms. This creates some reluctance in the preparation
of audit reports. The FY91 and FY92 audit reports of Transcor came late and the
financial statements could not be certified because the legal status of Transcor
has not yet been clearly established. The FY92 audit reports were sent to the
Bank with a five-month delay. All these problems suggests that the project design
seems to have overestimated the absorptive capacity of the borrower but also
underestimated the hidden impact of elections and major political changes in the
country.
X.          Proiect Relationship.
52.         The Bank's relationship with the Government, Transcor, Electra and
BCV has been excellent. The good relationship has continued with new projects



13
such as the Public Enterprises Privatization project and the Transport and
Infrastructure project for which new Credits Agreements were recently signed
between the Bank and the Republic of Cape Verde.
XI.         Consultants Services.
53.         Supervision reports and interviews do not indicate any significant
problems with consultant performance in relation with their terms of reference
and contracts.
XII.        Prolect Documentation and Data.
54.         The project's legal agreements adequately reflected the objectives
of the project. However, the President Report did not provide any key performance
indicators or quantitative and analytical information for comparison between
expected and actual results. For example, the President Report indicated, in one
sentence, that the economic rate of return of the new workshop and road
maintenance component would exceed 25% without giving any other information as
to how this rate of return was calculated. As a result, in certain important
components, it was impossible to compare the implementation results with
projections such as petroleum savings, loss reduction in power distribution,
productivity increases, etc. In addition, the lack of a data base and key
performance indicators in the project design have created difficulties in
preparing supervision as well as the Project Completion Report.
55.         Neither the Government nor beneficiary institutions have sent, on a
regular basis, quarterly or annual progress reports or budgets. All information
for the preparation of this PCR have been based on the President's and
supervision reports and the correspondence between the Government, beneficiaries
and the Bank.



14
PROJECT CPLKTION REPORT
CAPE VERDE
IIFRASTRUCTURE REHABILIT&TlON AMD
TECEEICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1954-CV)
PAST II. PROJECT REVIEW FRCI BORROMK' S PERSPECTIVE
The Borrower but did not submit Part II.



15
PART III.- STATISTICAL INFORMATION
CAPE VERDE
Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Technical Assistance Proiect
(Credit 1954-CV)
1) Status of Bank Groun operations in Cape Verde and related Bank Credits
Credit number      Fiscal  Borro-    Purpose            Amount in US Million        Closing
Year   wer                                                     date
Bank       IDA     Undieb.
1.) CR 1322-CV      1983   Cape        Praia Port       -        9.26      3.66    0630/88
(credit closed)             Verde
2.) CR 1579-CV      1985   Cape        Industrial       -        4.00      0.32    12/31/92
Verde     fin.&
Verde__ _  _Prom._
3.) CR 1853-CV      1988   Cape        Primary          -        4.20      1.05    06/30/94
Verde     Education
4.) CR 1954         1989   Cape        Infrast.         -        4.70      0.60    12/31/93
_Verde     Rehab.
5.) CR 2377-CV      1992   Cape        Privatizati               4.20      2.41    06/30/97
Verde     on P.E.
6.) CR 2266 CV      1993   Cape        Transport &      _       12.90      7.24    06/30/98
Verde     Infrastruct
___ ___ _  _ ___ ___ ure
Total                                                           39.26
- of which
repaid                                                           0.00
Total                                                                      20.31
Undisbursed
2) Prolect timetable
Item            Date       Date         Date actual
Planned    Revised
Identification                              April 87
Preparation                                 June 87
Appraisal                                   April 88
Negociation                                 August 88
Board Approval                              September 8, 1988
Credit Signature                            October 13, 1988
Credit                 12/88                March 21, 1989
Effectiveness
Credit Closing         12/91      12/93    December 31, 1993
Credit Completion      12/92                December 31, 1993



16
3.) Credit Disbursement Schedule
IDA                 Appraisal                    Actual (As of 06/15/93)
Fiscal
year
US$          Cumul.    % Cumul.        USS        Cumul.     % Cumul.
Million                              Million
1989        1.3         1.3         28%         0.5          0.5         11%
1990        2.8         4.1         87%         1.0          1.5         32%
1991        0.4         4.5         96%         1.4          2.9         62%
1992        0.2         4.7         100         1.0          3.9         83%
1993                                            0.3          4.1         89%
1994                                            0.1          4.4         94%
SDR                US $
Original Amount :               3,500,000          4,700,000
Less disbursed                  3.239.734          4.420.000
To be disbursed :                260,275             380,000



17
4) Pro-ect Cost and Financing
A) Pro-ect cost;
Expenditures from credit by component/ category;
a_____ ______ ______ ___ _"US    $   million,
Estimated cost (1)        Projection             Actual
Loc.  For.   Tot.    Loc  For.   Tot.
1. Transport
sector
(a) Purchase of
vehicles, spare
parts, tires and       0.03   0.53  0.56   0.00   0.41  0.41
workshop equipment
(i ) Transcor
(ii) Private     0.02   0.52  0.54   0.00   0.52  0.52
Sector
(b) Spare parts and
equipment              0.03   0.30  0.33   0.00   0.30  0.30
for
maintenance of
roads
(c) new workshop      0.05   0.15  0.20   0.00   0.23  0.23
for Transcor
(d) Strengtening of
Transcor's             0.00   0.10  0.10   0.00   0.30  0.30
management                              _
Sub total -           0.13   1.60  1.73   0.00   1.76  1.76
TransDort
2. Power sector
(a) Distribution
materiel, including
transformers,
conductors, meters,
vehicles and other    0.15   1.90  2.05   0.00   1.90  1.90
equipment
(b) Generating unit
and spare parts        0.05   0.19  0.24   0.00   0.19  0.19
(c) Technical
assistance training   0.00   0.45  0.45   0.00   0.57  0.57
and studies
Sub total Power        0.20   2.54  2.74   0.00   2.66  2.66
Base cost              0.33   4.14  4.47   0.00   4.42  4.42
Physical               0.04   0.40  0.44   0.00   0.00  0.00
Contengencies
Prices                 0.03   0.16  0.19   0.00   0.00  0.00
Contengencies
Total Project Cost    0.40   4.70  5.10   0.00   4.42  4.42
(1):  Project is exempt from taxes and duties



18
B: Proiect Financinq
Proiect      Actual
Government      0.40         0.00
IDA           4.70          4.42
Total           5.10         4.42



19
5. Prolect results
A. Direct Benefits
Indicator                Before project              After project
l.Electricityloss during               22%             15%
the distribution (% of
production)
2.Petroleum saving in                   -              Estimated, 15-20%
power generation                                       savings compared to the
same amount of
generation before the
project.
3. Power generation           31,008 MWh in (1988)    54,131 MWh (in 1993)
increase
4. Electricity sales         21, 044 MWh in (1988)    37,474 MWh (in 1993)
increase
5. Availability of the                 85%              90 %
bus fleet
6. Busses in the fleet                 20              26
7. Traffic passengers       4.34 million ( in 1988)   7.74 million in 1993
B. Economic impact
Economic impact                 project                     Actual
Economic rate of return:
Workshop and Road
maintenance components.             over 25%                      n.a.
C. Studies
Studies                    Purpose                 Impact of study
1)  Electricity Master    Overall   evaluation  of  Long term perspective
Plan                       the      power      sector  supply and demand
development program         analysis and investment
program
2) Power and water            Identify appropriate    Set new tariff which
tariff study                   tariff levels and        insure full cost
eliminate subsides.      recovery



20
6.     Status of Covenants
A)   Trsrt Componet
Agreement      Section    Status     Original     Revised          Description of             Comments
Date         Date              Covenant
Credit        3.05a      OK       12/31/89                      Rescind Transcor
(Tnnsport)                                                           monopoly
3.05a      OK       12/31/89                     Eliminate Transcor
subsidies
3.05b      OK       12/31/89                      Eliminate restric-
tive licencing
3.05c      ACT       3/31/89      6/30/93        Draft performance      Under the P.E.
contract of Trans-    privatization project
sent to IDA        (Cr.2237-CV), study
for privatization of
Transcor soon
3.05d      ACT      12/31/89      6/30/93        Signing of Transcor        Same as 3.05c
Perform. Contract
3.06       OK       6/30/89                     Abrogate and repla-    Study needed to define
ce Law 1633 of 1966     technical criteria for
Public Transport
authorization licences
(security criteria); see
also 3.05b above
4.01      ACT        Every       6/30/93          Audit report for      - A3 audit report sent to
year-June                   pas A2 and A3 of        the Bank;
the project (MOP      - A2 audit report not
and BCV)           yet received
4.02      ACT       9/30/89                      Restructure Trans-    Tariff were ad-
cor's Tariff      justed in 1991
and 1992, but a new
adjustment is needed to
insure full cost recovery
Project        3.04      ACT       6/30/89    11/30/90          Transcor Strategic         Same as 3.05d
plan sent to W)A             above
4.01       OK       6/30/93                      Audit report FY92     Sent Nov. 1993



zi
6.     Status of Covenants
B.   Power Sector Component
Agreement      Section    Status    Original     Revised           Description of            Comments
Date        Date              Covenant
Credit        4.03a               12/31/89                     Reduce Electra re-     Not complied with.
(Power)      and          ACT                              ceivables to 5             As of 12/31/1993,
4.03b                                        months and maintain       receivable reached 7
such level                months of billing.
4.03c               12/31/92                 Reduce Electra re-        Same 4.03a and
ceivables to 3            4.03b
months
Project       2.06a      OK        12/31/89    12/31/92    Complete and submit
2.06b                                        Power Sector Master
Plan
2.06c      OK        3/31/89                 Complete and submit
Power and Water
Tariff study
3.03      ACT                               Electra to take out        Auditors indicated
and maintain appro-       that fixed assets
priate insurance          insurance is insuf-
policies                  ficient (cov. ratio is
only 39%)
3.04a      OK                                Electra to complete       FY92 Audit report
and review with IDA       provides a lot of
accounting, inven-        recommendations for
and                                        tory management and        improving Electra's
control studies and       management capacity
3.04b                                        implement recommen.
4.01b               6/30/93                  Audit report for          Complied with delay
FY92                      (Feb. 93)
4.02a               12/31/89                 Electra to reduce recei-  Not complied with
and                                         vables to 5 months (89);    (See 4.03a above)
4.02b               12/31/92                 then to 3 months (92)



22
7. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff inputs
Task                           input (Staff-Weeks)
Project Preparation                    21.4
Project Appraisal                      16.3
Loan Negotiation                        5.6
Project Supervision                    40.6
P C R                                   95
Total                                  934
B. Missions
Project    Month/yea  Number of  Days in    special.   Perform    Type of
cycle                  persons    field        (a)          (b)        problems
(C)
Through    IDA's first identification mission went to Cape  Verde in April
appraisal  1987. Appraisal mission took place in June 1987. The project was
prepared in six months and the signature of the agreement was in
Identif.   October 1988 and the credit became effective in March 1989
Prepar.
Preapprai
Appraisal
Supervis
Superv. 1  04/89        1           1          LO           2           2
Superv. 2  03/90        3          8           LO;EC;E    2             I; PR
Superv. 3  06/90        1          0           LO           2
Superv. 4  07/90        1          0           LO          2
Superv. 5  10/91       2            5          LO; EC; E  2             I; PR
Superv. 6  11/91        1           1          E           2
Superv. 7  12/92       2           12          E; FA       2            I
PCR         04/94       1           10         1           2
PS: 18 out 23 supervision mission's updates were revising character, conducted
from Washington.
(a) E: Engineer; LO: Loan Officer; FA: Financial Analyst;
EC: Economist.
(b) 1- No or minor problem;   2- Moderate problem;   3- Major problem.
(c) I: Implementation delays; PR: Procurement Problems and delays.



