Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCUIL USE ONLY
RRPUt No. P-4749-CV
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 3.5 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
FOR AN
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
August 19, 1988
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of July 1988)
Currency Unit = CV Escudo
US$1 = CV Esc. 69.30
CV Esc. 1 million = US$14,430
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
One Kilovolt (kV)                      2   1000 Volts
One Megawatt (MW)                      =   1000 Kilowatts (kW)
One Gigawatt hour (GWh)                =   1 million kilowatt hours (kWh)
One barrel (bbl)                           0.16 cubic meter
One ton of oil equivalent (toe)            About 7 bbl of crude oil
One meter (m)                          =   3.28 feet (ft.)
1 kilometer (km)                       =   0.62 mile (mi.)
1 metric ton (t)                       =   2.205 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCV       =         Bank of Cape Verde
ELECTRA   =         National Power Company
ILO       =         International Labor Organization
INIT      =         National Institute of Technological Research
MIE       =         Ministry of Industry and Energy
MPW                 Ministry of Public Works
TRANSCOR  =         National Transport Company
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMFCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers             The Republic of Cape Verde
Beneficiaries:        Transcor
Electra
Ministry of Public Works
Private Sector Transport Operators
Amount:               SDR 3.5 million (US$4.7 million equivalent)
Terms:                Standard, with 40 years maturity
Relending Terms:    The Government would relend 12? of the credit
(US$0.6 million) to Transcor at the prevailing Bank
interest rate for 12 years including 2 years of grace
and 491 of the credit (US$2.3 million) to Electra at
the prevailing Bank interest rate (currently 7.592) for
25 years including 5 yearr of grace. Transcor and
Electra would bear the foreign exchange risk on that
amount of the Credit. An amount of US $0.9 million
equivalent (19Z of the Credit) to finance technical
assistance, studies, a workshop, and training would be
passed on to Transcor and Electra as Government equity.
US$ Million
Financing Plan:       Government                  0.4
IDA                        4.7
5.1
Economic Rate of Return: Over 25? on the new workshop and road maintenance
components
Staff Appraisal Report: Not applicable
MAP: IBRD: 20561
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank a"thorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO TH.i REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
FOR AN INTRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        The following Memorandum and Recommendation on a proposed development
credit to the Republic of Cape Verde for SDR 3.5 million (US$4.7 million
equivalent) is submitted for approval. The proposed credit would be on
standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity and help finance an infrastructure
rehabilitation and technical assistance project.
Background
2.        TransPort.  Cape Verde comprises ten small islands scattered within a
radius of about 100 miles and has a population of 350,000. Transport plays an
essential role in facilitating the movement of people and goods, and fostering
the economic integration of the islands. The productivity of the transport
sector, however,is low because of weak management, over-staffing, outdated
regulations, and controlled prices. The Government has recognized the
importance of increased sectoral efficiency for the economy and has requested
Bank assistance. In the port subsector, IDA Is financing the Praia Port
Project that has strongly contributed to improved port management, particularly
in the areas of accounting and maintenance.
3.        Assistance is also needed in the short term to increase the
efficiency of road transport and to strengthen the Government's road
maintenance capabilities. Land transport operates under archaic and restrictive
regulations that have given the rights to exclusive operation for transport of
passengers in two of the most populated islands to a public company (Transcor)
and have limited private sector access to transport of passengers in other
islands as well as freight transport in general. Promoting competition implies
rescinding Transcor's special status on the islands of Santiago and
Sao Vincente. At the same time, Transcor will need to be strengthened to make
it more efficient and capable of competing with the private sector. Transcor's
management has improved in recent years, but it faces a number of problems,
such as insufficient fleet size, low fares, Government interference, lack of
spare parts and the limited capacity of its workshop, which need to be
addressed.
4.        The highway network of some 940 km is sufficiently developed to
accommodate the road transport needs of the country. However, regular
maintenance of the network is not carried out for lack of expertise, spare
parts and materials, leading to a gradual deterioration of the sizeable capital
investment in the road system. This is of particular importance given that the
topography of the islands makes road construction difficult and costly.
5.        Electric Power.  Electricity, which relies totally on imported
petroleum fuels, plays an essential role in the country, especially in the
production of water (through desalination), which is perhaps Cape Verde's
scarcest natural resource and is a major bottleneck to the country's
development. Cape Verde, however, will only now be preparing a master plan for
the power and water sectors with financing from the Project Preparation
Facility and from the proposed credit. The master plan will determine the
optimal power generation and water production and distribution systems for each
of the islands, taking into account different generation methods using diesel,
steam and gas turbines as well as wind energy and geothermal energy sources.



- 2 -
6.        Before undertaking large investments in the power and water sectors,
however, there is a need to strengthen the local utility, Electra. It is
currently operating at an overall loss and is being subsidized by the
Government. Electra does not keep separate accounts for its water and power
operations, but because of the high cost of water production, it is believed
that power operations are subsidizing water activities. With Italian technical
assistance, it has reviewed its accounting, inventory management, and control
systems and has designed new systems which will separate the accounting of
power and water operations. Electra now needs technical assistance in
implementing the new systems, in reducing its accounts receivables which
accounted for about six months of sales and reducing its very high technical
and non-technical power losses from their current level of 38Z to more normal
levels of 12-15Z. Similarly, water losses need to be reduced and a water
supply project is currently under preparation that would aim at reducing the
high losses and promote efficient utilization of the country's water resources,
through rational pricing of services. With an advance from the Project
Preparation Facility, a tariff study for the water sector is currently being
implemented. A similar study for the power sector will be undertaken under the
proposed project.
7.        Rationale for IDA Involvement.  Faced with overwlelming natural odds
against it, the Government of Cape Verde has managed its economy prudently and
has persistently expressed its interest in obtaining IDA's advice and financial
support. IDA is financing studies in the water and power sectors that would
lead to a definition of investment programs and policies. The proposed project
would further IDA's current development strategy for Cape Verde which
emphasizes institution building, a greater role for the private sector, aid
co-ordination and direct investments to high priority projects .
8.        Project Objectives.  The main objectives of the project are to
improve the efficiency of the transportation and power sectors, support private
sector development, strengthen local institutions, examine the possibility of
developing indigenous sources of energy, and preserve the capital investment
already made in the country's road network.
9.        Project Description.  The project comprises elements of policy reform
as well as investment. Policy reforms would focus on modification of the
institutional framework to eliminate the restrictive regulations in the
transport sector, and support rationalization of transport and power tariffs,
including eliminating any subsidies and price controls. On the investment
side, the project would make foreign exchange available to finance purchase of
buses, vehicles and spare parts for Transcor and the private sector plus
construction of a new workshop for Transcor. The project would also finance
the purchase of transformers, conductors, meters and other equipment including
generating equipment for reducing losses and rehabilitating Electra's plant.
In addition, the project would finance urgently needed technical assistance and
studies to help strengthen Transcor and Electra, as well as the road
maintenance unit in the Ministry of Public Works in areas of management
information and planning.
10.       The project, to be implemented over 3 years, is estimated to cost
US$ 5.1 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$4.7
million (92Z). A breakdown of costs and the financing plan are shown in
Schedule A. Amounts and methods of procurement and disbursement, and
disbursement schedule are shown in Schedule B. A timetable of key project
processing events and the status of Bank Group Operations in Cape Verde are
given in Schedules C and D, respectively. A map is also attached. More



detailed information on the proposed project is provided in Annex I and
contained in the documents listed in Annex II.
11.       Agreed Actions.  The Government has agreed on the following
actions: (a) effectively eliminate Transcor's status as exclusive land
transport operator in Praia and San Vincente and Government subsidies to it not
later than December 31, 1989; (b) eliminate all Government control of prices in
the land transport industry by June 30, 1989, except for the taxi service
industry; (c) prepare a corporate strategic plan covering the next five years
and a management information system to cor'rol costs not later than June 30,
1989; (d) prepare and furnish to the Association for its review a draft
performance contract between the Government and Transcor not later than
September 30, 1989; (e) sign a performance contract between the Government and
Transcor acceptable to the Association not later than December 31, 1989; (f)
design and implement all actions needed to improve Transcor's management,
including restructuring of its tariffs not later than September 30, 1989; (g)
eliminate restrictive government licensing practices in the transport sector,
except those justified on technical and safety grounds by June 30, 1989; (h)
submit annually to the Association for review and comment the draft work
program and budget for operation of the equipment used for road maintenance
works; (i) implement a new accounting, inventory management and control system
for Electra by December 31, 1989; (j) reduce receivables of Electra to an
average level of five months of electric power sales not later than December
31, 1989, and provide a plan by that date to reduce them to a level of three
months by December 31, 1992; (k) implement measures needed to reduce power
losses; (1) implement the recommendations of the power sector master plan and
power tariff studies; and (m) utilize funds in the counterpart fund account to
finance part of the recurrent or capital costs of priority projects in the
transport sector. The recruitment of technical assistance for Transcor will be
a condition of disbursement for the transport component.
12.       Benefits.  The main benefits expected from the project are: (i)
substantial reduction in the need to import petroleum products for the power
sector; (ii) reduction in the costs of power generation and increasing
reliability of the system; (iii) higher availability rate of equipment and
longer economic life of vehicles; (iv) reduced costs of road reconstruction;
(v) reduced vehicle operating costs; (vi) greater autonomy and enhanced
capabilities of the public companies, Transcor and Electra; and, (vii)
increased productivity and effectiveness of the Ministry of Public Works to
maintain the large and costly investments made in the road sector.
13.       Risks. The main risk of the project would be the reluctance of the
Government and public sector companies to carry out reforms that may be
politically difficult, including the removal of subsidies. The Government is
already in the process of realizing the benefits of some of these reforms and
IDA's continued involvement in the transport and power sectors should ensure
that this risk will be minimized.
14.       Recommendation.  I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the
Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
August 19, 1988



- 4 -                                Schedule A
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
ESTIMATED COST AND FINANCING PLAN
Estimated Costs                                           Local        Foreign       Total
-------- (USI Million) ---------
1.  The Transport Sector /
(a) Purchase of vehicles, spare parts,
tires and workshop equipment
(1) Transcor                                9.08          0,68          0.58
(ii) Private Sect*r                         0902           0.52          0.54
(b) Spare parts and equipment for
maintenance of roads                           09.9           0.30          0.33
(c)  Now workshop for Transcor                       0.95          0.15          0.20
(d) Strongthening of Transcor's management           0.00          9.19          0.10
Sub Total - Transport                      0.18          1.89           1.73
2.  The Power Sector
(a) Distribution material, including
transformers, conductors,
moters, vehicles and other equipment V          0.15          1.90          2.05
(b) Generating unit and spore parts                  9.os          9.19          0.24
(c) Technical Assistance, Training and Studies       9.00          0.46          0.46
Sub Total - Power                                        2.250 ?4      2.74
Bse" Coste                                      0.38          4.14          4.47
Physical Contensgneis                          0.04          0.40          0.44
Price Contengencies                             0.08          0.16          0.19
Total Project Cost                         0.40          4.70          5.10
_m    =  
Financins Plan                     USS Million
Governmont                         0.4
IDA                                4.7
TOTAL                        5.1
1/ Projeet is exempt from taxes and duties.
2/ Exact components to be financed will be known once the lose reduction study
is completed. (See Annex 1, para. 17).



-5-
Schedule B
page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PROCUREMENT METHODS AND DISBURSEMENT
PROCUREMENT METHODS
Project Element                                     USS Million                      Total
ICe         LCB           ot0or (1)       Cost
1. The Transport Sector
(a) Material, equipment, workshop,   0.50                        0.18           0.68
and buses (Transcor)             (0.47)                     (0.12)          (0.59)
(b) Spare perts and equipment for                                0.87           0.87
Road Msintenance                                            (0.36)          (0.35)
(c) Civil Works (Workshop)                        6.28                          0.23
(0.17)                        (0.17)
(d) Material, equipment and                   O.68                              0.68
vehicles (Private seeor)                                    (0.69)          (0.59)
(e) Technical Assistance                                         0.12           0.12
(0.12)         (0.12)
Sub Total                  0.50         0.28           1.25           1.98
(0.47)      (0.17)         (1.16)         (1.92)
2. The Power Sector
(a) Material, equipment and
Vehicles                          2.10                       0.47           2.57
(1.91)                     (0.44)         (2.85)
(b) Spare POrt                                                   0.00           0.08
(0.04)         (0.04)
(c) Technical Aseistance and Studies                             0.49           0.49
(0.49)         (0.49)
2.10                       1.02           8.12
Sub Tot al                 (1.1)                      (0.97)         (2.80)
2.60        0.28           2.27           5.10
TOTAL                      (2.80)      (0.17)         (2.15)         (4.70)
(a) Figures In paranthese donote IDA financing.
(1) Items procured under 'Other^ Includes vehicles, equipment and spare part, and items
procured by the private sector. Lots of homogenous material estimated to
cost less than USS100,000 for a total of USS1.0 million will be packaged and procured by
international and local shopping after receipt of quotations from a minimum of at least
three suppliers from at least two different geographical locations.



-6-
Schedule B
Page 2 of 2
DISBURSEMENTS
Z of Expenditures to be
CATEGORY                          AMOUNT        financed by IDA Credit
(US $ Million)
1. The Transport Sector
(a) Material, Equipment,
Spare parts and
Vehicles (Transcor)       0.53         1002 of foreign expenditures
(b) Materials and Spare
parts for MPW             0.30         100Z of foreign expenditures
Cc) Civil Works               0.15          75? of total expenditures
sd) Technical Assistance    0.10           100? of total expenditures
(e) Material, Equipment
Spare parts and
Vehicles
(Private Sector)         0.52         100'   of foreign expenditures
2. The Power Sector
(a) Material, Equipment,
Spare parts, and
Vehicles                  2.09         100? of foreign expenditures
(b) Technical Assistance    0.45           100? of total expenditures
3. Unallocated                     0.56
TOTAL                    4.70
IDA Fiscal Year
Estimated IDA Disbursements                    89       90        91      92
------- (US$ Million)------
Annual                                         1.3      2.8      0.4     0.2
Cumulative                                     1.3      4.1      4.5     4.7



-7-
Schedule C
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Timetable of Key Proiect Processing Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare:                         Six months
(b)  Prepared by:                                   Government and IDA
(c)  First IDA Mission:                             April  1987
(d)  Appraisal Mission Departure:                   June 1987
(e)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:                 December 1988
(f)  List of Relevant Documents:                    None



Schedule D
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CAPE 'JEi*E
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1988)
US$ Million
(Net of Cancellation)
Fiscal Year                                                   Closing
Credit No.   of Approval  Purpose                  IDA 1/  Undisbursed      Date
1322-CV        83         Praia Port               9.26      3.66          06-30-88
1579-CV        85         Industrial Finance
and Promotion       5.67       4.83          12-31-91
1853-CV        88         Primary Education        4.55      4.55          06-30-94
Total  (Net Approved)             19.48
of which has been repaid         00.13
Total now-outstanding             19.35
Total undisbursed                            13.04
1/ The approved, cancellation, and disbursed amounts as taken from accounting
have been converted to their US$ equivalents based on the current exchange
rate.



-9-
Annex 1
Page 1 of 8
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
A. Project Background and Description
I.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
1.        Cape Verde comprises ten small islands scattered within a radius of
about 100 miles and has a population of 350,000. Nine of those islands are
inhabited. Settlement of the Cape Verdean islands includes two major urban
concentrations at Praia, the nation's capital, and Mindelo, the commercial
center, various small towns on the highway network of each island, agricultural
settlements in the few fertile valleys, and isolated fishing villages. The
transport sector has an essential role to play in facilitating the movement of
people and goods, and fostering the economic integration of the islands.
2.        The productivity of the transport sector, however, is low because of
weak management, over-staffing, outdated regulations, and controlled prices.
The Government has recognized the importance of increased sectoral efficiency
for the economy and has requested Bank assistance.  In the port subsector, IDA
is financing technical assistance under the Praia Port Project that has
strongly contributed to improved port management, particularly in the areas of
accounting and maintenance.  More assistance is needed, however, and a second
transport project that would address issues such as boosting productivity,
strengthening planning capabilities and restructuring pricing policies,
particularly in the port, shipping and airline sub-sectors, is now under
preparation.
3.                 In -he short term, technical assistance, spare parts and
materials are also ne ded by the road transport industry. Road transport faces
two major sets of problems: (a) archaic and restrictive regulations that have
given the rights to exclusive operation for transport of passengers in two of
the main islands of Santiago and Sao Vicente to a public company (Transcor),
*         and not allowed market forces to operate in the other islands as well as in the
business of freight transport; and (b) the large backlog of road maintenance
works due to a lack of expertise, spare parts and materials.
4.        Although, Transcor's management has improved in recent years, it
faces a r.umber of problems ranging from insufficient fleet size, poor vehicle
specifications, low fares, lack of cost accounting and management information
systems, and Government interference. Its operations are also hampered by a
lack of spare parts and the very limited capacity of its existing workshop. A
new workshop and spare parts are needed to maintain equipment in operating
condition and renewal of equipment is a condition to contain costs. The
investments involved are modest and the economic rates of return exceed 25Z.
The replacement of the older buses would further contribute to the financial
rehabilitation of Transcor. Assuming an expansion in private sector
involvement in the sector and a moderate 5 percent annual increase in demand



- 10 -                   Annex 1
Page 2 of 8
for services, it is estimated that Transcor will need 14 buses over the period
of 1988 - 1993. The financial projections show that it would earn a 9.42
return on its fixed assets in 1988 rising to 132 in 1993, provided tariffs are
increased in 1988 and adjusted thereafter at a level needed to maintain an
operating ratio below 0.9 and a debt-equity ratio of not higher than 30/70.
Promoting competition would also be needed to make public transportation more
responsive to needs which implies rescinding of Transcor's rights to exclusive
operation and strengthening of its management to make it more efficient and
capable of competing with private sector. Hence, agreement was reached on the
following: (a) effective elimination of Transcor's status as exclusive operator
in Praia and San Vincente and Government subsidies to it not later than
December 31, 1989; (b) preparation of a corporate strategic plan covering the
next five years and a management information system to control costs not later
than June 30, 1989; (c) prepare and furnish to the Association for its review a
draft performance contract between the Government and Transcor not later than
September 0, 1989; (d) sign a performance contract between the Government and
Transcor acceptable to the Association not later than December 31. 1989, which
will establish performance targets, including an operating ratio no higher than
0.9 and a debt-equity ratio of 30/70, and provision for ainual revaluation of
fixed assets based on a methodology to be agreed with the Association; and (e)
design and implement all actions needed to improve Transcor's management,
including restructuring of its tariffs not later than September 30, 1989. The
recruitment of technical assistance for Transcor will be a condition of
disbursement for the transport component.
5.        At the same time, the private sector should be encouraged to play a
role in the development of transport services. The current framework provides
for: (i) licensing of operators by the general directorate of land transport;
(ii) limitations of one vehicle per licensee; (iii) allocation of licenses by
administrative units and by areas; and (iv) the control of transport prices by
Government. The rationale underlying the policy is to protect transport
operators against excessive competition and users against overpricing, to keep
job opportunities for those living outside the main urban areas of each island
and to maintain acceptable standards of comfort. The system, however,
generates inefficiencies. Hence, agreement was reached on elimination of the
system of restrictive government licensing practices in the transport sector,
except those justified on technical or safety grounds, by June 30, 1989, and
except for taxi service, elimination of all Government control of prices in the
land transport industry by the same date. Creating conditions for fair
competition would imply the elimination of Transcor's subsidies amounting to CV
Esc 12.5 million in 1986 and budgeted for CV sc 8 million in 1987.
6.        The Ministry of Public Works (MPW) constructs and maintains the
highway network. The topographic features make road construction difficult and
costly. Nevertheless, the highway network of some 940 km is sufficiently
deve'--ped to accommodate transport needs and there is not much justification
for extension of this network at the present time. Highway maintenance, on the
other hand, needs to be organized to protect the sizeable capital investment
made in the subsector (road construction costs vary from US $150,000 to US
$500,000 per km, depending on the terrain). With ILO assistance, successful
labor intensive road programs have been initiated although progress and cost



- 11 -
Annex 1
Page 3 of 8
control have sometimes been impaired by low availability of complementary
equipment and spares. Consequently, MPW has been unable to keep pace with
maintenance needs, creating a backlog of works that should be handled. Because
many components of the network are now 20 years old or more, there will be
increasing needs for periodic and routine maintenance for which a specific
organization must be set up, and for which technical assistance, equipment
rehabilitation and spare parts would be needed. The organization will begin
setting up the database for road maintenance planning and measure vehicle
operating costs which is not done at the present time. Agreement was reached
that the Government would submit annually to the Association for review and
comment the draft work program and budget for operation of the equipment used
for road maintenance works.
II. THE ENERGY SECTOR
(i) Energy Resources and Consumntion
7.        Cape Verde's domestic energy resources consist of biomass (fuelwood,
charcoal, and agriculture residues), wind, geothermal and solar energy. At the
present time, only firewood and biomass for household energy is exploited on a
significant scale. This consumption, however, has put severe pressure on the
country's sparse vegetation cover and it is now estimated that 701 of the total
area of the islands is wasteland. In spite of the impressive progress achieved
in the Government's afforestation program, the country's maximum firewood
production potential will not be sufficient to meet demand.
8.        The wind regime in Cape Verde appears to fulfill most of the
conditions necessary for use of this resource. The wind is strong, with an
yearly mean wind speed of approximately 7 m/s and largely (951 of the time)
from a single direction (Northeast). Tests carried out over a six year period
confirms the potential for the use of wind energy to produce electricity.
Consultants are preparing an investment proposal that is likely to be financed
by DANIDA.
9.        Another less important potential source of energy for power
generation is the exploitation of geothermal resources on one of the less
populated islands (Fogo). A Swedish group initiated a program of drilling
stratigraphic wells to investigate the resource, but the program was abandoned.
Iceland has now indicated its interest in assisting with evaluation of this
resource, but no formal steps have been taken so far.
10.       Outside of the traditional fuels, Cape Verde's energy requirements
are met entirely by imported petroleum products. In 1984, domestic consumption
of petroleum products was 40,000 tons, rising rapidly from 32,000 in 1980 and
accounting for an increasing share of foreign exchange earnings. The major
fuel users are water desalination plants (142), power generation (14X),
transportation (44X), industry and agriculture (10S) and the residential and
commercial sector (18S).



- 12 -
Annex 1
Page 4 of 8
(ii) Energy Sector Organization, Policy and Pricing
11.       The overall institutional framework for the sector is adequate.  The
Ministry of Industry and Energy (MIE) is charged with the planning of supply
and distribution of petroleum products, electric power, water desalination, new
and renewable energy sources, energy conservation and pricing. It has two
major agencies reporting to it: (i) Electra, a government-owned electric power
utility; and, (ii) the National Institute for Technology Research (INIT) which
is responsible for the transfer and adaptation of available technologies in the
field of wind power generation, geothermal energy, biogas and solar energy.
12.       The Government's objectives for the sector, as outlined in its Second
5-year Economic Development Plan (1986-1990), are to: (i) minimize the economic
cost of energy and increase the reliability of its supply; (ii) combat
desertification; (iii) reduce external dependence by developing domestic
resources; and (iv) promote the conservation of energy. These objectives can
be met by increasing the efficiency of energy use, through improvements in the
power plants and distribution networks, popularizing the use of fuel efficient
stoves and promoting alternative household fuels, such as LPG and kerosene. On
the supply side, efforts need to concentrate on the development of the
country's energy resources, the most important of which is firewood but also
include wind, solar, and geothermal resources. With the assistance of the
Bank-UNDP Energy Sector Management Assistance Program (ESMAP), a study is
currently underway that would define a strategy for the household energy
sector. The results of this study ^Aill be discussed with IDA and a plan of
implementation will follow based on this study.
13.       The Government as a matter of policy does not favor subsidies for
commercial energy. The CIF price of petroleum products is high in Cape Verde
due to the large costs associated with the transport and handling of small
volumes. Retail prices of petroleum products are set at a level that appear to
reasonably reflect economic costs. In the power sector, tariffs were last
increased in 1985 and the average tariff was about US$0.19/kwh, with domestic
customers paying US$0.24/kwh, which is relatively high.
(iii) The Power Sector
Existing Electricity Supply Facilities
14.       Electra, the power utility in Cape Verde, was created in 1982 and is
responsible for power and water production and distribution in Praia, the
capital, on the island of Santiago, Mindelo on the island of Sao Vicente and
the island of Sal. In terms of its technical operations, Electra appears to be
well staffed. Electra operates three diesel plants in Praia, Mindelo and Sal
with a total installed capacity of about 14 MW. In addition, Electra operates
a steam turbine plant at Mindelo with a capacity of 715 kW. Since some of the
islands do not have standby capacity, Electra has problems maintaining or
rehabilitating its generators. Also, operating out of its headquarters in
Mindelo, Electra has the difficult task of providing technical services to some
14 municipalities and towns that generate and distribute power locally using
small diesel generator sets. The total capacity operated by the municipalities



- 13 -
Annex 1
Page 5 of 8
amount to about 2.3 MW. Private generation by large consumers amounts to
1.9 MW. Large commercial installations, such as Sal International Airport and
Hotel Morabeza in Sal have their own power plants. Given the absence of ground
water in Sal and Mindelo, Electra operates a desalination plant in each of
these islands.
Power Sector Planning and Development
15.       Electricity production and sales in Cape Verde have been growing
rapidly and represent a large share of petroleum used in the country. In 1987,
electricity sales amounted to nearly 22 GWH or more than 3 times the amount
sold in 1981. About 752 of total electricity used is by the residential and
commercial sector and the rest by industry. The demand for electricity still
exceeds the available supply as reflected in the waiting lists for connections
and the relatively low numbers of connections (1 per 10 inhabitants in Praia
and Mindelo, and 1 per 31 inhabitants on a country-wide basis). Electricity
plays an essential role in the production of water which is perhaps Cape
Verde's scarcest resource and a major bottleneck to the country's development.
Yet, there is no master plan and investments in the sector have followed a
haphazard pattern based on the availability of funds from donors. There is an
urgent need for a power master plan that would determine the optimal power
generation and water production and distribution systems taking into account
not only different generation methods using diesel, steam and gas turbines but
also the wind and geothermal energy sources.
16.       An advance from the Project Preparation Facility was made in August
1987 that is financing the preparation of a master plan for the water supply
sector. Also, funds have been included in the proposed project to finance a
power master plan. The power master plan will be combined with the water
supply master plan to investigate the economics of steam turbine plants in the
islands with water shortage. Terms of reference for the master plans have
been agreed with the Government and the studies are expected to be initiated
shortly. During negotiations agreement was reached that the results and
recommendations of the power master plan will be discussed with IDA before
being implemented.
Electra
17.       At the end of 1987, Electra had 248 employees. There is a need to
strengthen Electra so that it can undertake the large projects envisaged for
the power and water sectors. Since its establishment, Electra's accumulation
of losses has eroded its share capital, but since most of its expansion was
financed through Government contributions (originating from foreign grants),
Electra's ratio of debt to equity remains very comfortable at 18/82. The high
level of accounts receivable, which at the end of 1987 accounted for about 6
months of electricity and water sales, is partly because of delays in payment
by Government agencies and partly because of a weak commercial department.
Electra is in need of a corporate development plan and a strategy with regard
to its finances. Electra is currently operating at an overall loss and is being
subsidized by the Government. Although Electra does not keep separate accounts
for its water and power operations, because of the high cost of water



- 14 -
Annex 1
Page 6 of 8
production, it is believed that power operations are subsidizing water
operations. With Italian technical assistance, Electra has reviewed its
accounting, inventory management, and control systems and has designed new
systems which will separate the accounting of power and water operations.
Electra now needs technical assistance in implementing the new systems, and in
reducing its very high technical and non-technical power losses. Indeed the
most economical way to increase electricity supply to the major centers and, at
the same time, to reduce its cost is by improving the efficiency of power
generation and reducing the losses between generation and sales from their
current level of 38Z to more normal levels of 12-152. A water supply project
is currently under preparation that would also aim at reducing the high water
losses and promote efficient allocation and utilization of the country's water
resource through rational pricing of services. Similarly, loss reduction and
tariff studies both for the power and water sectors will be undertaken. During
negotiations, agreement was reached that the results and recommendations of the
power studies will be discussed with IDA prior to their being implemented.
Agreement was also reached that the Government and Electra will reduce
receivables of Electra to an average level of five months of sales of electric
power not later than December 31, 1989, and provide a plan by that date to
reduce them to a level of three months by December 31, 1992.
III. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The Transport Sector
18.       The project aims at removing some of the obstacles to greater
efficiency of land transport through: (i) a modification of the institutional
framework to eliminate the restrictive regulations that go against efficiency
and to permit private sector participation; (ii) rescinding Transcor's
exclusive right to operate in some of the islands and, at the same time,
strengthen Transcor's management to make it more efficient and capable of
competing with the new private transporters; and (iii) helping strengthen the
road maintenance organization.
The Power Sector
19.       The objectives of the power component are to: (i) improve the
efficiency of the energy sector; (ii)reduce costs of electricity ; (iii)
promote indigenous sources of energy; and (iv) strengthen local institutions
within the energy sector.
IV. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Transport.
20.       The following will be provided for in the transport sector:
(i) purchase of new vehicles, including buses, minibuses and
pickups, spare parts, tires and workshop equipment for both
Transcor and the private sector;



- 15 -
Annex 1
Page 7 of 8
(ii) technical assistance and spare parts for the Ministry of
Public Works for road maintenance;
(iii) construction of a new workshop for Transcor; and
(iv) technical assistance to strengthen Transcor's management.
Power
21.       The following would be provided for in the power sector:
(i) purchase of transformers, conductors, meters, vehicles, and
other materials and equipment needed to reduce losses;
(ii) purchase of a generating unit, spare parts and materials that
would permit the rehabilitation and maintenance of existing
units; and
(iii) technical assistance, power master plan, tariff studies and
training to strengthen Electra.
B. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
(a)   Proiect Execution and Credit Administration
22.       Project implementation will be the responsibility of the Ministry of
Public Works and Transcor for the transport component and Electra, for the
power component.   Part of the proceeds of the proposed credit in foreign
exchange to be used by private operators in the transport sector in exchange
for Escudos would be made available as a grant to the Banco de Cape Verde (BCV)
under a subsidiary agreement between the Borrower and BCV with BCV having
overall responsibility for administration of those funds. Only goods for the
transport sector would be eligible. Local currency counterpart funds generated
by the sale of foreign exchange provided by the Credit would be deposited into
a counterpart fund account in the BCV. Agreement was reached that those funds
would be utilized to finance part of the recurrent or capital costs of priority
projects in the transport sector.  A small project unit will be established in
the Bank of Cape Verde for purposes of project coordination. The completion
date for the project is expected to be June 30, 1991.
(b) Procurement
23.       The procurement arrangements for each of the components are shown in
Schedule B. Procurement of vehicles, spare parts, materials and workshop
equipment with respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$100,000 or more will follow procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA credits (May 1985 edition).
Miscellaneous equipment, tools and vehicles, estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of US $100,000 for a total of US$1.0 million will be packaged and



- 16 -
Annex 1
Page 8 of 8
procured by international and local shopping after receipt of quotations from
at least three or more suppliers from a minimum of two different geographical
locations. Procurement by the private sector will be in accordance with
procedures followed by the Bank of Cape Verde (BCV). Contracts for amounts
over US$100.000 equivalent would be subject to prior review.  Consultants and
technical assistance personnel to be financed by IDA would be appointed in
accordance with Bank group guidelines and would be employed on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA.
(c) Disbursement
24.       Because the project covers two sectors and will essentially finance
imports of vehicles, materials and equipment, existing disbursement profiles
cannot be used. The proposed credit is expected to be disbursed by December
31, 1991. Special accounts will be opened at the BCV where funds would be
deposited. The initial deposits by the Association would be for a total
equivalent to $550,000. Agreement was reached at negotiations with Government
on the respective allocation of the credit proceeds to buses, vehicles and
spare part purchases. The construction cost of the workshop will be financed
retroactively ($200,000). The contract was awarded after the visit of the
appraisal mission and the procedures followed are acceptable to IDA.
(d)   Accounts and Audit
25.       During negotiations, agreement was reached that BCV will maintain
records and separate accounts in respect of the project and have these accounts
and Statements of Expenditures (SOE) audited each fiscal year by auditors
acceptable to the Association. To that effect, BCV will maintain accounting
records and supporting documents that will, in particular,include the import
licenses and proofs of purchase submitted to BCV by the credit beneficiaries.
In addition, under Cape Verdean law, Transcor and Electra's accounts are
certified by the Ministry of Finance. The scope of this audit, however, does
not meet the IDA's auditing standards. Therefore, agreement was reached with
the Government that Transcor and Electra would be required to have all audits
be conducted according to auditing standards satisfactory to and by a qualified
independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The audited accounts and the auditors
report would be submitted to IDA within six months following the end of the
fiscal year.
(e) ReportinR
26.       The BCV will be required to submit quarterly reports on the progress
of project implementation, including the implementation of Transcor's
performance contract. The BCV will prepare the project c3mpletion report.



- 17 -
Annex 2
Republic of Cape Verde
Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Technical Assistance Proiect
Documents Available in the Project File
Reference Nos
1. Empresa Publica de Electricade e Agua, E.P., Relatorio Exercicio,
1985, 1986 and 1987.
2. Empresa Publica de Electricidada e Agua, Orcamento, 1987 and 1988.
3. Electra - Financial Situation - Memo of July 23, 1987.
4. Cape Verde - Issues and Options in the Energy Sector (Energy
Assessment), August 1984.
5. Cape Verde - Second Five Year Economic Development Plan (1986-1990).
6. Assessment of Wind Energy Potential for Electrification in Cape Verde -
Phase I, RISO National Labortory, and UNDP.
7. Bilateral Project between Cape Verde and the Netherlands 'Renewable
Energies' Final Report Phase II, 1981-1984.
8. A note on the power production and fuel savings from the wind turbines
at Praia, Cape Verde Islands, 1985, Riso National Labortory.
9. Reinforcement of Capacity of Palmeira Power Station (Phase II) -
Bidding Documents.
10. Detailed financial and economic evaluation of the transport component -
Memo of November 10, 1987.
11. Estatutos de Electra - April 17, 1982.
12. Decreto - Lei no.11 78 of February 18, 1978 on Public Enterprises.
13. Boletim Ofical - N. 52 - (12-26-1966) - Diploma Legislativo - N. 1633 -
Regulamento de transportes en automoveis.
14. Boletim Ofical - N. 10 (9-10-1975) - Decrete lei 7D/75 (amendment to
diploma legislativo N. 1633).
15. Boletim N. 52 - (12-31-1979) Decreto lei 156179 Creating Transcor.
16. Boletim N. 20 (5-17-1980) Partaria 38180 with Transcor's Statutes.



- 18 -
17. Transcor - Documents de gestao previsional de exercicio, 1987.
18. Transcor - Summary Financial Statements - 1986.
19. Transcor   Projecto de Renonacao ampliada do parque.
20. Transcor - Plano para 1987 - 1990.
21. Cape Verde Transport Sector Review, 1987.



I1RD2056
.    Vila Orcno- °                                                              24-
Itod I0et~,  02od -iiodo
R.ba,o do   , Ci.. 
F   A }  . J   Y     SANT'AN.   A
f!8 0L2V^ANTO ANtAo                                                                     C    A    P    E    V    E    R    D    E
7-  M- N..¢ wodoP6rouoINFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
000M 1  k -                           oonosa                                                                   Road  Transport  and  Electric  Power
MIrNDr     a
~2 _ 00VIs    SAO VICENTE
S60 hdfo <j                                                                                                        rv2;%0s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VA
SANTA LUZIA                                                                                                            hlPedio ,          . L-n.
SAL
Bronco       wab  F - do     SAO NICOLAU                                                                                        1985&VA,
, ro,, SO,~e.~~trO0 : Sn t 0,0.                                                                                  N5p 21 5kVA
t.o o   A  J ro    e r   Lb ~~~~Co,ihrone                                                                         S
14OOVACono
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                    ~
BOA VISTA
O    Ertc d poooro  sting nopentl                                                                                                                           JetoE                     16'-
M..n ports
Other pOrts
Isobot'ns eDetit,i  0in me0i
N.             D Re.ft
Vtrocks
Mai roads
*    Notional copitol
KILOMETERS      t o   20    '0   40       t      e,
0    Towns                               MILES          t-  20                7 0   d    0
Ele-ations 'm meotrs
("~  1000<
3SItVA
o500- 1000                                                                              0        SANTIAGO                                  A- Santo 4a
L.     o-sdood,'I
_ _ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l _  itWeio de                                              Ais<ib4 do Mot         Cottiefto          00.Htt
C-~~~d.M
C.Ihft dMann                  MAIO
Ud.oi, doSoio  25 VA                  V.I. dnto
MAtURITANIA                                                                                                                             P.. tWoototoEss 1,00L
MALt .  'orloKncoo a,
*$t u                                                                                                       von  G                                         *n 0475kVA0 Fin 002nVA  =- n,oo
Forno    Pa..6e                                                      Cidd.4 Cello    PRAIA'" '- 
iron.,  s~~ owotec,  I    ~      740.VA                                                                                                                        riae..Mn0,.
BRAVA                                  Is Ake-io$  4o                                                                                                      it
24B
FEBRUARY 198



