Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1954 CV
(Infrastructure Rehabilitation and
Technical Assistance Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
EMPRESA PUBLICA DE ELECTRICIDADE E AGUA, E.P.
Dated October 13, 1988
CREDIT NUMBER 1954 CV
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 13, 1988, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the  Association) and EMPRESA PUBLICA DE ELECTRICIDADE E AGUA, E.P. (ELECTRA).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Republic of Cape Verde (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has 
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in  various currencies equivalent 
to three million five hundred thousand Special   Drawing Rights (SDR 3,500,000), on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that ELECTRA agree to undertake 
such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the  Borrower 
and ELECTRA, the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the  Development Credit 
Page  2
Agreement will be made available to ELECTRA on the terms and conditions set forth in 
said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS ELECTRA, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake  the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement  and the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ELECTRA declares its commitment to the objectives of the  Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out Part B of the Project with due diligence and efficiency, and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,  engineering, and power and 
energy practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for Part B of the Project, and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of 
the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. ELECTRA shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions  (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,  records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in  respect of this Agreement and Part 
B of the Project.
Section 2.04. ELECTRA shall duly perform all its obligations under the  ELECTRA 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall  otherwise agree, ELECTRA 
shall not take or concur in any action which would  have the effect of amending, 
abrogating, assigning or waiving the ELECTRA  Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) ELECTRA shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of Part B  of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the ELECTRA Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
ELECTRA shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part B of  the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the  performance by ELECTRA of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the ELECTRA Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. ELECTRA shall:
(a)
not later than December 31, 1989, complete and submit to the Association 
the findings of: (i) the power sector master plan; and (ii) the power tariff study;
(b)
exchange views with the Association on said findings; and
 
(c)
promptly thereafter design an investment and tariff strategy based on the 
recommendations arising out of the studies referred to in paragraph  (a) of this 
Section, as agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE III
Page  3
Management and Operations of ELECTRA
Section 3.01. ELECTRA shall carry on its operations and conduct its  affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, power and  energy practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management, assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. ELECTRA shall, at all times, operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in  accordance with sound 
engineering, financial, and power and energy practices.
Section 3.03. ELECTRA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provisions satisfactory to the Association, for insurance against such 
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. ELECTRA shall:
(a)
not later than December 31, 1988, complete and review jointly  with the 
Association the results of the accounting, inventory management and control studies; 
and
(b)
not later than December 31, 1989, carry out those recommendations arising 
out of said studies, as agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) ELECTRA shall maintain records and accounts adequate  to 
reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, its operations and financial 
condition.
(b)
ELECTRA shall, starting in fiscal year 1989:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year:
 
(A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year 
as so 
audited; and
 
(B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and 
in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Section 4.02. ELECTRA shall: (a) not later than December 31, 1989, reduce all 
its receivables in the power sector to an amount not greater than  the equivalent of 
the amount billed for the previous five months; and (b) maintain thereafter the amount 
of said receivables to such level. In addition ELECTRA shall, not later than December 
31, 1989, prepare and  furnish to the Association a plan to: (a) reduce, not later 
than December 31, 1992, all its receivables in the power sector to an amount not 
greater than the equivalent of the amount billed for the previous three months; and  
(b) maintain thereafter the amount of said receivables to such level.
ARTICLE V
Page  4
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
ELECTRA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in 
accordance with its terms; or
 
(ii)
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section,  the 
Association shall promptly notify ELECTRA of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered  by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For ELECTRA:
Empresa Publica de Electricidade
   e Agua, E.P.
Avenida Unidade Africana
No. 10-10 - C.P. 137
Suo Vicente
Cabo Verde
Telex:
3045 ELECTRA
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed under this Agreement on behalf of ELECTRA, may be 
taken or executed by the Director General or such other  person or persons as ELECTRA 
shall designate in writing, and ELECTRA shall furnish to the Association sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the  authenticated specimen signature of each such 
Page  5
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts,  each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as  of the day and year first 
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
EMPRESA PUBLICA DE ELECTRICIDADE E AGUA, E.P.
By /s/ Elisabeth Santos
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more each shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
procedures consistent with those set forth in  Sections I and II of the "Guidelines 
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and  IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 
(the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for vehicles, spare parts, materials and 
equipment shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more each.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Cape Verde may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
International and Local Shopping:
 
Items or groups of items, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the  equivalent of $1,000,000, 
may be procured under contract awarded on the  basis of comparison of price quotations 
solicited from a list of at least  three suppliers from at least two different 
countries eligible under the  Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
Page  6
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of  
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contracts  are to be made out of 
Special Account IV, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that one conformed 
copy of each contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of Special Account IV in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to  the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contracts are to be  made out of Special Account IV, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the conformed copy of each contract 
together with the other information required to be furnished to the Association 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the 
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to the Development 
Credit Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall  not 
apply to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from 
the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section   4.01 (a) (ii) of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist ELECTRA in carrying out Part B of the Project, ELECTRA shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience, and  terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.   Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981. 
