Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFiHIAL. 1SF. ONLY
Report No. 9316
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLTC OF THE COMOROS
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1195-COM)
JANUARY 5, 1990
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department III
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients oniv in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GIOSSARY OF ASBREVIATIONS
PEK         Brevet d'Atudes du prer  .Jcle/firSt cycle dIplVO
88uz        Sureau d execution des projets ddcation/Education
ProCjcts IplOeWntation BrAt
CADER       Centre r6gional d'appui eu devloppsnt rural/legoni al
Cettre for Assistance to Rural Developest
CECI        Centre canadin d'6rudes et de coophratlon
intecnationale/Canadian Centre for Studies and
Internationsi Co-operetion
CEFADEH     Centre fddhrel dappul au daveloppeaent rural/Federal
Centre for Aosistance to Rural Doevlopumnt
CEGCI       Cabinet de consultants cnadifens/Canadisn consulting fire
CFA         Centre de formation agricole/Agricultural Training Centre
ClEf        Certeficat do fin d dtude  prinaires/Prleary school
ceaplteoin certificate
DEPE        Direction de l enseigneant pre-scolilre et
61aentaire/Deparrtent of Pra-School and Elinteary
Education
DFEN        Diplome final dC  IEcole noruale d'instituteure/Prlmary
teach.r-training college diploea (ENR)
EDICEF      Edftions clasuiquas d expresion frtnains/Frnch
classics editors
ENI         Ecole nor-l d inatituteurs/Priary Tscher-Training
College
ENS         Ecole nationale de *antd/Rational He leh School
FAC         Fonds d4Id1. at de cooperation (francLs)/French Aid and
Co-operation Fund
FAO        United Nations Food and Agriculture Organzation
CNP         Cross Natiowl Product
IDA         International Development Aczeciation
UN          I"titut notional ddducatiot/Nationgl Institute of
Education
IPAN        Insticut pddogogiqu  africain at a1gache/African and
Nalagasy Educatioonal Instiute
No          Miniastre de 1l6ductioun natlonle. do 1s culture. de Is
j.unasas at de aports/Nlslstry of National Education.
Culture. Youth nd Sport
RPrMD       Ninlatre de la Production. du dde loppelent rural. de
lfodustrie et de lartLanatjlinfistry of Production.
Rural Derlcpmont. Industry and Crafts
KSAN         iniastira de is Santd publique *t de Is population/
MI'istry of Public Neilth nd Population
NOD         Non-govervental organirAtion
5DR         Speclal dra,ing rights
UMDp        United Nations Deelop ent Pregr  e
UNFPA       United Nations Fund for Population Artivities (Now
VNPP: United Nations Population Fund)
WHO         World Halith Organization
CURBENCY E!QUVALENTS
LocoI currnecys Comodrn franc (PC)
Apprasal Year (March 19811                   IWSS - 230 FC
Project aerage pIDS - 376 FC [l]
CompltLon per  (ntioted)                     1oSS - 286 PC
(il Avrage established on bans of exchange rate La force for
each lt   of e uPerditr.                                                                                                       -
Chenge do 4xahna4, raeet   June             Decebar
1981                     -        IUS$ . 288 FC
1982            IUSS   345 FC    IDSS * 350 PC
1983           I$  3*70 PC       IS - 423 PC
1984            1S * 424 PC       IUS$   479 PC
198IS           IUS   466 PC      IUS$ - 384 PC
1986            IWS - 549 WC    IVSS - 322 FC
1987            IUS - 305 FC      IVS$ - 267 FC
1981            IWS  * 28  C
Average used dn apprasal for the MD  Credit  lWS$ - 230 PC
ISUIAIC FEDEaRL SREPBLIC DP 218 CQIDOS
FIS'AT. YEAR
Januars I - nece-her 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
YVES ROVANI
OPetlos Evaluation
December 28, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros
First Education Proiect (Credit 1195-COM)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Islamic Federal Republic of Comoros - First Education
Project (Credit 1195-COM)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No
audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department
at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents ma f not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FIRST ED'JCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1195-COM)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pate No.
Preface ... ...................................                           L
BasLc Dat**** ........ ......  .......il
Evaluation Sumaary. ..        .....          .... .                     vi
Chapter I - Proiect Generation .......        ....                        1
Country Se                     t    t     i       ng .........1. ............. 
Educational Sector Setting ..... 0.0...  ... ........  ......         1
Project Generatione...........,.............*4**.......               2
Project Descriptionsc........tio............                          3
Chanter II - Proiect Adminlstration and Manasement   ........    5
Chapter III - Project Implementation.............p                        7
Project Duration and Modificationt.....                               7
Physical Implementationp.......... ............8
Technical Assistance .............. ...........                      12
Compliance with the Covenants. v        e    n a n ts ... ....       13
Chapter IV - Costs and Disbursements.............                        18
Project Costs ...........................................   18
Funding Sources. .................         ............. .....   20
Chatter V - IDA Perform fnce        o rm.a n ce*.... ......             22
Project Generation ............. ...................  ......    22
Project Supervisionu   p     e r      v isi.. ..       ....... ..    22
Chalter VI - Proiect Institution Operation Results..............   24
Primary Edc tiou c.....s.......... o..                   n....    24
Agricultural Training Centre.......................... a.......      27
National Health School. ......................... . ..               29
Planning UnLt ........... "... *........ . ............     ...... 31
Key Indicators for Project Objectives and Achievements.......   32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
Its                    be



TABLE OF CONTENTS iCont'd)
Chagter VII - Conclusions and Lessons to be Drawn ...............   36
A.      Conclusions   ..... ........  .......... *............... .  36
Overviewdu.. .to..........      ...................   36
Primary Eductin....t.......o n4*    36
General Remarks.....                                        38
B.    Lessons to be Drawn......   ................... .....    39
ANNEXES
1.   Organizational Chart of the Ministry of National .. .......   41
Education, Culture, Youth and Sports
2.   Number of Pupils, Schools, Classes and Teachers in ........   42
State Primary Education
3.   Results in the Sixth-Grade Entrance Examination from .....   43
1983 to 1987
4.   Graph on Results in the Sixth-Grade Entrance ..............      44
Examination from 1983-1987
5.   Organizational Chart of CEFADER.. .....          .     ........ 45
6.   Project Unit Staff .......... ............................ .  46
7.   Implei.entation Schedule.        .... o ...... . ... ... .... .... .   47
8.   Comparative Table of Surfaces ..... o....... so.............. ..   48
9.   Fellowship Schedule  ............................  49
10.   Technical Assistance          .    ......... ............ ....   50
11.   Original Allocation and Actual Expenditures of Credit..*...   51
12.   Disbursements by Year and by Componentp.....n......
(in FC and in UMS$ .....................................   52
13.   Surface and Construction Unit Costs .................. ......   54
14.   Cumulative Disbursement Schedule .....o ...................   55
15.   Present INE Organizational Chart ..........................so.   57
16.   Upgrading Teacher Courses Organized by INE ................   58
17.   Distribution of Textbooks, Teachers' Manuals and ............   59
Dictionaries Imported from Eurorc by INE
18.   Educational Publications Designed and Produced by INE .....   60
(Training and Course Department) from 1982-1987
19.   Use of the Agricuhltural Training Centre Premises ..........   61
20.   CFA - First and Second Year Timetable ..................   ...   62
21.   National Health School - Student Flow from 1986 to 1989...   63
22.   National Health School - Graduates from 1980 to 1988 ......   64
23.   National Health School - Staff Flow from 1986 to 1989 .....   65
CHART
Organizational Chart of the Ministry of Public Health....    66
and Population



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF COMOROS
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1195-COM)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion (PCR) for the First Education
Project in the Islamic Republic of Comoros, for which Credit 1195-COM in
the amount of US$6.5 million, was approved on February 12, 1982.   The
Credit was closed on March 14, 1989, date of the last disbursement, when
US$250,000 was cancelled.
The PCR was prepared by the UNESCO/World Bank Cooperative Program
and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, Credit Agreement,
supervision reports, correspondence be,;ween the Bank and the Borrower,
internal Bank memoranda, and a UNESCO mission to the Comoros in September
1988.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower on August 7, 1989, for comments by
September 25, 1989, but none were received.



- ii -
BASIC DATA
ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF TRE COMOROS
First Education Proiect No. ' )S-COM
Kev Prolect Data
Appraisal
Estimate       Actual
Total Project Cost
Comorian Francs (million)                   1,496         2,213
Overrun (2) M482
USS (million)                               6.5            5.8
Underrun (2)                                              -11.3
IDA Credit Amount (in US$ million)          6.0            5.7
Disbursed (March 14, 1989)                   _             5.7
Cancelled         (1a)                        -            0.25
Repaid
Outstanding
Date physical components completed       June 1986      May 1987
Proportion completed by atove dates          -             922
Number of months since credit
agreement signature (in months)             48             59
Time overrun (2)                             -             232
Date project completion              December 1986    December 1988
Proportion cumpleted by above dates                        952
Number of months since credit
agreement signature (in months)             54             78
Time overrun (2)                                           442
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(IDA Credit)
(in USS million)
Fiscal Year             1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989
Appraisal Estimate      0.25   1.05   3.30   5.35   5.90   6.00   6.00
Actual (IDA Statements) 0.27   1.42   2.04   4.50   5.00   5.56   5.74
Actual as 2 of
Estimate                1082   1352    612    842    842   93%   952



HISO0 pATA
Mission     Sent by  Month/      (Weeks)  No. of         Staff     Date of
rission               Year                Persons        Weeks     Report
a) PrP.aratio
Sector
Mission      Unesco Jan/Feb. 79 (0.6)  6 (Ar,P,T,Ag.J,C)18 Apr. 79
Reconnais.   Unesco      Aug. 79 (1.3)  2 (E,P)              2.6      8 Sept 79
Identifi-    IDA/        Feb. 80 (1,1)  2 (E,P)             2,3   20 March 80
cation       Unesco
Preparation Unesco   Nov-Dec 80 (4,3)  5 (E,G,Ar,S,Ag)  21,4            Dec. 80
Evaluation  IDA       Jan-Feb.81 (2,9)  5 (E,G,Ar.S,Ag)  14,5    16 Nov. 81
Post-        IDA         June 81 (1,4)  1 (Ag)               1,4    03 Jul. 81
Evaluation
Negotiat.    IDA         Oct. 81 (0,3)                       0,6
Sub-total                          11.9                    60,8
b) Suprvision
Superv.  1  IDA          Apr. 82   1,2  1 (Ar)               1,2    14 July 82
Superv.  2  IDA          Oct. 82   1,5  2 (Ar,Ag)              3    10 Dec. 82
Superv.  3  IDA          Feb. 83   1,1  2 (Ar,P)             2,2      1 Apr. 83
Superv.  4  IDA          Nov. 83   2,7  2 (Ar,P)             5,4     3 Feb. 84
Superv.  5  IDA          Sept.84   1,7  2 (Ar,Ag)            3,4      8 Nov. 84
Superv.  6  IDA          May  85   1,4  3 (Ar,G,P)          4,2    28 June 85
Superv.  7  IDA          Oct. 85   2,4  2 (Ar,G)            4,8    25 Nov. 85
Superv.  8  IDA          July.86   1,5  1 (Ar)               1,5     8 Sept 86
Superv.  9  IDA          Mar. 87   1,3  1 (Ar)               1,3    30 Mir. 87
Superv. 10  IDA          Sept.87   1,7  1 (Ar)               1,7    '19 Oct. 87
Superv. 11  IDA          Mar. 88   0,7  2 (G,E)              1,4    20 May- 88
c) Comletin
Completion  Unesco  Sept 88         2,0  2 (Ar,G)           4,0         May  89
Ar Architect                            P Education Planner
G  General Educator                     S Health Education Specialist
Ag Agricultural Education Sp.           C Mission Coordinator
E   Economist
Estimated time devoted specifically to the First Education Project.



- Iv -
AllocatiQlLofCredit Proceeds (1195-CO
(US$ thousand)
Original
Category                     Allocation as          Actual
of Expendlture           per Credit Agreement   Disbursement
1. Civil works                        1,900               2,586
2. Furniture, vehicles, equipment    655                  1,043
3. Textbooks                            570                  310
4. Technical assistance                 200                  240
5. Profassiot.al services               170                  204
6. In-service training                  620                  991
7. Administration                       270                  182
8. Unallocated                        1,635
Total                             6,020                5,558
Undisbursed (Sept. 68)                                   (46")
Total                             6.020                6,020
STAFF INPUT
(Staff weeks)
78    79   s0    e1       82    8        84    86      86    87     b8   Total
Preappraisl    .1    .8  19.5  88.7    -       -      -      -      -      -      -     47.6
Appraisal         -        -     49.5  10.7    -       -      -      -      -      -     60.2
Nogotiation   -       -    -      -      7.2    -      -      -      -      -      -      7.2
Supervision   -       -    -      -      6.8   15.8  12.8  15.9   7.6    8.6    4.6  66.2
Other         -       -    -       .6    .1    -       -      -      -      -      -       .7
TOTAL          .1    .8  18.5  88.2   24.8   15.6   12.8   15.9   1.6    8.5    4.8  101.9



v 
Other Prolect Data
Original     Amended     Actual
First mention in files              -             -      16/02/77
Government's applicatio             -             -      13/12/80
Negotiations                        -             -   13-15/10/81
Board approval                      -             -      15112/81
Credit Agreement date               -             -      12/02182
Date of effectiveness            11/06182         -      30/07/82
Closing date                     30106187    30/06/88   14/03/89
Borrower                         Islamic Federal Republic of the
Comoros
Executing Agency                 Ministry of National Education,
Culture, Youth and Sport
Fiscal Year of Borrower          I January - 31 December
Follow-on project
Name                                    Second Education Project
Credit number                           1751-CON
Credit amount (US$ million)             7.9
Credit Agreement date                   12/05/87



-vi-
ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1195-COM)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMHARY
objectives
(l)    At the time of appraisal in Jaouary 1981,  the First Education
Project was designed to assist the Governmuent in developing the education
sector as a whole and to supplement aLd providad by other funding sources
in order to meet the educational objectives of the country. The Project
was, more specifically, to: (a) contribute to the qualLtative iVprovemeat
of primary education through the training of teachers, the preparation of
school curricula and the provision of educational material; and (b)
increase qualified labour ava._lable for agriculture and health. The Project
comprised: (i) for primary education, the construction, frnishftg and
equipping of a primary teacher-training Institute (ENI) on the island of
Ant ouan (180 places) and the renovation of an adjacent demostration
primary school (300 places), in-service training for 500 teachers (in the                -
form of a contribution to operating costs and the purchase of equipment
required for such training), the purchase and distribution of textboobs,
pupils' workbooks and teachers' guides for 59,000 pupils and 1,500 teachers
and the granting of fellowships for seven teachers; (il) for agricultural
vocational training, the construction of an agricultural training centra at
Moh4li (40 places) and the granting of fellovships to three agricultural
teachers; and (iii) the construction of a new health school at Moroni (75
places). The Project was modified during implementation: (a) in 1983,
through the decision to establish the-ENI on a larger plot of land in Patai
(island of Anjouan), and (b) by taking a grant originally earmarked for
training agricultural instructors and using it to train civil works staff
for the project unit instead.
Implementation
(ii) The Project was administered by the Education Projects Implementation
Unit (BEPE) which comes under the Ministry of National Education (MM).
This Unit was headed by a director throughout the duration of the project.
Some difficulties were, however, encountered in the recruitment of national
supervisory staff during project implementation, and this affected the
proper functioning of the accounting services, civil works supervision
services and co-ordinatlon with the other ministries involved in  the                    !
project (Ministrie  of Education, Production and Helth).
(iii) Although most of the mears required for developing the planning unlt
liave been secured through the Second Education Project, attention should be
drawn to the excellent results obtained by thls Unit in impliuentation of
the First Project.
(iv) The specialists services agreed at appraisal comprised an architect
(three years), a procurement officer (two years) and a textbook specialist
(three amo Chs) at a total cost of US$470,000. The general standard of
services provided by the consultants and specialists has not given rise to
. -A,_                            -          be



-vii-
Cv) Implementation of the Project was conducted over six years instead of
five as scheduled in the Credit Agreement. The extension can be attributed
essentially to the financial difficulties of the Government which was not
able to make available, in good time, the funds scheduled for the payment
of the local contribution, which resulted in temporary interruption of
construction of the National Health School and a delay of one year in the
launching of invitations to tender for the ENI. It is also attributable to
additional work  including,  in  the  latter phase  of  the  Project,  the
coa.solidation of  the  river banks with a view  to protecting  tho ENI
buildings.
(vi)  The total cost of the project expressed in SD1Rs corresponded to the
scheduled budget as the Project had benefited to a great extent from the
favourable rate of exchange of the Comorian franc (FC) in relation to the
dollar and, consequently, the SDR. As expressed in Comorian francs,. the
total amounted to 48 per cent in excess of that scheduled at the time of
appraisal.
Results
*(vii) The area provided for the National Health School and the
Agricultural Training Centre are approximately  10 per cent less  than
originally planned; moreover, the demonstration school planned for the
teacher-training institute was never built as the Government was! unable to
make its contribution and as the site was changed. With the exception of
the site of the National Health School, the sites initia!ly selected, 'or
which were changed while the tender documents were being prepared as in the
case of the Primary Teacher-Training Inst:itute), are rather remote and
generally give rise to problems of communivation with the institutions to
which they are linked. The overall quality of the buildings is satisfactory
although certair. details were not enhanced through modifications made in
order to reduce costs and not to exceed the total amount earmarked after
the competitive bidding [11. The quality of the furniture and equipment
would seem satisfactory, except for the furniture in the Agricultural
Training Centre that was manufactured locally.
(viiX) Under the terms of the Credit Agreement, fellowships were to be
provided for the training of seven ENR teachers and three CPA teachers at a
total cost of US$150,000. Training at ENI was allocated to four teachers
instead of seven scheduzled a-d to only one teacher at CPA instead of three
scheduled. As only one recipient occupied the relevant post on his return,
the Comorization of the professional staff for the project components is
less advanced than expected.
(11   Changes in the exchange rate of the US dollar (and also the SDRs) in
relation to the local currency resulted in a significant increase in 
building costs expressed in the local currency.



-vili.i-
Sustainabilitv
(ix)     The main impact of this project was  the support it gave to quality
improvement in primary and  secondary  schools;    these components are being
successfully continued and expanded in the second project. If the Government
manages to resolve its current fiscal crisis, all components are likely to be
sustainable with the possible exception of the agricultural Training Center.
This Center was inappropriately located and does not appear to have the full
support of the Ministry of Agriculture.
Lessons Learned
(x)    A number of points similar to those already noted in other projects
funded by the World Bank and IDA emerged from the experience acquired in
the implementation of this First Eduo.ation Project:'
a)    the need at the project design stage for closer attention to the                     |
viability of the project institutions;                                               I
b)    the need for an educator-co-ordinator in the project unit;                           j
c)    the importance of participation during supervision of specialists
covering all the areas connected with the project components; and
d)    detailed and consistent accounting for the project.
It should be noted that all of these points have been taken into
consideration in the Second Education Project of IDA.



ISLAMIC FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF THE COjIORGS
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1195-COM)
PROJECT COMPLETION kEP^RT
Country Seteinc
1.01   In 1980, the population of the Islamic Federal Republic of the
Comoros was estimated at 355,000 inhabitants, 23.3 per cent of whom live in
the towns, for an overall surface area of 1,800 km2. With a per capital
income estimated, in 1979, at US$260, the Republic of the Comoros was
classified among the poorest countries of the world. About 75 per cent of
the active population earned their llving from farming and fLshing.
Agriculture represented theLr only natural resource, while the shortage of
arable land led to rapid deforestation in the upper reaches of the hilly
areas. Furthermore, production methods were, in general, mediocre. Fishing
was conducted in accordance with traditional practices and there were no
known mineral resources. The population density (185 inhabitant per k12
and 325 inhabitants per km2 of arable land) was one of the highest in
Africa. From 1975 to 1980, the estimated population growth rate was 3.7 per
cent per annum and the health and nutritional status of the population wa
low. Inter-island communications were difficult.
EuJcati  sector setting
1.02 Until 1983, the local governments (governorships) of the islands were
responsible for primary and secondary education, including the hiring.
paying and supervision of teachers. As of January 1984, all these functions
were centralized in the capital and now come under the Ministry of National
Education, Culture, Youth and Sport (MEN). The MEN organizational chart may
be found at Annex 1. This Ministry is responsible for overall organization
of the education system and for examinations, curricula, quality control
and planning, as well as teacher training and higher education. The
Ministries of Prod'ition (PROD) and Health (MSAN) control agricultural and
health education respectively, although MEN is responsible for examinations
and the award of certificates in those disciplines. The Civil Service
Secretariat also organizes occasional training for its staff.
1.03   Although enrolment rates and flow rates in the primary education
system are high in comparison with other African countries, the quality of
primary education and student achievement is very low (cf. Annexes 2, 3 and
4). There are high drop-out and repetition rates with approximately 35 per
cent in all cycles for the former and approximately 24 rer cent of total
enrolment for the latter. There are probably two sets of reasons for this
situation. The first set is the dearth of adequate school infrastructure,
untrained and unmotivated teachers, and a shortage of appropriate
textbooks. The second reason might well be the children's poor nutrition
and health, which impede cheir learning capacity.



-2-
1.04 In 1980, the MEN budget accounted for 29 per cent of the total State
expenditure - a high share that wa attributible to the Inefficiencies of
the primary school, the over- generous provision of overseas scholarships,
and the excessively rapid expansion of secondary education, with no
possibility of regrmuping schools and teachers because no school zoning map
cxlsted.
1.05 Since 1979, with technical assistance, the Government has gradually
moved to carry out many of the recoomendations of the education sector
survey completed by Unesco early in 1979. It has established the National
Institute of Education (INE), a secondary teacher-training school, a
primary teacher-training college and a health training school and has
prepared a new administrative structure for the education system. MEN has
also begun radio educatior programmes for in-service teacher upgrading,
introduced school gardens and diversified subjects at the junior secondary
level, all in conjunction with various cost-saving measures.
1.06 In 1980, the Government created, with FAO and UNDP assistance, the
framework for a rural extension ser7iue; the Federal Centre for Assistance
to Rural Development (CEFADER) (Annex 5), assisted by Regional Centres for
Assistance to Rural Development (CADER), provides the structure on which
agricultural development activities are based. The entire rural population
was to be covered by the CADERs to which agricultural extension workers
would be attached. The Government therefore planned from that time to
establish training courses for these extension agents. 
1.07   The IDA lending strategy in education has been to support the
Government's long-term aims of improving the quality of the education
system and to assist in training the vital manpower needed for social and
economic development. An important factor in the implementation of this
strategy has been to reinforce or complement activities of other donor
agencie3 to ensure balanced development of the education system.
Prolect generation
1.08 IDA assistance to the First Education Project was based on a sector
study (11 completed by Unesco in April 1979 and on reconnaissance,
identification and preparation missions spread out between 1979 and the end
of 1980, forming a continuum to the Government dialogue with IDA on the
development of the education/training system. The proposed first project
was appraised in January/February 1981 and the Credit approved in December
1981. The Credit Agreement was signed in February 1982 and became effective
in July 1982. The total project cost was estimated at US$6.5 milllon, of
which IDA was to provide $6 million and the Comoros the remaining $500,000.
[11   Comoros - %L'ducation en perspective    Diagnostic et prioritds".
Unesco, ED/EPP, Paris, April 1979.



-3-
Proect damc
1.09   The Flrst Project was  to assist  the Government  ln  its major
development priorities by improving the quality, efficiency and relevance
of primary education through the tralning of teachers and the provision of
textbooks, teachers' guides and teaching materials. It was also to help
nrovide the manpower essential for the economic and soclal development of
the Comoros through financial support for the construction of two new
training centres, one for agriculture and the other for the para-medical
field.
1.10 The Project consisted of the following:
a)    Primary education
(i)     construction, furnishing and equipping of a teacher-training
school (ENI) with places for about 180 students and a
demonstration primary school adjacent to the training school
with 300 places on Anjouan Island. There were to be 144 places
for ENI boarders;
(ii)    in-service training during the vacation period for 100' under-
qualified or unqualified primary school teachers a year for
five years;
(iii) seven years of fellowships to train seven teachers for the
primary teacher-training college;
(iv) distribution of about 59,000 textbooks to primary school pupils,
locally produced teachers' guides (4,400), student workbooks,
booklets and books suited to the Comorlan context (235,000).
Most of the textbooks would be imported once their content had
been adapted to the African envlronment and the INE would
prepare and print some local textbooks to be used by students
and staff.
(b)   Agricultural training
Mi) construction, furnishing and equipping of an agrlcultural
training centre on the island of Mohdli with teaching and
boarding facilities for about 40 students (including 10 places
for girls);
(ii)   upgrading training for about a hundred MPROD staff per year and
field training for about 500 farmers per year, durLng vacations
and when the CFA students are on supervised work sessions (six
months during their second year of study);
(iii) provision of three one-year fel_.cwships to enable three future
CFA teachers to undergo higher agricultural training abroad.



-4-
(c) Para-medical training
(1) construction, furnishing and equipping of a now para-medical
school in Moroni with capacity for approximately 75 students
and boarding facilities for 50;
(ii) vacation training for about 150 health workers per year.
(d) Education po1icyE follow-up
A less structured component the cost of which was not stated in the
IDA Appralsal Report was the regular dialogue that IDA had to establish
with the appropriate Comorian Government agencies and the establishment of
a system to monitor progress on changes in education policy. This system
was intended to control the growth of education expenditures; the
strengthening of MEN capacity; the development of the planning function;
and the reassessment of the policy of awarding fellowships to higher
education students.



2.01 The Project was administered by the Education Projects Implementation
Unit (BEPE) establlshed by official decree on 21 October 1981 and placed
under the Ministry of National Education. The BEPE was headed by a director
throughout the duration of the project. There were some staffing problems
at the managerial level during project implementation and this affected the
accounting, site monitoring and co-ordinatlon with the other Ministries
involved in the Project (Ministry of Production, Ministry of Health). BEPE
is extending its activities to cover administration of the IDA Second
Education Project and other education development projects financed by the
African Development Bank.
2.02  Implementing the educational aspects of the various components was
entrusted to the appropriate Ministries, as follows:
(a) Ministry of National Education - teacher training and retraining and
the distribution of textbooks;
(b)   Ministry of National Education and later (from May 1985) Ministry of
Production (responsible for rural development, industry and crafts) -
the Agricultural Training Centre at Moheli;
(c)   Hinlstry of Health (responsible for para-medical education) - the
Health School at Moroni.
2.03 The Project Unit staff list, the definition of posts and the duration
of appointment to these posts may be found at Annex 6. The managerial staff
of the accounting department changed three times and the senior accountant
was recruited only in September 1986; moreover, the accounting department
was unmanned for six months from January to June 1984. With the inadequacy
of the accounting service, bookkeeping was unsatisfactory. The local
technician responsible within BEPE for supervising took up his post only in
April 1985 after training on a scholarship.fl1
2.04   Although a committee for co-ordination of the various ministries
involved was established in 1981, project management suffered from the lack
of co-ordination between the Ministry responsible for BEPE and the
Ministries or departments involved in the other project components, once
the civil works were completed.
[1)  This fellowship to France (Lyons) was financed under the Project with
part of a grant earmarked for the training of CFA instructors and by
charging the traineeship costs to fees of the borrower's consulting
firm where the recipient was changed.



6-
2.05  The following problems arose from these weaknesses:
(a)   dlfficulties in launching the activities of the Agricultural Training
Centre as well as problems with the release of the recurrent funds
needed to carry out the activities;
(b)   lack of post-completion follow-up of the work, which would have
identified additional work needed. If this follow-up had been done
quickly, the whole project would have been completed within the time
stated in the Credit Agreement;
(c)   irregular or no preparation of qtarterly reports on the progress of
project implementation.
2.06 The progress of the project was also affected by the many ministerial
reshuffles. There were also occasional differences between the project
director and the Minister in office in 1985-1986.
2.07   These difficulties were all exacerbated by late payment of civil
servants' salaries, which affected the motivation of the project unit
staff. However, it must be stressed thet the BEPE contribution to Project
implementation was satisfactory since, despite the problems, most of the
components contained in the* Agreement were implemented on schedule and
without large cost overruns.
2.08 In conclusion, it would seem that the problems with which the project
had to contend stemmed mainly from tardy decision-making by the Ministry or
Ministries concerned, and the restructuring now taking place in the
Ministry of National Education suggests that future projects will be more
efficiently implemented.



-7
Pro ect duration nd modification
3.01 Owing to the slow progress In producing legal documents, the date of
Credit Effectiveness was eventually achieved six months later than
scheduled. Delays occurred at various stages of implementation ,cf. Annex
7); however, the time lost was usually made up through the efficiency of
BEPE. The Closing Date had to be postponed for additional work to be done
and for the unspent proceeds to be disbursed by the original Project
Closing Date. These proceeds had become available as a result of the
favourable exchange rate of the dollar to the Comorian franc. It should be
stressed, lastly, that what was outstanding of the sum earmarked for
training instructors was usefully allocated to launching that component in
the Second Education Project.
3.02 The delays during implementation and the causes for them were as
follows:
(a)   delay in the launching of the civil works bids for the Health School
and the Primary Teacher-Training College was due to the change of
sites and the Government's difficulties with the payment of its
financing (for the Primary Teacher-Training Institute, ENI);
(b)   late launching of bids for the furniture and equipment, resulted from
the lack of co-ordination between BEPE and the other departments
involved in the project; this delay was doubtless due to the
unsatisfactory outcome of the visit by the first equipment specialist
supplied under technical assistance 1ll;
(c)   delay in work on the Health School after construction was suspended
for several months because the Government could not pay its share of
the financing originally set at 15 per cent of total civil works
costs. For the same reason, the launching of the second bid for
construction of the Primary Teacher-Training College was also delayed
after the first bid had been nullified by the change of site;
(d)   the distribution of textbooks was also delayed because of the lack of
a policy regarding the contribution that families might be asked to
make so that the books might be eventually replaced.
3.03 The building schedules, which on the whole had been worked out prior
to  the  signing  of  the  Credit  Agreement,  underwent  the  following
modifications (cf. Annex 8):
(a)   the addition of a hostel for boarders at the Agricultural Training
Centre;
[11   The first specialist was replaced four months later by another whose
performance was not entirely satisfactory.



-8R
(b)   the gross area of the Health School was slightly reduced so that the
belatedly launched bid should not exceed the appraisal cost; a change
of site; alterations, for reasons of economy, were made to the
architectural plan decided on priLo to the signing of the Agreement;
(c)   the  site  initially  selected  for  the  Primary  Teacher-Training
Institute included two primary school classrooms to be converted for
use as demonstration classes. The change of site cancelled the
conversion component and, consequently, the demonstration classes in
the newly constructed complex as well. Although the area occupied by
the library and the science laboratory was trebled, the final gross
area is smaller than that contained in the Appraisal Report.
Phvsical Orwlementation
sites
3.04   The sites selected for the Health School and the Primary Teacher-
Training College were changed:
(a)   The very steep slope of the site originally selected for the Health
School near the El Maarouf Hospital would have necessitated a
building on several levels, which would have pushed the cost up
considerably. In May 1982, the decision was taken to use another site
occupied by squatters which was recovered in time - at the end of
1983 - for the complex to be built.
(b)  The steep slope on the site originally selected for the Primary
Teacher-Training College would likewise have increased construction
costs; moreover, this tiny site would have been unsuitable for future
expansion. The decision to build the school on another site was taken
even later - in December 1983 - so that the bid had to be cancelled.
The first site, located at Hombo, on the outskirts of Mutsamudu, had
the advantage of proximity to Anjouan's main town and therefore to
the primary schools; the site also contained two classrooms to be
converted for use as demonstration classes. Switching the site for
the Teacher-Training College to Patsi meant that the ENI was several
kilometres further from t.he primary schools, i.e. from potential
demonstration classes.
3.05 The decision to instal each of the three components on each of the
territory's three islands is fully justified in terms of land-use
management policy and respect for regional balance. However, regional
development   is   currently   experiencing   enormous   disparities   in
communication, infrastructure and support facilities, with students and
teachers sometimes unwilling to move away from the towns. This constraint
has had a twofold impact:
(a)   The  Agricultural  Training  Centre  is  experiencing  difficulty  in
finding the outside teachers who were to be employed periodically and
provide practlcal teaching directly linked to the country's needs;



-9-
(b)   The relative  isolation of  Patai,  with  the  additional  transport
problems, makes the ENI loss attractive for students and seriously
jeopardizes teaching in demonstration classes. The impact of this
change of site can be really assessed only after the first intake of
teacher trainees.
Architectural services
3.06   Before  the  signing  of  the  Credit  Agreement  the  preliminary
architectural and technical studies had been entrusted to a French
consulting firm specializing in road construction and public works with an
office operating in Moroni. Once the Bank Group's agreement had been given,
the Government entrusted this consulting firm with the technical and
architectural studies for the preparation of the bidding documents and
monitoring of the progress of construction of the three Project components.
3.07   The arrival in Moroni of the architect whose services had been
scheduled under the Project made it possible to limit the role of the
French civil engineering firm to the supervision of the site and technical
studies, with regard to the construction of the Health School. The firm had
to have its architectural designs .produced in France as it did not have an
architect based in Moroni (the office is headed by a road-construction
engineer); as the architectural plans were produced in France, delays and
misunderstandings arose in the exchange of information between BEPE and the
head office. This situation certainly made it difficult to establish the
steady dialogue needed for the designs to be properly implemented.
3.08 At the start of Project implementation, BEPE had no staff qualified
to cope with the technical side of the civil works. The trairing scheme
initiated shortly after start-up was unable to cover BEPE needs. The
country possesses few professionals trained in this area and they prefer to
work in the private sector which guarantees a steady and sizable income.
3.09     Agricultural  Training  Centre   (Mohdli).   The   teaching  and
administrative premises and the boarding facilities are located in two
single-storey buildings converted for the Project. Four new staff houses
have been built for the director and training personnel.
3.10 The buildings are all alike - a reinforced concrete structure with
concrete block walls and corrugated iron roofs. The houses are of standard
architectural design and resemble other buildings constructed for similar
purposes in the Comoros.
.
3.11 The main physical problem of the CFA is the difficulty in obtaining a
site which is large enough for the practical activities of cultivation
(approximately two hectares). Compensation for acquisition of an initial
site already used by the school has not yet been paid; however, the area is
too small and acquisition of a second adjacent site has to content with the
problem of the misgivings of  the present lease-holders  about whether
compensation will be paid. A plot of at least two hectares would be needed
for the practical activities to provide sufficient experience and make it
virtually self-sufficient in food. IDA had offered to finance the payment
of compensation from the Credit Funds but the Government did not take up
the matter.



10-
3.12    Catioral Health sebool (Horoni). The Health School consists of four
buildins a -ced side by side. The adainistrative building and the
kitchen/refectory block are single-atoreyed, while. the actual classroom
building and the dormitory are both two-storeyed. The buildings are
composed of a reinforced concrete framework filled In with breeze blocks;
the corrugated Iron roof rests on metal trusses and is masked by a high
cantilevered parapet.
3.13 The complex appears to be adequate and to fulfil the functions for
which it was intended. However, the movable partition that divides one
classroom into two does not provide sufficient sound-proofing for classes
to be held in both rooms at the same time. It would also have been
desirable for greater attention to be paid to the outside facilities which
had been plarnned; experience has shown that students' respect for premises
is often linked to the standard of the surroundings.
3.14 Primary Teacher-rainin; Colletge (Anjouan). The school is located on
a huge site suitable for further extension and comprises three sets of
buildings to which three houses have been added for the director and
administrative staff. The two-storey boarders' house has been set slightly
back. The other buildings are single-storeyed except for the administrative
building which has an upper floor in which the library is housed. Since the
school has recently been opened, it was occupied only by the administrative
staff at the time of the mission visit. Several improvements were added
after completion of the building contract; for instance, the site has been
fenced in, a wall has been built for protection against erosion of the
banks of the river that runs alongside, and outside facilities have been
added (sports field, access roads, main gate).
3.15    The  most  disturbing  problem  with  the  ENI  is  the  lack  of  a
demonstration school. With the change in the site, the Institute is several
kilometres further away from potential demonstration schools. During
project generation, there were plans for the Government to build four
primary education classrooms on the site to serve as a demonstration
school; however, because of the budget allocation and the Government
financial constraints, no funds for this construction were available.
External furding was sought from the African Development Bank and the Saudi
Fund but to no avail. The solution being considered is to despatch the ENI
trainees, to the primary schools in Mutsamudu and a minibus has been
purchased for this purpose. This solution may well jeopardize the proper
functioning of the demonstration classes; what is more, the relatively low
school-age pooulation in the vicinity of the ENI does not seem to justify
the establishment of a demonstration school within the ENI precincts.
Gonstruction
3.16 The overall result in respect of the three components is satisfactory
in spite of numerous defects. The swift action of the Bank in July 1988
which authorized the lowering of the Government's financial participation
from  15 per cent  to 5 per cent undoubtedly  warded off any  dramatic
consequence in the progress of project implementation.
3.17   Agricultural Training Centre: All work on the Centre was executed
satisfactorily, considering the difficulty of access to the site and the
supply problems of Mohdli: materials are brought by boat and there is no
wharf; there was a water supply problem when construction began and this
led to a temporary suspension of activities.



-11 -
3.18   The schedule for the work of adapting the CFA buildings did not
include the installation of gutters along all the lLps of the roof, and the
leaks which are already apparent wlll probably reduce the economic life of
the buLldings. In accordance with the reconDendations of the mission that
visited Moroni in June 1988, the Bank displayed considerable flexibility by
agreeing to additional work being conducted as soon as possible, that
cupboards and shelves be Installed and that burglar bars be fitted to the
windows. Furthermore, the construction of the CPA has revealed the
following defects: (i) kitchen facilities that are ill-adapted to local
customs; (ii) inadequate storage facilities; and (iii) a poorly designed
water supply system. Moreover, the electricity supply is subjected to cuts
that are quite frequent and sometimes quite long, and the generator is
already in poor condition as a result of being used too frequently.
*          3.19   National Health School: The ENS has a number of construction faults.
Leaks have appeared in the roof above the ref6ctory which can be attributed
to a building defect; the design of the guttering is not satisfactory;
woodwork has not been adequately protected and is now subject to dry-rot.
Renovation of the roof must be undertaken as soon as possible in order to
prevent leaks above the refectory; it would also be desirable to instal a
suitable separation wall in he dual classroom in order to permit teaching
to be conducted simultaneously in the two rooms when the premises are
partitioned.
3.20 Primary Teacher-Training Colleze: The ENI terrace roofs were the
subject of much discussion; it is a fact that for this type of roofing the
slabs must be carefully waterproofed if it is to be satisfactory in the
Comorian climate. Moreover, the quality of the work of local firms is not
always reliable. The major structural defect of the ENI main building seems
to be the placement of the expansion joints; it would be advisable that the
expansion joints be more judiciously placed. Shallow cracks have already
appeared in the building, showing how important this precaution is. It may
well result, in the long term, in gradual deterioration of the multi-
layered roof slabs and occasional leaks. The des!gn of the boarding
facilities has been considered ill-adapted to needs: (i) no separating wall
between the girls' and the boys' dormitories; (ii) inadequate ventilation
of the premises, (iii) the absence of electricity in the dormitories, (iv)
the kitchen facilities are ill-adapted to local customs and, lastly, the
electrical installations were poorly designed and badly installed. The
consequence of these design faults will mean that it will be impossible to
t;se the boarding facilities which will probably deteriorate rapidly on
account of the humid climate.
Furniure
3.21 The various departments concerned and BEPE, assisted by the Technical
Assistance Experts, prepared master lists of furniture. The procurement was
arranged through competitive bidding. The furniture for the ENI and the ENS
was imported and the quality was acceptable. However, the locally
manufactured furniture delivered to the Agricultural Training Centre has
already deteriorated somewhat and some items already need to be replaced
after being only partially used for less than three years.
3.22 The quality of the furniture appears adequate to judge from what was
observed during the mission visit. However, it must be remembered that the
Agricultural Training Centre is under-enrolled, the boarding facilities of
the Health School are not yet operational and the ENI has not yet received
any students.



- 12 -
3.23   International compaetitive bidding was launched successively for the
equipment for each project component. The lists were prepared by the
persons responsible for each component; neutral specifications were defined
by BEPE in conjunction with the consultant procurement specialist.
3.24   Neither the inventory for the second set of equipment received by
the CPA nor that for all the ENI equipment has yet been drawn up. This task
is, nevertheless, necessary in order that any claims on the suppliers could
be made within the time specified by the guarantee and the transport
insurance.
3.25   The quality of the equipment for the ENS is satisfactory, on the
whole, but will have to be supplemented in order to cope with newly created
training curricula and to compensate for the faulty spare parts for the
minibuses which were received through the IDA "population-health project'.
3.26   The recipients found the equipment generally satisfactory, with the
exception of the following:
(a)   It has not yet been possible to use the dentist's chair at the Health
School since a part of the apparatus has to be modified;
(b)   The equipment in the ENI carpentry workshop is far too sophisticated
for the modest needs of future teachers (a lathe instead of hand
tools); the Ouani crafts traini.ag eentre, which would like to use the
workshop on a part-time basis, would find that the workshop provides
a comprehensive range of tools although as such, the tools are well
above the technological standard of the country. Sophisticated lathes
always pose the problem of maintenance and of training for the person
responsible for them.
Once it has been fully delivered and installed, the equipment for the
Agricultural Training Centre should adequately meet its needs but solutions
have not yet been found to problems of purchasing books for the library.
3.27   The lack of co-ordination between BEPE and the directorate of the
Project institutions and the delay in the inauguration of the ENI resulted
in irregular despatch of the equipment. In future projects, the list of
equipment should be drawn up as soon as the first bid is launched so as to
avoid too many successive requests for equipment which prolong project
implementation unnecessarily. Increased communication betwaen BEPE and the
directorates concerned can achieve this.
WA
Technical assistance
Fellowships
3.28   As regards the fellowships to CPA and ENI teachers, only eight years
were used out of the ten years envisaged in the Credit Agreement (Annex 9).
The indigenization of the senior project staff is less advanced than
ex1pected because the fellowship-holders never occupied the posts intended



- 13 -
3.29   The fellowships were used for (a)  two training courses at the
Teacher-Training School at Saint-Cloud (France) for two years and one year
respectively - the recipients now hold posts of educational inspector aud
pedagogical adviser respectively; (b) one training course at the Teacher.
Training Institute in Lyons (Franc.) for two years - the fellowship-holder
is now a pedagogical adviser; (e) two years at the Institute of Educational
Psychology (IGIA - France) - the fellowship-holder became a member of
Parlieaent; (d) a two-year fellowship to the International Institute of
Farm Produce Management - the recipient is now the Director of Crafts and
Industry at the Ministry of Production; (e) a six-month fellowshlp awarded
to the BEPE quantity surveyor at the Paris head office of the consulting
fiy:m responsible for the bidding documents. These training courses had next
to no iLpact on the training of trainers envisaged at appraisal.
3.30   The objentives of in-service upgrading of teachers were met for the
most part but must be continued during the Second Education Project.
Responsibility for this training must be shared by ENI and INE with the
active participation of school supervisory staff.
Exoert and consultant services
3.31   The  specialist  services  originally  envisaged  under  technical                  u
assistance were as follows: a textbook specialist (three months), a
procurement specialist (two years) and an architect (three years)., Other
specialist services included a senior draughtsman (two years and four
months). The services of an external independent auditor based in Mauritius
were needed for preparing the annual financial statements.
3.32   A Canadian consulting firm supplied all the experts and consultants
who took part in Project implementation. The dates of intervention and the
title of posts are given at Annex 10. The Bank considers the overall
quality of the services provided by the consultants and experts to have
been extremely mediocre and was very prejudicial to implementation of the
project. The first consultant procurement specialist, responsible for
preparing the bidding documents, left the Comoros in January 1984 and was
replaced in July of that year by a second specialist who, likewise, does
not seem to have produced very satisfactory results.
3.33   A two-week expert mission was financed under  :he Project in 1986
following the request of the Minister of National Education to study ways
of reforming the educational administration;  the study was to lay the
ground-work for a new structure that would improve control over the
activities of the education system. The findings of the studv were to be
utilized in the Second Education Project.
Compliance with the covenants of the Credit Agreement
3.34   Some  of  the  covenants  of  the  Credit  Agreement  were  met
satisfactorily while others were only partially complied with (cf.
following pages).   One covenant was not complied with, mainly because of
administrative and organizational problems inherent in the system currently
in force in the Comoros. The main weaknesses were as follows:



- 14 -
(a)   The fact that the Project Unit had no accountant of its own who would
have provided better accounting and, consequently, better use of the
additional funds obtained from a favourable change in the exchange
rate.
(b)   Government financing was often inadequate and this led to signifiant
delays in project implementation.
(c)   Difficulty  in  recruiting  professional  staff  for  the  project
institutions owing to a shortfall in the operating funds and the
failure of fellowship-holders to take up their posts at the ENI and
CFA.
(d)   The  Government's   cost-saving  efforts   are  still  encountering
sigaficant obstacles.
(e)   The lack of operacing funds meant that no satisfactory upkeep and
maintonance of the buildings were possible; implementation at central
level is still somewhat unsatisfactory on account of communication
problems. The share of the budget allocated t- the institutions was
insufficient for hiring the necessary maintenance staff or for paying
occasional labour.
(f)    The slight damage to tewxtbooks distributed to pupils could not be
avoided as a result of prolonged storage, and
(g)    The Government has  failed  to provide  working capital  for  the
acquisition of schoolbooks.



* COWPANCE WriT CDVDWI
ACreement          Covenants                           Status    .                    Canments                                    Action
Reference
3.01 (a)  Provision of funds and services required       PR       Work on the Health School was stopped          The Bank Group decided to reduce the
for project implementation.                             because of the Covernment's inability to      Govermment's  participation  for  civil
pay its counterpart contribution for the      works from  15 to 5Z in July 1985 on
(b)  Establishment of the project unit and                   civil works. There is still no chief          condition that the Government pays the
appointment of a Director and of an                     accountant.                                   US$ 118,000 arrears. me Project Unit
accoumtant.                                                                                           becaem  operational frao the start of the
project.
3.02      Rerruitment of qualified specialists for       R          The standard of services provided           The 8EPE's expatriate staff had to he
the Project Unit: architect, textbook                     by the specialists was judged by            increased by the addition of a seniior
specialist and equipsent specialist.                     the Bank Group to be low.                    draughtsman.
3.03      Recruitment of permanent full-time staff        R       Two  educational  planning  specialists       Valid  dialogue  between  MFEN  and  the
for education planning unit within MEN:                have been working  in  the department          Ministries of Finance and the Plan will
2 experienced planners responsible for                 created  for this purpose within  MEN          be possible once the planning function
co-ordinating education planning between               since 1987. The second education project       within  the two latter ministries has
the Ministries of Finance and Education.               intends  tc  strengthen  this  planning        been strengthened.
unit.
3.04      The Goverment should maintain dialogue         PR                                                                                                    t
with the association on:
-   restricting enrolment in both lower                The  pass  rate  for  the 8EPC  (lower
and upper secondary schools;                       secondry   diploma)   have  increased
considerably and enrolments in upper
secondary education (lyce) increased by
about 10O in 1987/8Uii Compared with
1986/87 (i.e. 363 mre pupils). However,
in lower secondary ecation  (llaRe
rural)  there' were  nearly  1900
pupls  in 1987/88, i.e. 111 than the
year before.
-  reducing fellowships;                              The Covernment reduced student grants in
1986.  Conversely, in certain project
institutions scholarships were offered
to  pupils  instead  of the unoccupied
boarding facilities. mhe volume of over-
seas scholarships does not seem to have
dropped in the last few yeard. However,
In recent years there has been a
reversal of the 1980 situatian: a much
larger proportion have been studying
subjects   directly   useful  to  the
country's economy.
-  linking, fellowships abroad to  the                 As long as there are no serious studies        However,   such studies are currently
country's  specific training needs;                of the country's manpoiwer needs it Is         being undertaken by, for instance, the
difficult to link training to specific         HPROD and MSAN. Also, the establishment
needs.                                         of the MHE's planning and statistics
unit should improve the situation.



C aPIM    VrI ONENANm
Credit
Agreement            Covenants                              Status                           Carments                                        Action
Reference
-   Implementing other education cost-                        The  Government ceased  recruitment of
saving  measures.                                         auxiliary  teachers  (which had brought
the teacher/pupil to an unacceptc'ile
level of 32:1). Moreover, in September
1982 all secondary boarding vas
abolished by decree. In January1983
all secondary teachers' and pupils
transport subsidies were also stopped.
3.05       Review, with the Association, its policy            PR          Since September 1982 scholarships abroad
on financial assistance to students for                        have been tied and students mIst sign an
post-seconcary education.                                      agreement promising to return  to  the
country. However, no effective control
has been set up. And the amount spent
every year for scholarships abroad is
high (about 200 CFCA and has remained
static in recent years).                        This call for review of the whAe& question
of adequate administration of s-aolarships;
suitable selection guaranteed return of the
06        Prepare with the Association an overseas            PR          Despite the subuission of a satisfactory        recipients and suitable appointments onri:
training programme.                                            overseas training programme, the number         they are trained.
of fellowship holders actually sent on
training and has been insufficient and
no recipient has been posted to the
project institutions.
0'
3.07        Establishment and operation of a fund              NR           In  view  of  the  political  problems          The  Minister  of  Education  hopes  to
for  the  purpose  of  financing   the                          involved in establishing a paying loan         organize in the near future an inter-
replacement  of  school  textbooks  and                         system for textbooks, the MEN proposed          national symposium in which the theme of
educational materials.                                          imposing  payment  of  a  deposit  for          parent participation  (in  the form of
textbooks but this has not been applied         parents' associations) in the financial
because  of  the  lack  of  rules  and          management and other school institutions
procedures.  However,  an  INE  survey          will be given priority. It is in this
showed that after two years of use, more        larger framework that he hopes to solve
than 50% of the textbooks distributed by        the problem of the renewal of textbooks
the FAC had been destroyed or lost.             and teaching materials.
08 (a)   Insurance  of  the  imported  goods  and            R            Transit property was not always covered         The vehicles are now insured.
transport to the place of installation.                         by insurance.
(b)    Acquisition of an appropriate site for             R           The site was allocated and  the work             The school has now been built.
construction    of   the   Para-Medical                        begun in September 1984.
Training Centre.
I il



WMLIACE WmID aDENANrS
Credit
Agreement           Covenants                            Status                         Conments                                     Action
Reference
4.01 (a)  Updating of the records and accounts for          PR         The account books sometimes contained        It is important for a qualfied chief
(b)  the project execution.                                       mistakes.                                    accountant  to  be  appointed  for  the
everyday accounting.
(c)  Annual project audit: detailed records                      It has not always been possible to make      The reports have been prepared.
of project execution.                                       a  comparison  by  component  froa  the
reports.
4.02 (a)  Adequate management of the institutions          PR          Owing to the under-utilization of the        A better balance between the distribu-
created by the project and recruitment                      fellowships intended for the staff of         tion   of the budgets to  the vaLioUs
of necessary personnel.                                     the ENI and CFA components and the non-      institutions  in  the  country  would
recruitment of the recipients on their      doubtless help to alleviate this situa-
return,  both  these  institutions  are      tion. At the same time, fiter measures
still  reliant  in  large  measure  on       are required  to brivg  about cuts in
expatriate teachers. Financing of these      expediture  (fellowships,  etc.).  Thee
two  institutions'  operating  budgets       intention to give the parents a share
still poses a major problem.                 of  the  responsibilities  as  far  as
education  and  training  is  concerned
could also reduce the State's burden of
expenditure.
(b)  Upkeep  and  necessary  maintenance  of         PR         In theory the upkeep is carried out at       Construction faults have not been put
buildings, furniture and equipment for                     the central level, but this has not been     right and the parts that have deterior-
the project institutions.                                  done because of the shortage of funds.       ated through use have not been repaired.
The  institutions do not have enough         1he huildings constructed are likely to
money  to  undertake  even  the  most        deteriorate rapidly uless  the instituo
ordinary  maintenance work.                  ions are allocated the necessary funds.
Notes: R          Executed
MEN      Ministry of National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports
MPROD    Ministry of Production, Rural Development, Industry and Crafts
MSAN     Ministry of Public Health and Population
MR       Not executed
PR      Partially executed
Source: Document prepared by the mission.



- 18 -
-U
COSTS AND DISBSRSENINTS
Pro1ect C08t8
4.01   The total estimated Project cost excluding taxes(l] at appraisal was
US$6.505 million, equivalent to 1.496 million Comorian francs. Foreign
exchange expenditure was estimated at US$4.42 million or 68 per cent of
total costs.
Aculcosts
4.02   The final statement of Project costs was not available in time for
this report since some payments for recent development work have not yet
been made. Moreover, the information provided by the BEPE accounting
department did not always tally with that supplied by IDA, and the report
of the external independent auditors stops at 31 December 1987.12]
4.03   The  total  expenditure  on  the  date  of  the  completion  mission
(September 1988) was estimated at US$4.884 million or 2,213,64 Comorian
francs. This amount is 11 per cent lower than the appraisal estimate in US
dollars and 48 per cent higher than the estimate in Comorian francs (cf.
Annex 11 for the detailed breakdown of expenditure by component and by
year). Current exp3nditure is insignificant and will not greatly affect the
percentages calculated in the following table:
Table 4.1 - Actual Project cost
(in millions)
Appraisal    Actual    Difference    %
Cost in FC ('000 000)   1,496        2,214            718    +48
Cost in US$ ('000 000)  6.505        5.884         -0.621    -11
Average exchange rate      230         376            139    +63
[1]   The tax component is minute since all goods imported for the Project
are exempt from tax and customs duties.
(21   In order to arrive at the best possible match between the various
data sources (IDA, auditors and BEPE), the following method of
calculation was used in the estimate: the average annual exchange
rate was used to convert expenditure into Comorian francs in the year
under consideration. If thore were substantial variations in the
exchange rates during the relevant period, an average was taken for
June of the year under consideration and the rate in force on 31
December of the same year.



- 19 -
4.04   Actual project costs by category of expenditure are shown in Table
4.2. It was not possible to calculate expenditure by subcomponent since
furniture and equipment were purchased jointly for two components (cf.
Annex 12).
Table p.2 - Eiwenditure by -catesgo
(in US$ thousands)
Appraisal        Actual
Category                             Cost   %Ill    Cost
Civil works:
Primary Teacher-Training College  1,145   23.5   1,696   28.8                                    -
National Health School                770   15.8      782   13.3
Agricultural Training Centre          320    6.6      320    5.4
Furn.,equip.,vehic. educ. mat.        1.330   27.3   1.373   23.3
Fees for professional services          270    5.5      182    3.1
Tech. assist.: grants, exp.,consul.   620   12.7        991   16.8
Continuing teacher training             125    2.6      220    3.7
Project administration                  290    6.0      320    5.4
Unallocated                           1,635   (n.c.)    -        -
Total                               6,505  100.0   5,884  100.0
4.05   The differences between appraisal costs and actual costs calculated
in Comorian francs are due to the following factors:
(a)   the variations  to which  the dollar was  subjected during project
implementation - the exchange rate of 230 FC/US$l at appraisal rose
to 500FC/US$l in 1984 and fell to 305FC/US$l in March 1987. Costs in                         y
local currency or French francs were therefore reduced accordingly;
(b)   the considerable increase in construction costs in the Comoros, while
the new constructions were affected by the late launching of the
bids; construction costs calculated in Comorian francs are almost
twice the appraisal cost. As a matter of fact, the gains from
fluctuations in the exchange rates were almost entirely absorbed by
the rise in construction costs;
(c)   the stepping up of technical assistance with the appointment of an
expatriate senior draughtsman to the BEPE staff for two years.
(1]   The percentage is calculated according to the total amount minus the
unallocated sum,  i.e   US$4.580 million,  to  facilitate  comparison
between the two situations.



- 20 e
UDLLcosta
4.06   Construction costs rose steeply during the three years following the
signing of the Agreement. This average annual rise of 15 per cent was in
fact 20 per cent in a given year. The price of cement which had been stable
for three years rose from 50,000 to 55,000 FC per tonne. During this
period, the steel used for the reinforced concrete rose by 60 per cent to
220,000 FC per tonne. The price per square metre estimated at 80,500 FC at
appraisal rose to an average of 120,000 FC per square metre. Despite the
drop in inflation rates in the Comoros, the rise in the dollar was
accompanied by a rise in construction costs calculated in Comorian francs
which are tied to the French franc. Construction costs on Anjouan and
Hohdli are 15 and 20 per cent higher respectively than prices on Grande
Comore.
4.07   The differential between the appraisal costs and real costs in
dollars is not significant, except for those caused by price rises that
occurred between the first and final bids (two years). Calculated in
Comorian francs, the average price rise was double the appraisal costs (cf.
Annex 13).
4.08   The very ad hoc Project accounting makes any breakdown of actual
unit costs for equipmant, furniture and vehicles by component impossible.
Funddin sources
4.09   The Agreement stipulated that the Credit would finance 85 per cent
of construction costs. The Government's contribution was to finance the
re--ining 15 per cent and the Project Unit salaries. The Comoros' financial
difficulties reached their peak in 1984/85 and the counterpart contribution
cculd not be paid; work was suspended for several months until the IDA
dec.ded to cover 95 per cent of the cost of the total work still to be
done, on condition that the Government paid its arrears of contribution of
US$118,000. Payment of the Project Unit's staff salaries was and still is
always late and can be as much as six months behind. The decision to
increase the IDA's share was taken when the original CFA work had been
completed and 75 per cent of the work on the ENS had been covered(l]; the
second bidding document!21 for the ENI was held back until the Bank Group
agreed to cover 95 per cent of the work costs (July 1985).
4.10   It must be noted that the Bank Group's decision to defray 95 per
cent instead of 85 per cent of the civil works expenses did not alter the
total budget provision; the operation was possible by taking advantage of
the rise of the Comorian franc in relation to the dollar since the
contracts with the civil works firms had been established in Comorian
francs.
[11  The remainder due from the Government for the part of the work
completed was released under the agreement concluded between the Bank
Group and the Government in July 1985.
[2] The first bid had been cancelled following the decision of the
President of the Republic to establish the ENI at Patsi in order to
build a National Guard barracks on the site originally selected.



- 21 -
Table 4.3 - Appraisal and actual fundinz schedule
(in US$ millions)
--Appraisal--    ---Actual--
Categorv
Gov't  IDA       Gov't  IDA
Civil works                         0.35   1.89      0.20   2.60
Professional services                 -    0.27        -    0.18
Technical assistance                  -    0.62        -    0.99
In-service teacher training           -    0.20        -    0.24
Furniture, equipment, vehicles        -    0.65        -    1.04
Textbooks                             -    0.57        -    0.31
Project administration              0.15   0.17      0.12   0.20
Unallocated                           -    1.63        -       -
Total                             0.50   6.00      0.32   5.56
Percentage                        7.72  92.32      5.42  94.62
4.11      The Government's financial share in Project implementatioh was
therefore substantially reduced from an appraisal estimate of 7.7 per cent
to an actual contribution of 5.4 per cent. This was due to its reduced
contribution to the civil works cost and the fact that the project
administrators; salaries were lower than estimated.
Schedule of disbursement
4.12      The cu.parative schedule of disbursement (cf. Annex 23) shows that
the progr-mme as envisaged by the first supervision mission was efficiently
launched; the rise in the Comorian franc in relation to the dollar led to a
disbursement lag in 1985s the rise in the Comorian franc did not immediately
affect the rise in construction costs. The disbursement scheduled was revised
following the rise in the exchange rates. The installation of the initial
project components was executed on schedule, but the work and additional
purchases were far behind schedule. The date originally fixed in the Credit
Agreement for 30 June 1987 was postponed until 30 June 1989.
4.13      The Credit Closing Date is currently set for 31 December 1988. It
is therefore impossible to determine with any accuracy the final proportion
of the credit usQd. However, since the work still to be done is inexpensive,
there should be little change in the present proportion of expenditure in
relation to allocation.



- 22 -
IDA PERFORXANCK
Prolect generation
5.01   Despite experience of similar problems in the implementation of
quite a few projects, attributible to the size of the country and thie
limited fumds available, IDA had the task of designing a first project
which included several components and subcomponents spread out over three
islands and sharing out responsibility for implementation of the
educational aspects and for technical assistance among three ministries.
The fact that there was no one to co-ordinate the educational aspects
within the Project Unit and the relatively paltry technical assistance
provided for (there were great hopes of technical assistance from agencies
not involved in tne project) did nothing to expedite the implementation of
non-construction components. Moreover, the absence of a comprehensive
educational plan and a realistic strategy for educational development were
not conducive to the attainment of certain Project objectives, particularly
as regards the primary education component and dialogue on the acquired
budget savings. The technical content of the Project proposals was sound
but the national departments' organization and management capacities were
over-estimated, expectations were too ambitious and the component and
subcomponent installation scheduling was not very accurate. It should be
pointed out, however, that efforts are currently being made to secure
better co-ordination of technical assistance.
Prolect supervision
5.02   During the six years of implementation, the Project was visited by
eleven supervision missions about every sev%' months on average (excluding
preparatory missions for the Second Project which were, however, beneficial
for the First-Project). The average time devoted to this First Project was
ten days. Ten of these missions included an architect, three an education
planner, three others a general educator, only two included an agricultural
education specialistfl, and only one (the last supervisory mission in
1988) included an economist and there was no health specialist on any of
them. A mission including only an architect was also conducted in June
1988.
5.03   There  could  have  been  better  continuity  in  the  supervisory
architects (five different architects were involved). There was regular
monitoring by a planner or general education specialist but mention should
alao be made of the inadequate follow-up by an agricultural education
specialist, with a break of nearly two years at the start of the Project
[1]   Supervision of Mohdli CFA was transferred to the IDA Agricultural
Department from spring 1988.



- 23 -
and none at all for almost the last three and a half years of Project
implementation. The absence of a health specialist on the supervision
missions probably had little impact on the proper functioning of the ENS
activities, given the somewhat privileged situation of this school which is
situated in Moroni and is the only component that had an official co-
ordinator between itself and BEPE from the very start of the Project.
5.04   In other respects, IDA follow-up and monitoring in the field and at
headquarters was very useful for Project implementation. The supervision
missions, particular from the mid-point of the Project, quite clearly
triggered off better field co-ordination and planning of activities by
stimulating the distribution of textbooks or regenerating teacher upgrading
and providing closer liaison between the various sources of external
assistance.
5.05   IDA  demonstrated  flexibility  when  it  altered  the  respective
-ontribution percentages of the Government and IDA to civil works expenses
and took advantage of the more favourable local circumstances existing
since 1986 to launch the Second Education Project in May 1987 which is to
strengthen the impact of the first. What is more, the regular aides-m1moire
were useful for the two-way review of the situation and of immediate
problems. Authorizations for minor alterations proposed by the Government
were always agreed in principle within a reasonable time. Important
decisions about the financing plan or the sites were dealt with
sufficiently early to avoid any problem.



* 24 -
PROJLCT INSTITUTION oBAaRTo= RESULTS
6.01 The programe of structural adjustment for the Comoros should in
prlnciple help make the project components profitable, since the programme
is intended to promote more effLelent use of the country's resources. The
Government's priorities are focused on education, training and the
population's health problems.
(i)         Against this backdrop,  the education  sector[l!  has  already
selected some practical themes for its overall development
objectives: (a) it has undertaken to reduce the major obstacles
to their implementation; (b) it is seeking new educational
management and financing methods that would involve greater
participation on the part of local communities.
(ii)        The health sector already has numerous projects to boost HSAN
planning, management and evaluation/monitoring functions. This
should ensure better utilization of resources and forecasting
and programming of needs, especially for the training of the
para-medical staff required to augment the infrastructure for
medical and preventive care and should do a great deal to
improve the health situation in the three islands.
(iii)       In agriculture, a new structure established in 1980 (Federal
Centre for Assistance to Rural Development - CEFADER and the
Centres for Assistance to Rural Development - CADER) should
help produce more middle managers for the sector. HPROD,
CEFADER and the community-extension-training department of
CEFADER received a new lease of. life from substantial and
diversified  assistance  and  the  recent  restructuring.  In
particular, a seminar exclusively devoted to the CFA, organized
by CECI, a Canadian NGO in Moroni, opportunely pointed out the
educational back-up and research role that the CEFADER training
unit should play in the CFA.
Primarv education
6.02   The  "Primary  Education"  component  depended  on  three  separate
departments:  Department of Pre-School and Elementary  Education  (DEPE),
Institute of National Education (INE) whose organizational chart is shown
in Annex 15, and the MEN Fellowship Bureau. The results obtained through
the three subcomponents are as follows:
[11   The IDA Second Education Project is a continuation of the First
Project but will also rectify some of its deficiencies. It is to help
the Government to attain its educational objectives, supporting
institutional development, the improvement of the quality of primary
education  and  contributing  to  the  training  of  middle-level
administrative, technical and commercial personnel.



.25 
(a)    ENI and the  eotration ash
6.03   The training college which was orlginally intended for Mutsamodu
(Anjouan)  was  opened  at  Patdi  In  1988,  one-and-a-half  years  behind
schedule. The experimental primary school was never built, the reasons for
this were given in paragraph 3.15. The ENI will receive its first pupil-
teachers in November 1988. Teachers were previously trained In temporary
premises at Ouanl (10 km from Mutssaudu) and 32 pupil-teachers will
therefore be entering the ENI in 1989 in the third year(lJ. There are plans
to accept 30 new entrants as well for first-year pro-service training,
making a total of about 60 pupils in the pre-service course. Accordingly,
the utilization rate is far below that envisaged at appraisal for 180
students (1J.
6.04   The ENI will not provide lengthy in-service training (one year at
the first and second levels) during this academic year nor possibly in the
next, precisely because of the surplus of teachers in Anjouan and the
shortage in Grande Comore, since it would be difficult to deprive the Grand
Comore schools of an additioral set of practising teachers. However, the
Ministry of Education would understandably like the short ENI training
courses to be merged and given jointly by ENI and INE in Patsi in the form
of upgrading courses during the holiday periods in 1989/90 and subsequent
years.
6.05   The foreseeable ENI flow rate would enhance the teachers', level of
skills as from 1990/91, providing about 55 graduates per year - a
reasonable output for meeting needs. The occupation rate would also be
improved with a total of 85 pupils, which might increase to 115 from 1991
or 1992. There are four Comorian teachers on the ENI staff (teaching
French, Arabic, Physical Education and Educational Psychology) and six
expatriates   (teaching  Mathematics,   History   and  Geography,   French.
Educational Psychology, Natural Sciences and Agriculture), making for a
student/teacher ratio well below 10:1 for the next few years. However, this
ratio should increase to 13:1 from 1991. The non-teaching staff comprises a
director, a deputy director and ten office and technical staff, a rather
generous payroll for an establishment with fewer than 100 pupils.
6.06   The numerous problems facing this institution must be addressed at
once if this expensive investment is to become effective and profitable:
(i) Comorian staff must be trained to take over in due course from the
French teachers; (Ji) the curricula need to be devaloped and finalized;
(iii) closer ENI-INE collaboration is needed in order to improve the
content and quality of the training to be provided at the ENI and for
tracer studies to be conducted by trained and knowledgeable pedagogical
[11   Equivalent to the second year of the old training system. In fact, it
has been decided that ENI training would last three years: the first
year (level 1) would be used for updating their academic knowledge
(both for pre-service and in-service training); the second year
(level 2) would provide teacher training, and the third year (for
pre-service trainees) would crown their teacher training acquisition
with teaching practice.
[2J   Selection will be by competitive examination which will probably be
held in October 1988. In principle, it is only for candidates from
Grande Comore in order to make good the shortage of teachers on that
island, whereas there is a surplus on the island of AnJouan.



- 26 -
advisers and other ENI staff; (iv) the female/male ratio is very low(lI;
(v) special attention should be given to the under-utilization of the
boarding facilities - with the abolition of fellowships for non-boarders -
thereby reducing the operating costs which stand at approximately 8 million
Comorian francs (estimate), equivalent to a little over US$800 per pupil-
teacher per annum(21.
(b)    In-service .ralning
6.07   Late in 1982, the National Institute of Education (IkE) reviewed the
plans for in-service teacher training: because of the practising teachers'
low standard of qualification, consideration was given to taising the
appraisal target number of 500 to 1,500, whle reducing the duration of the
course. Hopes were placed on back-up distance education (radio programmes
and companion texts) to support the programme which would also be phased
over a period of time, concurrently with the production of new textbooks by
INE and the related teachers' guides, adapted to the Comorian environment.
The table at Annex 16 gives an idea, in quantitative terms, of the 1982-
1987 upgrading activities organized by the INE in centres throughout the
islands.
6.08   It was not possible to comply with the exacting plan mentioned
above, so that until 1986 training was of poor quality. There are plans to
organize two-tiered upgrading courses for the start of the 1988 school year
as part of the Second Education Project: 175 in-service teachers (25
trainees in seven centres) who will follow "cultural" upgrading courses of
nine hours a week for eight months. Two groups of 25 trainees (one from the
INE and the other from the Patsi ENI) will be seconded on an experimental
basis for 20 hours a week over one year for "academic" upgrading. At the
moment it seems that, as far as ENI is concerned, this in-service training
plan will be postponed for a few years because of the shortage of teachers
on Grande Comore.
(c)    Awarding of fellowshios
6.09   The Project provided for seven man-years of fellowships abroad for
Comorians who wished to become ENI instructors. In actual fact, only six
man-years were used by four fellowship-holders. They all returned to the
country but none of them teaches at the ENI at present (Annexes 7 and 9).
(d)   Distributionf iM2orted textbooks and local Droduction of guides and
other educational texts
6.10   The number of textbooks,  adapted to the Comorian environment and
imported from Europe and distributed to pupils is esciamted at 73,000 (cf.
Annex  17)  and  those  delivered  to  teachers  (including  a  Hachette
encyclopaedia) at approximately 5,800, which exceeds project appraisal
estimates. The Project benefited from a substantial donation of books from
the French Technical Assistance Programme and from a favourable trend in
exchange rates. However, there were huge delays in the distribution of
textbooks because the INE was awaiting a policy decision on a possible
(1]   The increase in the proportion of female primary-school teachers is
slow: from 25 per cent in 1984/85 to 26 per cent in 1987/88.
(2)  This  cost  should  drop  to  under  US$300  when  the  ENI  is  fully
developed.



- 27 -
parental contribution to the purchase of children's textbooks. These delays
contributed to the damaLe caused to books by the poor storage conditions in
Moroni which has meant that most of the books distributed are now unusable.
6.11   Furthermore,  the  parental  contribution  to  the  replacement  of
schoolbooks through a rental system was not implemented in spite of IDA's
insistence as expressed on supervision missions. The fact that this
covenant was not adhered to meant that IDA credit disbursement could be
brought to an end. By accepting to amend rthis covenant, IDA displayed
considerable  flexibility;  the  fact  remains,  however,  that  the  funds
required to replace the textbooks are not available, thereby reducing the
impact of the school textbook distribution component.
6.12   Favourable  circumstances  enabled  the  INE  to  ensure  the  local
production of teachers' guides and, to a lesser extent, the production of
the pupils' workbooks and the manufacture of soLue educaticnal materials to
accompany the texts (e.g. maps, abacuses. etc.).. As Annex 18 shows, it was
in 1985 and particulary in 1986 that these documents were designed and
produced. On the basis of an average circulation of approximately 3,000
copies per text, over 600,000 teachers' books were produced and distributed
to all serving teachers.
6.13   The availability of the teachers' guides did not always coincide
with the retraining of teachers, however. One lesson to be learnt from the
textbook/teachers' guide subcomponent is that this type of activity calls
for  enormous   dynamism  and  organizing  power  which  is  frequently
underestimated at appraisal. Moreover, in the opinion of the Bank Gro'p,
the cotitent of the imported books, which were selected by the Canadian
consultant, was of a comparatively low standard.
Agricultural Training Centre
6.14   This Centre, situated on the island of Moheli, opened as planned on
1 January 1987. A series of problems were encountered in developing it: (i)
a serious misunderstanding whereby the CEFADER staff thought teiat the
Centre would be administered by the Ministry of National Education;  (ii)
difficulties in preparing the curricula and the detailed syllabuses and
lists of equipment; (iii) a degree of isolation from the centres of
decision-making; (iv) some difficulty in recruiting adequate teaching staff
for the Centre, and lastly, (v) a lack of operating funds and, in
particular, funds to pay for the transport for outside staff or to ensure
the occasional collaboration of visiting teachers from the two neighbouring
islands - outside assistance was therefore very limited; (vi) difficulties
in providing adequate food for the students.
6.15   The first intdke produced 27 graduates in July 1988. The second set
of pupils will soor. be entering the Centre in the second year. However,
there will be no first-year students this ;ear because of the lack of
operating funds and the inability to pay the graduates who would be joining
the civil service. This third intake will probably start in September 1989
(cf. student flow rate at Annex 19). The Centre will therefore be producing
in the medium term some 20 extension workers per year, two-thirds of whom
gain entry after the BEPC (first cycle diploma), while the remaining third
-1 



- 28 -
amount of experience. The CEFADER has decided to put off until 1993 its
training activities for 500 farmers per year envisaged at appraisal; the
trainirg was to be conducted during the vacation period and in short
courses In the field.
6.16   Since the opening of the Centre, great strides have been made in
training and selection/recruitmoent program_es for pupils at the CFA and its
prospects appear to be more promising than they were, despite indisputable
problems as regards the operating budget and recruitment of full-time or
visiting teachers.
6.17   rhe new organizational chart (Annex 5) and the new procedures of
CEFADER[(] implemented since CEFADEt came under the responsibility of the
current Minister at the Ministry of Production, Rural Development, Industry
and Crafts (MPROD), ought to ensure the development of a training and
personnel management policy which will gradually improve the standard of
officials responsible for rural development.
6.18   CEFADER  also  produced  an  extremely  well-documented  sectoral
memorandum[21 which was submitted at the end of 1988 to a consultation
meetiag between MPROD and the main donors in the rural sector and alerted
the latter to the problems confronting the sector and the new Government
strategy for tackling them.
6.19   Lastly, CECI (a Canadian NGO) organized in 1988 a seminar at which
the CFA training programme and its administrative and financial! problems
were discussed. At this meeting, important recommendations were made
concerning: (i) the objectives of agricultural extension worker training,
(ii' criteria for the recruitment of candidates for the CFA. There is now a
proper training plan that includes the methods advocated for use in
practical training courses both in the CADERs and at the CFA.  Annex 20
provides details of the timetable for courses in the first and second
years. Annex 20 contains the new outline currently recommended for training
at the Centre: there are plans for a six-month pre-selection course to make
sure of the entrants' motivation.
6.20   During the 1987-88 academic year, the Centre had three permanent
teachers    [31. all Canadian expatriates (CECI). The fellowships (three
man-years) planned for the project were not judiciously used: only two man-
years were used to train a single Comorian abroad, an, although he went
(1]  One of the CEFADER's departments,  the Community-Extension-Training
Department, has assumed particular responsibility for the proper
functioning of the Agricultural Training Centre at Mohdli. This
Department's prime responsibility is to train the personnel for the
CADERs and to support their training activities. It provides logistic
support for the Agricultural Training Centre on Koheli. It designs,
produces or acquires the teaching material and teaching aids needed
for  the  various  activities  within  the  CEFADER   Lastly,  it  is
responsible for improving internal and external communication and
training plans.
(21   Entitled: "Situation du secteur agricole et des institutions d'appui
au ddveloppement rural", Moroni, February 1987.
(31   The Director of the Centre worked part time.



29
back to MPROD. he does not teach at the CFA. Contributions were made by
locals unconnected with the project, such as an animal husbandry engineer
from the hoheli CADER and two other technicia s from the sasm  CADER who had
been trained on fellowships in France. Furthermore, the French-language and
mathematics classes at the Contre are taught by teachers from the Wanani
College. There are 18 administrative and office staff. The Centre's running
costs (excluding the cost of expatriates), including salaries, amount to
about 7 million Comorian francs per annum - or an annual cost per pupil of
260,000 Comorian francs or approximately US$865. The IDA mission in June
1988 encouraged the Government to submit a request in order that the Credit
Agreement should fund technlcal assistance required but the Government did
not take the matter any further (IDA also made clear that it was ready to
fund it from agricultural development credit). The Project Completion
Mission did its best to interest several external aid sources in this
problem facing the CFA and in its logistic and economic difficultles, but
their support seems to be linked to Comorian counterpart participation.
6.21   Farmers should be made to assume greater responsibility and private
enterprise should be encouraged as part of the efforts to transform
agriculture in the Comoros. This new venture will not only oblige the CFA
to produce a new type of managerial staff as well as "land entrepreneurs"
but will relieve the State budget which is at present incapable of covering
recruitment of all the CFA graduates into the civil service. However,
serious thought must be given to the ways and means of providing young
entrepreneurs with material assistance; one way would be to establish a
credit scheme.
6.22   In short. despite its unfortunate isolation on the island of Mohdli
and the logistic and financial constraints affecting it. the Centre should
in future benefit from some assets it does possess, e.g. support from the
CEFADER Extension Training Department[l] and the interest of external aid
sources (sometimes including an important technical assistance and
fellowship component for the sector), whether they be IDA projects or
French, Belgian, Canadian or FAO and UNDP co-operative 'rojects.
National Health School[21
6.23   This project component was successfully launched because of two
positive elements: (i) its proximity to the Government decision-making
centres and (ii) the official appointment in April 1982 of a staff member
to liaise with the education project unit. The School, which had been
functioning since 1980 in the Moroni Hospital premises, inaugurated its new
building in October 1986, three months ahead of schedule. It has so far
received substantial external assistance from WHO (both in terms of
[1 The Project Completion Mission fully supports the recommendation on
the CFA formulated at the Moroni seminar in 1987, to the effect that
the CEFADER Training Unit should be perceived as a resource in
pedagogical support and educational research on which the ENA might
call as the need arises.
[2)   The School was officially established under the name "Ecole nationale
de santde in July 1981.



- 30 -
technical assistance and fellowships) and from IDA (population-health
project), as well as from a Canadian NGO with its 'Laval University Project"
and support under the French co-operation scheme; it might also benefit more
in future from the plans to diversify Belgian assistance. [1]
6.24      Once the project was launched, the possible number of pre-service
trainees for the ENS was increased from 75 to about 85. As shown in Annexes
17 to 19, the School was attended by 84 pre-service teacher trainees in
1986-87 and by 83 In 1987-88. Approximately the same number is expected in
the next few years. Conversely, the in-service training dispensed by the ENS
(6-month upgrading course) is lower than the appraisal estimate. Accordingly,
the ENS will have trained approximately 185 middle-level agents (midwives,
nurses, laboratory technicians and dental nurses) and over 105 subordinate
agents for medical assistance services between its inauguration and the year
1990. A new area - pharmaceutical nurses - was introduced at the start of the
1986187 academic year and this was followed by a course for nurses/sanitation
technicians in 1987/88. Training for dental nurses and laboratory technicians
was suspended in July 1987 to make way for the two new courses mentioned
above.
6.25      Pre-service training comprises three years of study and since the
start of the 1986/87 academic year, the recruicment level has been raised so
that candidates are now required to hold the 'baccalaureate instead of just
the BEP. For the upgrading courses, candidates are selected by competitive
examination from auxiliary nurses and nursing aides who become nurses or
midwives in the medical service after a six-month course once they pass the
final examination. In view of the WHO technical assistance and the
responsibility of the Laval University Project (which entered its fourth
phase early in 1988) for mstrengthening of the ENS through restructuring of
its teaching programme and educational training of its members", there is no
cause for concern about the quality of the syllabuses that will be taught
during the next academic year.
6.26      In 1987, the ENS had eight full-time teachers (of whom six were
local and 17 part-time teachers both local (doctors, midwives, nurses,
sanitation engineers, etc.) and expatriate, especially under the French
co-operation scheme. There are  14 administrative  staff,  including the
Director and nine office staff, not counting the personnel that would be
needed If the boarding facilities were in operation (c.)ok, launderer,
waiters, linen maid, etc.). The ENS operating budget provided entirely by the
State covers not only staff salaries but maintenance costs, furniture and
office materials and students' grants for board and lodging. These grants
cost 40,000 Comorian franc per student per month, which represents a fairly
substantial recurrent expenditure[2]. The grants account for a huge
C1)  A more exhaustive list of assistance to the health sector, from
which the School sometimes benefits indirectly, would include the
UNFPA, UNDP, APEFE and others.
(2] The annual grants for 80 pupils amount to nearly 30 million
Comorian francs or approximately US$100,000.   For purposes of
comparison, the annual operating budget of the CFA on Moh;li is
approximately US$23,000.



- 31 -
proportion of the School's recurrent budget: 42 per cont of 72 sillion
Comorian francs, not counting the expatriate teachers' salaries. The annual
cost per pupil (including those in upgrading courses) is 600,000 Comorian
francs or approximatel US$2,000. This seems rather high, especially in
comparison with the ENI and the CFA. The boarding facillties for 56
students (including 44 glrls) have not yet been used and the declsion
regarding their use will depend on their viability.
6.27   It is difficult at the present time to gauge to what extent ENS
production matches the needs of the Comorian health system. However, it
appears that the mechanism for arriving at this conclusion in the near
future is in place. A department responsible for national co-ordination of
health and population statistics has existed in the KSANsIce 1937 and
one of the Laval University Project's main objectives is collaboration in
establishing a management process (planning-programming-supervision and
monitoring) within this Ministry's Department of Health (the organizational
chart of the Ministry of Health appears in Annex 24). Given these
favourable circumstances, the ENS should be rendered as economically viable
as possible, and its efficiency should be increased by augmenting the full-
time teaching staff.
Planning Unit
6.28   Although most of the resources required for the development of this
facility were  obtained  through  the Second  Education  Project,  special
emphasis should be placed on the excellent results achieved by thls unlt
which, after having organized the collection of statistical data, conducted
analyses in order to provide adequate guidance for ministerial declsions on
education planning.
Kev indicators for orolect obiectives and achievements
(Cf. following pages)
[11   Set up under a UNFPA project.



KEY DIDICAIS FOR PFIJE   DPRDIDeIFNCN
UGHMORS OF :RJr EDWHINAL 0UT
Component                           Objective                            Base-line data                       Current situation
(a)    Primrv
Educatlon
All sub-items    1. Increase flow of students through the      1980/81 * 66.9 X of entering students         After an interruption of several years
primary  school  system,  i.e.  reduced      complete grade 6;512 of grade 6 students      in the collection and interpretation of
drop-out and  repetition and  increase       pass  the  primary  school  certificate       ecucational statistics in the Comoross
graduates.                                   exmination; 24.6t of all students are         it is not easy to make valid com-a-is-n
repeatir  the schol year.or interpret developuents (see Annex 7
repeaing te schol yer.,thicht sunows the su~ccs  rate  in  the
entrance examination for the sixth
grade first year of the lower secondary
school (college rural). There is still
enonsus wastage in the form of drop-out
and repetition (it has apparently not
been possible fully to apply the rule of
a mxismmn of two repetitions dwuing the
primary cycle).
2.  Improve learning and achievement of      1980/81   St X of grade 6 students pass       It is nsch too eatly to determine the
students.                                    the primary school certificate examina-       project's impact on school achievw'nt,
tion Vaich requires a minim= of basic        partiCularly If the examination require-
literacy and numeracy.                      mcnts and content change. Later studies/
evaluation   wilU  be  better  able  to
detenine the positive effect that the
project would eventually have.
3.  Hake  Learning  an  achievement of        Examination covers only basic language       A new improved CEP was introduced  in
students   more   relevant   to  their       and  mathnmatica.  No  science  and  no        1985. The content of the education Is
environment.                                  social studies related to the Conorian       more relevant to the Comorian context
environment.                                  thanks to the new textbooks cnd pupils
workbooks introduced in classroom.
(a) Primary Teacher-   1. Place 90 trained teachers in the          1980/1 : Student teachers are entering       TIracer studies on  students ihio  have
Training College   primary schwol system  per year.              their second year of training; no certi-      completed   pre-service   or  nuradiim
ficates as yet.                               training  is yet to be organ WMad and
calls for collaboration of IN, the EN1
amd educational inspectors and advisers.
The ENI will produce about 85 to 110
quallfied teachers per year in the years
to coe, including staff who have
followed up grading courses (six new
tehers and between 25 and 50 retrained
in-service teachers),
2.  To  improve  knowledge,  teac*;ng           st  teachers,   both  trained   and         The content of the CAE examination has
methodology    and    motivation    of        untrained, are  reported  to  have low        not yet been modifiod but I the bar has
teachers.                                    motivation  and  to  use poor teahin           been  raised', as  far as scores  for
methodology.                                  su=ccss  in   this  exemination   are
concerned.



KEU DM Fc M RR iWBr DaiaAoN
ILUR OaF niEmir Ai
Component                          Objective                           Base-line data                       Current situation
(b) In-service primary   1. Upgrade 500 teachers to qualified         1980/81:     Experimental     programs       14o examination results available. t&w-
teacher training     level.                                       initiated with 150 teachers. No exanin-      ever, it may be estimated that 700 in-
ation results available but programme        service  teachers have improved  their
appears too limited.                         teaching skills and knowledge by parti-
cipation in a six to eigjit-week course.
According to the statistics unit, the
current stock of qualified teacher is
estimated at 28?% as caqered with 232%
in 19S4/85.
2. Improve knowledge,teaching methodol-      Examination content is very rudimentary.     See A 3. above.
ogy and motivation of teachers.
(c)  Primary  textbooks  1. Provide children with adequate number      French language : one book for every 2.6    It is very difficult to estimate the
and  teaching materials. of  textbooks  (one  for  every  two          students of which 3 2 in poor condition-    number of books held by students ad
students) and learning materials accom-      one  teachers'  guide  for  every  5.4      still in good condition, by subject *nd
panied by    the necessary guides and        teachers.                                    level (Annexes 19 am        provide an
reference material.                                                                      overview of the documents erd textbooks
distributed ad their quantities). The
situation has developed very favourably
and education is better natched to the
Cnmorian enviromnent. A fair cumbwr of
teachers have several teachers' guides
ad  to meo extent, they also possess
smail teaching aids.
2.   Hake  textbooks   and   Learning        1980/81 : No science or social studies      Most of the imported textbooks (French
materials more appropriate to the curri-     books or guides based on the Cmerian        ad maths) were casiled at the I  ad
culum and children's  envirounent.           environment.                                are adapted to the Coorian envire._t.
The sam is naturally true of the
teschers' guides, booklets ad stuiets'
workbooks   designed   and   repra&eAd
locally.
n. IIV.hiLh othiIcatiofl        1.  Ilace  the  following  members  of       1981 : Personnel in service: 118 nurses;    E4S  certificate-holders  or  upgrade
para-medical  persomel  in  government       27 midwives; 53 nurse-aides; 7 midwife-     staff are appropriately placed, with the
service from 1981 to 1990:   66 nursesj      aides; 16 laboratory technicians            latter working  in medical assistance
228  nurse-aides;  34  midwives;  41                                                     departments. A total of 53 students hae
midwife-aides; 28   dental assistants;                                                   been  awarded  certificates  since  the
24 laboratory  technicians.                                                              opening of the new school up to the
present time (broken do  as foll..: 23
nurses; 4 dental wrses and S Iboatorw
techniians) and the qx,raded peirL
totals 37 nurses ad midwives.



INDICAmR. OF FOR HUWBAr DOW
Canponent                             Objective                             Base-line data                         Current situation
2. ipqrove tOtA knowletge, motivation end       1981; Most personnel are reported to be          It  is  still  too  early  to  make  a
functioning of para-rtedical personnel          poorly trained and motivated.                    Judgent   on   these   matters.    t. 
questionnaire system established within
the Department of Health of the MSI as
part of the project of the Laval Univer-
sity of quebec will provide supervision
and monitoring of the developments con-
cerning health personnel, clinics ed
hospitals, etc.
3. Improve ove.rall health   statistics.       1981   :  Infant  mortality   300  per           It  is  premature  to  determine  uhet
thousand;  crude  death  rate  20  per          improvement there has been  in health
thousand.                                       statistics. The Department of Natioml
Co-ordination of Health Statistics, set
up In 1987, vill be responsible for
keeping  the  records and catrying  out
surveys.
(c) Agricultural         1. To place 20 agricultural extension          1981 : 80 extension agents in service.           The CFA will provide  20-25 qualified
education            agents per year in govermuent service.                                                          extension workers per year, recrutti%
students both by internal and esternal
examination. However, the civil servie
does not guarantee posts for GA
graduates because of lack of funds. It
is to be hoped that a nniber of thm
will set up on their own.
2. Improve the knowledge,motivation and        1981: No information.                            It vill be for the CEFADER (csmmnity-
functioning of extension agents.                                                                extension-training unit end the statis-
tics and survey depertment) to carry out
tracer studies of the CFA graduates in
liaison with the CFA.
3. Improve agricultural productivity and       1981  :  FCFA  1,050  million  of  rice         Too soon to say. The reports will be
output.                                        Imported,   3,341   million   of   meat         prepared and surveys carried out within
imported. Fish  consumption  10 kg per          the CEFADER which was restructured in
person.                                         1987:    the    planning    department's
statistics and survey service wilt, in
principle, be responsible for thta
activity.



KEY DICA2A FUR R.:r DOwfATH
Component                           Objective                           Base-line data                       Current situation
D. Govermnent
01lE-iC
(a) Educatonal         1. Provide the staff planning   unit in      1981: All planning work is currently          Following a vacuun left by the departur,
planning           MEDI with two qualified Canorians.           carried out by three expatriates.              of the expatriates in 1984, the to has.
had since 1987 an operational department
of planning and school statistics manned
by  tw    qualified   staff,  one   a
plannirg/statistics expert and the othet
an educational financing specialist. The
second project must further strengthen
this unit which is iJportant for
establishing the factual informtion oa
uhich education policy and strategy att
be based In future.
(b)                     1. Control the growth of the education      1980 : Recurrent expenditures on educa-        Efforts made to make occasio6nl bubet
hudget.                                     tiOn account for 29.1 1 of total govern-       cuts since 1982 have been positive: the
ment expenditures.                            resmiable evs-. tures of the MtE  only
account for 21 2 of the State buiget in
1987/88. The seond education project
can   play   an   important  role  in
encouraging   further   savings.   The
Hinistry of Education is relying greatly
on parents' contribution to schol
expenses.
(c) Higher education    1. Provide scholarships based on socio-    1979 : 322 students overseas, breakdown         In  1986  there  were  882  scholarship
scholarships.'      economic  needs;  ensure  return   of    as follows: humanities 20 2; science 22;          holders  abroad  (382  of  whom  wre
graduates.                                  law 5 2 ; economics and business admini-      financed by the Cacorian State) a mere
stratlon 13 2; medicine 13 2 engineering      15 2 of  ,haa chose courses of no direct
10 2; public administration 11 x; others      use to  the country's economy and  in
26 2.                                         Lmproving  its  living  conditions  ad
health situation. The science/tectmical/
economics/coanerce fields accont for
mDre than 22 2 and the health field wre
than 50 2 of these scholarship holders.
Source     Docunent  prepared  by  the
maisson.



- 36
CONCLUSIONS AND LeSSONS TO BE QUM3
A.     CDSIONS
Overview
7.01   The  objectives  of  the  three  main  components  and  the  primary
education subcomponents were generally achieved. The civil works originally
scheduled have now been completed although conditions obtained may
sometimes be ill suited; the additional works should start in the near
future; the furniture has been delivered and the equipment installed in the
ENS but not entirely at the CFA or the ENI. There is an urgent need (a) to
make the ENS profitable and solve the problem of its exorbitant unit cost;
(b) to recruit teachers for the CFA; and (c) mobilize funds to pay this
institution's operating expenses. The total project cost is US$5,884,003.
Project implementation exceeded the appraisal duration by 23 per cent,
partly because of the additional work required to ensure the resistance of
the buildings which was delayed as a result of the lack of co-ordination
between BEPE and the institutions' directorates.
Primarv education
(a)    Primary Teacher-Training College
7.02 The boarding facilities at the ENI on Anjouan has been operating in
its new premises since November 1988 with a satisfactory number of student-
teachers in pre-service training and primary school teachers in in-service
training. This subcomponent should become viable if it assumes a more
conspicuous role in the upgrading of in-service teachers, on the basis of
geographical groups, sharing this activity with the INE. Closer links must
be established with the INE which must be viewed as an educational and
teaching support centre. More harmonious relations with the DEPE, the
regional directorate and the local educational advisers on the island would
attenuate the ENI's isolation and would do much to improve the quality of
teaching practice in schools and the tracer studies on ENI graduates. It
would be advisable to prepare training programmes and plans for detailed
studies and the organization of training periods in the demonstration
classes.[l1. An effort must also be made to balance the surplus of primary
teachers on Anjouan against che shortage of teachers in Grande Comore, by
restricting the ENI's new intake (for pre-service training) to pupils from
Grande Comore. The Completion Mission was informed of the Ministry of
Education's intentions in this regard.
[11   IDA was informed by the INE that a curriculum planner is shortly to
be appointed to that institution.



- 37
(b)    &nrading and in-_erie trainX 
7.03   The objectives of In-service upgrading of teachers were largely
attailned, particularly towards the end of the Project. In fact, the nusber
of teachers who received additional training under the First Project (2J of
six to eight weeks may be estimated at 700 and those that took part in the
shorter course of about 10 days at 300. The Second Education Project which
became operational at the end of 1987 is financing the continuation of the
upgrading courses and is extending them to primary school educational
advisers and head-teachers. It would be useful in future if the teacher-
training courses could be organized to coincide with the productlon of the
INE teachers' guides.
(c)    Textbooks and teachers' guides
7.04   The availability of textbooks during classes and the production of
teachers' guides and miscellaneous educational materials have had positive
quantitative and qualitative results. However, some textbooks were judged
to be too sophisticated for the level for which they were originally
intended and there were long delays in the distributijn of imported
textbooks (adapted to the Comorian context) and in the preparation of local
texts and other works such as the tachers' guides, booklets and pupils'
workbooks. It is to be hoped that the primary education component will be
effectively strengthened with the help of specific support from the Second
Education Project and that the INE will be in a position to play a more
dynamic and more systematic role in order to support the ENI in itd task of
training qualified teachers through normative action backed up by the
design and production of appropriate educational texts and materials. The
INE could also usefully develop its evaluation unit, particularly with a
view to conducting the tracer studies on ENI graduates and, more generally,
evaluating the educational quality of the primary education activities.
(d)    Agricultural Training Centre
7.05   The Agricultural Training Centre on Mohdli has so far been able to
achieve one of its objectives: the annual output of 20 or more trained
extension workers who either entered with the BEPC or were already
experienced, but under-qualifled, extension agents. The CFA had to defer
the idea of training farmers to 1993, by which time (by agreement with
CEFADER) the country will have sufficient competent extension workers.
Despite difficulties, the Centre did manage to start operating with the
assistance of Canadian expatriate staff and financial support from IDA
until the end of 1988 (Rural Services Project). The Centre faces problems
for this academic year (1988/89) and is trying to recruit additional
teaching staff and meet its operating expenses, especially for petrol and
subsistence for the part-time staff of the CADERs, CEFADER and its island
branches. But the enormous interest thati the CFA has aroused in several
external  sources  of  assistance  and  in  CEFADER's  Community-Extension-
Training Unit gives cause for optimism.
(1   A summer course for 353 additional auxiliary teachers was organized
under the Second Project but in connection with the First.



- 38
(e)    National Health School
7.06   Since lt wa  opened, the National Health School has been operating
satisfactorily, although the Comorization of its personnel must be pursued
if It is to recruit more full-time teachers. The School could doubtless
upgrade more auxiliary staff. The quality of the training provided and the
qualifications of the persomnel produced would seem to be guaranteed in
future by the strengthening of MSAN planning and follow-up services which
is being undertaken with external assistance, mainly Canadian and French.
However, the problem of this expensive institution is how to make it pay:
boarding  facilities  should  at  last  become  operational,   students'                      w
fellowships should be withdrawn and the non-teaching staff expenses reduced
since the annual cost per pupil is much too high.
(f)   IDA/Government dialomue on educarional policv and budget  economy
measures
7.07   This dialogue was extremely fruitful both for IDA and the Comorian
Government. It opened the way for better mutual understanding of the
problems that arise in the absence of any realistic education strategy or
powerfully structured overall development plan for the country. This
dialogue laid the foundations for corrective measures to be taken during
Project implementation, but also for the development of a Second Education
Project which extends, amplifies and will, in a way, enhance the results of
the First Project. This dialogue, the "sectoral memorandum on educationll1
which is basically a part of it, and the Second Project suggest' that the
necessary institutlional reinforcement will take place and will certainly
help to develop an inter-ministry planning function that will involve the
Ministries of Finance and the plan, in addition to MEN.
General remarke
7.08   The economic and financial difficuLties that have beset the Comoros
for several years did not facilitate the implementation of certain project
activities; they sometimes prevented the project institutions from being
fully utillzed.  On occasion they limited recruitment of graduates, from
these establishments and the use - extremely positive all the same - of
external contributions in tutors or teachers. In principle, the structural
adjustment programme for the Comoros should promote Government decisions
aimed at making more rational use of existing resourc.s and, consequently,
improving the operation and viability of the existing institutions.
7.09   Rlght from the negotiation stage, the First Project stressed the
need for budget stringency in the training/ education system, and the
Second Project is reinforcing this dialogue by providing assistance through
specific components: improved administrative organization/management and
development of the data-collecting and planning function. The latter
project contains more generous plans for logiatic support for activities,
support that is reqzired by the Comoros' particular situation, in which the
institutions and staff are scattered over three islands with a problematic
communications system.
[lJ    Prepared by IDA in June 1985.



- 39 -
B.    LISQN  1O BE DRL WN
7.10  'the experience gained through this project provides a number of
lessons for future projects in the Comoros or elsewhere. Shortfalls
recognized during the First Project have already been taken into account in
the design of a Second Project intended to complete the First Project and
make it profitable. One of the merits of the First Project is that the
experience acquired in implementing it has served as a basis for designing
the Second Project, aimed mainly at amplifying the objectives of the first,
while employing more effective methods of action and developing post-
primary structures essential to the country's economic activity. Moreover,
this project places emphasis on,  ter alia, co-ordination and systematic
programming and on the award of a number of key fellowships so as to
strengthen the institutions of both projects and make them viable (the two
weak points in the First Project).
7.11   IDA should have demanded stricter compliance with the covenants of
the Credit Agreement from the outset of Project implementation as regards
not only the Project accounting but also the preparation of quarterly
reports on the educational aspects of the various components.
7.12   Given the situation of the Project accounts, it is necessary to
establish an accounting system whereby the actual situation of the project
by category/component/subcomponent/ financial source would be  instantly
available, so as to facilitate a comparison between the statements and the
objectives det-rmined by the appraisal mission. This project "log" is the
very basis of sound management in establishing the components.
7.13   The experience gained from this Project confirms once more the the
need, at the Project design stage, for greater realism and less ambitious
expectations, greater precision about the measures to be taken, proper co-
ordination between the Project Implementation Unit and those responsible
for the various components, and for the viability and proper functionirg of
the Project institutions.
7.14   The experience acquired during the permanent dialogue on budget
savings and educational policy demonstrates the considerable constraints
imposed by the lack of a realistic educational development strategy or
reliable data on the parameters of the education and training system and
the way they evolve.
7.15   At the Project supervision and implementation stage, especially in
the case of a first project with several components spread out on two
counts - geographical and ministerial responsibility - it is important to
ensure that the Project managers and the staff of the relevant institutions
are well acquainted with the Project objectives and methods of action and
to make them actively participate in executing their respective components.
In this regard, a mid-term evaluation of the Project implementation would
clearly have been beneficial.
7.16  'This experience  demonstrates  the  importance  of sending  several
specialists on a more regular basis and the need to avoid too long a gap
between visits relating to any given speciality.



- 40 -
7.17   The experience gained through thi  Project and the discussions heid
during Its implementation have also underscored the need for a change in
attitudes to go hand in hand with implementation of further activities
subject to specific constraints. Since the time factor is important, we may
be optmlistic about the execution of the Second Project: the Comoros'
inexperience in communication, the consequent shortage of data and
documentation and the frequently ad hgo and personal decisions will
gradually give way to greater compliance with the provisions of reorganized
structures (such as EPROD, CEWADER and MEN) that will involve systematic
allocation of duties and delegation of authority.



a.zm7T[s K CF lE NUIIS5Y OF NATGL WUIAI. RMM. iYM M  SPOsM
Adviaory Boerds
_ Inepeccor te Ceneral  _m_il1
EN]    I Prinary Teacher-Training College |   taonal Secretary
ENS    ;Secondary Teacher-Training        |        UESC                                                                                   Preee  taformtton
Collee eDocumntation
INJS   : National Inhcituce of Youth and    Technical Advicer.
Sports .ar de M
INE    : National Institute of Education                                                             _      larrstton I
CNDRS : Natieonao  Centcre for Deve loplment   Srhol and University           nea Secretarylton
and Scientific Research              "dc   aatm                      ralt       rtr
|Scholarsblps Dept.pl4                                           Ctttn 
plannins Dept.                  Pro.ects               Dir<ctorate  General         Goa. Admin.    Fin.               Directorate  - Culture
l    Panln  Dpt    I I    prtnt  1    Educatton  1   ]   Directorate             yriuth *nd S.rt 
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~tscn ,f(                                      an 1L.&   .Luc - Ent                                         .iet
E  S     |   ~~~Cost       Sta         |      FnnSOfco                                                          $*oa                ateortPr-eho  at  Yout    at*1 1
andBuildip and           Ru         nService                                         Culture        and        EduScatvi
Financing        map                                        Directorate JechaFy               Nlgeeant oL aI
Regional Brach   c                                                                                   E      iof Education   I
||Pre-School   Ele-. Cduc.       t Sc. * Teeh. Educ.        1   GCnaereiaP   ancia|
I                      ~~~~~~~~illN, Nurccry  loranic  |      ua | 4yel  Itslamic Corllee  | I b    De ietmnt              De Pt. of| Dept. otf  |DePt. Of|
I~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~~ ~col .y . Nainl  col                                                                                        Culture    V go4tb *and  IPhyalcal|
|                   Ll   Oftice Ec, CoSt ete             Ll              [  ~~~~~~~Persone Office    L       CRS   | Popular  |Education| 
|  !rlnrw,   Seeendna m S  e t Edu!atton  LF                ' nch    |  |Education   4   Sprt        IX
uug.  ~      - 
C S         III.     .. SCowan Seervces               Acon
Ruralistion of tis                        petyatqup.Of i
Sourc: Doumentprepred b  themiaaia onclue   si,Off inrmco  reesCivted tom      iityo  EdctonsolO                            HR          oua          dcto 



Annex 2                                           2           42                           3
Nsumer of BEIM., sc4.ools c1ses and teache
Pupils                                     ~~~~~~~~Ratios
Total irls ShoolsClass- Teachers ~I Pupil/ppl/ Girls
Year  Total   Girls    Schools  ~~~~~              ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rooms  class- tear-her  
-                       ~~~~~room
1965/66      8.085         1.941         58          165          165        49      49       24
1966/67      8.648         2.229         64          175          219        49      39       26
1967/68     10.392         2.890         74          236          285        44      36       28
1968/69     12.366         3.617         78          249          292        50      42       29
1969/70     13.413         4.099         92          255          319        53      42       30
1970/71     14.727         4.563        100          262          356        56      41       31
1971/72     16.660         5.368        122          444          405        37      41       32
1972/73     19.694         6.688        128          510          479        39      40       34
1973/74     24.677         8.291        140          523          520        47      47       34
1974/75     28.614        10.024        142          619          630        46      45       35
1975/76     35.818             -        16           425          756        84      47        -
19768/7     42.338             -        192          485          683        87      62        -
19771/8     32.293             -        192          48S5         849        67      38        -
1978/79     49.940             -        236          502          934        99      53       4
1979/80     S6.092k                     236          502        1.157       112      48-
1980/81  59.7j/       24.777       236          695S.3                  86      45       41
1981/82     61.776j/      26.233        243          749        1.462        82      42       42-
1982/83     61.469             -        243          746        1.617        82      38        -
1983/84     61.905        26.369        243          873        1.607        71      38       43
1984/85     62.265        29. 189       252          997        1.997        65      33       45 
1985/86     64.828        28.241        253        1.026        1.901       64       35       44
1986/87     62.404        27.410        257          977        1.808       64       34       44
1986/88     64.737        28.494        257        1.027       1.777        63       36       44
1/ Ionluding Koranic pre-primary  school pupils.
Source : 1987/88 Statistical Yearbook, Department of Educational Planning,
Ministry of National Education.



IS80                                               1981                                          1982                                       2981
Entrants              Passes         Strength  Entrants                Passes         Strength Entrants            Passes        Strength    Entrants            Passes                     >
Strenath                                                        _____
aM2       N    Z      Strength  N      reS En;               No       No.                  '                  No.       I      No.       S  ts2           No.               No. 
6f455        2883.      2.639     8        1.280      41      L.63       3.182      8S       2.m        3       4.084     2.631     88      1.462     40     4.016      3.936    83      I.1t2     49
AaJO"n       2.58 l     .922       26        940      42      2.LOS      2.2S4     8B        1.224      S6      3.119     2.404    21         96S     40     3.002      2.666     13     1.448      54
lobbd i        492        281       62        260      57        453        122       2         2S       18        436      4tS       9S       118     28       490        486     99       I8       46
Comor        6.046      4.892      B0       2.380      49      6.769      S.193       8S      2.61S      49      7.63      6.440    84       2.550     39     7.592      6.6888    as     3.386      s0
Reslts In the                     e mtrme ezidnat m
90to 19" to I987 -
1984                                              1298                                           1986                                       1298
Strength    Entrants                Passes         Strength  Entranta              Passes            Strength  Entrants             Passes      Strength    Entrants           Passes
2 Strcngth             2 En-       Clt                                               Io                                        C
No.       CR?       No.   trants                  No.                No.        S                  No.               No.                        No.       s       No.
Craa         *4.SIS     3.919      86       1.57t      40      4.990      4.61       83       1.216      29      5.088     3.246     64      1.328  42.49     4.131      3.248     69     1.016  33.12
Cinsre
Aajswae      1.499      2.9S1      9S       1.420      48      1.949      3.211       82      1.049      32      4.691      2.812   60        .363* 48.41     4.3157     2.454    5S        814  3.303
slhil          960         48s      8S        204      42        S94        S94       91        214      40        9S         401  69.2        130  32.14       490        924              170  33.02
t' "         8.354      Y.157      85       1.198      42      9.911      2.931      82       2.429   3J.2      10.324     8.459    65       2.871  44.44     9.954     6.226      65     2.060   12.8
Source    1987/1988 Statistical Yearbook. Educational Planning Dept.. Ministry of National Education
Co1



-44-
Annex 4
RESMXS
IN THE sm GRADE ERAn EAM               0
ER4  1980 TO 1987
4000
3750-
3500 -                     3386
3250-                          3198
3000                                            2891
2750  2.61   255 
2500- 238
2250-
2000                                                    A
1980  1981  1982  1983  1984   1985  1986  1987
Number of pupils
Source : Document prepared by the mission, on the basis of data supplied by
the Deptartment of Educational Planning, Ministry of National Education.



_ OcMr OF CAE
Minister of Proution
President of the Board
of Adinistration
Directorat                                                tDonCenta
DII rtoratBanhe                                                 Directorate                  Dj.retorate                    isUi
Technicl Ser    ores truppor selied
Prga        taitc              Aauit         Catle                        Reeach        Exenio        Aryc.Prod.    Logistc         M~anageaet
Evalatin  Srves                            sAingf       Developoent        TA.        frain         9hi9=t1ng       SuppOrti
Source :Document base on "CEFADER, Organigramme et Procedures", June 1987



~cusF Wr mWumO Pmimcr
PA =US  SAFF
1981    1982      1983      1984       1985      1986       1987       1988
NAtIoNW  STQFF3 4 l 2 3 4 1 2 3 14 l 121 14 1 213 14 1 213 14 l 2 3 4 1 2 3 4
NATIOA Stw--  --                                                                  
PROJECT DIRECTOR  _           ._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ - _                   _ _
ACCOUNTANT(1)---
ACCOUNTANT(2)              - -   - - _. _ _ _
ACCOUNTANT(3)*    -                                                    m    ---*m. -
SENIOR ACCOUNTANT       - _ _
ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT _  - _        u.....           . urn. _   _    _   ___                 __    .
SC-AJ8Oa, jD4VW#TSf4Wjjunn.iinm   ii   * nU
ECPIIITESrAFF
CHIEF ARCHITECT
DRAUGHTSMANS               -                      - _ _ _ _  *c  . _
TEXTBOOK SPECIALIST
ACCOUNTANT
PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
Source : Document prepared by the mission.
.



aN 06: r E 
n~aAu -i
1981      1982         1983         1984          1985         1986         1987    1988
3  4  1  213  4          213141112  3  4_  213  4 1  2  3  4  1  2  314  _  2
1.  PRY       TEAEE-TUN    _______      _______      
(a) Design and bidding documents  ________- -_
(b) Tender and contract award                  . _ . _ _
(c) Constrction
(d) quipment furniture list                       _- - -                                         _ _ _ _                   _
(e) Tender and award
(f) Manufacture and delivery                                                      --                    :  :r _  __
2.  DI-SERVICE IEIn   AN_1
(a) Equipuent list                                              _                -me
(b) T- der and award
(c) Training course .
3.            ANIXTS A Ct YMWU1NAWALS
(a) List of material_                                           - _ _ _ _       -  -  * S
(b) Tender and award                      . .  .    _ _
(c) Delivery of imported works                  _ _  _ _ _                          - I       - I
(d) Delivery and paper and equipment                 .     . . _  _  _  _
(e) Delivery of locally manufactured textbooks                                           _ _ _ _ _ -  _ _
4.  HTCEAL NEAl  SCEUM
(a) Plans and bidding documents                                         -  .I
(b) Tender and contract award
(c) Construction                        _ _  _                               - - |||
(d) Equipuent and furniture list .                     .        _                                        -                               n -
(e) Tender and award               .                  ,         _                                       -     - *
(f) Manufacture and delivery                               -_         _             - -  -         L S .   U   -       I  I      I
5,, AMICO .IAL LAUUR E  CMIRE
(a; Plans and bidding documenat                                 _  _
(b) Tender and contract award                                   -  -  -  =  -   -
(c) Construction             ----  -                                                   -mle   s
(d) Equipment and furniture list                 _ _ _ _ _                      - 1
(e) Tender and award                            -               _      _C
(f) Maufacture and delivery
6.   IICAL ASSUGY AND FE-_IS
(a) Pfocaweent specialist                    . _
(b) Architect                         -                            -  - I
(c) Textbook procuma            L                                                                    __-
(d) Fellowships                       --
7.   s       AEDISAT_.
Sourc   : DocsUuent prpaed by  the mission.



ablarae Tabe of Surfaes
I'remises / Surface  Appraisal Actual Dif. Dit.   Premises / Surface   AFpraLSal Actual Dit.  Dif.    Premises/Surfae,          Appraisal Actual Dif.  Dif.
m2 U. m2 U.m2 U. %,                                 m2 U. m2U. m2 U.  %                                   m2 U. m2 U. m2 U.  %b
AGRIQLIURAL  AR&W    lU nCENE                D                lTRAa-IIUAIWMC mIe N                    IML HEAU SCHOM
TEACHING & ADMIN. SPACE                             LOCAUX EDUCATIFS & ADMINIST.                         LOCAUX EDUCATIFS & ADMINIST.
Classrooms (2)               68    62   6  9%       Classrooms (5)              300   291   .9  -3%    Classrooms (5)                  180   154  -26 414%
All-purpose room             46    42   -4 .9%    Administration                120   116  -4  .3%    Demonstration                    90    96    6   7%
Store                        12    18    6 50%      Book storage                 20    35   15  75%    Dental room                     45    44   .1  -2%
Audio-visual room            28    27   .1  4%      Library                      30   107   77 2571'    Analysis Laboratory            45    44   *1  -2%
Study                        28    27   -1 4%    Science Laboratory              28    90   62 221%       All-purpose room             120   101  -19 -16%
Administration               44    46    2  5%    Woodwork 6 Hetalwork Shop 120   119  .1  .1%            Library                      90    96    6   7%  1
Handicrafts workshop         90    82   -8  -9%    Library annexes                 20    24    4  20%  4.
BOARDING FACILITIES                                 Refectory                   180 180    0   0%    Workshop                            0     Is   I
Hall                          0    43   43 -        Sports Equipment storeroom  0    32   32  -           Store                          0    24   24  -    I
Kitchen 6 Refectory         134   107  .27 .20%    Kitchen 6 services (laundry8a    93   13  16%    Administration                     120    128    8   7%
aen's dormitories           1oo    82  -18 -18%    Garage                        80    56  -24 .30%    Lavatories                       30    95   65 217%
Women's dormitortes          20    24    4 20%                                                            Free space                   240    41 -199  83%
Supervisor and               16    21    5 31%    DEKONSTRATION SCHOOL          540      0 -540  -
Washrooms                    40    39 *1 .3%        BOARDING                                              BOARDING FACILITIES
Store                        24    11   13 54%      Rooms 3 beds (24) + sup. 1080   979 101   9S%    Kitchen                            80   102   22  28%
Lavatories & sbowers        40    134   94 235%      Refectory                      0    107  107  -
STAFF HOUSING                                       Store                         0    32   32  -         Dormitories & washrooms(56,65M    359 -141 *28%
Director                   100    85  -15 .35%                                                           Su pervisors             e)60    26  -34 *7
Admin. Staff (3)           240   20S  -35 .15%    STAFF HOUSING                                           Free space                  170   171    1   1%
Guest rooms (2)             40    18  22 5S%    Director                       lO0    85  -IS -35%
Admin. staff (2)            160   137  -23 .14%    STAFF HOUSING
Watchman                    40    47    7  18%    Watchmsn                         40    62   22  55%    : 
TOTAL SERVICEABLE SURFACE 940   857   83 .9%   TOTAL SERVICEABLE SURFACE 3008  2615 -393 .13%    TOTAL SERVICEABLE SURFACE 3830   1689 -1413    % 
Source; Document prepared by the mission.



49                                      Annex 9
OaS: FIF EDUCATION PRO=
FELUaI SavM
1982   1983       1984      1985       1986
3 4 1 12 3 4 1 2 1341 14t2 3 4 112 3 41
St. Cloud Teacher-Training College    _ _ _ _               * _ _ _ _ e  T    I   (1)
St. Cloud Teacher-Training College  _2_
Lyons Teacher-Training Collsege    .  _ _ _                  Em      .....-    (3)
Psycho-pedagogicallnseicuee l        - _       _ _       _    __      _    _      (4)
Inter. Ist. Farm Produce Manage.t ___                                             (5)
SEC01 - Training .4e   Q _a m *                                                  (6)
(Desinacteur-Projeteur)
POSITION AFTER TRAINING
(1) INSPECTOR                      (4) MMNBER OF PARLIAMENT
(2) EDUCATIONAL ADVISER            (5) DIRECTOR CRAFTS AND INDUSTRY
(3) EDUCATIONAL ADVISER            (6) PROJECT UNIT SURVEYOR, S-oVWA
c Dor*pe y e47SH ;so
Source :Document prepared by the mission.



Annex 10
- 50 -
02             : MFMS EDUC;Cti PRDI=
*      CAL ASSISEMZ
1982       1983       1984        1985
12 3 4  1213 1l41234  11234
chief Architect                                                                             - F1   H
1.02                            30.06
Draughcua                                        130-. -  - Ie 8                        |3L0
Textbook specialist                                --        I      I I
OL03        31.05
Accountant                                               I I _           1
Procurement expert                                  -           I
09.0l 041   .01            31.07
1|111111 t11'
Escimaced duration
Actual duration
Source    Document prepared by the mission



OIGUGL AUDC&AINQ ASD ACIUAL Of'hI1rN           OF  urr 1195-Ml
Thousan  F.C.                        ITmusand US$
9b                                %    X EstimatedActual
Estimated  Actual  Diffemence  Diff.   Estimated Actual Difference Diff.  Cost      Total
Civil engineering:
Primary Teacher-Training
College .                     223 848   535 331   311 484  139%         973   1 568     595   61%       16%  26%
National Health School         150535   304 134   153599  102%          655     723      69   11%       11%   15%
Agricultural Training Centre   62 560   120 127    57567   92%          272     295      23    9%       5%   6%
Professional services          62 100    69036      6936   11%          270     182     -88  -33%       4%    3%
Technical Assistance,          142600   401 537   258937  182%          620    991      371   60%       10%   19%
fellowships
In-service teacher training    46000    85456    39456   86%            200     240      40   20%       3%    4%
Project administration         39 100    72945    33845   87%           170    204       34   20%       3%    3%
Equipment, furniture, vehicleslSO65O   367635   216985  144%            655   1043      388   59%       11%  18%
Textbooks                     131 100   131 979       879    1%        570      310    -260  -46%       9%   6%
Provisions                    376050       -             -            1 635     -                      27%
-OAL                         1384543 2088 180   703 637    1%  .  6 020   5 558    *462   -8;%
Souce: prepared by the mission.



- 52 -
Annex. 12
Page 1
DI_;SDE      S BY YEAR AM  BY CM          r
(in FC thousanis)
(Estimted)
1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988         TOTAL
CIL WORKS, CONSTRUCrION
AgriculturalTrainingSchool 22 712   88 025    9 241                       10 862   130 841
National Health School                63 972  205 748   60920               618   331 258
Primiarv Teackler-Training      004           159 187  177 356  191 207   55 321   583076
College
*   EUMM, FM1MR, VEHIIM
Ecp4pme"nt, furnniturce                 1267   20448  305 411   15 345      253   342723
Vehlicle#s                             14 951    4 029    4 050                    23 030
-          rOpexating expenses (C.F. Agriculture)                       1882               1882
E3aBOCKS
Primary edh:ation                     59529   61 162             11288            131979
IN-SERVICE TRAINIG
Equipumnt                      7 844                                                7844
Grants and Transport           9249    6368   14728   21252   26016                77612
TECAL ASSISrM
Outside expers        11739  153163  104831   90042    9909    2210               371894
Training fellowships 300               10469    5370   11628    1 875              29 643
BEr
Ftudies              is 0871  12579   15000   14 105    5629    3024               69036
PoMJCr uNrr
SalrieUs              3 767    5 459    3 942    5 321    7 170    8 263    5959    39 881
*  Expenses           4410    7447    6 701   12284   tO 300    8 940       573    50655
Furnitucce              654      20      7i8                                        1 391
EqIuipmuet            4 767     405                                                 S 172
Vehicles              2143    2 765                                                 4 908
Premises              6 220                                      4 597             10 817
TOTAL                52701  221647  375773  601665  613626  274647   73586  2213644
mc P           UclpATN
Salaries              3 767    5 459    3 942    5 321    7 170    8 263    5959    39 881
Civil works                    2883    3453   57*088   12306    9853               8553
TOTAL                 3767    8341    7395   62409   19476   18 115    5959   125 44
% of civil works total        12.7%    2.3%    153%     5.2%     5.2%               829%
ma a62rr
Annal anow1t         48934  213305  368378  539255  594 149  256531   67626  2088 180)



- 53 -
Annex 12
Page 2
DISSII  BY YEAR AND 8Y Cll E Ntlr
(US$)
(Estimated)
1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988   TOTAL
CtVIL WORKS, CONSTRUCTION
Agricultural;Training School 59603  201450   20 570                      37953   319576
National Health School                146402  457970  175918             2 160   782451
Prgary Teacher-Training           12          354332  512145  636213  193304  1696006
E T,   JMNMURE, VEIL
Equipment, fimniwre                     2900   45515  881925   51057       883   982280
Vehicles                               34215    8969   11695                      54879
Operating expenses (C.F. AgricAlture)                            6 262             6262
T MOKS
Primary education                    136234  136140             37560            309 934
IN-SEtIVCE TRAINNG
Eiquipment                    20 584                                              20 S84
Grants and Transport          24271   14s72   32783   61369   86s64              219559
TE CAL ASSISrAIC
OUtside experts       35722  401940  239911  200422   28614    7353              913962
Training f.llcwhips  913              23960   11953   33579    6239               76643
BEr
Studies and           56905   33010   34327   31396   16255   10062              181955
FoIaw-up
PROJET UN
Salaries              11464   1432S   9022   11844   2070S   27493   20824   115676
Expenses              13422   19 543  1S 337   27 342  29 743   29 745   2 003   137134
Furniture              1990      S1    1642                                        3684
Equipment             14 507    1063                                              iS 570
Vehicles               6 522   7 256                                              13 779
Preises               18930                                     is295             34225
T0TAlL               160375  581658 859971 13392361771949  913844  257127  5884159
Salaries              11464   14325    9022   11844   2070S   27493   20824   11S676
Civil works                    75X5    7902  117 072   355S37   32 783           210859
TOTAL.                11464   21889   16924  138916   56242   60 276   2082    326535
MOL CREDIT
ArMual amoimt       148 911 559769  843047 1200319 1 715707  853568  236303 5557625
I



SmIFMz Am inmwrzo  VWi co=
Capacity  Surface            Costs (FC thousands)                     Costs (USS)
No. pupils /pupil          Total    per m2  per pupil          Total   per .2  per pupil
$icultural    Estimated    40         24           100 196      107    2505            435 636      463    10 891
ainiz,g        Actual        40       21           130841       153    3 271           319 576       373    7 989
i3ntre          Difference    0         -2           30645        46      766           -116 059      -91   -2 9P1
National        Estimated      75       24           241 097      132    3 215          1 048 249      573   13 977               U
Health          Actual         56       30           331 258      196    5 915           782 451       463   13 972
School          Difference   -19         6           331258        64    2701           -265 798      -110       -4
iMM7           Estimated    180        17          358515       119    1992           1 558 759      518    8 660
eacher-        Actual        144       18           583 076      223    4049           1 696 006     649   11 778
.EIIDng     Difference   -36         1           224 561      104    2 057           137 246       130    3 118
~llege
Notes : (1) .stimated costs take unexpected events and price rises into account.
(2) Ihe Agricultural Training Centre included the conversion of existing buildings.
Source: Document prepared by the mission.



- 55 -
AnAi914
Page 1
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(US$ millions)
Year                1983      1984       1985       1986       1987       1988
ESMrIMA:
Appraisal (Nov. 82)  0,40       1,40      3,90       5,55       5,95      6.00
Revised (Sept. 84)   0.40       1,40      3,90       4,00       5,50      6,00
ACTUAL:
IDA reports (1)      0,27      1,42       2.04      4,50       5,00      (3.a.)
Audit reports (2)    0,89      1,74       3,01       4,49      5.31       5,56
Actual committed (3) 0,71       1,54      2,70       4,42      5,27       5,51
NOTES:
(1) Ihe IDA's registration dates are later than the expenditure camdmitme date.
(2) The audit reports record the situation at 3! December of the appropriate yer.
(3) Takes accoumt of the amoumts disbursed for the year as well as sme camitted.
(n.a.) Data not available.
Source: prepared by the mission.



- 56 -
Annex 14
Page 2
DISBURSEDEN SOIE9XJLZ
(US$ millions)
6
4
2                                                        ;
0
*1983   1984   1985    1986   1987   1988
Estimated                  Credit effectiveness date:  June 82
MDB records                Initial closing date: June 87
Final closing date: December 86
Audit reports              Actual closing date: June 88
by the



*~{                                                                   .       *
RSEr DEOALUTIt  CHARr
Drstanc                                                                  Technlcal
Education and                         c4Nct                                     nAdvlse
Educational Radio                                                             Adviser
Tralning and                        Department of                          Productionl
Courses Office                          Curriculum
Non-formal               Curriculum          Research Team               IN  Anjouan
Education                 Deslgn            Co-ordlnatlon                   and
French - Mathe
Science - Geography
Handicrafts
(9 TC + I National)
Source:  Document prepared by the mission on the basis of lnformatLon supplied by INE



- 58 -
Annex 16
A) Short corses
1982/83         240 trainees           6 courses/1 week          3 centres
1983/84         200 trainees           5 courses/2 weeks         6 centres
1984/85         300 trainees           7 courses/2 weeks         7 centres
1985/86         400 trainees           9 courses/6 weeks         9 centres
1986/87         353 trainees           9 courses/6 weeks         9 centres
(+ 2 weeks' practical course)
Estimate: of the primary education teaching corps, 700 have been retrained
in 6 to 8 weeks and 300 in 1 to 2 weeks.
B) Upgrading (one year at the centres)
1984/85          60 trainees           6 hours per week
1985/86         175 trainees           6 hours per week
Accordingly, 235 trainees attended an average of 200 hours of courses at the
rate of 6 hours per week broken down as follows:
French 3 hours - mathedmatics 14 hours and geography/science 1I hours.
They are in a position to obtain their BEPC (jIA4   e etc- c     diploma) and move
on to the CAE (isc-14    yjLc-  diploma) after an extra year of training in the
second year of the ENI or at Mbroni (at the INE)(l).
UwTre was same suggestion of operiting two academic upgrading centres
on a professional basis for auxiliary teachers in 1988/89, one at the
ENI (Patsi) and the other at the INE (Moroni). These two centres
would each have received 25 4th-grade trainees who would be seconded
for one year on full salary. At the Moroni centre recruitment gave
priority to the best trainees of 1984/85, while the ENI will recruit
the best trainees of 1985/86, but in the latter case the training
wiU be postponed because of the shortage of teachers in Grande
Comore.



- 59 -
Annex 17
Distributiao of textbokl. t                 saem  mle  d_CdMAZIM irtE_ fnm ftype by the DM
Oiscribution            Copies
Level                    TlCI. - Publisher                 Classes/pupils          Teachers                 cencres             distributed
FRtWAS
CPt                   P"r ire n fraects CPI  ieu,aA/              13,000                                   1 for 2 pupilc              6,500
CP2                   Powr lire en franc4is CPZ - Rthaa1'         13,000                                    I for 2 pupilS             6,500
cP1 - CPZ             Pour lire en fr4nft;s I - F. Ratha          26.1000                                  1 for 2 pupils              U,00w
tEt                   Pour lire on fratKais 11 - F. Nattn         Ij,OOC (pupils   ENI                     I for Z pupils              6,503
library. etc.)
AFROsI. KD Atrique
EDOIW - Puptl
tEt                                                              10,500                                    1 for 2 pupils              5,250
cu                                                               10,500                                                                5,250
CHIt                                                             IOXSOO                                                                S250
Cie                                                              10,500                                                                5,25
Apaipli. ron At ritims
EDICEF- teacher's Book
ciu                                                              2SO                                       1 per teacher                 250
CE2                                                              250                                                                     250
Clt                                                              250                                                                     250
aCt2                                                             250                                                                     250
MATlEnD U2S - Etudtins enebIe
(P1                   Pupil                                      400 cI                                    3 par clasa                 1,00
(P2                   Pupil                                      550 cI                                                                I,=
CE                    Puptl                                      500 cI                                                                1,i0
cm                    Pupil1,0
Ut1                   Teacher                                                                             I per teacher I
CP2                  Teacher
cli                  Teacher
cm                   Teacher                                                                                                            500
ACTIVTES OE rITIEATIOUE  EN AfR3W1
CPI                  Level I - let year                          13.000 pupila                            I for 4 pupil
Book I - Pupil                            400 classes                               i for 4 pupils             3,000
Book 2 - Pupil                            400 classes                               i for 4 puptlA             3,000
Book 3 - PupIL                           400  clsses                                I for 4 pupils             3,000
File 1 - Teacher                                                                    I per teacr  (+ 41t4    60o
Flle 2 - Teacher                                                                    trainin  ceatres             6
File 3 - Teacher                                                                    librarY. ete.)                Go
IIWWTIQUES 1PAM - EOICtf
cti                   Pupil                                      13.000 pupLis                            c per class                 1,600
Cil                   Teacher                                    SOO classes                               I per teacher (+ 131 4   600
Cu                    Pupil                                                                               t1a,nLog csnCre    c          60C 0
Cu2                   Teacher                                                                             Griiocnte    t. 
SCIElCS OSERvSrleIS IPAN - EDICEF
Cc                                                               SDO classes                               3 per clas                 1.500
cm                                                               NO0 classes                                                          1,500
olCTlamiR@V I US 10.000 CDO tS FRIWt
ct                                                               500 clasiss                              2 per class                 1,050
cm                                                               500 classes                              2 per clss                  1,000
PUMOIlt POUR AFR14UE NEVtUt
IPA1- tOICEF
All classes                                                                           1,520                1 for 4 teachers             3i0
OICTIOsAIRE ENCYCLOPVOIOUt OEVEIL
OCITtE 
All classes                                                                          1,520                1 per teacher               1b520
1/ Cift of che FAC.
Source: SEPE and Supervtsion Reports



-60 -
Annex 18
Educational Pbblications Desidt snd Prodzr>ed   the DM
( TsndR     CCUse= qe-p&) trun 198Z to 1987
Title            Number   Date
No.     Discipline      School            or               of       of
level           Format           pages publication
1      Mathematics     CM1            Manual No. 1         114     1984
2                      CM1            Manual No. 2         161     1985
3                      CM1            Manual No. 3         104     1986
-       4                      CM1            Manual No. 4          116     1986
5                      All levels     Booklet No. 1         17     1987
6                      All levels     Booklet No. 2         13     1987
7      French lang.    CP/CE          Oral expression       31     1986
8                      CP/CE          Reading               57     1986
9                      Primary        Written expression    77     1986
10                     CM1-0M2        French activities     28     1986
11                     Teaching       Selected texts        49     1985
12                     Teaching       Structural            20     1985
exercises
13    Geography        Head teachers The Comoros            86     1987
14                     CE             Exper. teaching      181     1986
guide
15                     Primary and    Pamphlets and        111     1982
lower second. papers
16    History          Primary        Pamphlets and        202     1985
papers
17     Science         CM             Pamphlets             32     1986
18     Agricultural    CM             Pamphlets             31     1986
Scierre
19     Handicrafts     Primary        Pamphlets TP           6     1987
20    Administration Head teachers Traineeship notice    60        1985
21     Class           Head teachers  Use of time and       35     1986
organization    atd teachers   class organization
22    Geography        CM2            Practical work-       42     1986
books (for pupils)
*        23    French lang.                    Pupil's file           30     1987
(experimental)
Note: An estimated 75,000-100,000 of the above publications were
distributed to teachers and pupils.
CM : Secondary
CE : Elementary
TP : Practical work
Source : BEPE



- 61 -
Annex 19
Oa   : Fr Dr UrAT[G  PcD=
USWE oF 1                 TLAMD  CM   PREKESES
1987           1988           1989
l   2 1i    4   112j 134 l  2  3  4
F=   MM          ~~~First year   Secondi year
First yese     Se &wd year
No. Of StLdenu   30         ~~30422uS2        22       20
Us of pra8es)
Partial     Full         Partial
_ Outside trainees
_ Teaching on CFA preuises
ft%mb-p-ns of traiu1z  at CPA (2 ye.,) - (fra  1989)
fiH    y                            Seond yer
6 amohs |7.5 nths 7a5  |1 th            2I nonthM   6 months   3 mnths  I month 2 months
te.ildetin | Co C=     lo St ea- r1                                PM.
coung    a~ aag - *                                  stagep   PE      dy
-CAM.-.-Mob6U- -MoFAli-| - -Mhf- -   CADER-
Sepsa      mid-#p,U   Jumn  Septesb            Mch              July
Soume: Doctiat prepared by the mission



- 62 -
Annex 20
CFA: First-Yen  timtable
Monday          TzesdaY        Wednesday       Thursday          Friday       Saturday
7:30    Livestock        Mathematics    Mathematics  Agriculture          Tropical         7  X
farming                                                           agriculturc
8:30    Tropical         Tropical         Tropical       French           Environmene      a
agriculture      agriculture    agriculture
9:30   Tropical          Environment    Practical        French          Livescock
agriculcure                      vork                            farming           a
10:30   Environment       French          Practical       Environment    French            B  M
work                                                a .
11:30    Nutritlon        French          Practical       Environment                        t
work                                            . s 
12:30              - -______-__------     LUNCH                --- -                          a
8. a
15:00   Mathemacics       Practical       Sporcs          Mathematics    Practical           a
work                                            work                *
1 e
16:00   Mathematics       Practical       Sports               -          Practical        0 '
work                                            vork             a
.    .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
5A: SeCud-Ye= ti9   tabe
Konday         Tuesday       Wednesday        Thursday         Friday      Saturday
7:30    Rural            Rural           Rural           Rural           Rural         TP Food
economics        economics       economics      economics        economics    crops
8:30    Animal           Truck            Animal              _          Animal        TP Food
husbandry        farting         husbandry                      husbandry    crops
9:30   Anilal           TP vegetable    Animal          TP vegetable   Truck
husbandry       farming/animal husbandry    farming/aniual                     TP Food
husbandry                      husbandry        farming       crops
10:30    FoodTV vegetable    Cash                       TP vegetable                    or Noo0a
crops  fazvtiu/anlmlcrohps         farming/animal  Truck           o
10:30 rood     ghusbandry        crops         husbandry         faraing       monitoring
11:30    Cash           TP vegetable    Cash            TP vegetable
crops          farming/animal  crops        -  farming/animal
husbandry                      husbandry
12:30    ----------------------------    LUVNCH    ___-____________-_- _-_____________
15:00    TP cash          Food            Sports         TP Food          TP cash
crops            crops                          crops            crops
16:00   TP cash           Food            Sports         TP Food          TP cash
crops            crops                          crops            crops
TP : Practical work
Source : CFA Directorate



- 63 -
Annez 21
tiationaL Health Sdmol
Sbalsit tIWl tfmn 1986 to 1989
intake/Academic                            1986/87                 1987/88            1989
Flrst year                               29 (O4i 127)                  32                 30
"Second year                              28       127)                 27                 32
Third year                               27 (wi,117)                 24                 27
Upgrading                                     37                       35                 35
outgoing  8ft 8nt                            64                      S9                 4 1
Total   QIWt'im of I'2ininIain
([ta   of Wmi                           1.                      U,                 US
_/ Forecasts
2/ Six-month period
Source: ENS Directorate and mission.
Eadaal Heath School   oli  el    Of 1987
an  oceimm    o        m  t b  1ISAM
Graduates                 Grande Comore       Anjouan          NbE I            Total
Kidwives                                 4                1                0                5
Nurses                                   6                6                0               12
Dental nurses                            2                1                1                4
Laboratory technicians                    2               3                0                S
Upgrading  /                                                                               37
1/ Six-monch period.
Source : Report on public health activities for 1987 (Laval University Project).
MSAN, May 1988.



-64-
Antex 22
NATO    HORS9M
Sbz.t FLOW frau 1980 to 1989
40 .  - ^ _- - 
30
2S
is
1987/88        1988189        1989i90 (estimated)
1styew
2d ye
m  3yr
Source Uocaneu    (6prp te   period)
Source: Document prepared by the mission.



Nationa ll:dh Sdwlol 8aftes
tiolxO to I98=
Pe-service training October-July
Section                           1981/82        1982/83         1983/84        1984/85         1985/86       1986/87        1987/63       Total
Midvives                                                   13              4              8               7              3              6            15           56
biuroes                                                    18             1S             18              19              3             12            11          98
Dental nurses                                              6               3              3              5               3             4              0          24
Laboratory technicians                                     11              4              3               6              -              5             0           29
lotal                                                      48             26             32              37              9             27            26          205
j       e   (6 months) Novenber - April
Section                                   1982/83            1983/84            1984/85            1985/86          1986/87           Total
Nurses and midwives for medical assistance                              20                20                 20                 20                37             117
Source: ENS Directorate.



HAL Ar OF nE HNSm  OF MLIC HEALi AND POMIATICN
National Advisory                   mister of Publicl                    Non-governmental
L Cbuncil  i                    i Health and  .......                 Organizations
Population           .
Direo-tor of
Cabinet
Secretary General        .
for Health     
Secretariat       Director-General  1.Department of
Secretariat    |           ~~for Health                     Sanitary Engineering
l                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~and Sewerage
DIrectorate of         Directorate of        Directorate of         Directorate of         Directorate of           Regional
Adninistration           Hospitals           Public Health         Central Supplies         Training and           Directorate             Directorate
6Fin.AffasPtogramning    Phamuacy          Further Training       Anjouan & Moheli         Grande Cemre
Source   Documnent prepared by the mission from information supplied by the
Ministry of Health



