Document of                   FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3123-COM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
FOR A
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
November 20, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Comorian Franc (CF)
(The CF is fully convertible into the French Franc at CF 50 = FF 1)
Calendar 1980                    August 1981
US$1.00       =  CF211.3              CF 292
CFl,OOO      =  US$4.74               US$3.42
CF1,OOO,000  =  US$4,740              US$3,425
(The Staff Appraisal Report is based on US$1 = CF 230)
ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB        African Development Bank
BEPE    =   Education Projects Implementation Unit
(Bureau d'Execution des Projects d'Education)
CADER   =   Center for Assistance to Rural Development
(Centre d'Appui au Developpement Rural)
CEFADER =   Federal Center for Assistance to Rural Development
(Centre Federal d'Appui au Developpement Rural)
FAC     =   French Fund for Aid and Cooperation
(Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation)
INE         National Institute of Education
(Institut National d'Education)
MEN     =   Ministry of National Education, Culture, Youth, and
Sports (Ministere de lEducation Nationale, de la Culture,
de la Jeunesse, et des Sports)
MPI         Ministry of Production and Industry
(Ministere de la Production et de l'Industrie)
MSPM    =   Ministry of Health, Population and Muslim Affairs
(Ministere de la Sante, de la Population et des Affaires
Musulmanes)
PPF     =   Project Preparation Facility
WHO     =   World Health Organization
FAO     =   Food and Agriculture Organization
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COMOROS
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros
Beneficiary:   Ministry of National Education, Culture, Youth
and Sports (MEN)
Amount:         SDR 5.3 million (US$6.0 million equivalent)
Terms:         Standard
Project
Description: Objectives:  The project would (a) support qualitative improve-
ments in primary education through teacher training and provi-
sion of teaching materials; and (b) improve the provision of
skilled staff in the agricultural and health fields.
Main Components: a) Construction and equipment of a primary
teacher training college, b) in-service training of about 500
primary school teachers, c) provision of textbooks and teaching
materials, d) construction and equipment of a paramedical
training school in Moroni, e) establishment of an agricultural
training center in Moheli, and f) technical assistance.
Benefits:      The project should lead to improvements in the quality, effi-
ciency and relevance of primary education; reduce the number of
dropout and repeater students; assist in training health and
agricultural manpower essential for economic and social devel-
opment; and aid in institution-building.
Risks:         The main  risk is the general financial weakness of the
Government which could endanger the prompt availability of
counterpart and operating funds for the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated
Costs:
Local      Foreign      Total
-----(US$  millions)-------
Civil works, furniture,                                 1.23        2.23        3.46
equipment, teaching materials
and vehicles
In-service training of
primary school teachers                               0.05        0.15        0.20
Technical assistance and
professional services                                 0.11        0.78        0.89
Project administration                                  0.14        0.18        0.32
Total Base Cost                                    1.53        3.34       4.87
Contingencies
Physical (7 percent)                              0.13        0.23        0.36
Price (24 percent)                                0.42        0.85        1.27
Total Project Cost, net of taxes                   2.08        4.42       6.50
Financing Plan:
Percent
Local    Foreign      Total   of Total
------…(US$ millions)----
Government                                       0.50        -          0.50       8
IDA                                              1.58       4.42        6.00      92
Total                                       2.08       4.42        6.50    100
Estimated Disbursement:             Bank FY 1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
-- --------(US$ millions)- -    -----
Annual                                  .25    .75    2.30   2.05   0.55   0.10
Cumulative                              .25   1.00    3.30   5.35   5.90   6.00
Rate of Return: not applicable
Appraisal Report: Report No. 3493-COM dated November 16, 1981
Map: IBRD 15733.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
FOR A FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros 1/ for the
equivalent of SDR 5.3 million (US$6.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA
terms to help finance a first education project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Background and Economic Structure
2.        A report entitled "The Economy of Comoros":  (Report No. 1626a-COM)
was distributed to the Executive Directors on July 26, 1977. An updated
version was published in red cover in July 1979 under the title: "The Comoros-
Problems and Prospects of a Small Island Economy." A country economic memo-
randum, reflecting the findings of an economic mission which visited the
Comoros in December 1980, is under discussion with the Government prior to
issuance. The following summary is based on the findings of that mission.
Country data sheets are provided in Annex I to this report.
3.        The Comoros archipelago consists of four main islands stretching
over a distance of 270 km at the northern end of the Mozambique channel; the
distance between islands ranges from 50 km to 90 km. With a per capita income
of US$260 in 1979, the Federal Islamic Republic of the Comoros is among the
poorest countries in the world and is considered by the United Nations to be
one of the least developed countries. The archipelago is heavily populated
with 400,000 i2habitants in an area of 2,166 km . The population density (185
inhabitants/km ) is among the highest in the Eastern Africa Region, partic-
ularly when the ratio of population to cultivable land (325 inhabitants/km )
is taken into account. The islands are volcanic in origin, fairly rugged, and
covered with lush vegetation. They have a marine, tropical climate and
receive over 2 meters of rain in the rainy season. Their topography creates
several microclimates as a result of which a variety of crops can be cultivated.
4.        Agriculture occupies the vast majority of the people, and over 80
percent of the population live in rural areas. Most cultivation is of food-
stuffs for local consumption, the main food crops being coconut, rice, cassava
1/   The Comoros Archipelago consists of four islands:  Grande Comore, Anjouan,
Moheli and Mayotte. The Government of the Federal Islamic Republic of the
Comoros has effective control over the first three islands. Mayotte is
still under French administration. Unless otherwise indicated, future
references to the Comoros in this report exclude Mayotte.



- 2 -
and pulses. However, about 10 percent of the cultivated area is planted with
high-value cash crops, the most important being ylang-ylang, coconut, vanilla,
and cloves.  These cash crops and copra account for virtually all export
earnings. Farming methods are inefficient and yields are low. As a conse-
quence, food production is insufficient and food imports absorb almost the
entire export revenue. Protein foods, especially meat and fish, form a
small part of the diet and malnutrition is common.
5.        Non-agricultural activities in the Comoros are limited.  The very
small processing and manufacturing sector consists mainly of ylang-ylang
distillation into perfume essences, a small soft drinks bottling plant, a
sawmill and a soap factory. The social sectors, notably education and health,
were adversely affected by the economic difficulties of the country during the
1975-78 period, but recently the situation has started to improve, partly on
account of substantial external assistance. Education had already started
expanding rapidly before independence, and by 1978-79 enrollments in primary
schools exceeded 80 percent of the population in the 7-12 age group. However,
the system lacks relevance to the Comoros' needs and the quality of education
remains poor. There is also a severe shortage of qualified Comorian teaching
staff, and a large number of teachers are being provided by the Arab League
and France.
6.        Population pressure is a serious problem in the Comoros.  It has
led to extensive deforestation and erosion by inducing farmers to extend
cultivation to higher slopes of the hills. Between 1968 and 1974, forest
areas declined by 44 percent. In the most densely populated island, Anjouan,
the decline was 69 percent. Erosion is aggravated by the farming methods
employed, particularly the lack of terracing. Population growth has also
increased the demand for firewood, imposing more strain on the forests. The
Government has recently undertaken a census with assistance from the United
Nations Fund for Population Activities. However, more active steps regarding
the control of population growth will require overcoming political and
religious obstacles. At present, there is no official family planning policy
or program.  The population is currently estimated to be growing by about
3.5 percent annually which, if continued at the same rate, would imply a
doubling of the population and the man/land ratio by the year 2000.
7.        Although statistical data are scanty, the available information
indicates that nutritional and health conditions are extremely poor. It is
estimated that one-half of all children die before reaching the age of four.
Most children suffer from malnutrition and intestinal parasites. About 80
percent of the adult population suffer from malaria, and a high incidence of
tuberculosis and leprosy is also reported. The Ministry of Health is unable
to cope with the situation because of its limited facilities and supplies of
drugs as well as the shortage of middle-level, qualified personnel to carry
out health improvement programs.
8.        Transport, both internal and external, has always been a problem
for the Comoros. International sea transport is rendered costly and irregular
by the smallness and isolation of the islands. This situation is aggravated
by the absence of a deep water port and the lack of a natural site for port



- 3 -
development. Hence, large ships are reluctant to call at Comorian ports and
cargo has to be transshipped through the ports of neighboring countries, with
more costs and delays. Given the Comoros' dependence on foreign trade, this
is a heavy economic burden, mitigated only in part by the use of air freight
for high-value export items. Sea transport between the islands depends mostly
on small steamers and dhows and is also hampered by the lack cl adequate port
infrastructure. Within the islands, transport is limited by the lack of
reliable road connections between the coast and the hinterland. Because of
this, farmers have difficulty in bringing perishable crops to markets. Recent
assistance from several multilateral and bilateral agencies, including IDA,
is helping to improve the road transport situation.
Recent Developments and Near-Term Prospects
9.        The immediate post-independence period was marked by an acute
recession which was halted only in 1977 when new foreign assistance became
available to replace French financial and administrative assistance which was
suddenly terminated after independence. During 1977-78, GDP grew about 3.5
percent per annum, which meant a slight decline in per capita income, given
the high rate of natural population growth and the repatriation of about
20,000 Comorians expelled from Madagascar. The economy recovered in 1979
(with GDP growing by 9.5 percent) mainly as a consequence of the resumption of
budgetary support from France, the reconstitution of the administrative
services (which provided employment and stimulated internal demand), favorable
world prices for Comoros' major export commodities, and the implementation of
a number of investment projects initiated by the previous Government.
10.       The performance in 1980 was less buoyant.  GDP growth is estimated
to have slowed to about 4 percent. The decline was mainly due to a fall in
exports of goods and services of about 30 percent in real terms over 1979 (to
about the 1978 level), caused by a virtual stoppage in vanilla exports. The
Government had encouraged exporters not to export vanilla, in an unsuccessful
attempt to keep prices at the unprecedentedly high level of 1979. A main
source of economic growth was the substantial rise in public investment, which
increased by an estimated 50 percent above the 1979 level in real terms.
11.       With respect to the balance of payments, the current account balance
turned from slightly positive in 1978 to a large deficit of US$13 million
(12.7 percent of GDP) in 1979; the deficit is estimated to have nearly doubled
to US$24 million in 1980. These deficits were financed by increases in capital
inflow from offical sources. After stagnating at around US$8-10 million over
the 1976-78 period, merchandise exports increased to US$18 million in 1979
(aided by vanilla exports which nearly trebled in value) but fell by 40 percent
in 1980 to a current level of about US$11 million. Customs records for the
first 10 months of 1980 indicate that there was a substantial setback in 1980
export earnings with all exports declining, except for cloves which are reported
to have picked up in the last two months of the year.
12.       Food and consumer goods account for about 70 percent of Comoros
merchandise imports. Rice has traditionally represented a large share of
imports, accounting for more than 20 percent of total imports over the last



-4-
decade. Rice imports declined in volume under the previous administration,
when foreign exchange was scarce, but increased by about 16 percent in 1979.
The low share of intermediate goods imports reflects the small scale of
Comoros' industrial sector and the low level of investment in machinery and
equipment. A large increase in capital goods imports in 1980 reflected mainly
investment in road construction and maintenance financed by external aid
agencies.
13.       Because of lack of data, it is not possible to analyze Government
finances before 1979. When the Soilih administration dismissed 70 per-
cent of the civil servants, budgets were no longer prepared and expenditures
were decreased periodically. Therefore, the first true budget was only
adopted in mid-1979, a year after the present Government came to power. All
archives and official records having been destroyed by the previous government,
it is not possible to reconstruct receipts and expenditures for the period
between independence and the beginning of 1979.
14.       Although total government outlays have been curtailed since inde-
pendence, in 1979 they were still almost three times the level of Government
domestic revenues, and the deficit was covered by a large inflow of external
assistance for both capital and current expenditures. Foreign aid disburse-
ments (grants and loans) amounted to almost twice the level of capital
expenditures. Government tax revenues are only a small share of GDP (11
percent) and depend mainly on indirect taxes on foreign trade. The heavy
reliance on indirect taxation on foreign trade is partly due to the low level
of taxable domestic production and income but it also results from the low
recovery rate of direct taxes which ranges from 74 percent for the tax on
profits to 7 percent for the general tuirnover tax. The Government has asked
for IMF technical assistance to implement improved tax collection procedures.
15.       Public enterprises suffer from inadequate organizational structure
and a lack of managerial skills. At present, their financial accounts are
sparse and unreliable. Available evidence indicates that there is a com-
plicated network of unpaid debts within the public sector. The Government,
therefore, needs to undertake immediate action to improve the financial
performance of the public sector. In particular, the accounting services of
public enterprises need to be strengthened and financial controls established.
16.       The Comoros have potential for development.  Improvement of agri-
cultural techniques should increase yields by a multiple. There is scope
for small-scale enterprises, processing agricultural products and for some
import substitution. A possibility exists of attracting a quality tourist
trade. A prerequisite for progress in agriculture is suitable training and
an effective system of price stabilization that gives farmers remunerative
prices for their crops. Tourism will require a large investment in infra-
structure. The variety of crops cultivable in the Comoros is also a valuable
asset, since this means that new export opportunities are available to
the enterprising exporter and that export earnings will not be entirely
subject to the market for a single product. This is illustrated by the
experience of recent years when a depression in the ylang-ylang market was
offset by a rise in the price of cloves, after which vanilla prices rose
when the market for cloves declined.



-5-
17.       Several aid agencies are currently extending financial and technical
assistance to the Comoros. France resumed her assistance in 1979 and aid from
other sources has also been growing. Major donors include the African Devel-
opment Bank Group, IDA, Kuwait Fund, Saudi Arabia, the United Nations Develop-
ment Program (UNDP), the European Development Fund and France. The Bank is
Executing Agency for a Planning Assistance Project being financed by the UNDP
and the implementation of the project started in January 1981. The external
debt of the Comoros remains relatively small and concessionary in its terms,
owing to the predominance of ODA transfers and the absence of commercial bank
lending.
18.       The Comoros will have to continue to rely on foreign financial
and technical assistance, on terms as concessionary as possible. Current
revenues are still insufficient to run Government services and it will take
some time before an adequate administrative base can be built up and Govern-
ment revenues increased. In the medium term, assistance from external sources,
maintained in real terms at its present level, would be critical to allow a
modest growth of about 4.5 percent per annum.  Growth prospects will also
depend on the Government s ability to design and implement appropriate develop-
ment programs, mobilize domestic resources and strengthen its institutions and
improve their administrative capacity. Government administration is experienc-
ing severe shortages of qualified staff and has a very limited capacity for
project preparation and implementation. Given the Comoros extreme poverty
and limited budgetary resources, donors should be prepared to accept a high
cost-sharing ratio in project financing, including the financing of local
costs.
PART II - WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COMOROS
19.       The Comoros joined the Bank in December 1976 and the Association in
December 1977. To date, Bank Group operations in the Comoros include a
first IDA highway credit of US$5.0 million, a coconut rehabilitation project
for which IDA approved a US$5.2 million credit in 1980 and a second highway
maintenance project approved by the Board on November 10, 1981. To date, IFC
has not made any investment in the Comoros. Implementation of ongoing projects
is proceeding satisfactorily. Government project preparation and implementation
capability should gradually improve with the Planning Assistance Project
financed by the UNDP with the Bank as Executing Agency. The UNDP has agreed
to sponsor for the Comoros a Table Ronde of aid donors, and such a meeting is
likely to take place as soon as the planning assistance project is able to
prepare suitable documentation.
20.       Future lending to the Comoros will concentrate principally on agri-
culture, transport and small-scale/artisan industry, emphasizing institution
building and manpower training. Projects in agriculture would include a rural
development scheme and possibly a program of reforestation to provide fuelwood.
A possible agriculture project would emphasize both food and export crop
production. The Government has decided to establish a development bank for
which Bank Group assistance in evaluating its economic and financial justifi-
cation was provided. Subject to the proposed bank becoming fully operational
and if warranted by its financing requirements, we would be prepared to



-6-
consider financial assistance to the new bank as a means of helping to
strengthen the country's agro-industrial base and reduce the present extensive
unemployment. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits as of
September 30, 1981, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Structure, Administration, and Planning
21.       The education of Comorian children consists of two years of
attendance at Koranic schools, followed by six years of primary education.
Students who continue schooling enroll in four years of lower secondary and
then three years of upper secondary education. Students who pass the bacca-
laureat examination usually obtain scholarships for higher education overseas,
mainly in France and in Arab and African countries.
22.       The Ministry of National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports (MEN)
is responsible for overall organization of the education system, and for exa-
minations, curriculum, quality control and planning, and is in direct control
of teacher training and higher education. The Ministry of Production and
Industry and the Ministry of Health and Population control agriculture and
health education respectively, although the MEN is responsible for examinations
and the award of certificates for graduating pupils in these schools.
23.       The present education system is not well-suited to the Comoros
needs. While enrollment rates in formal education are at a very high level
for a country at the Comoros stage of development, the quality, efficiency
and economic relevance of the system are low. The system suffers from poor
physical infrastructure, outmoded curricula, inadequately-trained teachers
and an inability to place graduates in suitable jobs.
Primary Education
24.       In 1980, about 59,000 children were enrolled in primary schools in
the Comoros. This was over 99 percent of the estimated population aged 6 to
11, but included about 12,000 overage children and about 14,000 repeaters.
Enrollment of girls has increased rapidly and in 1980 was 42 percent of total
enrollment. The student/teacher ratio in 1980-81 was 45:1. There is a
shortage of classrooms, resulting in triple shifts for many schools. All
books are imported and the curriculum is not designed to include subjects
directly relevant to the Comorian environment. Only 26 percent of the teachers
are fully qualified. The MEN has recognized the need for improvement in the
quality of primary school teachers and in 1979 decided to centralize all
primary teacher training in one national teacher training school located in
Anjouan.
Secondary Education
25.       Thirty-five percent of the relevant age group is enrolled in
lower secondary schools. The student/teacher ratio of 45:1 is high, though
acceptable, but nearly all teachers are untrained; most are teaching as part



- 7 -
of a two-year period of national service. In 1980-81, 8 percent of those
aged 16 to 18 were enrolled in upper secondary education. The student/teacher
ratio is low, 11:1, and 80 percent of the teachers are expatriates. All
Comorian teachers at this level are trained overseas.
26.       After successful completion of secondary school, students must first
complete a two-year compulsory teaching requirement before receiving overseas
scholarships. But many of those who go abroad neither study in areas essen-
tial to the country's development needs nor do they return to the Comoros;
the result is an acute shortage of adequately-trained personnel in agricul-
ture, health, public administration and industry.
Government Education Development Policy
27.       The present Government inherited an excessively expensive educa-
tional system. At Government request, UNESCO completed an education sector
survey in 1979. The report details the problems of poor quality of primary
schools, excessive costs and enrollment at the secondary level, excessive
higher education scholarships, and weak administration. The main recommenda-
tions of the report were i) establishment of a National Institute of Education
to revise and improve curriculum and teacher training; ii) strengthening of
the administration and management of education; iii) improved control of the
education budget; iv) reorganization of secondary education; and v) improve-
ment in primary school infrastructure.
28.       The UNESCO recommendations and the Government's approach to imple-
menting these reforms deserve Bank Group support. The Government has recently
established primary and secondary teacher training colleges and a health
training school. The MEN has proposed a new organizational structure which
includes an office responsible for planning, scholarships, and school construc-
tion; offices for supervision and examination of the primary and secondary
school systems; and a National Institute of Education (INE) responsible for
curriculum development, research, and teacher training and upgrading.
The MEN is gradually filling its administrative posts but still lacks Comorian
educational planners and needs to strengthen school supervision and to fill
additional posts at the INE. The Government depends heavily on expatriates
for planning, management and curriculum development; but it plans to staff
its educational planning unit in the MEN with two qualified Comorians. The
Government proposes to establish an agricultural training center in Moheli.
An ILO-assisted vocational/technical training school in Anjouan was closed in
1978, because of political turmoil and problems of placing graduates, but is
expected to reopen and would emphasize in-service training.
29.        FAC is providing extensive technical assistance in primary school
curriculum development and teacher training. The AfDB is assisting in school
and office construction. In the area of training for manpower needs, WHO is
providing technical assistance for the recently established paramedical
training school located in temporary quarters, but financing is needed to
construct a permanent facility for this school. FAO is providing technical
assistance and fellowships to establish a federal center for agricultural
support and research (CEFADER) and four regional extension and training
centers (CADERs). Additional trained extension workers and administrative
and managerial personnel will be needed for these centers.



-8-
Financing of Education
30.       Resources and Recurrent Expenditures.  In the past two years
recurrent expenditures for education have accounted for about 29 percent
of total Government recurrent expenditures, a relatively high share of the
budget compared with other African countries. The level of education expendi-
tures is particularly high in relation to domestic resources; this is due in
part to the fact that the French Government provides over thirty percent of
the Comoros' total budgetary resources. Capital expenditures on education
financed from the Government budget were about US$600,000 equivalent annually
in 1979-80. These mainly covered school maintenance and renewal programs and
counterpart contributions to projects financed by foreign donors. In addi-
tion, France provides technical assistance, which is not included in the
budget. The main reasons for high expenditures on education are (a) the
relatively high enrollment ratios at all levels; (b) high unit recurrent
costs in upper secondary schools; and (c) the high cost of scholarships.
31.       The share of education in total projected recurrent expenditures
could be maintained at its present level through 1990, if enrollment growth is
controlled and cost-saving measures are implemented. If measures are not
taken, the share of education could increase to 35 or 40 percent of the total
Government recurrent budget. The Government has implemented a series of
measures to limit education expenditures. These cost-saving measures include
elimination of free boarding and transport of secondary students, and of the
free supply of exercise books and writing materials at the primary level.
Beginning December 1, 1982, the Government would discuss annually with the
Association additional measures to control the growth of education expendi-
tures. Such measures would include restricting enrollments in secondary
schools through higher entrance standards, linking fellowships abroad to
specific needs of the economy and reducing the amount of student grants
(Section 3.04, draft Development Credit Agreement). Government has also
agreed to establish and put into operation by October 1, 1983 a fund to be
replenished in part by user charges paid by students for the purpose of
financing the replacement of textbooks and other educational materials (Section
3.07, draft Development Credit Agreement). Further, the Government would
review its current policy on financial assistance to post-secondary education
students and by December 1, 1982 after consultation with the Association,
(a) introduce a policy for such grants which will take into account essential
manpower needs of the economy; and (b) ensure that contractual arrangements
acceptable to the Association require the recipients of fellowships to return
to the Comoros upon completion of their studies (Section 3.05, draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Background
32.       The proposed project is based on visits by Bank Group missions and
a report by a UNESCO preparation mission. The project was appraised in
January/February 1981. An advance from the Project Preparation Facility
for US$205,000 was approved in February 1981 to accelerate implementation.



- 9 -
Negotiations were held in Washington from October 13 to 15, 1981. The
Government negotiating team was led by Dr. Mouhtare Ahmed Charif, Minister of
Education, Culture, Youth and Sports and included the project director. A
supplementary project data sheet is included in Annex III to this report and
a Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3493-COM) dated November 16, 1981 is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors. A map, IBRD No. 15733,
is attached.
Project Objectives and Description
33.       The project would assist the Government in the overall development
of the education sector and complement assistance provided by the other
external agencies in their efforts to promote the country's educational
objectives (ref. para 29). Specifically the project would: (a) support
qualitative improvements in primary education through teacher training,
curriculum development and provision of teaching materials; and (b) improve
the provision of skilled manpower in the agricultural and health fields.
34.       The project would consist of the following main components:
a)   Construction and equipment of a primary teacher training
college in Anjouan (180 places);
b)   In-service training of about 500 primary school teachers;
c)   Provision of textbooks and teaching materials for about
56,000 primary school students;
d)   Construction and equipment of a paramedical training
school in Moroni (75 places);
e)   Establishment of an agricultural training center in
Moheli (40 places); and
f)   Technical assistance (5 man-years of specialist services
and 13 man-years of fellowships).
A detailed description of each component is provided below.
35.       Teacher Training College.  A new primary teacher training school,
to be constructed on the island of Anjouan, would enroll 180 student teachers
in a two-year course and graduate 90 trained teachers per year. It would
comprise academic and communal facilities consisting of classrooms, teaching
facilities for science, home economics, and basic woodwork; administrative
offices; boarding for 144 students; and three staff houses. A demonstration
primary school, to be located adjacent to the teacher training school, would
enroll 600 children on a double shift basis. The output of the teacher
training school would fulfill the annual need for new, trained teachers to
meet projected enrollment ratios and thus contribute to improved quality of
primary education. To assist in long-term strengthening of teacher education,
the project would provide seven man-years of fellowships to Comorians to allow
them to obtain graduate degrees in teaching and replace expatriate teachers.



- 10 -
36.       In-service Teacher Training.  An in-service training program was
initiated in January, 1981 with FAC assistance. It combines radio programs,
correspondence, and intensive three-week courses taught during school vaca-
tions. The objective is to enable about 500 teachers who already have lower
secondary degrees to receive full teaching certificates and thereby increase
the number of qualified teachers by more than 50 percent. While the IDA-
assisted project would support the incremental operating costs and the purchase
of equipment necessary to implement in-service training, the Government is
expected to provide additional personnel to ensure expansion of the in-service
training program. Specifically, the credit would support (a) boarding, per
diem, and travel costs for teachers attending the three-week vacation courses;
(b) costs for materials preparation and production, honorariums for additional
teaching by regular Comorian teachers, and operation of vehicles; (c) purchase
of about 300 radios to be provided to all primary schools; and (d) purchase
of four vehicles to be used by program coordinators and school supervisors.
37.       Textbooks and Teaching Materials.  59,000 textbooks in various
subjects including science, math, French, etc., 4,400 teachers- guides, and
235,000 workbooks and booklets would be provided for primary school students
and teachers. Most textbooks proposed under the project would be imported
but the INE is expected to prepare supplementary student and teacher guides
and manuals. To make the curriculum more appropriate to the Comorian social
and physical environment, the National Institute of Education (INE) (ref.
para. 28) would prepare 90,000 workbooks for grades 3 to 6. Workbooks would
be distributed to students during the 1983-84 school year for grade 3, and
thereafter would be prepared for each subsequent year.. The workbooks would be
printed at the INE printing facility being set up under the AfDB project, with
printing paper and materials financed under the proposed project.
38.       Agricultural Training.  An agricultural training center with teach-
ing and boarding facilities for 40 students on the island of Moheli would be
constructed under the project. Twenty extension agents would be trained
annually to meet the needs for personnel to work in the CADERs and in research,
forestry, livestock and other programs. The project would finance construction
of classrooms, administrative offices, boarding facilities, staff houses and
purchase of two vehicles. The center would utilize the facilities of the
neighboring extension station at Mibani for demonstrations and field training,
and would depend administratively on the Ministry of Production and Industry.
The training program would be for two years; about six months of the second
year of study would be carried out through supervised work on one of the
CADERs.
39.       The center would have two permanent staff and three to five part
time teachers who would provide instructional assistance equivalent to
that of two full time staff. The director would teach half time in one of
the major agricultural disciplines, and the second full time staff member
would be expected to be an expert in agricultural extension. General subjects
would be taught through an arrangement with the Moheli secondary school and FAC
would provide some teachers. Because of the relative isolation of the island
of Moheli, the program will be carefully planned to utilize part time agricul-
tural teachers, who will have to come from the other two islands. During



- 11 -
negotiations, the Government provided the Association with a satisfactory
plan for the staffing, organization and financing of the center's operations.
Assurances were also obtained that the agricultural training center would be
adequately staffed with qualified teachers (Section 4.03(a), draft Development
Credit Agreement).
40.       Health Training.  The project would provide facilities for 75
students in a health training school located on the grounds of the central
hospital in Moroni on Grande Comore island. The school is now located in
temporary facilities borrowed from the hospital's maternity wing and enrolls
36 students in a three-year nurses- training course. Through 1990 the school
would train nurses, midwives and assistants, laboratory technicians and
dental assistants and would provide the personnel essential to implement the
Government's long-term health plans.  Specifically, the project would provide
for construction and furnishing of classrooms; specialized rooms for demon-
stration, dental practice and laboratory analysis; a library; a multipurpose
hall; boarding facilities; and a headmistress' house. The school would be
headed by a Comorian director and staffed with teachers provided by WHO who
will also provide fellowships to train Comorian educators.
Project Costs and Financing Plan
41.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$6.5 million equiva-
lent. Taxes are negligible since all items imported for the project would be
exempt from customs duties and taxes. The proposed IDA credit of SDR 5.3
million (US$6.0 million equivalent) would represent 92 percent of the total
cost and the Government contribution (US$0.50 million), 8 percent. The
credit would finance all foreign exchange costs plus 76 percent of local
costs. The Government contribution would include US$350,000 for civil works
and US$150,000 for salaries of project personnel. During project implementation,
the maximum Government counterpart contribution in any one year would be about
US$150,000 equivalent. Recurrent costs generated by the project are estimated
at US$230,000 equivalent annually, or 4 percent of the education budget in
1987.
42.       Project cost estimates do not include the US$400,000 estimated
value of existing facilities to be contributed to the project by the Govern-
ment. They include community centers--one in Anjouan (US$200,000), site of
the proposed teacher training school, another in Moheli (US$200,000) for the
proposed agricultural training center and a site for the health school in
Moroni. The Government has agreed that these facilities and land would be
made available for classrooms and offices for the project (Section 3.10(b)(ii),
draft Development Credit Agreement). Contingency allowances for physical
increases of 10 percent have been added to the base costs of civil works and
professional services and 5 percent to base costs for all other items. The
estimated price increases for construction are based on recent trends and
forecasts by the Ministry of Works and private contractors established in the
Comoros.



- 12 -
Project Implementation and Administration
43.       The project would be implemented over a five-year period and is
expected to be completed by December 31, 1986. Overall responsibility for
administration would rest with the Education Projects Implementation Unit
(BEPE), established within the MEN (Section 3.01(b), draft Development Credit
Agreement). The BEPE would be responsible for the execution of the project,
including the management, supervision, and coordination of project activities
with the relevant ministries and liaison with the Association. The Ministry
of Production and Industry (MPI) and the Ministry of Health & Population
(MSPM) would each appoint qualified and experienced officials responsible for
ensuring that the elements of the project relating to their respective minis-
tries are carried out, and for coordinating project activities with the BEPE
(Schedule 4, para 4, draft Development Credit Agreement). In addition, the
MEN has an education planning unit which it will staff with two qualified
Comorians. Assurances were received during negotiations that by October 1,
1982, MEN would staff this unit with two qualified officials who would coordi-
nate education planning with the Ministry of Finance, Economy and Planning
(Section 3.03, draft Development Credit Agreement).
44.       The BEPE is already operating with funds provided under the PPF
(ref. para. 32), but a formal decree, satisfactory to IDA, establishing the
unit must be issued by Government. Formal establishment of the BEPE is a
condition of credit effectiveness (Section 5.01(b), draft Development Credit
Agreement). BEPE would be staffed with a full time Comorian director, an
accountant, an equipment specialist and two draftsmen. A project director
acceptable to the Association was appointed in July, 1981, and he would at all
times have direct access to the officials of MPI and MSPM referred to in
paragraph 43 above and the Director of INE (Schedule 4, para 2, draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement). The accountant would have qualifications satisfactory
to the Association (Section 3.01(b), draft Development Credit Agreement).
Other specialists financed under the proposed project would include an architect
(three man-years), an equipment specialist (two man-years) and a textbook
specialist (three man-months) and would have acceptable qualifications and
experience and would be employed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association (Section 3.02, draft Development Credit Agreement).
45.       The Government agreed that the teacher training school, the para-
medical school and the agricultural training center would be staffed with
qualified personnel (Section 4.03(a), draft Development Credit Agreement).
For preparation of architectural designs, construction documents and super-
vision of construction, consultants would be employed under terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Association. Sketch designs are under preparation
with funding from the PPF. Satisfactory sites for the agricultural and
teacher training schools have been selected. During negotiations, Government
agreed that by March 31, 1982, a site acceptable to the Association would be
made available for the health training school (Section 3.10(b), draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).



- 13 -
Project Audit, Reporting and Evaluation
46.       Separate accounts and annual audits would be required for all
expenditures financed under the project and would be performed by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association in accordance with satisfactory
auditing procedures (Section 4.01(c)(i), draft Development Credit Agreement).
About US$25,000 equivalent has been included in the project to finance the
cost of audit to be performed by independent auditors. Audited reports would
be submitted to the Association for review within six months following the end
of each fiscal year (Section 4.01(c)(ii), draft Development Credit Agreement).
BEPE would furnish to the Association quarterly progress reports on project
implementation (Section 3.09(b) (iii), draft Development Credit Agreement).
Within six months of the credit closing date, the Government through the BEPE
would prepare and send to the Association a report with a preliminary assessment
of the project's operational results, costs and benefits and lessons learned
during implementation (Section 3.09(e), draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement
47.       Contracts for civil works, furniture, equipment and vehicles,
estimated at an aggregate amount of US$4.0 million equivalent, would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with
the Bank Group's guidelines. Contracts for civil works, furniture, equipment
and vehicles costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each would be awarded
in accordance with local bidding procedures acceptable to the Association.
The aggregate cost of these contracts is estimated at US$400,000. Contracts
for imported textbooks (estimated at US$0.6 million equivalent, including
contingencies) would be negotiated directly with the publishers because of
copyright considerations. Under international competitive bidding procedures,
domestic manufacturers would be allowed a preference of 15 percent over the
c.i.f. price of competing foreign suppliers, and qualified domestic civil works
contractors would be allowed a preferential margin of 7.5 percent over the bid
prices of competing foreign contractors. About six local construction firms
have the capacity to implement the construction component and competition
among them is keen and prices are competitive. Sketch designs, draft tender
documents and master lists of furniture, equipment, vehicles and textbooks
would be reviewed by the Association. Items would be grouped to the extent
possible to permit bulk procurement. Review of tender documents by IDA would
not be required for contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent.
Disbursement
48.       The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed against 100 percent of
expenditures for furniture and equipment, fellowships, project adminis-
tration (other than salaries), and consultants services; and 85 percent for
civil works. Salaries of local personnel would be covered by the Government.
Disbursements for local expenditures for project administration and for
in-service teacher training, estimated at US$260,000, will be made against
statements of expenditure certified by the project director and the Ministry
of Finance, and the documentation for the statements will be retained by the
Borrower and made available for inspection by the Association during project
supervision (Section 4.01(b) (i) and (ii), draft Development Credit Agreement).
The credit closing date would be June 30, 1987.



- 14 -
49.       A special account would be established for the project unit (BEPE)
with an initial contribution of US$50,000 by the Association covering about
six months of project administrative costs. The fund would cover the operating
expenses (excluding local personnel) of the in-service training program and
administrative costs of the BEPE (Parts A(2) and D, Schedule 2, draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement). The project unit would request reimbursement from the
Association for expenditures incurred, after about one-half of the revolving
fund has been disbursed, and this procedure would continue throughout the life
of the project. The amount on deposit in the account will not at any time
exceed the equivalent of US$50,000. The opening of a special account by
the Government for the revolving fund would be a condition of credit effective-
ness (Sections 2.02(c) and 5.01, draft Development Credit Agreement).
Benefits
50.       The project would assist the Government in improving the quality,
efficiency and relevance of primary education and would complement the
education development efforts of other external agencies. An immediate
benefit of the project would be to help keep education costs under control
through the series of cost-saving measures agreed upon or contemplated under
the project. The long-term effects of this assistance would be reduced
numbers of dropout and repeater students and improved learning at the primary
level. The establishment of the agricultural training center and the paramedi-
cal school should in the long-term result in greater agricultural productivity
and assist in reducing population growth. Additionally, the proposed project
would aid institution-building within the Ministry of National Education in
the areas of curriculum development, primary teacher training, textbook
production and school design.
51.       The proposed paramedical school would train about 275 lower-level and
175 middle-level personnel through 1990; this output would help to improve the
present extremely poor health conditions in the Comoros islands. The proposed
agricultural training center would train 180 agricultural extension agents who
would work in CADERs, other agricultural programs and research, thus reducing
the shortage of skilled manpower needed to expand the production of basic food-
stuffs and agricultural exports. Location of the proposed agricultural
training center on Moheli, which is the least-developed and least-populated
of the islands, would contribute to that island's development and integration
with the other islands. The planning unit within the MEN would assist in
making the educational system more relevant to the Comoros islands.
Risks
52.       No major risk in project execution is foreseen.  The main risk to
achieving the long-term goals of the project is the overall financial weakness
of the Government. Lack of financial resources could inhibit the Government s
actual capacity to benefit fully from the availability of the new facilities
and the trained staff they will provide. However, with improved control of
Government expenditures and continued assistance from external agencies, this
risk should not be great. To minimize the risk that the facilities would not



- 15 -
be fully utilized, assurances were received during negotiations that the
Government and the Association will each year review the level of education
expenditures and agree on proposals to hold educational expenditures to
appropriate levels (Section 3.04, draft Development Credit Agreement).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Federal Islamic
Republic of the Comoros and the Association and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1(d), of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III to
this Report. Special conditions of credit effectiveness are the formal
establishment of the Education Projects Implementation Unit (para. 44) and the
opening of a special account to receive advances from the IDA credit to be
used as a revolving fund for specific parts of the project (para. 49).
54.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
55.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
By: E. Stern
Attachments
November 20, 1981






- 16 -                                             ANNEX I
Paeg 1
TABLE 3A
COHOROS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
COHbORS                      REFERENCE GROUPS (HEIGHTED AVEI)OES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. E.)                                                    - HQST RECENT ESTIMATE)
AGRICULTURAL      1.1                               HOST RECENT          LOW INCOKE            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (USs)                90.0       160.0    220.0                238.3                  794.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PIR CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    22.9        44.0      51.3                70.5                  707.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  205.0      282.0    394.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 5.1        7.7      11.0                17.5                   27.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     0.58
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       1.38
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED               2135
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. XH.                     93.2       128.2    179.1                 27.7                   55.0
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND   205.0      270.0    366.7                 73.7                  130.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                       45.0        45.3      43.7                44.8                   46.0
15-64 YRS.                       52.3        52.0      54.1                52.4                   51.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                 2.7         2.7       2.2                 2.9                    2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            3.0/c       3.2/c    3.7/c                2.6                    2.8
URBAN                            7.3         7.4       7.6                 6.5                    5.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    48.2       46.9      44.7                46.9                   46.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    21.4       19.8      17.6                19.3                   15.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE            3.2         3.O       2.5                 3.1                    3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTOnS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..         ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           ..      100.0      99.0                89.5                   89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCDIT OP
RtQUREMENTS)                   90.0       96.0      81.0                90.2                   92.3
PROTEINS (GRDAS PER DAY)         36.0       39.0      33.0                52.T                   52.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       9.0        9.0       9.0                17.8                    16.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    31.6       28.7      25.4                27.3                   20.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   42.6       44.6      46.9                45.8                   50.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           ..          ..
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..          ..      50.0                23.9              -    27.4
URBAN                              ..         ..      53.0                55.0                   74.3
RURAL                             ..          ..      20.0                18.5                   12.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..          ..      50.0                26.2
URBN                               ..         ..        ..                63.5
RURAL                             ..          ..        ..                20.3
POPUIATION PER PHYSICIAN        18636.4    14842.1        *-             31911.8                13844.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    5317.0/d   2410.3        *-              3674.9                 2898.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          497.6       504.5        ..              1238.8                  1028.4
URBAN                              ..       61.3        ..               272.8                  423.0
RURAL                              ..     1281.7        ..              1745.2                 3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..        17.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              * -
URAN
RURAL                             ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERONS PER ROQQ
TOTAL                             ..          ..
URBAN                             ..          ..
RURAL                              ..         .          .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             ..          ..      20.0/.
URBAN                              ..         ..        .                    ..
RURAL                              ..         ..
* Provisional data; to be revised according to recent economic mission estimates.



-17-                                                ANNEX, 
TABLE 3A
COIDROS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
COMDROS                       RWERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE7CES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MDST RECENT           Ul  INCOME              MIDDLE INCONC
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 14.0        33.0         9.0                 56.4                     73.7
HALE                 23.0         46.0      U5,O                  70.7                     96.8
FEMALE                4.0         21.0       63.0                 50.1                     79.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  1.0         3.0        21.0                 10.0                     16.2
MALE                  2.0          4.0         ..                 13.6                     25.3
FEMALE                0.2          1.0         ..                  6.6                     14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (I OF SECONDARY)    ..          2.0         ..                   8.0                      5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            41.0        42.0       I                    46.5                      36.2
SECONDARY                          17.0        20.0        40.0                25.5                      23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          ..         58.4/f      ..                  25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..        ..                   2.9                     32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.4        85.1      104.7                  32.8                     69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..        ..                   1.9                      8.0
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL.
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..           ..        ..                   2.8                     20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.1          0.4         ..                   1.2                      0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        80.6       103.3      140.0
FENALE (PERCENT)                   36.5        35.6       34.8                 34.1                      36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              70.0        67.0       64.4                 80.0                      56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 19.0        21.0       22.8                  8.6                      17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                39.3        36.6       35.5                  41.7                     37.2
KALE                                 50.6        47.7       47.1                  54.3                     47.1
FEMALE                               28.4        25.8       24.3                  29.2                     27.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.2          1.3       1.3                   1.2                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                136.0                    381.2
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                 84.5                     156.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (UsS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                 99.1                     334.3
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                  61.2                    137.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                 39.7
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                  68.8
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-eiihted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
amoDg the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Due to lnigration population growth rate ia higher than rate of natural Increaae;  /d 1962;  /e Percentage
of population;  /f 1966;  /S 1973.
May, 1981



-18-
ttDfITIIOW OP SOCIAl, MJICATORS
Not.., Altbomah th. dot. ore doo  ta ro  at...... Seo-..1Y )udPd tho flat sotbOoloatly. ad ro1ltbla. It ab-ld .1.  b, 00td thot th.y toy ot be Lnt%r-
"toi-Ally coap.robla boo... of th. 1toh of *taadodiaed dafdtLtoo  Cod  -ontot ..od by diffr-to   -,ogrio  Iocolrto   th. d.t..  rho data  t,t.
th.1l.... . .f.1 to d ....ib. -rd.ra of *aaoi,oda. iodiocta tr.0A*. oo  lhaO..ar.e  atono7 diffeoe_c.e b.__.coorO
TbM  r.frao     ... gopa or. (1) th. o.-.-ootry *ooop of Oh. .ohioco  oootar  .e4 (2) a .o..try group with aoehohigh ....ovra S.Itoon   than tha .ootty Sroop
of Oh  objc o..ro..toy (-cest for 'Capita1 S.rPl-a 0i1  ploot.rn" groop .bat  "901441. 1oos  North Urfic. and Kiddie Eoat' ie  ho .t...u. of atr..agor
otocloa   fftotti..e.1. In  h. -of--.ac  ..oop d.ta th.  -varogn  .r  popo.ta_ttoc       t v.1,.4 o.Ith.i.  -eo  f. -oOh lodtta-o  and ah.- 01y tha.
aeJorloy of tba ooutri.a to a Stoop ha. date for tba o4 i,to-or   Sift., the o-verq  of  -ooroaog tha 1.dita...O depend. ro th. oO.il.blittY Of data
.0,S4 is l 00  oif . Oaotioh -.t ha troadL. raietiL. roa8                  of ooa Lodicto, to aoothr-   Th...  -vr.gnS o. -   -ly ...of 1 iroa..pariog the v-1..o
o-  itdiat-r to a tO.  . aro  Oha oo-tr  and rofoonooe.. ropa.
LAND AkIA (tho-oad eq.,he.)                                                                      Poolatio v.. H-opitt1 Bad - t00.1   rb.  .04 ro-a  - op.Pl,ittO     (tota.1
T00.2 - Totalatfc   at1copilo               d at- end  tl.ud o..roba, AMod  r                                        dtl)  idd4 by thi.r ... pactr- oo.h.r of hoepita1 hod.
Aetvtol- faOtl-t  of aoi    -toala..0.d4 t-np-rily or pormnatly                           a-alable to oublio and Private &.aooa   .4d ap.lioli..d hoePita1 anW e
too ro.  paatotae, * eakt tod kittohar sard.oa OP 00it  fallo; 1.970 data                      hobilittLto.,  nooa   Roepital. ore ..t.bliafhoote p.reanatly  t0.ffad
by at I.at ot. phy.Lci.o.  Ia.tbliahevt  pr,-idig p,i.cOp.lly 00.00
tGp PER CgjA_rOA(00) - Iffy p.r .ePit.  eioOa0  orret etrkt prio, .....1-                           80.   Aro ore -to  iolodad.  Roai-       pcae  h-.vo, intild. beoItb
oolatad by .an  lo--nooto  aethod a Wolld took All.. (1977-79 b..i.); 1960                       .0  -edtoal      t oan.Zto  p_ -1naoi  atarffd by a phyatroto  (hot by a
1970, .4d 0979 d.rto                                                                              i..din   a   .ieOt   oe..41.   r.   bo    fe   opttta
datto, And p-id. a lifttd roost of S.dical f..Llittta.  Iot  -tLtt-
E0900 CON9ISWTIONI POt CAPITA - A,00.1 oh-eopti-c of ooaco   argy (ca                               ticaI ptqrpoen  Orb.. hoapit.l. ito1od. tan- PrIiocpal/gt.... 1    pit.l0.
.odlioc,oooa.                           ldtri  a  0  hydro-, voolea  ed Sootha.ai .1c-            nod  -1to  h-oahl.,l 100.1 0r ...al b..pttl.l  ad eedLcal an  -atecoty
trility) in (,ilogoOe  of cool aqo1-1no ot   ca-Pito; 1960. 1970, .d4 1979                       Setca    p.loiliaed h-apital. are baItldd o-ly  .aaa  ..o.al.
dot...aio   a  Oelo   a     otolovba-o   duLaaiLo  to or &Leoh."..
ftoo  boapitale    ia   yta hoobtfbde
POrvIATIOM  M  V9*0001 S OThISICt
TotlProait       . gid-Taar(tbouao0da   - A. of J3l171; 1960. 1970, .04 1979                 HOSN
data.                                                                                        Amu0. Si.a of H* .. hold (P-roo.a  mr h...ehold5 - total. orhao. AMd tnrl -
Orb. Porolation  toc    of total) - Rtato of -rbano to rtal popolacion;                          A hou.obold -ottaCt  of o spoop ofirdividuale ntA. eou.    otr
dOf    Wto e iiioaf ooho  ... Iy affeot ...tP.raility of data                           and thei .at L.     la    hoafo  or loder           or naY  tt h . inldad In
I.a.;norta  i90,1970, ttd 1979 dova.                                                     tha hooe.holdto       oiton  p-rpoea.
pono.atioo frolatiton                                                                           Ivooavaboo   reoncrto. -  oa. orhot. and r-rt  - A-000.a-
Porlo2  o in Iyatr 200 - Corno  popoltro pOatione ar. hoeo d -1 990                            htof pout  boonto . in  11 otban. and rural ...oried .:.otto-Al.
ltoco  popoloci   by ag. nod ano and tOir nortlity Cod fartilLty rat..                       doo.Iltg., -rp-tci-ly.  OnelJtoge nciade no.-po.aaeat eetoter. 00d
Ponjeotion paa.o.ot. fot  rtorolity rata. copi.of thr.. I.-1. A.a.-                           --ocpiad paote.
too life .xp.o.aoy at birth itooa-iog  Lith .-ontry. p ro p.ita moo-e                      Aoa.. to Efllotoity  otato  dolo    00 .1.borA. and rorl -
1-01. and fo1naleifr rore--oy                     tatlen   no7(  year..  Tb. pr-             Coo1     ioideninc.th  Jioroc   0  Ot5o   or..praca
aOt.r. fo- f-roility trnr .1.0 hoot  h-o lavola                d.~n  4l000  to               of toto1.  tbat. tod tot1 d.llOo.a.rapclO
fer0lI,ty .crorAino oo JOcon  20-1 .0  Pac  fanOly plenoing potfoenance
toob  -ocoy I. th.t aaaig.ad ota of tho... Ot.1- .btaO            of .o-olity            OOOCATION
..4  _.rility 0004. for orlocttpuopo                                                       Adloatd tarotte c 0l.010
Ottaionr  P;noolton   - 00.  . tartoaty Ppopl.tto  chore I. no groqbhL.r                       Pot= yr ~holf- ntatl. sole cd f-1el  - Or... total. ealt .od f1.l
th   ith tac  Jr  qoo  00 rho dootb rat. * .0d al.o thoo9a rttor_ . lttOt o   al   S.. at rho pri-ery ia-a  .. p-rrntgoa . of . rapncci,
aaIo-ona ..       moeT i. ochoave  onyota  farItyoa.. 4.010 t. co                               ri-ry aobhO1-og  pporvi-Aca; toealy iaiod.a rbildroo .Sd 6-1l
the  oar -oao  1=.0   of -00t oe  rrpTd-cto  .tOT. 00  -.bt O1a-rol,too                               Iv adJoo-d tot dLff ammo llooah  0r p.Isay  dot,  100
feea    ploeit..1f no.tl1.  Th.a-tio-ary popoltooto   i.. Io oor.a  0hdnva  od.oatioo ear1le-t -y eocod tOO p.rost
ea     tltdono. heat. of rho proJected  roacteieof rho popol.tioaio    .  Ppop    ore- bnllw or abov  the offliot1  rhovi aSa.
t0 h. ynr 2000, 004 thr rato of 400110  of f-tolty rate  ttayor.                             eoadary .cbool -lnot0  f0.cd    .l  - Cpted Ce abor; aoto.ar
aar1001.                                                                                     od...tina teqoir.. a'tl mot&fo  y.t!f  proe  priaototntn
Yan  t     =eainr  =  .otlain  ia reiched - Tb. y-. th-r et.t-lo y popul.tion                    provide. 80001, voctiona, or tatche  craOas ia.tnotnna for PnPik
eiaa~ ho.e-Inood                                                                                aoly of 12 00 17 yaata of  s;.....cooep.od-.o onro           -oe   orly
POt0 . h. - f604-yno  population pot aqnre klo tnO   (100 h-rt...a) of                     VP.. tioal _aro1inet (P:.roetc  f_eav-darr   - Vootional iti-t.atn
tora  Cr0; 1960  170 nod 1979 dCt..                                                            iald   aht..idara,o   ther prs                        eib  prsoldao,
Per a. . h ."asloutosI11.04 - Copytod Ce aho-  for ahiout ...lIland                              ootly or a. daporanest. of ancoodafy inatticno..
-00100960. 1970 nod 1979 dot..                                                                                                  =0i-ace rOo-  rea.ad  nodary - Torot etodnot    -Olld ia
Pnoo2at0.o  Ae Stooul    00  OE)- Child-o  (0-14 Ynorel   -kroiqo-9e (iS-                          protJo.aonoylrl   W00.  by t.booa of t-aoh.r Io the
ho year.. .04 ttirad  (60yaara ad ror   np-rctat. of 30d-yo  po.,-                      o "aPo-dio   aoa
lEtinsI 1960, 1900. en799d0. otiin                                                                          .tot. ir00ooot  -tLitrata odolte (able to rood a   erit.)
PPoolAtfon  oo-th utot  (onr-ea    - urb.. -  .-001 gooth natoe of orbet pop.-               Corwt
l.af.ooo f_r 1950_60. 1960_70. end 1970-79.                                                  P_-%&ao  CareMootboaaod  Eoolat=o   - Pae.g.r  ot                         mtrt .,ft
Crud tivtb OCr s  oar oh-no     - &--n1 li-e birtha Par th--.od or adro                            aaaat  e,te   th    oentoooo   eooa    or.  a
P.p.Iltiw.o  1960, 1970. an  1979 d.aa.                                                        ailitO7  -ahtola..
C-.da Dtooh at  fo th-o0          - A--Jna datoha po,t heuead. of .0-ao140oiy.r  f'P" ntooo    Moltis   - All typoa of .ooa.It  tot rad,1io
Popoio  19960f, 170,. ad 1979 4aaa.                                                          "rLo ..a.t. to  -enral ? bipot theunad of Ppoplaioo; naobde    -
Cr... Onootin o at- Al,  1. o-ber of daughte-. 0n                   ill b-.a  L.                 Ocianod   -1e ... L. --atri.e .0d 10 y.aan..   ca.gI.L.-coot of -di00
b-ar   - 000 .1eptndortro P=ro  Of  hb. npo aoprn-t oa-ePftLf it Pa-                            eta  n.et  etfoot  dota fr  -00-0  y...e .7 nat hn ro-prbla aOOO
tiltty aeeoeolly    -,-yo           -tor.t  aodtg L. 1960, 1970,  -n 99                         lt tonaot. *bolob.d looi.
Y-ayl lonn  -   oott. ona-l Othenod.  - &6.001ah.   faoeo                                      TV 9.ooor.r  -nr btee  aoot,Uct    - TVtoter  tot bloAd.. t t0
of bLrb,-loor1 a             -i.   ne  ocpin  of1 naron    f-moly p"hlooa    P-oa.%            ganar1 p:b100pOt theA- o PoreleOioo; .0010.. nolC                 TVrOtya
Path, Planin    - lo-t  I .1-.t of trld0.0   - P.o tatg. of farria                               Ia coootrba  end In ytra  b-h..0 t.glt.tion of TV -nta no  00   ftt.
n-   'f rhild-bortoS ag  (10-04 yoor,   n            h .   illh   noo  dnvi..a a.            IonotCrl..oIoo( t-=           heo   pd onat=)o   - Shone ob.  -.orS.  L0-
all _r_td           .a it  a.1.   O.                                  a,egop                    aoiao   diyseo   t tao.e   oepor0. daf tod  o   parindita
p..bli-ati. 4ortad prl.-lly to  -tordlog SOsorl 000   It 1. co-.Od-od
POO  Att WtITIOOT                                                                                   to be  daty  ifto abrr  't lent f- notaS.e onok.
0040 of Pood Prodooino  -0  C.oil. (1969-P1-1ob) - 00d0  of pot capit. 0001                    Ct  1adoa Arttanda0 ro  Caoica ao Teat - Io.a  no the oabe  of
p-ndo-tino of all food .oendItiaa.  podaoati.  -Clod.  ..etd and 00.4  -d                      tikhta told dotin  the yoot. Liaudifaat iaia  to dotot-ta nOao
Ia to  W.Iaodo  year b..i.  Cosoditieaoov-    poleay gnd. (..g. euatetnd hila  -nita..
Lnatead of -P.o)  bioh aro odibl. tnd oot.iotoariante  (..5. -ff- to         W
Ot  or- _ooldod.  Aggrotoca prndoctbo  of nook cantry I. bh...d -nUO   tC
nOOooa  -re&. prod.... plica .eight.; 1961-65. 1970. .d4 199d0.Tootao   etnfboaaa      oo00ol   0 . P-r-t. toclodit
to   tia_     va,o   00010 orno   fren ot.) - Co-Ptod To.                                      ae4fro   0   apoe    o   alo ..                                d.ro.  t.eo.00.
nog,s nqtoo  of 0.0 fondoplo   vial  I0 to-tury Pot .apit.                                   -ro I.f  poplatIon of all aoae.   af.toitto    J.    S-r'.t  ostte.  Or
Par day.  A0ilobl. npplicaoopt  dnIlt prod Looto, inport. loan                               nt t-p-rbl.; 1960, 1970 00  1979 data.
trr,tand rha         k.. i      -t eoorh . 000soO Ic lde to.el toed, .M.4,              Jal  tatn      o lotbor foto. aa poroota. nf total laborfo
qua          die   I.04t  fod pronoio. no  Ova... 00 dIet.jrioio. taqotre-                                           Lbtotunfo ~ - tao  lforc  In farnint, fte y. bo-tio  t  d
nac  ear. .eti-tod by PAD ha..4  - phy.olo  io.1 00.. It- 0031 ..ti-                        f i.hiog .o parotnoa. of total labr forc..  1960. 1970 and 1979 data.
,0.7 an  health .oaidfio.  -orrOanlttrto.,boy otight., .1.                                 lodnt.,       s-rot) - Labor forein  iias. onoott           =, lfntrog
aod  .0  0etiboionof pop-olai. end aIl=tn       10 parrooc for nee  o                   n    lcotaty,             Wu00    4n.  ooprots   f tota  lob.. fno  0900,
bonoahold101;96-. 19701, an  1977 date. Vt.1970 .04 1979  t000.
P0.00.  _oIl, of0000 looe Po day  -                       _Poaoct_nt of P.o  apita        Prtboo   aa(renl-atL' ala  and flan                             - Pa.ttioiptiooo
oat opyly of food Par day   Nte t  pply of food L. doit md a. aboe. to-                      notlity r-tet am  o.ptod e0.01, al, 00  Iselo  loito for.. an
forec    ot all  _0000       bletaiahed by USDA poor0. tor e1o1-                       pnr-taga  oa rtotl. alt and f0b   Pponltinoof all1 ogna  -ooptoitely
aloooof 60 8000  of t.t01 p-.cia pr day .d420  pS.-  of aail nod                        1940, 1970,. Cd 1979 dat.;.rThea am  b-od o  na0.'. PaOotIiPoti- tote.
p.1   - OoO. of  hilb, 10 .m-  ah-td ho cotal protoio.  Tha.  enod-                       rnfbntiog  le-en atrut    of Ohpprletoh, .04I. lon  n- trod.  A
rIa ... lone  otoe thee  of 75  ra. of tona  prtein 004 23 gRa=   of                         fan aaOet    t f. to   tteL-  aore.:
-I'.0  -.1pota Ca 00 avrog  for the  ai.  ptopoa,     t  by FAD In the Third               koao.l  De.nd -P.10   - Patio of pop.L.tiot enda  10  - 0.65 .   ro
Sotld 7004 S.r-e; 1961-65, 1970  ad 1977 dt,othe toa  labo  for..
P00taio rtooatnl,10.0                  .1od Volen - Protoin nopply of food do-
ritod fro  noiala and p01.-  ta       s  pa  day; 1I41-65. *1970 0.4 1977 .dat..         rAC     DIolt¶c
Child Coon 1-41 -otaliy Sat  (... theoood   - Ana1a d00th. Pa--t c,..d 10                       In-aaoofPiaebo-fo both, L.  -ha and id -k jodbroht
.S. g-rp 1-4) M00.        hLIdren Oa thio ale Stoop; for -r.t dorliptaU        00*pota.ttot2 por-of, 11st                                 2  p iortnt  en  paoread  49py  o
otria. data derived fro  lif atnble ; 1940, 1970 and 1979 don.,                                  of. boo.1ldah.t2     -o,              l- 0p-t-dp                  -4    .      t
M1.Inoao I     0 gIrth 1I,t r1*  - Aor-g. etob- of ynte uf 11.rlif           a                 o  olnodata. -areotr2    pruro o                ..aoteo   fporr101
atbrh   90, 1970 a4197  data.                                                             04 00ld .14h  iat.ryot.td nitk  o.-Id ...bla   ot
Set lr,talit10    fg,.r thooad  - dA..o  death. of  Wtfnot  -OdC  e   yea                   tannatd d.lt Prr,bon   .01(tga    oOtl-abn                                  no
of o.pttoon   i.brh.A.bo   ono Sat   lre  iatho  are   lv-   hal.oiha   .0
nata   aty  0004. trftd  W              r.atr,or_tt  td  et  too-IlCAd                        laine tlaot                                 tz00 Ooo Lvl ot forcaia)L.,e    M  00t 
IooOto or  t.detlttd ft  ar, than 200 act-. f- ro   a biS   -y b.                              P-rIo Ioon  of the tontry.  Orbno 1 -1 L. dartea  fro  the real
b""   ~~ hAo  f lht b_...  1.  -.1                          1_lavo  .0th adjai.-t for high-t 0.t of livito  J. obs.m OO
Ieodarda bdgniha r                                                                         Stalasoaeo  he    e..    .p..   re.50 .00-4Pntoni  ta -o Aboolot. Porrt honaItl(eort) - orb
d. -nbi. tot._  -aud leply  het the bononIf. a. or    b-  of the b-mothld                      end .0. P F-        MEnato  pap.Ultie   (ba 7 YM     7 .40.b)ni  -r  eheolo
do othe..tto .psd  a dLaprupatinnto P.ot of the day J. f.tobltg the                           Pooe'.
fslye.  ao   0d.4.
hA--. to b-race Otinoel nr tofooec.-toa,rb..0tol-
lhor ofPeople- oa,nb.  edoaa)er    by tarat  dit.pnla
th  lb. nltdae .0  di".1.01  .0th orLtheut tr-t-et. of I.-a enrta                                                                     noload 00001 Ott. DlvOnoo
.., flte-nteb    t                "hr .eyten 00 the van of pit privi   00 .000 .!%l&l   .  Poect    .oto
40,14.4diU     by  .hoO  Of ponoti.US pbyot-                                                                       MY1
~~ ~~~ 1  Cfp~                   ti  4ai,odiby -ewb. of W-.tiilb   16
ao  end t.-I. goadnto ea.-.P... prtonol froa             W  .. Ca   eit.-t area



- 19 -
Annex I
Page 4
COI0ROS - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1979                              ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (2, constant prices)
US$ Min.                          1976-79            1979
GNP at Market Prices                   92.4         100.0               3.9               3.6
Gross Domestic Investment              24.8          26.8              16.3              27.1
Gross Domestlc Saving                  11.5          12.4              20.5              47.5
Current Account balance              -12.8          -13.8
Exports of Goods, NFl                  19.8          21.4              -0.1              34.2
Imports of Goods, NFS                 33.1           35.8               4.4              25.1
OUTPUT IN 1979
Value added
US$ Mln.        %
Agriculture                            42.3          42.1
Industry                               13.4          13.3
Services                              44.8           44.6
Total                 100.5          100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
CF MIn.      Z of GDP
19-79         1979
Current Receipt                       2563           12.0
Current Expenditures                   5308          24.8
Current Deficit                      -2745          -12.8
Capital Expenditure                    2989          14.0
External Assistance                    5761          26.9
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES
1978          1979           1980
TJune)
(Million of CF outstanding end period)
Mbney and Quasi Mbeey                   2424          3548           4016
la* Credit to the cOg   mein.                           174           732
_m  Creigt to Perivtl eeter             2203          2254           3234
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as 2 of CDP    14.3            16.6           16.3
GDP Price Deflator (1979 - 100)        86.9           100.0        110.8
Annual percentage changes in
GDP Price Deflator                     15.6           15.1          10.8
Bank Credit to the Government        -77            102            320
Bank Credit to Private Sector          10             2             43
Note: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the
period covered.
Not applicable
June 11, 1981



- 20 -
Annex I
Page 5
COMOROS - TRADE PAYMENT AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1977-79)
1978   1979   1980 e/                                  US$ mln.      x
(US$ MiTlionT
Yiang-Ylang essences               2.8       23.5
Vanilla                            6.1       51.3
Exports of Goods, NFS           12.2   19.7   12.8    Copra                                0.9       7.6
Imports of Goods, NFS          21.3   32.3   44.8    Cloves                               1.8       15.1
Resource Gap (deficit -)        -9.1  -12.6  -32.0    Other commodities                    0.3       2.5
Interest Payments (net)         -0.1     ..      ..          Total                       11.9      100.0
Other Factor Payments (net)   -1.5   -1.2   -1.6
Net Transfers                   11.1    1.0    9.2
Balance on Current Account       0.4  -12.8  -24.4
EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1979
Net MLT Borrowing                3.3   15.2   24.5
Disbursements                    3.9   15.2   24.5                                     US$ Mln.
Amortization                     0.6    -       -
Others 1/                        0.5   -0.2   -0.1    Public Debt, incl. guaranteed   38.7
Change in Reserves             -4.2   -2.2    0.0    Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
(    increase)                                      Total Outstanding & Disbursed   38.7
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1979 2,
Memo item
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed    1.3
Imports of Petroleum Products  1.9    1.8    4.3    Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total outstanding & Disbursed    1.3
IBRD/IDA LENDING (September 30, 1981)
IBRD   ImA        IBRD     IDA
(US$ MlnT          (SDR Mln T
UxT  oF uXCRAM       r!t2         -          Ie*       Outstanding & Disbursed         -       5.2
Undisbursed                     -      5.0        -       5.6
US$1.00 - CF         225.64      212.72    211.30      Outstanding incl. Undisbursed -        10.2        -       5.6
CF    1 - US$          0.0044      0.0047      .0047
el Estimates
1/ Including errors and omissions
2/ Ratio of Debt Service Payments to Exports of
Goods and Non-Factor Services
not available
not applicable
October 31, 1981



- 21 -                             ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COMOROS
A. Statement of IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1981)
---US$ million---
Credit No.              Fiscal Year   Borrower   Purpose        IDA    Undisbursed
852-COM 1/                  1979       Comoros    Highway I   5.0           0.4
1035-COM                   1981        Comoros    Agricul-
ture     5.2         4.6
Total    10.2         5.0
B.   SDR-denominated IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1981)
- --SDR million---
Credit No.        Fiscal Year   Borrower   Purpose              Amount  Undisbursed
-COM 2/           1982        Comoros    Highway  II           5.6       5.6
C.   Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1981)
none
1/   The IDA credit was complemented by an EEC Special Action Credit of
US$0.7 million.
2/   Approved on November 10, 1981 but not yet signed.



-22 -                             ANNEX II
Page 2
C.   Projects in Execution as of September 30, 1981 1/
Credit No. 859.-COM: First Highway Project: US$5.0 million Credit of
October 13, 1978: Date of Effectiveness: January 15,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
EEC Special Action
Credit No. 30-COM:   First Highway Project:  US$0.7 million Credit of January 23,
1980; Date of Effectiveness: June 23, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
The project is in its last year of implementation and is progressing
satisfactorily. The 3-year road maintenance program has already met most of
its initial objectives of establishing the basic administrative structure,
defining a work program and creating the necessary equipment repair facilities.
Procurement of equipment, spare parts and soils laboratory equipment is
completed but the scope of maintenance and road improvement works has reached
only about 70 percent of appraisal targets due to substantial delays in the
delivery of maintenance equipment and initial difficulties in securing local
materials (gravel and wood). Construction of the Nioumakele road financed on
a parallel basis by the African Development Fund is nearing completion. The
feasibility study for the Miringoni-Nioumachoua road showed only a marginal
rate of return (6 percent) thereby making it unwarranted to undertake the
detailed engineering studies, originally included in the project. Shortage of
local counterpart funds emerged as a major constraint for project implementa-
tion. To alleviate the problem, the Association agreed to assume a higher
proportion of local cost financing than originally anticipated.
Credit No. 1035-COM: Coconut Rehabilitation and Rodent Control Project:
US$5.2 million Credit of June 30, 1980; Date of
Effectiveness: October 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
The project, to be implemented over five years, aimed to improve
and extend coconut-and copra production in the three islands of Grande Comore,
Anjouan and Moheli through rodent control, increased productivity of existing
stands and new planting and improvement of copra processing and marketing. It
includes a component for technical assistance to the Government to strengthen
the financial management of agriculture development projects.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



-23 -                              ANNEX II
Page 3
This is IDA's first agricultural project in the Comoros. The
project preparation and initial work required to commence implementation were
generally satisfactory. However, despite the lack of experience of the
project staff in dealing with IDA and the overall supply problems in the
Comoros, procurement of basic equipment to commence implementation has made a
good start. A contract has been negotiated for housing, guest house accom-
modation and office space on Moheli, where the absence of infrastructure is
critical and where the rodent control program will begin. A three-week visit
in November-December 1980 by a leading rodent control specialist provided
valuable information on the movement of the rat population, which will assist
in implementing the rat control program. A Mauritian financial expert, financed
under the technical assistance component to be an adviser to the Ministry of
Production, has been assigned-to the project to institute proper accounting
procedures and records.
Credit No.    -COM:  Second Highway (Maintenance) Project:  US$6.3 million
Credit of           1981; Expected Date of Effectiveness:
: Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The project would continue for a three-year period the road improve-
ment and maintenance operations started under the first highway project. It
also includes technical assistance to the Government for highway maintenance
and administration, training of local staff and a study of labor-intensive
techniques for use in road maintenance operations. The project was approved
by the Board on November 10, 1981.



- 24 -                             ANNEX III
COMOROS
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
Time taken to prepare project                 One year
Identification:                               IDA with UNESCO's
assistance
Preparation by:                               Government with UNESCO's
assistance
Preparation Mission:                          September 1980
Appraisal mission:                            January 1981
Negotiations:                                 October 1981
Planned date of effectiveness:               April 1982
Section II:  Special Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions of the Project:
Special Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) The formal establishment of the Education Projects Implementation
Unit (BEPE) (para. 44);
(b) The opening of a special account by the Government to receive
advances from the IDA credit to be used as a revolving fund for
operating expenses of the in-service training program and adminis-
trative costs of the project unit (para. 49).
Other Project Conditions
(a) Government would review its current policy on financial assistance
to post-secondary education students and by December 1, 1982,
(i) introduce a policy acceptable to the Association for such grants
and (ii) ensure that contractual arrangements require recipients of
fellowships to return to the Comoros upon completion of studies
(para. 31);
(b) Government would review with the Association by December 1, 1982 and
annually thereafter until project completion, the progress of and
proposals for measures to control the growth of education expenditures
(para. 31);



- 25 -                             ANNEX III
Page 2
(d) Goverrment would, by October 1, 1982 staff its education planning
unit with two qualified Comorians who will coordinate education
planning between the Ministry of National Education and the Ministry
of Finance, Economy and Planning (para. 43).
(e) The Government would take all steps necessary to establish and
put into operation by October 1, 1983 a fund for the purpose
of financing the replacement textbooks and other educational
materials (para. 31).



IBRD 15733
440                                                                              APRIL 1981
1     PARA-MEDICAL TRAINING SCHOOL MORONI
(GRANDE COMORE)
Nn0.ooIi -:Q:  ;: qtWtsinnioul2                                                                  AGRICULTURAt, TF;AINING CENTER. WANANI
~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~(MOHELI)
\ \ 93  PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGE,
MUTSAMUDU {ANJOUANJ
GRANbDE COMORE                                                      6      CAPITAL CITY
0     OTHER TOWNS
EXISTING  ROADS
Ko#                                                                                 ffi \ . -  ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTION
MORON! 1Q                                                                                         AIR PORTS
::   Icqni  0t  c,liBtndamnadji                                                         +      AIRPORTS
m Foumbouni
: \J; : ~~De.obeni
0         20         40          60
KtLOMETErS I          I          I          I
MiLE6.i 
M  o z a m b i q e                                        o       10       20       30       40           12°-
A itiousa 
i                                                  ,_,~~~~~~~~~~~~~MUThAMUD,U   
MOHELI                                                      BRao
D~~~~~~~~~ MBO8NI                                                    s        s
Thi5n.  ,hs bht.. P*VwooS y the    M.ritjn  +Rmi
the ce ,nwn of thr .. of               _           -
the n.o, to hetth it is oftMi  Nio
thedtri" sho^a oft .          N       t oW CANZANJOUAN
01 noMt b,4*, an tho p  of ohe
WW fso       u A"NON its oftowsF Up
Wpt k   M tAsVOtuk of                                   C h a n n e I
ig  Ottwy or Mge #tOt  f
,m-      a - tntentionai Boanettias
s TANZANIA                                                                                                    MAYOTTE  c n       L-9-
SEYCHELLES                                                                                             *  g,y
IVOMOROS.C                                                 M     l SBo   n %-
} )X- ~~~+^ t  °ae  ;  ~~C O 11 0 AR 0 S                                                               oi
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT                                     B               4AO DDZI
5OUTN t    4                 RennI,130                                                                                460                           130
M V        \,         ~~~~~~~~INDIAN OCEAN         44t                                                         4So°



