Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3493-COM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
AN EDUCATION PROJECT
IN THE
FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
November 16, 1981
Education Projects Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =   Franc (FCFA)
US$1.00          =   FCFA 230
US$0.04347       =   FCFA 1.0
US$1.00          =   SDR 0.874
V
MEASURES
1 meter (m)                  =   3.28 feet (ft)
1 square meter (m2)          =   10.76 square feet (ft2)
1 kilometer (km)             =   0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)   =   0.386 square miles(mi2)
ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB    =      African Development Bank
BEPE    =      Education Projects Implementation Unit
(Bureau d'Execution des Projets d-Education)
CADER   =      Center for Assistance to Rural Development
(Centre d-Appui au Developpement Rural)
CEFADER =      Federal Center for Assistance to Rural Development
(Centre Federal d'Appui au Developpement Rural)
FAG     =      French Technical Assistance Program
(Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation)
INE     =      National Institute of Education
(Institut National d'Education)
MEN     =      Ministry of National Education, Culture, Youth,and Sports
(Ministere de l'Education Nationale, de la Culture,
de la Jeunesse, et des Sports)
.
FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COMOROS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
1.  SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND PROSPECTS  ....   .............    I
Socio-Economic Setting ....................................       I
Recent Developments and Prospects .........................       2
II.  THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM .........................       4
Structure, Administration, and Planning ...................       4
Primary Education ....... ...................                     5
Secondary General Education ..... ................                7
Training of Low and Middle Level Manpower .................       8
Financing of Education ...... ..................                  9
Summary of Government Policy and Sector Issues .......... ..     11
Bank Group Sector Knowledge and Lending Strategy    . .          12
III.    THE  PROJECT  ...............................................  13
Objectives and Project Components           ..                   13
Primary Education ...................... ...................     14
Teacher Training School ................ .. ...............    14
In-Service Teacher Training       ..5.............             i
Textbooks and Teaching Materials ........... .. ...........    15
Agricultural Training                 ..                         16
Health Training    ...........................................   17
Monitoring of Education Policy             ..                    17
Female Participation in the Education System .........           18
Suamary of Technical Assistance ............. .. .......         18
This report is based on the findings of a mission which visited the Comoros
Islands in January-February 1981 and comprised Mr. L. Wolff (education plan-
ner/mission leader), Ms. J. Vial (economist), Mr. R. Welter (architect), Mr. M.
Cecere (agricultural educator), and Dr. T. Nacef (public health
specialist/consultant).
This documont hu a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance ofi
their offiial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
IV.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCIAL PLAN ...................             19
Project Cost .........................................            19,
Financial  Plan  ............................................     21
V.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT,
AND AUDITING. .............................    22
Implementation  ............................................      22
Procurement ...............                                       23
Disbursement   ..............................................     24
Auditing ......                                                   25
VI.    BENEFITS  AND  RISKS   ........................................  25
Benefits ......                                                   25
Risks ......                                                      25
V'II. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .....................      26
ANNEXES
Annex 1.. Tables and Charts
Tables
1. Comparative Education Indicators
2. Primary Teacher Requirements and Output, 1980-1990
3. Primary School Enrollments and Efficiency, 1980-1990
4. Health and Agriculture Manpower Needs, 1980-1990
5. Government Recurrent Expenditures in Education, 1980-1990
6. Summary of Estimated Project Costs
7. Estimated Project Cost by Category
8. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Charts
1. Structure of the Formal Education System
2. Organization of the Ministry of Education,
Culture, Youth, and Sports
3. Implementation Schedule
Annex 2 Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Annex 3 Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP - IBRD 15733



THE COMOROS
BASIC DATA, 1980
GENERAL
Area 1/                                                1,800 km2
Population 1/                                         355,000
Annual Population Growth Rate (est. 1975-80)           3.7%
Life Expectancy (years)                               48
Per Capita Income (1979)                              US$260
Annual GDP Growth Rate
1976-1978                                         3.5%
1978-1980                                         7.0%
EDUCATION
School Year                                                    October-June
Literacy Rate (est. 1975)                                      20%
Adult Gross Enrollment Ratios
Primary                                          99.4%
Lower Secondary                                  34.6%
Upper Secondary                                   8.0%
Total Secondary                                 20.7%
Higher                                             1.4%
Expenditures on Education as a Percentge of
Total Government Expenditures
Recurrent (est.)                                       29.1%
Capital                                                13.0%
Total                                                25.4%
Government Expenditures on Education
as a Percentage of GDP
Recurrent                                              5.4%
Capital                                                0.7%
Total                                                 6.1%
1/ Not including Mayotte.



2                                                                                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A



COMOROS
APPRAISAL REPORT
I. SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND PROSPECTS
r
Socio-Economic Setting
1.01      The Comoros Archipelago, located at the northern end of the
Mozambique Channel, consists of four islands, Grande Comore, Anjouan,
Mayotte and Moheli. The Comorian Parliament declared unilateral independ-
ence from France for all four islands in 1975, but Mayotte (about 13% of
the population), chose to remain as a French territory.(l) The population
of the three islands is estimated at 355,000 in 1980 and the land area is
1800 km2. With an estimated per capita income of US$260 (1979), the
Comoros is one of the poorest countries in the world. Two of the islands,
Anjouan and Grande Comore, are densely populated with about 500
inhabitants per km2 of agricultural land for Anjouan and 460 per km2 in
Grande Comore.
1.02    Notwithstanding its scarcity, agricultural land is the country's
main economic asset. About 80% of the population derive their livelihood
directly from agriculture, and the sector contributes nearly 40% of GDP
and virtually all export earnings. For the most part, the sector is
composed of smallholdings, including about 40,000 communal and private
farms averaging about 1.3 hectares per farm. Farming techniques are
primitive, fertilizers and improved seeds are not used, and agricultural
and other related services are very poor. Production of basic food crops
is particularly low and substantial food imports (notably rice, which
accounts for more than 20% of total imports) are necessary. Poor farming
methods and uncontrolled deforestation, resulting mainly from heavy
population pressures, have caused serious soil erosion, and thus reduced
even further the already limited productive agricultural land.
1. Unless otherwise indicated, future references to the Comoros in this
report exclude Mayotte.



-2-
1.03    Although statistical data are scanty, all available informat ,n
indicates that nutrition and health conditions are extremely poor. It is
estimated that one-half of all children die before reaching age four and
most children suffer from malnutrition and intestinal parasites. About
80% of the adult population suffers from malaria, and very high indices of
venereal diseases, tuberculosis and leprosy are also reported.  The Minis-
try of Health, Population and Moslem Affairs is finding it difficult to
cope with the situation, because of limited facilities and supplies, as
well as a shortage of middle-level qualified personnel to carry out health
improvement programs.
Recent Developments and Prospects
1.04    Since independence in July 1975, and until very recently, Comoros
has suffered from political instability with successive coup d'etats in
1975 and 1978. Immediately after independence, economic conditions were
extremely difficult as a result of the temporary withdrawal of most French
budgetary and technical aid prompted by the dispute over Mayotte-s inde-
pendence. During the period 1975-1978, the administration of public
institutions weakened dramatically and public services were either sharply
reduced or suspended altogether. Health and education services suffered
the most, with public health deteriorating rapidly and the school system
being disrupted by the temporary closing of schools.
1.05    After the present Government took power in 1978, the French
Government resumed budgetary support and technical assistance, and the
economy of the Comoros experienced a rapid recovery. It is estimated that
GDP growth accelerated from about 3.5 p.a. in 1976-78 to almost 7% p.a. in
1978-80. Agricultural production, Government services and public invest-
ment increased rapidly and there were unusually high export earnings in
1979.
1.06    The economic improvement allowed the Government to proceed to a
rapid restoration of the administrative system. At independence, the
civil service, with some 5,000 employees (including permanent civil ser-
vants, contractual workers and daily paid labor), was the largest employer
(about one-third of total wage employment). In 1977, because of budgetary
constraints, the Government dismissed about 3,500 employees, seriously
hampering the administrative process. After 1978, administration was
decentralized and Governors of the three islands were made responsible for
the management of public services at the island level. However the
respective functions of the federal and island Governments have not been
fully defined. In addition, most of the island's financial resources
originate from revenue-sharing of the federal budget but the required
transfer of funds has not proceeded in a systematic and timely manner. By
the end of 1980, many of the employees dismissed in 1977 had been rein-
stated. The Government has also made some progress in improving the
decentralized system and places high priority on further improvements.



-3-
1.07    The prospects for the future economic development of the country
depend to a great extent on the external markets for the country's main
exports (ylang-ylang, vanilla, cloves, copra) and the country's ability
to attract substantial external financial and technical assistance (e.g.,
France contributes over 30% of budgetary resources). In addition, the
Government must improve its management capacity through the reorganization
of activities, upgrading of existing staff, and the hiring of qualified
staff. In this respect, a Bank Group administered UNDP financed project
is assisting the Ministry of Finance, Economy, and Planning to strengthen
development planning.
1.08    The main development priority for the Comoros is in agricultural
rehabilitation and expansion of production of both basic foodstuffs and
export crops. This would include (a) expansion of maize production and
other foodcrops to reduce imports of rice; (b) expansion of fishery and
small livestock production both to reduce meat imports and to improve the
protein intake of the population; and (c) production of new export crops
to replace those for which world-wide demand is low. Additional high
priority agriculture objectives include strengthening of export and
marketing institutions, reforestation, soil erosion control, and regula-
tion of land ownership rights.
1.09    The Ministry of Production and Industry has initiated activities
in all these areas. The cornerstone of its strategy is the establishment,
with UNDP and FAO assistance, of a Federal Center for Assistance to Rural
Development (CEFADER) on Grande Comore Island and, in a first step, estab-
lishment of four regional extension Centers for Assistance to Rural
Development (CADER). Each CADER would cover about 20-25 villages, would
be the focal point of various development activities, and would be staffed
with about 12 extension officers. The Government proposes to establish a
total of 16 CADERS by 1990 to cover the entire rural population.
1.10    A second major development priority is in public health.  As noted
above, the health and nutritional status of the Comoros is among the
lowest in the world. Population growth is estimated at 3.7% p.a., which,
if not reduced, would result in a doubling of the population before the
year 2000. In 1978, the Government established a national health plan
with the goals of reducing infant mortality by 50% and raising life expec-
tancy from 46 to 60 years of age. This objective would be accomplished
through establishment of 55 new rural health posts, programs of
pre-maternal care and vaccination, campaigns against malaria, tuberculosis
and leprosy, strengthening of hospitalization services, establishment of a
system of central health planning, and establishment of a national
para-medical training school. While these plans are ambitious, the basic
thrust is appropriate, and the Government has attracted major support from
WHO to implement its programs. To help carry out this program, the
Government established in 1980 a separate Ministry of Health, Population,
and Moslem Affairs.



-4-
1.11    A third major development priority is in education.  While enroll-
ment and participation rates are high compared to other African countries,
the system is inefficient and costly. There are serious shortages of
adequately trained personnel in agriculture, health, public administra-
tion, and industry who are essential to accomplish the Government's
development priorities.
II.  THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM
Structure, Administration, and Planning
2.01  Structure of Education.   The formal education system of the Comoros
Islands consists of two years of pre-school education in Koranic schools,
six years of primary education, four years of lower secondary education
(college rural), and three years of upper secondary education. Upper
secondary education is provided in lycees and in specialized occupation-
ally oriented schools, most of which have recently been established or are
in the process of being established. The Government also recently estab-
lished a post secondary institute for training teachers for lower secon-
dary schools. With this minor exception all higher education is provided
overseas, with a plurality of students in France and Algeria. Annex 1, T-1
provides comparative education indicators and Annex l,C-1 indicates the
structure of the formal education system.
2.02    Administration and Planning.  Since the Comoros Islands are based
on a federal system, each of the island governments is responsible for
primary and secondary education, including hiring, paying, and supervision
of teachers. The Ministry of National Education, Culture, Youth, and
Sports (MEN) is responsible for overall organization of the education
system, and for examinations, curriculum, quality control, and planning,
and is in direct control of teacher training and higher education. The
Ministries of Production and Health control agriculture and health educa-
tion, although the MEN is responsible for examinations and award of cer-
tificates for these schools.
2.03    The present organizational structure of the MEN (Annex l,C-2) is
excessively centralized around the Minister's office. The MEN is now
considering a new organizational structure, which includes an office
responsible for planning, scholarships, statistics, budgeting, and school
construction; offices responsible for supervision and examination of the
primary and secondary school systems; and a National Institute of Educa-
tion (INE) responsible for curriculum development, research, and teacher
training and upgrading. The MEN is gradually filling its administrative
posts but still lacks Comorian educational planners and needs to
strengthen school supervision and to fill additional posts at the INE.
Expatriate specialists from UNDP/Unesco and the French technical assis-
tance program (FAC) are carrying out most of the needed national planning



-5-
tasks. With UNDP/Unesco funds, two Comorians are being trained in educa-
tional planning and management. The MEN is expected to staff its planning
unit with these Comorians and to improve its coordination with the Minis-
try of Finance.
Primary Education
2.04    General.   In 1980, about 59,000 children were enrolled in the
primary school system in the Comoros Islands. This represents 99% of the
estimated population aged 6 to 11, but it includes about 12,000 overaged
children and about 14,000 repeaters. About 65% of all children entering
the system complete the sixth grade. These participation and flow rates
are high in comparison with other African countries (Annex 1, T-1), but
the quality of primary education and the achievement level of students are
low. The school related causes of low achievement appear to be a lack of
adequate physical facilities, untrained and poorly motivated teachers, and
shortages of and inappropriate textbooks. Another cause may be the very
poor nutrition and health of children which impedes their learning
capacity.
2.05     Physical Facilities.  About 18% of all primary schools consist of
mud and thatch structures, often with little protection against the ele-
ments, and 8% of classrooms are privately owned. About 19% of all
children attend school on triple shifts (three hours or less per day) and
the rest attend on a double shift basis. A Unesco school mapping study
completed in 1979 evaluated the physical conditions of all primary schools
and catchment areas and has resulted in a project, supported by the
African Development Bank (AfDB), to construct 54 primary school classrooms
to reduce overcrowding and to replace inadequate facilities. This program
will significantly improve infrastructure. Nonetheless, the Government
estimates needs for an additional 300 classrooms through 1990.
2.06     Primary School Teachers.  The student teacher ratio in 1980-81
was 45:1. This ratio is acceptable given the Comoros constrained fiscal
situation and could be increased to about 50:1 without a significant
further deterioration of student achievement. About 59% of all teachers
have only a primary school certificate; an additional 21% have a lower
secondary school certificate; and only 20% are fully qualified teachers.
As a matter of policy, the island Governments should cease hiring
untrained teachers; MEN officials agree with this policy and are estab-
lishing guidelines for island hiring practices. The untrained teachers
utilize very poor teaching methods and many lack basic knowledge of lan-
guage and mathematics. At the same time many officially qualified
teachers graduated from inadequate teacher training courses in the lycees.
2.07     Overall estimates for trained teachers are contained in Annex 1,
T-2. Assuming modest growth of primary school enrollment, continuation of
a 45:1 student teacher ratio, and 4% teacher dropout or promotion, about
87 new teachers per year are required through 1990. In addition, about
100 teachers per year need to be upgraded in order to provide a full
complement of trained teachers by 1990.



-6-
2.08     The MEN has recognized the essential need for improvement in the
quality of primary school teachers and, in 1979, decided to centralize all
primary teacher training in a single national teacher training school to
be located in Anjouan.  This institution began operations in January,
1981, with 30 second year students who transfered from the lycee in Moroni
and 90 first year students. The school is located in the physical
facilities of a temporarily closed vocational training center, which will
resume operations shortly. The school is adequately staffed, principally
with expatriate teachers, and has made a good start in its first year of
operation.
2.09    The MEN has also initiated a program to utilize a combination of
radio programs, correspondence, and vacation-time courses to upgrade
untrained primary school teachers. In the first year of this program,
about 150 teachers are studying to take the examination for the national
certificate of education to become qualified primary school teachers.
Thus far, about 80% of those originally enrolled are continuing in the
program.
2.10    The MEN intends to strengthen and expand this training program,
beginning with the 500 teachers who have lower secondary degrees but no
teaching credentials. Learning will take place by radio programs (three
hours per week), through the completion of a set of "homework" papers per
month, through monthly meetings, and by attending a three week vacation
course. Depending on their previous training and on their progress in the
program, teachers would take the national teacher training examination
between one and two years after initiation of their program of studies.
FAC is providing the specialists necessary for the program and the Govern-
ment is providing needed counterpart personnel, but additional assistance
is needed for the purchase of radios, educational materials, and vehicles,
and to cover incremental operating costs of the program.
2.11    Curriculum and Textbooks.  The primary school curriculum focuses
on French language instruction and on mathematics in the beginning grades
and includes agriculture and social studies in the upper grades. The
highest priority at the INE is to introduce aspects of Comorian life to
the curriculum. In particular, the INE will concentrate on developing a
social and environmental studies curriculum which will use examples from
the Comorian environment. The INE is also strengthening the teaching of
French as a second language through comparative studies of the syntax and
grammar of the Comorian language. The INE does not propose to rewrite the
language and mathematics curricula, which are based on standard fran-
cophone African textbooks, since this type of massive curriculum reform
would result in excessive costs and delay, with limited improvement in
student achievement. An experimental program to introduce school gardens
into primary schools has also been initiated. The program has had initial
success but its generalization may be costly and difficult to manage
without continued technical assistance.



-7-
2.12.    In 1980, the MEN surveyed the number and type of textbooks in
primary schools and it found a multiplicity of textbooks and types. On
average, a French language textbook was available to about one in three
children; however about 25% of the textbooks were in very poor condition
and some are inappropriate to francophone Africa. About one in five
teachers had teaching guides.  About one in every six children in grades
three to six had mathematics textbooks and on average there were one and a
half dictionaries available per class. The Government has not made any
major purchases of primary school textbooks since 1978 and the stock of
existing books will be depleted in two or three years.
2.13    The MEN's primary school quality improvement program on the whole
is a well conceived program to improve the quality of primary education.
Assuming technical assistance continues and additional financing becomes
available from other agencies, the program should succeed in its aims of
improving learning achievement and efficiency in primary education. It is
estimated that the flow of students through the system should improve from
65% in 1980 to 87% in 1990, with a corresponding reduction of repetition
rates from 25% to 15% (Annex 1, T-3).
Secondary General Education
2.14    General.  Enrollment in lower secondary education (college rural)
of 11,700 students in 1980 was equivalent to a high 35% of the school age
population. This percentage will drop since in 1981 the MEN admitted only
2,300 students to the colleges rurales, compared to 3,500 in 1980. The
student-teacher ratio is 45:1, which is high but still within acceptable
limits. Instruction usually takes place in facilities which were designed
as community centers. While these facilities are sturdy, many buildings
are unfinished and lack doors, windows, and in some cases, finished
floors.
2.15    About 1900 students, equivalent to 8% of children aged 16 to 18,
were enrolled in upper secondary education (lycee) in 1980-81. This
enrollment ratio is among the highest in Africa. Lycee students con-
stitute a privileged class in the Comoros. Until 1980 they all received
ample scholarships, including full boarding. Those who passed the bac-
calaureate examination were guaranteed overseas scholarships after com-
pleting two years of compulsory teaching service. In 1980, the MEN
eliminated boarding facilities and provided scholarships only to those
students who commuted to school from island to island or traveled long
distances on one island. At the higher education level, many students who
study abroad do not return to the Comoros, and key development posts in
sectors such as agriculture are undersubscribed.
2.16    In 1980, about 1200 students were enrolled in the first year of
senior secondary education compared to about 500 in 1978; thus without



-8-
control of intake, enrollments would shortly more than double, the output
of general secondary graduates would be far in excess of the available
jobs, and the recurrent cost implications would be serious. In recogni-
tion of this problem, the MEN restricted the number of first year entrants
in 1981 to 950.
2.17    Secondary School Teachers.  Nearly all lower secondary school
teachers are untrained and most are teaching as part of a two year period
of national service before being awarded overseas scholarships. In 1980,
MEN established a teacher training college for lower secondary teachers at
Moroni in the Grande Comore Island. This school will enroll 60 students
in a two year course which will qualify graduates to teach in lower secon-
dary schools. With assistance from the AfDB, the MEN is introducing
woodworking, home economics, and agriculture into the curriculum. The
high recurrent costs of this type of program, as well as the fact that
most teachers are untrained, will make its long term objectives difficult
to achieve. At the upper secondary level the student teacher ratio is a
very low 11:1 and 80% of the teachers are expatriates paid through French,
Belgian, Arab League, and other technical assistance programs. All Comi-
orian teachers at this level are trained overseas.
Training of Low and Middle Level Manpower
2.18    The Comoros has an excess of secondary school graduates and at the
same time it lacks appropriately trained personnel in health, agriculture,
commerce, industry, and public administration, as described below.
2.19    Agriculture Sector.  As noted above (para 1.09), with FAQ assis-
tance, the Government has established a federal center for agricultural
support and research (CEFADER) and four regional extension and training
centers (CADERS) on the three islands. The CADERS will gradually be
increased to 16 by the end of the 1980-s. In addition, external donor
assistance is being provided to expand production in a number of different
sub-sectors. A key to successful implementation of these programs will be
the provision of trained extension workers as well as higher level
administrative and managerial personnel. While numerous agencies are
assisting in higher level scholarships, there is as yet no system for the
training of field level extension workers.
2.20    About 40 agricultural extension agents are working in the Ministry
of Production and Industry, and at least half of these need upgrading.
Long term needs are for at least one agent per 500 farm families, or about
190 extension workers, as well as for 60 technicians in research,
forestry, and fisheries and other internationally financed agricultural
projects (Annex 1, T-4).
2.21    As part of its agriculture development strategy (para. 1.08), the
Government is proposing to establish an agricultural training center on
Moheli, which has the most fertile land of the three islands and is rela-
tively underpopulated. The center would have a capacity of 40 and would



-9-
train 20 extension agents per year in a two year period. Because of
Moheli's relative isolation, the management and staffing of this center
will be difficult in the short run; in the long run it could be a valuable
impetus to agricultural development on the island and could meet long term
needs for all field extension workers.
2.22    Health Sector.  In 1981, about 145 nurses and midwives, 53 nurses
aides and small numbers of dental assistants and laboratory assistants
were employed in the health sector. With the exception of nurses, these
numbers are inadequate to meet present or projected needs (Annex 1, T-4).
Through 1990, the Government plans to establish additional health clinics,
to run various vaccination, anti-malaria and other campaigns and to
strengthen overall hospital services. In order to meet these goals, about
110 nurses and midwives, 275 nurses and midwife aides, 30 dental assis-
tants, and 25 laboratory technicians are estimated to be required. In
addition, the existing para-medical staff needs to be upgraded and regular
in-service training programs need to be strengthened.
2.23    In recognition of needs for the training of para-medical person-
nel, in 1980 the Government established a national health school to train
para-medical personnel and to upgrade existing personnel. The school is
under the direct control of the Ministry of Health although the MEN is
responsible for academic standards and the award of diplomas. The school
now enrolls 36 students who were formerly in the health training stream of
the Moroni lycee. Expansion of the school to 75, including programs to
train 25 nur'sesf aides per year, is essential for the carrying out of the
Government's long term objectives for improved health in the Comoros
(para. 1.10).
2.24    Other Low and Middle Level Manpower Needs.  With ILO assistance
the Ministry of Civil Service and Labor established a vocational/technical
training school in Anjouan. The school was closed in 1978 because of
political turmoil and problems of placing graduates. The ILO is now
completing a labor market survey and is expected to assist in reopening
this school, which at the outset would emphasize in-service training.
Needs are also significant in the area of commerce; therefore the MEN
plans to strengthen an existing secondary commercial school, especially in
the training of secretaries and bookkeepers. Additional needs have been
identified for managers and accountants, and scholarships from external
donor agencies are available for these needs.
Financing of Education
2.25      Education in the Comoros is presently free at all levels.  In
the past two years, recurrent expenditures in the sector have accounted
for about 29% of total government recurrent expenditures, including the
Federal Government and the three island governments (Annex 1, T-5). This
is a relatively high share of the budget compared with other countries in
Africa. In addition, the French Government directly supports over 30% of
total budgetary expenditures; thus the level of education expenditures is



-10-
particularly high in relation to domestic resources. The main reasons for
these high expenditures are (a) the relatively high enrollment ratios at
all levels of education; (b) high unit recurrent costs in upper secondary
schools; and (c) the high cost of higher education scholarships.
2.26    The cost per student in the pre-primary Koranic schools is about
US$21 equivalent, and, in primary schools, is about US$47 equivalent.
These costs are similar to those in other countries in Africa. The cost
per student for lower secondary education at US$37 equivalent is low
because most of the teaching staff consists of secondary school graduates
who are doing two years of national service before receiving scholarships
abroad and who are paid a salary below a primary teacher's salary.
2.27    In 1979-80, the cost per student at the upper secondary level was
US$940 and this level accounted for 20% of the Government's total recur-
rent education budget. The Government in 1980-81 discontinued free room
and board for all students and replaced it by a system of scholarships to
students based on the distance a student lived from school. The cost per
student in upper secondary education dropped to US$460 equivalent and the
share of this level in total Government recurrent education expenditures
fell to about 13%. This reduction represents an important step forward in
the fiscal control of education expenditures. However, unit costs are
still high, considering that most of the teaching staff at this level are
expatriates and their salaries are paid by donor agencies. Costs of upper
secondary education will increase significantly unless the Government
restricts enrollment growth, further reduces scholarships, and increases
the present low 11:1 student teacher ratio.
2.28    With regard to expenditures on scholarships abroad, these
increased from 14% of total Government recurrent expenditures in education
in 1980 to 23% in 1981. These high levels result from a policy of provid-
ing scholarships abroad to all students who succeed in the final examina-
tion of upper secondary education. However, many of these students do not
study in areas essential to development and many do not return to the
Comoros. The Government has recognized the difficult problems of financ-
ing, in particular, upper secondary and higher education, and is expected
to formulate courses of action with the assistance of a strengthened MEN
planning unit, which would coordinate its activities with the Central
Planning Unit of the Ministry of Finance, Economy and Planning (paras.
2.03 and 3.18).
2.29    Capital expenditures in education financed from the Government
budget were about US$600,000 equivalent p.a. in the past two years. These
mainly cover school maintenance and renewal programs and counterpart
contributions to projects financed by foreign donors. External assistance
in education has been heavily concentrated in the provision of teaching
staff. However,the AfDB project will provide about US$7.0 million equiv-
alent, principally for school and office construction.



-11-
2.30    Projected Expenditures  Annex 1, T-5 summarizes the estimates of
enrollments and expenditures to 1986 and 1991. The cost per student at
the primary level is expected to rise because of the increases in the
number of qualified teachers.  In order to limit these increases, the
Government should consider a policy of ensuring that the student/teacher
ratio does not fall below its present 45:1. In lower secondary education,
the cost per student should increase significantly with the replacement of
unqualified teachers by qualified teachers graduating from the Secondary
Teacher Training School. In this case the student teacher ratio could
also be kept stable at 45:1.
2.31    By 1986 and 1991, the Government will incur additional expendi-
tures for improved quality of primary and lower secondary education and
for relatively high cost specialized education and training institutions
in health, agriculture, primary teacher training, commerce, and industry.
To control overall budgetary expenditures, the Government should restrict
enrollments in both lower and upper secondary schools. Additional
economies could be made through eliminating and/or reducing scholarships
at the upper secondary level and restricting scholarships abroad to
specific training needs. If enrollment growth is controlled and
cost-saving measures are implemented, then the share of education in total
projected recurrent expenditures of the Government could be maintained
through 1990 at its present level of about 29%. If none of these measures
are taken, the share is likely to increase to 35% or 40% of the total
Government recurrent budget.
2.32    During negotiations, various options for cost reduction were
discussed. The Government reported that it had raised entrance standards
to secondary education, with the result that the number of new entrants to
lower secondary schools had declined to 2,300 in 1981-82, compared to
3,500 in 1980-81, and to upper secondary schools had declined to 950,
compared to 1,200 in 1980-81. The Government was also now requiring
parents to pay for the costs of expendible primary school materials such
as exercise books and writing materials and was experimenting with
increasing the number of students per class at the upper secondary level.
For the future the Government agreed to: (a) reduce the number of
entrants to lower secondary schools to 2,000 in 1982-83; (b) permit no
more than 950 students to enter upper secondary schools for each of the
next three years; (c) by April, 1982, introduce a draft law to the General
Assembly, limiting the availability of higher education fellowships to
essential manpower needs; (d) by October, 1983, carry out a study on ways
and means by which parents could participate in financing the costs of
primary school textbooks; and (e) depending on the results of a pilot
study, increase the number of students per class in upper secondary
schools from 35:1 to 45:1. Implementation of all these programs should
enable the Government to maintain recurrent education expenditures at the
present level.



-12-
Summary of Government Policy and Sector Issues
2.33    The present Government inherited an excessively expensive educa-
tional system. At Government request, Unesco completed an education
sector survey in April, 1979. The report details the problems described
above of poor primary school quality, excessive costs and enrollment at
the secondary level, excessive higher education scholarships, and weak
administration. The main recommendations of the report are to establish a
National Institute of Education in charge of curriculum and teacher train-
ing; to strengthen administration and management of education; to control
the education budget; to rationalize secondary education; and to improve
primary school infrastructure. With technical assistance, the Government
has gradually moved to carry out these reforms. Since 1979, the Govern-
ment has established a secondary teacher training school, a primary
teacher training college, a health training school, and the INE, and has
prepared a new administrative structure for the education system. The MEN
has begun programs of radio education, primary and secondary in-service
teacher training, establishment of primary school gardens, and provision
of practical subjects at the junior secondary level. The Government has
also moved to reduce education costs through the implementation of various
cost-saving measures (para. 2.32).
2.34    These actions constitute an appropriate strategy and impressive
progress towards renewing the educational system. With good planning,
many of the programs are expected to succeed. While the Government
depends excessively on expatriates for planning, management, and cur-
riculum development, it is expanding recruitment of qualified Comorians
and will staff an educational planning unit with two qualified Comorians
(paras. 2.03 and 3.18). The Government has also made a good beginning on
the restriction of enrollments and the control of education costs (para.
2.32).
Bank Group Sector Knowledge and Lending Strategy
2.35    Sector Knowledge.  Over a period of three years, the Bank Group
has developed a fairly comprehensive knowledge of the functioning and
organization of the education sector and has established a good dialogue
with education authorities. However, financial data on the education
system are inadequate because of incomplete Government accounts. Until an
ongoing ILO study is completed, precise information will also be lacking
on overall labor market conditions.
2.36    Lending Strategy. The Bank Group lending strategy in education
should be to support the Government's long term aims of improving the
quality of the education system and to assist in the training of the key
manpower needed for national social and economic development. Bank Group
assistance should reinforce activities of other donor agencies to insure
balanced development of the education system. At the primary school
level, FAC is providing extensive technical assistance in curriculum



-13-
development and teacher training. As part of a US$7.0 million equivalent
credit, the AfDB is assisting in the construction of 54 primary school
classrooms as well as offices for the INE.   There are needs to complement
technical assistance to cover needed equipment and recurrent costs of
in-service teacher training programs. In addition, while the primary
teacher training school has been established, it is utilizing borrowed
facilities at the temporarily closed vocational training center and new
facilities are needed. An additional key area of assistance in primary
education is in textbooks and teachers guides, since funds are not avail-
able for purchase of textbooks, teachers guides, and new teaching
materials which the INE is expected to develop.
2.37    In the area of training for manpower needs, WHO is providing
technical assistance for the recently established para-medical training
school, which is located in temporary quarters on the grounds of the
central hospital in Moroni. Financing is needed to construct a permanent
facility for this school. FAO is providing technical assistance and
fellowships to establish the CADER system and, with FAC, is expected to
provide teachers for the proposed agricultural training center to be
established in Moheli. The Bank Group should therefore provide financial
assistance to establish permanent facilities for both the agricultural
training center and the health training school (paras. 2.19 - 2.23).
2.38   UNDP/Unesco is providing two experts in educational planning and
curriculum development and FAC is providing an expert in educational
administration. No additional foreign technical assistance is needed at
this level, and these agencies are expected to continue their support and
train counterparts.
III - THE PROJECT
Objectives and Project Components
3.01    The proposed project would assist the Government in its major
development priorities by improving the quality, efficiency, and relevance
of primary education through training of teachers and the provision of
textbooks and teaching materials. It would also assist in providing
manpower essential for the social and economic development of the Comoros,
through support for new agricultural and health training facilities.
Specifically, the project would include the following:
Level and Objectives              Item                      Direct Beneficiaries
Primary Education -   1.  Facilities for a new teacher   180 student teachers
Improved learning,         training school in Anjouan       and 600 primary
efficiency, and            and adjacent demonstration       school students
relevance                  primary school; provision        per year
of fellowships for teacher
trainers



-14-
2.  In-service training of           500 teachers over a
teachers                         five year period
3.  Provision of textbooks,          67,000 students and
workbooks and teachers           1,500 teachers (1984)
guides to primary
schools
Secondary Level
Agriculture and Health
Training -  Provision  4. Facilities for an                40 students per year;
and improvement of key    agricultural training            in-service training
agriculture and health    center in Moheli; pro-           for about 100 staff
manpower                   vision of fellowships           and 500 farmers
for agricultural teachers       per year
5. Facilities for a new            75 students per year;
para-medical school in          in-service training
Moroni                          for about 100
Primary Education
3.02    Teacher Training School.  The proposed project includes provisions
for the construction of a new primary teacher training school to be
located on the outskirts of Mutsamudu, the capital of the island of
Anjouan. The school would enroll 180 students in a two year course and
would graduate 90 trained teachers per year. During the two month vaca-
tion period, the school would be utilized for in-service training of an
additional 100 untrained teachers. A demonstration primary school, to be
located adjacent to the teacher training school which is in an area lack-
ing primary school facilities, would enroll 600 children on a double shift
basis in grades 1 to 6. The output of the teacher training school would
meet the estimated annual needs for new trained teachers and would con-
tribute to improved quality of primary education (paras. 2.06 - 2.08).
3.03    The project would provide academic and comunal facilities con-
sisting of classrooms, teaching facilities for science, home economics,
and basic woodwork; administrative offices; boarding for 144 students; and
three staff houses.  Additional Government owned staff housing would be
available a short distance from the school. The demonstration primary
school would have six classrooms, an observation room, and an administra-
tion block.
3.04    The new teacher training school requires eleven teachers, most of
whom would initially be expatriates provided by other donor agencies. The
Government has provided assurances that the school would be staffed with
qualified personnel. To assist in long term strengthening of teacher
education, the project would provide seven man-years of fellowships for
Comorians to study for graduate degrees in teacher training to replace
the expatriate teachers (para. 3.20).



3.05    In-service Teacher Training.  The proposed project would support
an in-service training program initiated in January, 1981. The program
utilizes a combination of radio, correspondence, and face to face instruc-
tion. Teachers will attend intensive three week vacation courses to be
held in Anjouan and Grande Comore island. The objective of the program is
to enable about 500 unqualified teachers, who already have lower secondary
degrees, to receive full teaching certificates. The program should reduce
the number of unqualified teachers by more than 50%.
3.06    The project would support the incremental operating costs and the
purchase of equipment necessary to implement the in-service training
course. Specifically, the project would support: (a) boarding, per diem,
and travel costs for teachers attending the three weeks vacation courses;
(b) costs for materials preparation and production, honorariums for addi-
tional teaching by regular Comorian teachers, and operation of vehicles;
(c) purchase of about 300 radios to be provided to all primary schools;
and (d) purchase of four vehicles to be used by program coordinators as
well as by school supervisors. The Government is committed to providing
additional personnel to ensure expansion of the in-service training
program.
3.07    Textbooks and Teaching Materials.    The project would include
provisions for about 59,000 textbooks, 4,400 teachers guides, and 235,000
workbooks and booklets to primary school students and teachers. Most
textbooks would be imported but the INE is expected to prepare supplemen-
tary student and teachers guides and manuals.
3.08    INE officials have already prepared a tentative list of required
textbooks and teachers guides, all of which are appropriate for French
speaking African students. On the basis of their selections, one French
language textbook would be provided for every two primary school children,
for a total of about 34,000 textbooks; one mathematics textbook for every
two children in grades three to six (21,000 books); accompanying teachers
guides in mathematics and French; three science books for each class in
grades three to six; two dictionaries per class; and one basic textbook in
educational psychology and teaching methodology, designed for African
school teachers, for every four teachers.
3.09    In order to make the curriculum more appropriate to the Comorian
social and physical environment, the INE will prepare two workbooks for
each student in grades 3 to 6, for a total of 90,000 workbooks. The
workbooks would be printed at the INE printing facility to be set up under
the AfDB project, and under the proposed project, financial assistance
would be provided for the purchase of about 12,000 reams of paper and
additional ink, stencil and offset materials needed for their printing.
The INE expects to prepare the first set of workbooks for distribution
during the 1983-84 school year to children in grade 3, and thereafter
would produce a new set of workbooks for each subsequent year.



-16-
Agricultural Training
3.10    The project includes provisions for a new agricultural training
center with teaching and boarding for 40 students, in the town of Wanani,
located in the center of the island of Moheli. The school would be
located on the present site of a community center (moudiria) which would
be be adapted for use as a school. Output of 20 extension agents per year
would meet needs for personnel to work in the CADERs and in research,
forestry, livestock, and other programs.
3.11    Specifically, the project would finance construction of class-
rooms, administrative space, boarding facilities for 40 students (includ-
ing space which could be used for up to 10 girls), four staff houses, and
two overnight rooms. Farm equipment would be minimal since the agricul-
tural facilities in the neighbouring CADER in Mibani would be used for all
demonstrations and field training. Two vehicles would be provided for
student and teacher transport.
3.12    The center would be under the direct control of the CEFADER and
would depend administratively on the Ministry of Production. It would be
operated in cooperation with the CADER in Mibani, which is about eight
kilometers away. The training program at the center would be two years in
length and minimum entrance requirements would be completion of lower
secondary education. Ministry of Production officials have prepared a
draft curriculum which includes language, mathematics, science, agricul-
tural practices, animal husbandry, rural economics, and extension theory
and practice. About six months of the second year of study would be
carried out through supervised work on one of the CADERS. During vaca-
tions and when students are on supervised work sessions, the center would
be used to train local farmers in Moheli or to provide specialized upgrad-
ing courses to Ministry staff.
3.13    The center would have two permanent staff and three to five
part-time teachers equivalent to an additional two full time staff. The
director would teach half time in one of the major agricultural dis-
ciplines, and the second full time staff person would be expected to be
an expert in agricultural extension. General subjects would be taught
through an arrangement with the Moheli lycee. Because of the relative
isolation of the island of Moheli, the program will have to be carefully
planned to utilize part-time agricultural teachers (who may have to come
from another island). The Government has provided to the Bank Group a
satisfactory plan for the staffing, organization, and financing of the
operations of the center.
3.14    The Government has provided assurances that the school would be
staffed by qualified personnel as set forth in the agreed plan (para.
3.13).  In order to assist in long term staffing of the school, the
project would provide three man-years of fellowships for advanced studies
in agricultural education.



-17-
Health Training
3.15    The project would provide facilities for a new health training
school enrolling 75 students to be located on the grounds of the central
hospital in Moroni on Grande Comore Island. The school is located now in
temporary facilities borrowed from the hospital's maternity wing and
enrolls 36 students in a three year nurses' training course.   Through
1990 the school would train about 100 nurses and midwives, 300 nurse and
midwife assistants, 25 laboratory technicians, and 25 dental assistants.
During vacation months the school would serve as a center for in-service
training for about 150 para-professionals per year to be up-graded in
courses lasting about 15 days each. The school would therefore provide
the personnel essential to implement the Government's long term health
plan (para. 1.10). Specifically the project would provide for construc-
tion, furnishing, and equipping of classrooms, a demonstration room for
nurses, a dental practice room, a laboratory analysis room, a library, a
multipurpose cafeteria/meeting hall, boarding facilities for 50 students,
and a headmistress's house. The specialized rooms and the multipurpose
hall would also be jointly used by regular hospital staff.
3.16    In order to simplify the teaching program and ensure training of
only those personnel needed by the health system, health authorities have
established a schedule of training programs through 1990 which provides
for recruitment and training of differing groups of students for the
varying para-medical categories according to need. Each year the school
would train 25 lower level nurses aides or midwife aides in one year
courses. Minimum entrance requirements would be the satisfactory comple-
tion of primary education. The school would recruit new entrants for two
year programs to train nurses, midwives, dental assistants, or laboratory
assistants at the upper secondary level two out of every three years;
therefore, at any one time, 50 students would be enrolled in these higher
level courses, for a total enrollment at any one time of 75.
3.17    At present the school has a Comorian director and two WHO
teachers. The teaching staff will expand to about five full time staff,
with hospital staff providing additional part time teachers. WHO is
expected to provide all needed teachers as well as fellowships for the
training of Comorian health educators. The Government has provided
assurances that the school would be staffed with qualified personnel.
Monitoring of Education Policy
3.18    To assist in improving the quality, efficiency and relevance of
the Comorian education and training system, the Bank Group would establish
a regular dialogue with the appropriate Government agencies including a
system to monitor progress on changes in education policy. In this
respect, agreement has been reached with the Government on (a) steps to
be taken by the Government to control the growth of education expenditures
(paras. 2.31 - 2.32); and (b) ways and means of measuring the achievement



-18-
of educational objectives (para. 5.03). The Government has also provided
assurances that (a) two qualified Comorians would be assigned to the MEN
education planning unit by not later than October 1, 1982 and they would
coordinate education planning with the Ministry of Finance (para. 2.03);
(b) the Government would review its provisions of scholarships for higher
education students and by not later than December 1, 1982 (i) establish a
specific policy for such provision based on essential manpower needs,
particularly in the areas of agriculture, health, public administration
and accounting, and (ii) establish contractual arrangements acceptable to
the Bank Group to ensure the return of graduates to the Comoros; (c) by
not later than October 1, 1983, the Government would establish a fund to
replace primary school textbooks and educational materials; and (d) on an
annual basis starting about one year from the signing of the Development
Credit Agreement and until completion of the Project, the Government would
review with the Bank Group the accomplishments and proposals for future
action to control the growth of education expenditures (paras. 2.31 -
2.32).
Female Participation in the Education System
3.19    Female participation in the education system has increased rapidly
over the past 10 years and is now equivalent to 42% of primary enrollment
and 39% at the secondary level. However, girls are still slightly more
likely than boys to drop out of school. The project therefore should help
to continue the improvement in girls participation at the primary level.
The teaching training school normally has about 50% female enrollment and
the health school has 80-90% female enrollment. While at present all
agricultural extension workers are male, the new center would have provi-
sions for enrollment of a small number of girls.
Summary of Technical Assistance
3.20    The project would provide seven man-years of fellowship training
for teacher trainers and three man-years of fellowship training for
agricultural educators (paras. 3.14-3.17). UNDP/Unesco, FAC, WHO, and
AfDB would provide essential complementary technical assistance (paras.
2.36-2.38, 3.04, 3,14 and 3.17).  For project administration, specialists
services consisting of three man-years for an architect, two man-years for
an equipment specialist, and three man-months for a textbook specialist
are included (para. 5.02).  All specialists would have qualifications and
experience and be employed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank Group. By June 30, 1982, the Government would prepare a plan accept-
able to the Bank for providing overseas fellowships to teachers at the
agricultural training center and the teacher training school (paras. 3.04
and 3.14). Fellowship candidates, type of training, and participating
institutions would be acceptable to the Bank Group. Specialists would be
selected in accordance with Bank Group guidelines.



-19-
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCIAL PLAN
Project Cost
4.01    The total cost of the project is estimated at US$6.5 million
equivalent. Taxes are negligible since all items imported specifically for
the project would be exempt from customs duties and taxes. The estimated
costs and foreign exchange components by project items and category are
given in Annex 1, T-6, and T-7 respectively and are summarized below:
Francs CFA (Millions)       US$ (Millions)         X of
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Base Cost
Civil Works, Furniture,
Equipment and Vehicles
(a)  Primary Teacher             142.60   193.20  335.80   0.62   0.84    1.46          30
Training
(b)  Agricultural Training        32.20    59.80   92.00   0.14   0.26    0.40           8
(c)  Health Training              94.30   142.60  236.90   0.41   0.62    1.03          21
Sub-Total (1)             269.10   395.60  664.70   1.17   1.72    2.89          59
2.  Textbooks and Teaching            13.80   117.30  131.10   0.06   0.51    0.57          12
Materials for Primary
School Students
3.  In-service Training of            11.50    34.50   46.00   0.05   0.15    0.20           4
Primary School Teachers
4.  Technical Assistance              13.80   128.80  142.60   0.06   0.56    0.62          13
5.  Professional Services             11.50    50.60   62.10   0.05   0.22    0.27           5
6.  Project Administration            32.20    41.40   73.60   0.14   0.18    0.32           7
Total Base Cost (1-6)    351.90   768.20 1120.10   1.53   3.34    4.87           100%
(Oct. 1981)
7. Contingencies
(a)    Physical Increase (7%)   29.90    52.90   82.80   0.13   0.23    0.36
(b)    Price Increase (24%)       96.60   195.50  292.10   0.42   0.85    1.27
Sub Total (7)            126.50   248.40  374.90   0.55   1.08    1.63
Total Project Cost
(1-9)                    478.40  1016.60 1495.00   2.08   4.42    6.50



4.02    Cost estimates for civil works, furniture and printing materials
are based on recent corntracts awarded by the Ministry of Works and other
Government agencies and on- a review of civil works recently undertaken by
locally established contractors. Equipment and vehicle costs are based on
international prices adjusted for transportation to the Comoros islands.
Costs of textbooks are based on a preliminary list prepared by the Govern-
ment as well as official publlshers prices. The October, 1981 base
construction cost is estimated at US$350 per square meter for the three                  A
schools to be financed under the project. This cost compares well with
costs for similar facilities in Malawi, US$390 (1981); Kenya, US$330-400
(1981); and Tanzania, US$325 (.1979). The base cost per student place for
academic and communal facilities is estimated at US$2,900 for the teacher
training school, and US$1,400 for the agricultural school, not including
existing facilities. The cost Der student place for the health school, at
US$8,800, is relativeiy high due to the specialized training involved and
lack of available facilities in the adjoining hospital which would nor-
mally be jointly used. Schedules of accommodation are functional and
appropriate for the educational objectives of the project institutions.
Total project costs do not include the US$200,000 equivalent estimated
value of existing unused facilities on the site of the proposed teacher
training school in AnJouan. These facilities, originally constructed as a
community center, consist of about 840 m2 of classrooms and offices most
of them without adequate roofs, doors, and windows.  Project costs also
do not include the estimated US$200,000 value of community center
facilities in the town of Wanani in Moheli, which are partially occupied
by local administrative officials and which will be vacated and converted
into classrooms and administrative space for the proposed agricultural
training center.
4.03    The technical assistance component (para. 3.20), consisting of
about 63 man-months of expatriate specialist services, is estimated at an
average cost of US$7,500 per month, which includes salaries, housing,
travel and allowances. The average cost of fellowships is estimated at
US$15,000 per year. Professional services (para. 5.04) equivalent to
about 55 man-months of architectural and engineering services are
estimated at an average rate of US$5,500 per man-month based on 12% of
construction costs, which include salaries, fees and overhead.
4.04    Contingencies Allowances.  For physical increases, 10% has been
added to the base costs of civil works and professional services and 5%
has been added to base costs for all other items. Estimated price
increases, from the base cost date (October, 1981), have been applied in
accordance with the implementation schedule (Annex 1, C-3) at the follow-
ing annual rates:
iS98             1982           1983/86
Foreign           9.0%             8.5%             7.5%
Local            10.0%            10.0%             10.0%



-21-
The estimated price increases for construction are based on recent trends
and forecasts by the Ministry of Works and private contractors based in
the Comoros. These rates have been reviewed by Bank Group staff and found
appropriate.
4.05    Foreign exchange component.  The foreign exchange component has
been calculated as follows: (a) civil works, 55%; (b) furniture, 45%;
(c) equipment, vehicles, textbooks, and teaching materials, 90%; (d)
in-service training, 65%; (e) technical assistance, 90%; (f) professional
services, 80%; and (g) project administration, 55%. Including contingen-
cies, the foreign exchange component is estimated at US$4.4 million equiv-
alent or 68% of the total project cost.
Financial Plan
4.06    An IDA Credit of SDR 5.3 million (US$6.0 million equivalent) would
represent 92% of the total cost of the project. The Credit would finance
the foreign exchange costs and 76% of local costs. The Government con-
tribution would include US$350,000 for civil works as well as US$150,000
equivalent for salaries of project unit personnel. Existing facilities on
the sites of the teacher training school and the agricultural training
school, valued at about US400,000, would be converted to classrooms and
offices. The overall financing plan, not including the value of these
facilities, would be as follows:
US$ Million Equivalent
Government      IDA      Total
1.  Civil Works                        0.35          1.89      2.24
2. Furniture, Equipment,
and Vehicles                        -            0.65      0.65
3. Textbooks and Teaching
materials                           -            0.57      0.57
4.  Technical Assistance                -            0.62      0.62
5.  Professional Services               -            0.27       0.27
6.  In-service Training                 -            0.20       0.20
7.  Project Administration             0.15          0.17       0.32
8.  Contingencies                       -            1.63       1.63
TOTAL              0.50          6.00     6.50



-22-
4.07    In any year during project implementation, the maximum Government
counterpart contribution would be about US$150,000 equivalent. Incremen-
tal recurrent costs generated by the institutions included in the project
are estimated at US$170,000 equivalent per year or 2% of the education
budget in 1987. The continuation of in-service teacher training and
textbook provision would result in additional recurrent costs of about
US$160,000 equivalent per annum or an additional 2% of the budget.
4.08    Project Preparation Facility (PPF).  A PPF of US$205,000 was
approved in February 5, 1981 for preliminary architectural design work,
minor construction for a project unit office, including miscellaneous
equipment, and initial costs of technical assistance specialists. The
cost of this PPF is included in the cost of the project.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING
Implementation
5.01    The project would be implemented over a period of five years and
is expected to be completed by December 31, 1986 with a closing date of
June 30, 1987, which includes six months for the completion of payments
and withdrawals (Annex 1, C-3). This implementation period is realistic
and takes into consideration the start-up period required to implement a
first project. The Government is utilizing the PPF funds to accelerate
implementation. In addition, the in-service training program has already
begun on an experimental basis.
5.02    Administration.  The proposed project would be administered by the
Education Projects Implementation Unit (BEPE) of the MEN. This office,
to be responsible for the implementation of the projects financed by AfDB
and the Bank Group, has already begun operations but its establishment by
official decree would be a condition of credit effectiveness. The Minis-
tries of Health and Production would appoint qualified officials respon-
sible for ensuring implementation of aspects of the Project related to
their respective ministries and for coordinating operations with the BEPE.
The professional staff of the BEPE would include a full-time Comorian
director, an accountant, and two draftsmen. The expatriate technical
assistance specialists financed under the proposed project would include
an architect (three man-years), an equipment specialist (two man-years),
and a textbook specialist (three man-months) (para. 3.20). The project
director, the accountant and the specialists would have qualifications
satisfactory to the Bank Group. The INE would implement the in-service
training and textbook production components but would report to the Bank
Group through the BEPE. The proposed project includes the cost of two
vehicles as well as incremental operating costs of the BEPE. The BEPE
would maintain separate accounts for implementation of the proposed
project. The Government has already selected a director of the BEPE
who is acceptable to the Bank Group.



-23-
5.03    Reporting and Evaluation.  Progress reports on implementation
would be submitted to the Bank Group by the BEPE on a semi-annual basis
within two months after each period following a mutually agreed upon
format. The Ministries of Health and Production would submit semi-annual
reports to the BEPE on educational aspects of the project to be incor-
porated in the BEPE Report. Not later than six months after the Credit
Closing Date, the Government would provide the Bank Group with a report
evaluating the execution, initial operations, costs and benefits of the
project, and the performance of the Government and the Bank Group, includ-
ing lessons learned during project implementation. The education research
unit of the INE would assist in evaluating education aspects of the
project in accordance with the objectives and measurements proposed in
Annex 2, which were discussed and agreed upon with the Government during
negotiations. An amount of US$25,000 equivalent is included under the
project administration category to assist the Government in carrying out
project evaluation.
5.04    Professional Services  (architectural/engineering).  For prepara-
tion of designs, construction documents, and supervision of construction,
consultants would be selected and appointed on terms and conditions
mutually agreeable to the Government and the Bank Group. A satisfactory
locally established firm has already been selected for this work which is
initially being financed under the PPF (para. 4.08), and sketch designs
are under preparation.
5.05    Site Selection. Satisfactory sites of the agricultural and teacher
training schools have been selected on Government-owned property. Three
alternative sites, both acceptable to the Bank Group and both Government
owned, are under consideration for the health training school. By not
later than March 31, 1982, the Government would advise the Bank Group of
its final selection.
Procurement
5.06    Contracts for civil works, furniture, equipment, and vehicles
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in
accordance with the Bank Group's guidelines for procurement, except for
contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each. Such contracts
would be awarded following competitive bidding advertised locally and in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank Group. The aggregate
cost of these contracts would not exceed US$400,000 equivalent includng
contingencies. Because of copyright considerations, contracts for
imported textbooks, estimated at US$600,000 equivalent including contin-
gencies, would be negotiated directly with the publishers. Contracts
expected to be awarded by ICB consisting of civil works, furniture, equip-
ment and vehicles are estimated at US$4.0 million equivalent.



-24$
5.07    SkacT  designs5 draft tender documents, and master lists of furni-
ture, eqipmeflC-, vehicles, and textbooks, including proposed grouping,
would 'De r-eview,ed by the Bank Group.  Items would be grouped to the extent
practicable to perm-Lt buk procurement.  Review of tender evaluation
documents by the Zar.k Group prior to award would not be required for civil
works, fur.iture, equiTiment, and vehicles contracts costing less than
US$5,>00C             each.
5.08    Wheh  !CB proc dures are used, (a) domestic manufacturers would be
allowed a pre4erence of 15%. or the existing applicable rate of import
duties3 -Yhi.cheear i-s lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing foreign
s-ppl-ierS; and OD) quall.fied domestic civil works contractors would be
allowed a preferentLal margin of 7-1/2% over the bid prices of competing
foreign contractors5
5.0     The Construction Industry. About six locally established construc-
tion firms are active in the Comoros and have the capacity to implement
the construction components. Competition among the locally established
firms ise keen ar.nd as a result prices are competitive (para. 4.02).  For-
eign fir ms nor already established in the Comoros are not expected to be
interested because of the small size of contracts and the remote location
of the Comoros rslands,
Disbur sement
5.10    Disbursement (.Annex 1, T-8) would be on the basis of (a) 85% of
civil works (b) 100% of furniture, equipment, books, vehicles, fellow-
ships, professional services, technical assistance, and in-service train-
ing; and Cc) 100% of the operating costs of project administration,
excluding salaries of 1local personnel, which would be covered by the
Government. Disbursements for local expenditures for project administra-
tion and for in-service teacher training (estimated at US$260,000) would
be made aga>1Lst statements of expenditure, documentation for which would
not be submitted f or review, but retained by the Borrower and made avail-
able for inspectLon by the Bank Group during the course of project super-
Vision missions. The Bank Group would review the qualifications and
experience of the project accountant (para. 5.02) and would discuss the
establishirient and maintenance of adequate records.  Based on experience
witb osther projects fin.anced by the Bank Group in the Comoros, as well as
on the q-alifications of proposed project personnel, the BEPE is expected
to have satisfactory 4-nstitutional capacity to use the statement of expen-
d7itures oroceaure.
l         ~      ;- evolv.ng Fand. A revolving fund would be established to cover
the ope-rat"'.-g costs of the in-service training program and of administra-
tion acti-4t-'es of the BEPE.  The fund would be established  with an
I.Titial daposi. by the Bank Group of US$50,000, covering about six months
of oroiect operation. The project unit would request reimbursement for
expeinditures iP.curred after about one half of the revolving fund has been
disbu'sedt  and this procedure would continue throughout the life of the
proposed project, As a condition of Credit effectiveness, the Government
wouid open aspecial account for the project revolving fund.



-25-
Auditing
5.12    Annual auditing would be required for all expenditures financed
under the project, in particular for those expenditures reimbursed under
statements of expenditure. About US$25,000 equivalent would be included
under project administration to finance auditing to be performed by inde-
pendent auditors acceptable to the Bank Group applying satisfactory audit-
ing procedures. Auditing reports would be submitted to the Bank Group
for review within six months following the end of each fiscal year.
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
6.01    The project would support the Government's policy of improving the
quality, efficiency, and relevance of primary education. Specifically,
the project would enable the Government to train and upgrade primary
school teachers and provide essential textbooks, workbooks, teachers
guides and reference books. The long-term effects of this assistance
would be reduced dropout and repetition and improved learning at the
primary level. As reported by studies in other countries, improvement in
primary education could result in greater agricultural productivity and
over the long-term assist in reducing population growth.
6.02    The project would also assist in providing health and agricultural
manpower essential for economic and social development. The proposed
para-medical school to be financed under the project would train about 275
lower level personnel and 175 middle level personnel through 1990. With
complementary inputs of improved management of the health sector and
provision of essential drugs, the output of the school would help to
improve the present extremely poor health conditions in the Comoros
Islands.  Through 1990, the proposed agricultural training center would
train 180 agricultural extension agents who would work in CADERS, special
agriculture projects, and research, fisheries, forestry, and livestock
programs, thus providing the manpower essential for expanded production of
basic foodstuffs and expanded agricultural exports.
Risks
6.03    No major risks are foreseen.  The risk of inadequate project
management is judged low since the Government has already selected a
project director and since adequate technical assistance would be
provided. The establishment of a revolving fund (para. 5.11) would help
to ensure timely provision of funds.



-26-
6.04    The main risk to achieving the long-term goals of the Project is
related to the high cost of education and the Government's limited finan-
cial resources. To reduce the risk of inadequate Government financing,
agreement has been reached that the Government and the Bank Group would
jointly review educational expenditures and agree on steps to be taken to
maintain expenditures within reasonable limits (para. 3.18). Also the
Government would establish a small planning unit within the MEN to assist
in making the educational system appropriate to the Comoros Islands (para.
3.18).) A Bank-Group executed UNDP-financed project to strengthen economic
planning in the Ministry of Finance should also assist in this respect
(para. 1.07).
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01    The Government and the Bank Group agreed on: (a) steps to be taken
by the Government to control the growth of education expenditures (para.
2.32); and (b) ways and means of measuring the achievement of project
educational objectives (para. 5.03 and Annex 2.).
7.02    The Government provided assurances on: (a) staffing of project
schools with qualified personnel (paras. 3.04, 3.14, and 3,17; (b) staff-
ing of an educational planning unit in MEN (Para. 3.18); (c) establishment
of a new policy for provision of higher education scholarships (para.
3.18); (d) an annual review with the Bank Group of actions, taken and
proposed, to control the growth of education expenditures (para. 3.18);
(e) establishment of a fund to finance replacement of primary school
textbooks and teaching materials (para. 3.18); (f) preparation of a plan
to provide overseas fellowships to future teachers at the agricultural
training center and the teacher training school (para. 3.20); (g) prepara-
tion of a project completion report (para. 5.03); (h) selection of a site
for the health training school (para. 5.05); and (i) preparation of an
annual audit report of project expenditures (para. 5.12).
7.03    As conditions of Credit effectiveness, the Government would:  (a)
establish by official decree the BEPE (para. 5.02); and (b) open a special
account for the revolving fund (para. 5.11).
7.04    Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project constitutes
a suitable basis for a Credit of SDR 5.3 million (US$6.0 million equiv-
alent) on standard IDA terms to the Federal Islamic Republic of the Com-
oros.



:27. 
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS
............................                              AM=I
?able 1
Peg. 1 af 2
SEPTEMIBER 30, 1981
*  .     .          .~~~CENTRAL'                                                        
*  .     .         . sour. :                 :         .GOVT.                                                    I        I
ONP/ :          IEXP. 0N:                           I       I           PRI. :.RECURRENT:            1         SEC. 
:CAPITA:           :EDU. AS: EDUCATIOIN   :LITER- I PRI. :COMPLE- :STU- :UNIT COSTI.PROGRESS-I  SEC. 'STU- INHBIHERI
*       AT  :          IX TTL, :IRECURRENT    'ACY        IENR0LL:TIGN       IDENTSIPRIM. EO.IIDN RATE IENROLLODENTSIENROLL:
:MARKETI' 0 GNP  :CENTRAL:EXP ALLOCATED:  RATE 'RATIO :RATE POR:PER  :AS 1 GNP/:FROM PRI. IRATID  PER    RATIO 
POP. IPRIrEs- DEVOITED: GOVT. I          TO:       1(0 OP  ' NET  IPRI.6C9. ITEACH: CAPITA  ITO SEC.  IMET   TEACN- GROSS:
YR:MILLS.:  (U.,B); TO EDU.: EXP.  IPRI. SEC. HI.:ADULTS): (0)  ICCE()EZ::I)                                         'XER            z)
ADVANCED
AUSTRIA         74   7.59 7,520H   5.ID)    9.9K   24Y  51Y  15Y   99              99        93C      26       1D.7C      99C       SiC     19C   16.95?
CANADA          78  23.5  8.670       8.1       4.3K   25   39   23    99         100       100       21       17.6      100        92      18     22.00
GERMANY F.REP.75   61.3 10,300        4.80      8.4L........    99                ...       1D0                          100..  o   94      226    12.00?
JAPAN           75 114.9H 7,700H   4.30W    ...    40U? 37UY 11UT   99             990       998      25       ...        996       950T    20B   24.69Y
NETHERLANDS   78  13.9  9,200          9.3     13.SL   20   35   24        99       96       93        19      17.8        99       92       13     12.00
NEW ZEALAND   73   3.29 5,530H   5.2W   13,8K    39   24   29              99       99       99       26       19.4        99       67      19      24.00
NORWAT          76   4.09 9.560        7.2      9.30   54   24-  15        99       99       99        16      15.8        99E      62      11      11.00
SWEDEN          78   8.3 10,540        S.BFW  10.11L  37   11   10         99       99      100       lAP      22.7      100        79      13F   30.00B
U.K.            78  56.0  4,5960    5.6         2.6K   26   39   22        99       99       100      24       12.1      100        65      17      20.6
U.S.A.          78 218,5  9,770.   7.1          2.9K    ...  5789 18       99       98       99       220      ...        99        97      190   41.00
EUROPE
GREECE          76   9.49 4,35DH   2.6W    10.6H   37   26   21            86A    99         82C      31        6.2?    70D         80      27      15.00
IRELAND         74   3.29 3.9109    5.IW    ...         43Y  41Y  14Y   98    1085?          990      35       ...       95A        65XY   19      15.47?
P'ORTUGAL       77   9.89 1.9409    3.6W   1O.7E   41   21.  15            713     92        608      19        7.8?    758         35      12       5.00
ROMANIA         75  21.99 1.650H   4.0          1.9K    16   19   13       98     1010       ...      21       ...       98         49      22     1D.00
SPAIN           74  37.19 3.9609    2.4A    8.0K   49?Y  22Y  15?.   909    1150?            ..        58      ...       ...        78XY   30      17.68Y
APRI CA,
ALGERIA         79 18.2    1,450H   7.1W         .      34K  26K  21K   35H   94XK           45K?     37K      11.9      52K?       33K?   37K    5.00KX
BENIN           74   3.39  2219       7.2NW             470, 230  100    11p   441?          708      53?      48.2A     438        110?    398      0.74?
BOTSWANA        79   0.8   720         6.7      19.3   48   28    15   35         94         74       32,      22.0      33         20      18       1.50
BURUNBiI        79   4.0    180        2.BL     20.68  44>  33L  22L   25    218             34       35       11.0      17          2.5X  17         0.9
CAMEROON        76   8.14  4904       3,7W      13.6K  33   43   20        ...   60          45       52       11.8      20          9D     24       0.90CY
C.A.F<.         74   1.99  2709       3.OCW    ...    56B'  198  ......,    791Y             25       69?      21.5A     18          80?    278)'   0.21?
CHAD            71   4.39  1509       3.0W      13.5F  70   22    ...   15    2908?          30       658Y   ...          8          2K8?  30        0.018?
COMOROS         SI   0.4   260K        6.5      25.4L  40   28   14        201    199X       65       45       16:0      58         21      30       1.4
CORGOCA)        74   1.14  5009        6.0W     ...     40   32   21       50?    1330       63       63       13.3A     48         331     22       3.40
EGYPT           78  38.7   400         1.1      10.39   30   3S   26   440         73        80       30?      ...       82         49      17?    15.00
ETHIOPIA        79  31.0    130        2.21     11.50....... 15                    38        ,..      59        ...      ...         9      41
GABON           74   0.69 3,370H   5.0DW    ...         250    95  110    ...   100?         25C      46C       4.7?7    1SA        31?     21C   0.29?
GAMBIA          76   0.614  1809      3.3W       6.59  46   25    6        10      27        90       33      44.7       92         13      25
GHANA           74  11.09   1800       ...      15.0K  43Y  22?  20Y0 ..           605?      628      30Y      ...       149        3510    tACT   1.09? -
*GUINEA           76   5.19  2609       4.19NQ    ...    30   11   30        .,      300       64       45      31.1?      06         131     26      4.00.
IVORY COAST   76   7.89  950H    6.8W           .       33   46   13        99     50        86       43      19.7       47         17XY   26       1.64?
KENYA           79  15.3   380         5.9W     17.9K  71   11   14    45          92        74       40       15.8      41         19      28       1.0
LESOTHO         79   1.1      140      4.1      21.30, 41   291  20        52      68        32       49        8.0      61         12      23      0.90
LIBERIA         77   1.79    4619    3.1W   11.9L   20    13   26    30            510       -.       54      27.9?      76         240     16
MAIiAGASCAR     77   8.09    2109    4.0W    15.3C   51   28   19          50      90        33       44        ...      33         14      23       17
MALAWI          79   5.9      201     2.2HW    8.7K   40   23   23    251          59        179      62N      10.00     50E         60     21       ..
MALI            71   6.39    1109    4,2MW  21.7K   45E  37E  iRE    I   ~223E                .,      491E        .      50E0        65Y   21
MAURITANIA      71   1.19    2709    4.1?W  10.4K              .106                170? .Y            22        .,        ,.                24A
MAURYTIUS       76   0.99    9209H   4.7W    17.5K   5        26     6     86       94       99       24       19.5?      9         41      32       1.50
MORO Cco        05  1.5       74 0     6.1W    17.5K   36   44   20    28           72X      35       39       19.7      40         25X    21        4.50
NIGER           7    5.09    2409    2.80    23.10    52   43    5          8       17       50       39       38.7      35          2      24
NIGERlA         74  80.69    6009    4,1CY   960    23?  16?  42?Y          .       49XY                                                             ;: 4C  .. ..  0?  0?y.8
RWANDA          80    .0      400      3.2     290.7    62   17   it       2        466      62       40?      140         6                 1       0.48
SENEGAL         77   5.49    3629    5.0       1B,9E    46   34   20       10       32       ...      49       21.68     20         10      21       1.
SIERRA LEOINE  71   3.39    2309    3.4W   06.0 1H    1   361  30          15'     34X       45       32       13.7C     68         130     21       0.530?
SOMALI A        70   3,79    1809    2.0W    9.19H   55   10   21          50       44       ...      32        20.4     40             5   15        1,00
SUDAN           76  17.49    3409?  458          .2     48   36   16    20          34       74       33       46.78     33         14      24       1.24
SWAZILANU       78    059    000    6.1le   21.40    37   33   23          61       920      49       37        7,7      66         321     20       2.000
TANZANIA        78171         230      6.89W9  11.3K   43   19   10    66?          96       8I8F11                        9         4      20U      0.38
TOGO            77   2.49    3209    5.5W    11.71    30   28   21         18       74       40       58       11.30     52          -      44       2.00
TUNISIA         79   6.4  1,20         9.8     16.9     41D  36[t 20    62        100X       80.      39D      12.8      30         30I   30A    6.00
UGANDA          71  12.49 12809H'  3.4C         ..      340  400  220?  25A        535       ..       34?       ,,       148         608   218       0.06Y
UPPFER VOLTA   77   5.69    109    3.4         1.4K    31    16   32        S        3       23        1       521.S?    19          2      25       1.0
ZAIRE           76  26.89    2409', 6.06        ...     49   26   25       15       860      44       420      20.08     45         110     27       5.000
ZAMBI A         80  5.7       566      5.6     11.11-  48   23.  22        44       95       80       48       12.9      19         16      22       1.50
CENTRAL AMERICA 590i THE CARIBBEAN
BAHAMASS        7?   0.2  2:780        6.59   '23.1K   36   36   11        93       99X      97        24       ...         7       71       1?,     ..
BARBAEDO        76   0.2  2.0809    8.1W   21.7K   43   31   16            99      1061      99       21       19.9F       99?      940     17
COSTA RIC       s0   2.2   1,010       8.4     38.1     40   27   33    90          93       77        33       5,5        77       40       27     14.00
CUBA            70   9 7  1.00         8.0          ..96                            98       98        22       ..         98       65       15     11.0
DOMIHNOCAN REI' 72   5.19    9009    1.0       11.0F   42   24'  22    51           80       17        54       4.58       63       14       24      7.00
ELP SALVAGOR    77   4.3      6409    4.0      19:3L   64       8   27    62        880      32        19       ...        41       21       21      7.00
GUATEMALA.      71   6.69   9309    1.9        12.6K   55   23   14    47           64       26        35       .. .       69         8      25      4.09?
HA ITI          76   4.89H 2409    1.0                  61   21   1,1    230        25F      13        560U     8.6        61         4      ..       .7
HO NDURAS       70   3.4      4810    4.2F   17.8K   62F  15F  19?F   60E           78       30        35      12.8??      68       11       1       4.00
JAMAICA         50   2.2  1. 240 K   6.5       18.40    37   43   20       90       98       98       40        2.1        95       81       22      8.00
ME XICo         80   67.4 1.81         5.0     18.70    46   39   15       92       98       53        44       9.5        86       5 6      17     50,30
MI CARAGOB      78   2.1      660      3.0"W    16.9?    610  130  130   90L        61       24        44       7.30       935,       4L     37      7.000,
PANAMA          783   1.   126 0       5.4     12.7K   420  130  13    750          97       820       320     11.6        856      49       140    20.00
TR INIDiAD I T. 77   1.19 3,5019H   4,5        11.7K    48   32   20       95       99       911       30      10.5?       49       62       24      ..
SOUTH AMERICA
ARGENTINA       78  26.7H 1,910O    4.4W    383K    430  31?  190    93             89       52        17       ...        87       31        8     23.00
BOLIVIA         76   5.39    511       5.6      05K.        .     .        42L      90       29C       24       ..          ..        4      18
BRAZIL          75 19.59 15108    2.8GW          .K     402022              4        8        .        278?     ..         ..        6        10      .O
CHILE           75  10.791 14709    3.9R9  13.09    23Y  10?  509    ,..           11X?       .        35?      8.9?A      ...      485)'   ...   16.55?
COLPMBIAl       74  25.69    9009H   33CY    ...        44C? 22b?Y 11?    79C    1050?       20        339  .  1.OA        90       36X?    144      6.67?
ECUAD OR        80    8.4  1.369P   6.0?         ..:.    45   31   164    81       105       48        36      12.6        86       47       16      20.70
GUYAN A         74   0.89    5609   5.BN    1.9          47   35   14    036        92X      39        33      19.90       19       62X    24        1.00
PARA80UA?       79   3.0      9209    1.4      12.6K    42   17   20    04          32       32        29       3.iR       75       22       12      7.00
PER U           75  16.89    6809    4.2CY  11.1L   40?  22?  15Y   '72    1110?             39        39CY   I1.OA        70       480?    23CY  14.41?
URUGUAY         75   2.99H 1, 7909    2,5       9.4K   46   34   20    i94          93K       .        24      12.3E       83        ..      1
VNZUL         73  14.09 2,B509 H       6     19.98   300  289  350   ,77A        91        ..        3        ..        ..        3       .,     126C



-28-
CIIMPARATIIJE EDUCAT'ION INDICATORS (CONTOI
............................                             ~~~~~ANNEX I
Table I.
SEPTEMBER 30, 1981                                                    Page 2 of 2
*  .  '  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                I           I
*  ,      .          ~~~~~~~~~~CENTRAL:.:                         I          I      I            :           I:
*  ,      ,         ~~~~~~~~~: GOVT.:  :            :.             
*  .ONP/ I            IEXP. ON. X OP PUBLIC 1                                    FRI * : RECURREN T:          :         S(EE
ICAP TTA?         tEOU, AS. EDtUCATION    IL.TER- I P5(1. t CIMFPLE-- STU- :UNTT COST1PRDSR'ESS'4: SEC.  STU--   HIUIIEIUt
* ,AT I    :    I/  TTL. IRECURKRENT'   :8119              E NROLLI TION      IIDENTO:PRIM. E1. 1.'1ON K'AEIE RL.fETIN LL
(MARKET: % ONFP  ICENTRALIEXP ALLOCATED?   RATE IRATIO I RATE: FORI PER'  tAG  I SNP/: FROM P8:1. IRATEDI E9R,   RATIO
P0P. I PRICES: DEVOTED: GOVT.I            TOI       I(% OF  I NEIT  1P9? .SCH.lITEAC;HI CAPITA   11T1 SEC.  I NETI  :TEACH9  GR0OSS1
YIIIMILLS.,  1US$): TI) EDU.4 EXF'.  (PR::  SEC. HI, tAD5A.TS: IFY)   CYCLE(Z)KER    I                        X           1%)  HER    I 
LI : 2) I   3)         141 I         I)        I   61   1~ 17)       (B     1  9  (9)   111       1  i      I. (121   II 3)  :1.14)
A 5 I A AND' DILAII 1
AFGHANISIAN    77   14.69   161)9    1.13       ..        47   1 9    10.     1 2    2911       69        37      1 3.a      62.,         ex     17      I,1)(
0891G. AI'EIiI   79  92. 9M   9PO       1 .LP   14. 9C    01    1?    20      2211   71.1       . ..      53        6.29,    . I .       1411    23       1. .42
CH)NO            7'9 971. 0    256      3.15     6.6      34    36   311    66       93         64        27       8.0       83         El'11     19      2.81)
1 NEI]          75 643.9H1  1809        2. 6Y    1 .9K....... 298    60XY                       ..,.      43A      .,         .         291Y   20)8Y   2,341 Y
191.1191 818    7 41 3 16 . 09   340    2.4W    ...       260  3213  1513   6 2      92         455       32      ,,.        7)         1.9      1 7      2,111
IRAN            73  30.89       12.2H 3,3W   12,2H        5005   11.153  1211   00   77         74A                          5108.B(    24       321      4,32C1:
ITRA Il         70'  1 2,2 H E 1.51)9    6. 7CW   ...     ....... 2612   91111                  ....2.                                  30~19 x  261       1, 47Y
.JORDIAN         795   2,2. 21I1801     6,13     10,89    19   44    18E    70(    978           5        3          .        94         60      21      1 4.00
K1188A           78  36,.6   1, 310     2.1BW    1 6 .5K    30    29    36    93     10211      94        49        8. 60    91         60       405    11B.00(
L EBANON         72    3.09PI...        3,0W    ...       39   40    10    651    86            65        19      7923       63         260.    20      23 . 00
MALAYSI A        7 6  1 539 3  1.,I 009    6.75W   21.71K   42   34    10F    6051   90         93        7'        6 61D    711        45       213      3 .00
N EPFA L         El0  14,.3    140      1 * 1 WF   9. 9   299   209   419    19F   099          255       31F     ...         649       1 49     2 49     0 .1F
1)M8N            72    .131H 2, 790)9    1. 7NW    0,1IK    96   -.           20     2411       99        27F9 2"'  0 ?       ...       0,4X      9      ..
FAKIS) AN       79~ 79,0    270         2.0      2.5K   39    26    27        24     06X1i                451       6_5       . ...     2011     17       6,005:
P89P)A 8,0.      7 5    2. 99   6209    5. 4LW   17,0OK   351   16    24      32     07?        731,      31     2'[R 0?     90          1.21?   24       0. 90"
PH131 L,IPFYlI N E)   79  46, 8    600  2.13W    10, .7K    64   36***        711     84        65        31,        .0      89         05       3 6    2:1, ,00
SINGAPORE        74    2,39  3,26011   2.7YW   14.98    39Y  39Y  179    728    10911           72        319       / 48     998A       44119    24       7.611Y
SYRi A           78i   7.9'   9609      4.4      6. 39    39   20    26    05         8911      10        30        7.7K     613         401X    2.1     12,.60
T HA ILtA NDE    7 7    44. 5  0510     4.OVW    19.9K   0 5   30     10      514F   133        30        3 5      1ID. 0 C  7 0        28B      2 5      3,00O
ITURK K9Y        7 3  43.I1H13  25014   5 ,609W   10. 6K   ...    ,,...              105Y                 349       7.28 4              249      27119    t 5,81.
YE MEN          73    5 .69   4:109i    0 0rW    10.51K   405   35:'  23P    10      101        151       36      1 9. 3     75.211              19       0,:0519B
YEME'N 9.11.R.  76    1.49   45109      6.6W      . ..    57   28    13    40K    8911          40        30      1.11,6     94         2111     24       0,10(
SUMMARY F(I8 [EIVEL-OPIRI COUNTRIES:
8114811 IF: COUNTRI 15:                10:3     82       139   90    90     9 4     10(1       51.       1 I01   71.        85       1I 9O      9 I    137
KI N d:                              (11.0-  11.9.'-    1:10  151   (3-    II5-    1 13-     131:-      11 6-    1:. 1     13-        14-    B11-    1J.0-
9. 9 130.0)    96 173)   101    99)    13311)   99 I3             69 152.  1    991             95       45)   41.0) 
QUARTILES:ULIPPER  1                5. 6     17. 5     49   35I   22      516    98         91.       4 2      9          9.1        48      2!5    51.0 
M V0IDANI               4,.2     13. 0    42   26    18a    60    512.          65        34       1 3        651        24      22       3. 4
LDWER'                  3. 0      9. 9    34   21    13       25     0 6        33        29      20         41         11I      18R      1.0
S Y M ,(JLS ... , DATUM UNAVAILABLE             8=1971 OR BEFORE.             N=CUrRFE:NT PRICES                         SOUJRCES:
-MAGNITUDE NIL. OR NEI)LIGI8LE B-=1972                           P=GDP
O ILESTIONASJLE                     C3=1973                      O=-INCLUDING FOREIGN AID                    COLUMNS: 1 AND, 2 WORLD BANK ATLAS
*INCLUDES PART-TIME STUDiENTS D=1974                             R=CENTRAL GOVT. ONLY                                            OR' IR80 MISSIOINS
KBCOMBINED WITH PRIMARY             E=1975)                      S=MINISTRY 09 EDUCATIOIN (MOE) ONL.Y                  3 TO 14 EB80 MISSIONS
**COMBINED WITH HIGHER               F=1976                       T=MOE AND ST'ATE GOVT. ONLY                                     AND/OR UNESCO
8=1977                       U=EX1CLUDING CENTRAL GO0VT.                                     STATISTICAL.
9=19751                      V=INCLUDINO  PRIVATE EXPENDITURE                                YEARBOOIK
K=1979                       W=PUIBLIC EXIPENDITUIRE ONLY
L.=1950                      X1=INCLUDIING OVERAGEDt STUDEENTS
8=19n1                       Y=UNESCD  SOURCES
CDMFARATIVE EDUCATION DATA ARE USEFUL. IN THE- EVALUATION OF VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS O9 RELATIVE STAGES OF EDUCATIONAL.
DEVELOPMENT BE'TWEEN VARIOUS COUJNTRIES. HOWEVER.ON THE BASIS OF THE PRESENT' DATA.CROSS-NATIDNAL COMPARISON SHOULD BE APPRO3ACHED, WIT1H
GREAiT CAUTION. DATA PRESENTEDt IN T'HE ABOVE TABLE HAVE BEEN COLLECTED LARGE-LY BY THAE BANK MISSIONS FROM GOVERNMENT SOURCES;, THE:
REMAINDER ARZE STAFF ESTIMATES OR DATA PROIM UNESCO. EFFORTS HAVE BEENM MADE TO STANDARDIlZE DEFINITIONS ANDI WITHIN LIMITS, TO) CHECK THE:
ACCUIRACY OF THiE DATA. NEVERTHELESS.GUCH DATA ARE STILL IMP'ERFECT' IN SEVERAL RESPECTS ANI' THE BANK IS WOIRKINGT TO IM PROVE THEM
PORESSIVELY ON THE OCCASION OF IT   OPRAIOALWOE.INTHESE OTHG DATA. THE FULLOW                                    BN OUALIFI CATEIONS  SHOULD BE BORNE IN
11)'EKDUCATION' AS DEFINED IN THE TABL-E INCLUDtES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING, FORMAL AND NON-FORMAtS;
12) 'PRIMARY EDUCATION REF-ERS TO EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND, 'SECONDARY' EDUCATION REFERS TO ALL. EDUCATION AT' THE SECONDARY
LEVEL REGARDLESS OF TYP.E (E.G. GENERAL, TECHNICAL. AGRICULTURAL)S
131'LITERACY RATES'(COL..6) ARE OFTEN OBTAINED FRO3M COUNTRY CENSUSES. SN MANY COUNTRIES THEY ARE ONLY APP'ROXIMAT'IONS AND IT Is
DOUBTFUL THAT ANY UNIFORM DIEFINITION OF 'LITERATE' HAS BEEN FOLLOWED CDNSISTENTLY;
141'PUIBLIC EXPENDITURE IN EDUCATION' (COL.S 4 AND 0) REFERS TO AL.L. CAFITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES DEVOTED TO EDUCATION ElY
P'USLIC AND 005181--PUBLIC AGENCIES;
101 'ENROLLiMENT RATIOS' ICOLS 7. 12 AND) 14) REFER TO SCHOOL. YEAR ANDi MEAN THE PERCENTAGE SF EIGIBDL.E CHILDtREN ENROLLED FUrL-TIME
IN THE APPFROPRIATE SCHOOL, PUBLIC ANDi PRIVATE BtY LEVEL.* THE7Y ARE: OFTEN SUBJECT TO A WIDtE MARGIN OP ERROR IN THiE DEVELOPING
COOUNTRIES OWING TO) VARIATION IN THE ACCURACY OF' BASIC DATAI1.E7. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS). ENROLLMENT FIGIIUREKI
FREOUENTLY ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN  SCHOOL. OVERAGED STUDIENTS WHOSE INCLUSIOIN IS INDICATED, BY
FOOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE THE RATIOS,



COMOROS
EDUCATION PROJECT
PRIMARY TEACHER REQUIREMENTS AND OUTPUT, 1980-90
Year      Enrollment   Pupil/Teacher   Teachers   No. of           No. of        Teacher   No, of add.   Output of   Output of
Ratio       Required   Trained        Untrained    Wastage   Teachers         Teacher       In-Service
in Post    Teachers    Teachers        (4%)       Needed in      Training    Training
Following      College
Year
1980-81   59600              45:1           1335        281          1064           53        83              30
1981-82   61400              45:1           1365        300          1065           55         97             90
1982-83   63300              45:1           1407        378          1029          56        107              90            100
1983-84   65600              45:1           1.458       553           905           58         93             90            100
1984-85   67200              45:1           1493        721           772           60         78             90            100
1985-86   68000              45:1           1511        882           629           60         69             90            100
1986-87   68400              45:1           1520       1036           484           61         77             90            100
1987-88   69100              45:1           1536       1184           352           61         81             90            100
1988-89   70000              45:1           1556       1326           230          62         88              90            100
1989-90   71200              45:1           1582       1463           119           63         94             90            100
1990-91   72600              45:1           1613       1594            19           65
TOTALS                                                                            654        867             840           800
Source: Government proposals and mission estimates
April 2, 1981                                                                                                              Z
rn x
M X



-30-
ANNEX 1
Table 3
COMOROS
EDUCATION PROJECT
Primary School Enrollments and Efficiency, 1980-1990
Year and Grade               Enrollments         Promotion      Dropout      Repetition
1980
Grade 1                     15200                59            14             27
Grade 2                     13000                68            10             22
Grade 3                     10800                70             1             29
Grade 4                      6500                76             1             23
Grade 5                       7300               73             1             26
Grade 6                       6800
Total                           59600
% of entering cohort who
complete grade 6                   65
School years to produce
one graduate                      9.3
1990
Grade 1                     14300                80             5             15
Grade 2                      13100               80             5             15
Grade 3                     12000                84             1             15
Grade 4                     11500                84             1             15
Grade 5                     11000                84             1             15
Grade 6                     10600
Total                           72600
% of entering cohort who
complete grade 6                   87
School years to produce
one graduate                      7.5
Source: Government statistics and Bank staff estimates
May 6, 1981



-31-
ANNEX 1
COMOROS                                                       Table 4
EDUCATION PROJECT
Health and Agricultural Manpower Needs, 1980-1990
Health                     Existing    Required           Training Needs                           Basis of Needs
Personnel,  Personnel   Replacement   Expansion    Total
1990         Needs          Needs
Nurses aides                 53            211        17               158          228            9 per hospital; 7 per medical
center; 1-2 per health post.
Midwife aides                 7              51         3               44           47            2 per hospital and medical
center; 2 per rural maternity
center.
Nurses                      118            118        66                -            66            4-6 per hospital and medical
center; 1 per health post.
Midwives                     27            51         15               24            39            4 per hospital; 2 per medical
center; 1 per rural maternity
center.
Laboratory technicians       16             30        10               14            24            4-6 per hospital; 1-2 per
medical center.
Dental Assistants             7             35         4                24           28            2-3 per hospital and medical
228            492       115              264          432            center.
Agriculture
Extension Workers            40           192         24              142          166             12 per CADER or 1 per 500 farm
Agricultural Research         5            20          3               15           18             CEFADER staffing needs.
Technicians
Forestry Technicians          5            20          3               15           18             Proposed project.
Fisheries Technicians         5            20          3               15           18             Proposed Project.
55           252         33             187          220
Source: Government and Bank staff estimates,
May 7, 1981



0300  000n00  P023
(ir. o,iOOtt, CFAF3
K9U-s .   Ott)                             0980 0h    in6rotOY tat. 0)00 1                 020                              009309  (0 r(1.t24,8O)
3.0x,0000 Co0 p00h,,    Coo, 0220                                                Oo.osbo    2,.tt ,,.                     2200,    02000pe.
lo,o3  IQ "co  102                  9 "on,        I C, i 220     ,22 0      13,0ano   Oopot9t22o         .221011     1 00820
Y:.ttic022 Oohoi     -                                     1002        20,13         4,030        60            20,000       tl6,630       123              I         22.000         23, Z14.00                4.900
Yri ,&Oy 00322222                                          S3.         5f,,Lb       0 '30         04i           3'i,210     13,031         81fi          00,000      02,800      9b6              /2 2.o0     13,300
2.oror   Ott 0n.r  Stlo,O.a                                 o IG        n 10,92    to ow          I ov          1.,,3.       .,10          lGi 122        2,200      03,200         195           01.200      1608.30
Optorr 00222222233  0.eI,oo28                              2201         0,200    216,7SD          202            1,830    000(,000         232            22,100    230,300o         232           2,100    200,000
PF,mi-, Tt.n..r- T-lalin  S h,, I                                                                 235              120    20B,350           36              000    2]0.030           38              160    210.000
In ScrYlse T-0h- Trfi,J20  30                                                                      30                                       30                                       30
L er5-y rat                                              "15)                                  (3 )                                      O                                        t* 
LO.O,  -mo.o                                             230                                  (00. 
te-l2h tc6o Z6                                                                                                      30    1223,100           30              15    302000             30               75     00,00
Oo:2,oOtol E hoo,-                                                                                                                          03              180    350,000           63              ISO    338,00
08r0ctit00t0   000000,0 22,22,22                                                                                                            14               30    3350,000          10               'I0    308,080
--WerX6  Schiol                                                                                                                             20              ISO    IllG,o)            2o             380    llG.GG0
000h-r 020A-0ti-                                           1S8                                   365                                       312                                       291
0,22. '0,0,22,  0-03.808 0,00220                                                               283)               60  1.3133,0           (00)              00  2.030,080          t000              00   0.380.080
322003***0003 AbrnA  ,                                  0088)                                 (285)                                      0570)                                   0232)
STotl                                          0 S.I36G 1,0                                                                    0YY7                                     2,028
0*0220000 nt  tP_di-_rtg (Pt).)                       4,6G0                                  5,520                                     6,4G0                                    ?,4o(l
Ed-oa_  000S0 in 0ov0000,300  0.0,00000000 T              29.30                                 29.0S 31.20                                                                        29.40
GDP t0   P0 i-02                                        24.700                                28,350                                    35.500                                   44,G00
6d-fttio SS-te in G0P0                                       5.83                                   5.7%                                     5.6f                                     4.9X
GtocrtA   -00k S0if3   e-t0,**0e* fnd ytojoottono 0*000 to, 0fooratla p-lo&dod by 0h0  0i2l0t2y of N.tog.0A Edt Lion,oop C-ltO0,. 3,0 aod 3p ; 3,t2Ad th0  MLinifr'  f 0 i t            . 02-o,tAc  -d Pl0nnin.
0-1     o,0*,  8000 t                   F         -hO,,ttie,t  buat
(a>  Otoroxnbo Schoola:  5UX of th . I  rd 6 Yetr-  0Id  -0*  -.1oltod.  00) jPrOono  0,800003   100X  f th. 70            22022  00 f Oflf.d  -,d thc 00oD,02hitO  0I*P-300;
(    I) boor  Kc. I.-.. .002200it oIcrease it i000000  intiki  (.b-t0 3,500)          r6i -t-i..                   ( 808ooTo d) 0 5,      00r 0h-l1:  0022c,i0g It 80000,0 int te (fo-  bt-o  1,200
tY obogt d803 but oooenbdon rst  OnpooV2 f0d (0)  00h00  Ing00tntiDo0:  8s p0, GtOOnmooO prop-oolo.
il.  2,0t gtr S00d_23 A800-*pti- I:
00)  022,,022 0,0803,N0.220-08  03 ,oo   -,0;  000000I, 0O... 3                     P0,0,0, b 0. . 0n  of iOOPOO. .0  000. 00'380020002 O)2o3    *20*00oo    0   0 
higb-nc    aif  ir  thD .l              966 ..d  99I    r(dpe         b: -2g. tar         .bceu   :ibgetit                    -egDL fibt                tc)-             f _    c-hip 2  -,   i d   20X91
b c o*ponootod by t    tn'tt     0  0    00  08 tle0 0 . o 00  t- th* 0tt00008 o- (0)f  t                    T                  S-1.9.  t  bo  -*       000 Tft        0                 -00    -Iir h 0
eooool00000;   08)  T'tchntco3 l SooO,  80t00*o 0Q 0030 oP 0h6 80000 300000. 00 excludine,0 o                 o  Oa,o CPA92 0S0,000 p00 oOtodo o   003  Aoth00t00 r000003 er:                     00 I0*i:
tosO  toOone300tot ooit.oOo.  an 20, Ototo00 onootod 00000  (0)Cfoootl S,Oo,,  000  *0*33 003,00 0,002233 -228,2200;-hd I-0    ooo-darjAonoho  Tonia.Pn tenolot08000(h)
cost coApoEnt3tdere e tt;  basi  of tgp2rtd ccistsl(i)  CttEgrctAl Schgl   Xhe Y123 as Itppl- ljc-nzr7 hzh.-d- y    .    ij )      n    a       hD.0eIfine  f
Abooo 507 booon*o of ood-ccion 00 tbo toatt  p-DW,O0,O f,or .a.h  ,hYOro-bip,
I21. 0ther 2090  AY0tt22000
(*   A000;OoOeo;  Oat. hy g*0*00*0 08* o           * 0f *3.1 other                 000    *     3    orn,too 0b.0)  -    33bo03 t 8h22b 0n 00  tooto  in .0.I t-00  .*d
yo  Goel3en  tt    rcuw0r     0t.,d0tur0, 3 gr2thtf3X  .a  i  tt}          hN0by 08! m-    t9i 00   1n4 09 d 00  ott,, by, 300 b T. 0980 .8 002.
On, 02222000,  022           000*0* 800*00~~gl-l  of 35 P..o1.. Inco  tou  0.- b-o,  -03-0,          GDP 22 804 yoto   .80 P.t. 0.-  -w 0000022



COfDOS                                                                                                        Table 6
FIRST E4UCATION PROJC
00A068Y 0OF iTiATED FBOJFCT COSTS
In Pranno 2FA TOOT) nd 0 Dollar- (00)
20OJSCT TOTAL.
No.    ProJet Iton,             Student Groes Area  Sie,        Acadeeoi  Buildin.g   Stff      Tct1    Tota1                          Equip=ent      Civil Works  Technicnl    Profeafinnal ..     .cSrvioe    PrcJect                      ir
PlacK o     of       Develo- -     nd    Boarding   ho-cing               Civil Work.   Furnit-re     Vehicle.-       Frniture &   Ad6istan-c    Service-        Tr-ining       Adodi=.tr-tion   PCFA (000')  US$ (0001)
Coietrnntion =ent     CoNoOnal                                                               B-0kg           Zqgip=ent
in M2
1. zl-Prtry Teoh-er Tr-in-    180           3,750     43,700    405,800    89,700    24,150    219,650    263,350         26,450        46,ooo         335,800        -             32,200            -             -               368.000       1,600
ine College, AnJouan
2.    TI-Serice Training of        -          -         -          -          -        -                                                17,250         17,250         -                -           28,750          -                 4t5            200
Primary Teachers
3.     Tetbhooke end Teaching      _          _         _         _          -                     _          _                        131,100        131,100         -               -             -              -                131,100         70
fterials for Pri.ry
School Students
4.     Par-.Medicel Tr-ining       75       1,830    29,910     85,100      59,340     2,760    147,200    177,100        18,400        41,400'       236.900         -             20,700           -              -                257,600       1,110
School, Mooni
5.     Agrioult-ral Traning        40       1,050     12,650     18,400     11,960    30,590     60,950     73,600         8,050        10,350         92,000         -               9,200          _-                              101,200        600
Center, Sbhnli
6.     Teh"nical A..i.eince        -         -          - -  -          -                                                                 -             -              142,600         -             -                               142,600         620
7.     Project A&i.iatr tion       -         -          -         -           -          -         -         -             1,150         5,750           ,9OO          -               -             -            66.700               5,600        320
Ble Coat       in CFAF                      6 8,630    86,250    209,300    161,000    57,5OO    427,800    514,050       54,050       251,850         819,950         142,600       62,100        28,750         66,700           1,120,100 
(0ct, 1981)
in0* -t                                  375        910        700        250      1,860     2,235           235         1,095           3,565             620          270           125            290                             4,870
Contlng ..oe.
Py) 00yeia iF                                                                                         10%             5%           5%                              5%           0              99            5%
in CrA                                                                                     51,750          2,300        12,650          66.7o0           6.900        6,210         1,380          2,760              83,950
in Os                                                                                         225              10           55             290                           27             6             12                               365
(b) Price  creae 61)
in CPA                                                                                     133,4o0         13.800       65,550         212,750          36,800       16,100         8,050         18,400             292,100
in US                                                                                         5860            60           205            925              160           70            35             80                             1,270
S.b-Tot.l
it CFA                                                                                    185,150          16,100       78,200         279,450          43,700       22,310        9,430          21,160             376,050
in us$                                                                                         805            70           340           1,215             190           97           41              92                             1,635
PUJsXCT TOTAL
in CFA                                                                                    699,200         70,L50       330,050       1,099,400         186,300       84,410       38,180          87,860            1,496,150
in Us*                                                                                      3,040            305         1,435           4,780             SIO          367          166             382                             6,0



-34-                                  AlNNEX 1
Table 7
COMOROS
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
Estimated Project Cost by Category
Local     Foreign   Total            Local      Foreign   Total           % of
Base Cost
1. Civil Works
(a)  Site Development                       39.10     48.30      87.40            0.17       0.21       0.38               8%
(b)  Academic and Communal                  94.30    115.00    209.30             0.41       0.50       0.91              19%
(2)  Boarding                               71.30     89.70    161.00             0.31       0.39       0.70              14%
(d)  Staff Housing                          25.30     32.20      57.50            0.11       0.14       0.25               5%
230.00    285.20    515.20             1.00       1.24      2.24               46%
2. Furniture                                   29.90      23.00      52.90            0.13      0.10       0.23               5*
3. Equipment and Vehicles                       9.20      87.40     96.60             0.04      0.38       o.42               8%
Sub-Total (1-3)                      269.10    395.60    664.70             1.17       1.72      2.89              59%
1. Textbooks and Teaching Materials            13.80    117.30    131.10             o.o6       0.51      0.57              12%
for Primary School Students
5. In-Service Training of Primary              11.50      34.50     46.oo             0.05      0.15       0.20               4%
School Teachers
6.  Technical Assistance                       13.80    128.80    142.60              o.o6      o.56       o.62              13%
7.  lrofessional Services                      11.50      50.60      62.10            0.05      0.22       0.27               5*
8.  :Project Administration                    32.20      41.40      73.60            0.14      0.18       0.32               70
Base Cost (1-8)
(Oct. 1981)                        351.90    768.20   1120.10              1.53      3.34       4.87             10%
5. Contingencies
(a)  Physical increase (7%)                 29.9d     52.90      82.80            0.13       0.23      0.36
(I)  Price increase (24%)                   96.60    195.50    292.10             o.42       o.85       1.27
Sub-total (9)                      126.50    248.40    374.90             0.55       1.08      1.63
Total Project Cost                         478.40   1016.60   1495.00             2.08       4.42       6.50
(1-9)                                ===============================



ANNEX 1
Table 8
- 35 -
COMOROS
EDUCATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
CUS$ million)
l/                                       Accumulated            Undisbursed
Quarters                Disbursements              Disbursements          Balance
2/                                           6.00
1                        0.20                       0.20                   5.80
2                        0.05                       0.25                   5.75
3                        0.15                       0.40                   5.60
4                        0.15                       0.55                   5.45
5                        0.20                       0.75                   5.25
6                        0.30                       1.05                   4.95
7                        0.35                       1.40                   4.60
8                        0.50                       1.90                   4.10
9                        0.65                       2.55                   3.45
10                        0.75                       3.30                   2.70
11                        0.60                       3.90                   2.10
12                        0.55                       4.45                   1.55
13                        0.50                       i.95                   L.05
14                        0.40                       5.35                   ).65
15                        0.20                       5.55                   3.45
16-                       0.15                       5.70                   0.30
17                        0.10                       3.80                   0.20
18                        0.10                       5.90                   0.10
19                        0.05                       5.95                   0.05
20                        0.05                       6.00                   0.00
1/   From date of effectiveness
2/   Includes PPF funds



I
I
I
I



-36-
COMOROS
EDUCATION PROJECT
Structure of the Formal Education System
PRE-PRIMARY
PRE  -PIMRPRIMARY                                           I                                SECONDARY                                                          HIGHER
Upper Secondary               Secondary Teacher
Lower Secondary                   Academic Schools                Training School
Koranic School                                                                 (College Rurale)                      (Lycee)                    {
Primry Tachr Trinig Scool Overseas Colleges and Universities
Paraodicac chool
Traini ng CeniterV1
|Schooll/
Commercial School!] 
Labor Force
School Year 1       2       3       4        5       6       7        8            9       10      11      12            13       14      15                 16       17      18       19      20
Age         4       5       6       7        8       9       10      11            12      13      14      15            16      17       18                 19       20      21      22       23
Examiniations
<) Primary School Completion Certificate (CFEP)
First Cycle Diploma (BEPC)                                                                                                                                                             rt 
<i>Secondary School Diploma (Baccalaureat)
D  To be supported under project
1/ Institutions to be established                                                                                                                                 World Bank - 22697



I
I
I



ANNEX 1
Chart 2
-37-
COMOROS
EDUCATION PROJECT
Organization of the Ministry of National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports
Minister
Cabinet
Pre-Primary              National               Youth and                                        General
and Primary             Institute of              Sports                                      Administration
Education               Education
Secondary and              Projects
Technical            Implementation              Culture
Education                 Unit                                          Personnel
Personnel        ~Guidance
Planning
Office
Scholarships
World Bank-23376



AN~NEX 1
-38-                                                                   i~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cbart 3
COMOROS
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION AND EXPENDITURE SCHEDULE
DATE OF EFFETVEESCLOSING OATE
YER  1981             19821                  1983                    1984                   198E                    1996                   1987
QUARtTEL      31 43                       4      1          3           14j                                                  2                 1         1
(a   esignr end Construction Docunments                                                                                                                               J 
b)Tender and AwntardAwr
H)Equiptnent LndtFuend DocuLents
I)Tender end Award
()EquipmentanFmtu Procurement                                                                       L
2    00KERIC  TFAINDECING OPRMAFYTERALS      ERS
b)Tender end Award
ProcEureiment roculaer endt qigrn
4. TARABOLKCALD TRAINING SCTEOOLS
1.5 Tende eit nd Contrction Award
Elb Tender end Aaerd
ill  Eq-iment fPae and urirEqPourement
5. AGRICULTURAL TRAINING SCENTER
.i  Desion end Construction Documents                                          O      
dbi Tender end Award in   -r
Ici Construction
(d) Equipment end Furnitur Lists
le) Tender end Award
if) Equipment end Furniture Procurement
E. TECHICULUAL ASITRAINCEIND ELLOWHIP
(. i  sg PrcrmndCtrSpeiaist   umnt
ci  Teutuouk Procurement Expert~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uaa    Prid
dci  Fe-osh-ips.   ..                                                                                                                                               ...
7. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ uaaneePeio
6.IECHNICAL ASSISTANCE  jN ELWHP
fURENITURE                                                                  10HE2UL
SNO FEILWOWKSHIPS0                                          -    -     -     -    50    4    40   40   45   290  E70 1300   460. E           40 4 120oio   3    it   10  190     -
S  PROFESSIONAL SERVICES                        20                 -     -     25t 25!  25   251  25   25,  251  20    20   201  -   r20   20    -    -                      -
7  PROJECT ADMINISTRATION                       290             -         10   15   15   15   15m  15   15.   15   15   115  .15   15   .15    1 15   15               1 5   1 5   115  11
1IASE COST 1-8                             4,87              -.       10   55  1401 150  115  545   550  149   545  580  455  555  405  330  1 45   35   125  115   25   20
OUARTERLY%                                  00                       0.2   1.1  2.9  3.9  2.2  11.2  i.E  10.  11.2  11.9  S9A  11.  IE.3  5.6   0.9 10.7  .2.6  2A1 1 0.5  04
S. CONTINGENCIES                       I      15620   5S5  65   35   1501.301  1518   195  11501 185  135  116  lIE10   1 40                                                     0       0i
TOTAL PROJECT COST                       00-                      1     010255  145  725  121SQ720 75                      50 74      5040 IleI                 5115 3          31



COtOROS
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
_ily Indicatora f or Project I=Pletentation
Ondicatoro of Project F.drttl S ctOves 
COMPONENT                                        OBJECTIVE                                    HOW MfEASURED                     WHEN MEASURED                              BASE LINE DATA
A.  Friary Educotion
All Sob-Oteas                  1.  ,--eate flow of stodent  through the primry        Officiol stutirtico on dropout.        Oe to tix yours oftor        1980-81  66.9% of estoriog stodentt completo Hrodr sir
school  ytom, i.e.. redoc  dropout ond             repetition ond puss rote.              compiotio   of Project                51.0% oC grade siE  todent  pFoss the primry
r-petltioo aod icreoso graduats.r                                                         (1986).                               school corriicots esunsattos  24.6% of oll
ttdents ore repestitog the sohool yur.
2.  Isprove learniog and o-hite-enrt of                 Scorns 00 primy school                Oet t   ix yenrs after       1980-81  51.0% of gradr six studooto pFos  the prieary
,tudrnts.                                           cortifi-Scotr  o-ei tiott-           completion of project                 school c-ettfitato exeDiontion vhich r-quiras
(1986).                               a mintmo  of bhoic liceracy osd  -t-errcy.
3. MRke Ir-iog ord ochievement of stodeots              Review of c-rric-lse and              One to Dit yours ofter                E-aitation covers only bhtao lasguoge and
more releoIst to their enviroonant.                 -seiootion co-tert.                   copletion of projert                   -uthetios   No  ctcence and no socIal otodien
(1986).                               teloted to C-vorias  -nvirostet.
o)  PFitsry Tonulor         1. Pluce 90 trtised teachort in the primary             Records of toucher training col-    One to two yeart ocft c         1980-81  30 stodent teuchern ore e- tetiog their seon-d
T-siniog Sohool             sohool system per yer.                              legs os oubher of gead-aten           completion of school                   year of training.
plecod in prtiry tohoolt.             (1986).
2.  Improve k-owledge. tenchiog methodology            Scorest ad cooret of teacher .Oe t two o ynr  aftec                         Miost teschers both trained and ustrai-ed, are
ond motiv-tios of teacher.                         trsintig o-rtifioste (CAR).            copletios of  chool. 1985.            reported to have lov motiv-tion asd to one
Esamisation                                                                 poor teachiog  ethodology.
b)  Os-Service Prima-y      1.  Upgcado 500 teschert to qoslifild levl.             R.coeds ond scoras on CAB              A.socl1y octil to years   1980-81  Eperi=.enral progr- m inititRtd with 150
Teachee Tmsising                                                                estimntion                             after co-pletios of the               tche.. No exiisa tios results available
progru= (1989).                       but progr-m eppeate too limited.
2.  Ipro-- knowledge, mthodoIogy. and                   Contest of CAE es..inution.                                                 Eusminstios contest iE vary r-dinstmry.
motivcttoo of teachern.
o)  Primtry Toxtbooks and  I.  Provide childres  ith adeqoate nuabhr of             Recordt and official statistis..    A...nIly until completioo  1980-81  Fr-soh lasgsage: oe book for every 2.6 stu-
Te-ehing Materials          tstbhootk (0e f-or every two studests)osd                                                  of the program (1986).                dents of  hich 23% Os poor cosdition; one
len-isg materials aed roachisg  tith                                                                                            teechert gide Bor every 5.4 teachers.
essential gutdsa ardresnormtia.
2.  Mke testbooks and learoiag material  sore           Rncordt. officiol statistics,         At co-platioo of the         1980-81  No a1ience or social  ttdien books or goiden
oppenpeiate to  rorcioslom snd childeos'a           and review  of  ontent.               progrtm  (1986).                      based on the Co-orias esIrom-ent.
osoit-oment.
B.  Health Education               1. Place the following memhsrb  of para-aedio-          Rerords of National HeaIth           One to five years vftee    1981        Pereonsel in ser        ...e . sans1t hg; mIdwives 27
personsel in governuept service fSem 1981           ichool.                               end of pro.Jtr'(1986).                sara. aides 53; midwife aides 7; demtal
to 1990:  nure.e 66; nurses  tide. 228;                                                                                         a.eitants 7; laboratory technicias 16.
midwios.. 34; midwife aides 67; dental
esatetaste 28; laborotory tchimictane 24.
2.  Improve the knowledge, motivation and               R.cords on smabera aud                One to five yearn after    1981       Mast peemonmel  re reperted to be poorly
funotioniog of pra-edicrl prsosnel.                qualifioatioss of pars-                end of peoject (1986).                tnmied and  otivated.
medical peesoonel and on
activities of clinics end
hospital.
3.  Improve  oerall health statistics-                 RH.ooed  and soresys.                  One to five years after    1981        Inf-nt -orttlity 300 pee thos-and; reeds death
and of project (1986)                 raet 20 per th.se.nd;
C.                Edirultal   ucative  1.  Place 20 agrlroltsoel    ..acensls agents       Records of agritclt-eal               Om.  o fi-e year. aft.?    tflt        go senenn agents is service
pee pean in go srait sareire. or a                  training costar                       opening of seh.nl (1964).
total of 180 thenugh  1990.
2.  I pree the kaIladge, mtiv-tion. nd                  Records on actioities of              One to fL-e  yrs a fter    191        Vb inforeation
f_aeti_istg of extasios  sXets.                     mtenion agents,                       ed af peajiet (19.6).
3.  Iprom  egrirolt-rjl pesdactivity  Pd                Records and  orveys.                  T-n tE ten ye-rs a[fi        i981 Be    EA 1050 million of rice imparted, 343
output *                                                                                  opeming of arhoel (1944)               Eiiiliem  of met i ported.  Fihimg catch
10 kg per pereos.
a)   Idaratlasal            1, Staff e1tnning upit in  ERN  ith                     fepoeting.                             Oetrbee 1. 1982.            1981      All pl-nnIng eack it pre..ntly .reeied
nepinti                    two qsmlIfi d C-eiams.                                                                                                           nut by three empettiine.
b)  iEductiol               1. Control the growth of the  d-uc-tism                 Re-ie  nf bhdgat sad                  A nully.                     19iO     Rerrrent a-  p ndittsee  ow  duca.tim  ar
i1%0samis                  budger.                                              peeditsee..                                                                 29.1% af total Gnoeront apnditure.
O)   Bisgh-r  sAatiem       1. prside .eh1l.rehip. based as earls-                  Severnseet repents a                   ibe_r 1. 192                i9d1      520 students overea"  bremkdoen in 1979
Aahalarship.                -ono ii   as;  nsure retul of                      dat  ow geadaate.                     ed sIally th-ere                       Ul follows  htqitieie 20%; soie.os 2%;
graduates.                                                                                ftn                                    Law 5%; enonomlos esd bhtMelsee   dminirteati-n
13%; wedsine 13%;  4Dn-rinR  10%; publin W
dainietrton  11%; others 26%.



ANNEX 3
COMOROS
EDUCzATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Aailable in the Project File
A. Reports and Studies Related to Education and Manpower in the Comoros
A.1. African Development Bank, "Evaluation d'un Projet d'Education
aux Comores," Abidjan, 1980.
A.2. UNESCO, "Republique Federal Islamique des Comores. L'education
en perspective. Diagnostlque et priorites." Paris, April, 1979.
B. Reports Related to the Project
B.1.  Comoros Government, Ministere des Affaires Sociales, Secteur de
'Education, "Programme a Court et Moyen Termes," Moroni, April, 1980
B.2.  Comoros Government, "Projet de Requete du Gouvernement de la
Republique Federal Islamique des Comores a la Banque Mondiale,
Premier Projet d'Education," loroni, December 1980.
B.3. Comoros Government, "Plan for Staffing, Organizing and Financing
the Agricultural Training Center in Moheli," October, 1981.
B.4. Comoros Government, Statistics and Data on Enrollments and Textbook
Availability, 1980.
C. Working Papers and Tables
C.I. Educational and Architectural Working papers, including Indicators
for Project Supervision.
C.2. T. Nacef (consultant), "Rapport de Mission en Republique Federal
Islamique des Comores (janvier-fevrier 1981), Formation de
Personnel de Sante," Tunis, March 1981.



IBRD 15733
430                                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~APRIL 19811
PARA-MEDICAL TRAINING SCHOOL. MOR
(GRANDE COMORE)
e  MitsoosiooIi -=~tR;                                                                                         AGRICULTURAL TRAINING CENTER. WANANI
IMOHELI)
PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGE.
MUTSAMUDU (ANJOUAN)
Ie-Tb-i           GRANDE  COMORE                                                                <       CAPITAL CITY
Habooia                                                                                             0 J    OTHER  TOWNS
/_____ MEXISTING  ROADS
r;    Koibasb-ni                                                 L                             ROADS UNDER  CONSTRUCTION
MORONI        ar     >                                                          J                      tr       PORTS
AIRPORTS
CB t:ourobouni
DOsmboniw
O1          20          40           60
KILOMETERS                                       bOI  I
-120                                          M  o} .-  .n b i c,. '! a                                    MILES I          Ia                                          120
-12'              fili o      m b                                                    ~~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 10  20  31240
MOHELI                                                               Bambo
0     FOMBONI
TWorMf  h.nk oIf pso-  by Oh.    MirIngon-
Chis r hs Btf rsi~r.Iy fr t            '    +                                             Moys  (M Renani
thwoeapotaWnh,oh    ttnd d5ir0 unnacCj                                             ANJOUAN
TB. dooo.     -0o.d -od tabav
hornd tfsh on thc map          CANZONJ I&  OUENEFOU fS.
do -oO 1.piy. on a. pat of tb.
Would lBok .0d it, ffuW*.t, WY                                  C t   S n f   e I
tudgmwa 0 th. 1.g01 OUgt Of
43 WY Iyt-wy or- Wn do,act
43    r atr. of -orh bou-dWosn.
s                                            kTPeN<ANI; j                   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -  Inlernadnoril Boundaries                                          M Y7Eo <4!tagt
ANZANIA                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~MAYOTTE 
ICOt $ R, \Si                                                  COMOROS                                                soboCo
MAUR IT US           FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT                                                    SaUDZI
SOUTHAI\                      440                                                                 450



