OFFICIAL      CREDIT NUMEER 1195 COM
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(First Education Project)
between
FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1195 COM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                 (\ 3'       , 1982, between
FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) pursuant to an exchange of letters dated December 13,
1980 and February 2, 1981 between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, the Association has granted the Borrower an advance
(hereinafter called the Advance) in an amount equivalent to
$205,000 to assist the Borrower in financing the proposed project
and the Association is prepared to refund such Advance out of the
proceeds of the Credit provided for herein; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MEN" means the Ministere de l'Education Nationale,
de la Culture, de la Jeunesse et des Sports, the Borrower's
ministry responsible for education, culture, youth and sport;


﻿-2-
(b) "BEPE" means the Bureau d'Ex6cution des ProJets d'Educa-
tion, the Borrower's office responsible for coordinating and
supervising development projects in the education sector;
(c) "INE" means the Institut National d'Education, the
institute within MEN responsible for curriculum development,
research and teacher training and upgrading;
(d) "MPI" means the Ministere de la Production et de
l'Industrie, the Borrower's ministry responsible for, inter alia,
agricultural development;
(e) "MSPM" means the Ministare de la Santf, de la Popula-
tion et des Affaires Musulmanes, the Borrower's ministry respon-
sible for, inter alia, public health; and
(f) "Special Account" means the account to be opened pur-
suant to Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to five million three hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 5,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provision of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit;
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date,
and pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the
authorized amount of the Advance shall be automatically cancelled
as of the same date;


﻿-3-
(c) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts A (2)
and D of the Project, open a Special Account at the Treasury in.
the name- of BEPE. Payments out of the Special Account shall be
made exclusively,to pay the reasonable costs of services required
to carry out Parts A (2) and D of the Project and to be financed
under this Agreement in accordance with the provisions of the
table set forth. in paragraph 1 of Schedule I hereto;
(d) The Association shall, promptly after the Effective
Date, withdraw -on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account
and deposit in the Special Account an initial amount in the
currency of the Borrower equivalent to fifty thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR .50,000). Thereafter, at the request of. the
Borrower, the-Association shall further so withdraw from the
Credit Account and-deposit in the Special Account such amounts as
shall be required to replenish the Special Account with amounts
equal to payments made out of the Special Account for expenditures
for Parts A (2) and D of the Project eligible for financing under
this Agreement, but only .to the extent that the amount of any such
deposit,. together. with any amount remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such request, shall not exceed
in the aggregate ,the equivalent of fifty thousand Special Drawing
Rights  (SDR 50,000). Except as the Association shall otherwise
determine, each such d.eposit after the. initial deposit shall be
withdrawn by the Assoiation from. the Credit Account under the
same Categories set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Sche-
dule 1 to this Agreement, and in the same respective amounts, as
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section;
(e) Prior to or at .the time of each request by the Borrower
for a deposit by the Association into the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association in respect of each
payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account Fuch
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that the payment was made on account of the
reasonable cost of goods or services required for Parts A (2)
and D of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit in accordance with Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(f) If the Association shall have determined that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expend-
iture or in any amount not eligible for financing from the Credit
Account, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section, the Borrower shall,


﻿-4-
promptly upon notice from the Association and, unless otherwise
determined by the Association, prior to any further deposit in the
Special Account by the Association, deposit in the Special Account
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified; and
(g) Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph (d) of
this Section, no further deposit in the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals from the Credit Account can be made
directly by the Borrower from the Credit Account under paragraph
(a) of this Section, or when the total amount withdrawn from the
Credit Account plus the amount of any qualified agreement to
reimburse the Association and of any special commitment entered
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions, shall have reached the equivalent of five million two
hundred fifty thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 5,250,000),
whichever shall be sooner. Withdrawal from the Credit Account of
the remaining amount of the Credit for Parts A (2) and D of the
Project shall follow such procedures as shall be agreed between
the Borrower and the Association and shall be made only to the
extent that the Association shall be satisfied by the evidence
submitted in support of the applications for such withdrawal that
all payments by the Borrower out of the Special Account were made
on account of the reasonable cost of services required for Parts A
(2) and D of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit in accordance with Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1987
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on June 15 and December 15 in each year.


﻿-5-
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 15
and December 15 commencing June 15, 1992, and ending December 15,
2031, each installment to and including the installment payable
on December 15, 2001, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one.and one-half per cent. (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through MEN, with the assistance of other ministries as appro-
priate, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate education, engineering, administrative and
budgetary practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
(b) To assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall: (i) except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, establish, operate and staff BEPE in accordance
with Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) employ within BEPE a
Project Director and an accountant whose qualifications and
experience shall be acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying
out of civil works and in the procurement of equipment and
textbooks, the Borrower shall employ an architect, an equipment
specialist and a textbook specialist whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association; such employment shall be made in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines on the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as Exe-
cuting Agency" published in August 1981.
Section 3.03. Not later than October 1, 1982, the Borrower
shall ensure that the education planning unit within MEN will
be staffed on a permanent, full-time basis with two qualified


﻿-6-
officials who will be responsible for coordinating education
planning between MEN and the Ministry of Finance, Economy and
Planning.
Section 3.04. In order to control expenditures in the
education sector, the Borrower shall, beginning in December 1,
1982 and thereafter by December 1 of each year until completion of
the Project, review with the Association measures taken and
discuss proposals for measures to be taken for purposes of: (i)
restricting enrollment in both lower and upper secondary schools;
(ii) reducing the amount of funds available for student grants at
the upper secondary level; (iii) linking fellowships abroad to
specific training needs; and (iv) implementing such other cost-
saving measures as the Borrower and the Association may consider
appropriate.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall review, in consultation with
the Association, its current policy on financial assistance to
students for post-secondary education and will, not later than
December 1, 1982, introduce a policy acceptable to the Association
for such grants which will: (i) take into account prospective
manpower needs in the areas of, inter alia, agriculture, health,
public administration and accounting; and (ii) ensure that con-
tractual arrangements acceptable to the Association require
recipients of fellowships to return to the Comoros upon completion
of their studies.
Section 3.06. For purposes of Parts A (3) and B (2) of the
Project the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, not later
than June 30, 1982, an overseas training program satisfactory to
the Association; such program shall include the following inform-
ation: (i) the qualifications of each of the candidates selected
for an overseas fellowship; and (ii) the course (and its cost) to
be followed by each such candidate.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take all steps necessary to
establish and put into operation by October 1, 1983, a fund for
the purpose of financing the replacement of school textbooks and
educational materials.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure,'or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any


﻿-7-
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall through BEPE furnish to
the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
specifications, reports, contract documents and construction and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) through BEPE maintain records
and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of all
Parts of the Project (including their cost) and the benefits to be
derived therefrom, identify the goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, and disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) enable the Association's accredited representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
through BEPE furnish to the Association at regular intervals all
such information as the Aseciation shall reasonably request
concerning any Part of the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.
(c) Without limitation or restriction upon paragraph (b) of
this Section, the Borrower shall, annually during the Project,
discuss with the Association the progress made towards achieving
the educational objectives of the Project.
(d) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded
and the contract price.
(e) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between -he Borrower


﻿-8-
and the Association, the Borrower shall through BEPE in coopera-
tion with the appropriate ministries prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of all Parts of the Project, their cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived therefrom, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations under
the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire all such land, rights in respect
of land and buildings as shall be required for the construction
(and operation) of the facilities included in the Project and
shall furnish to the Association, promptly after such acquisition,
evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land, rights in
respect of land and buildings are available for purposes related
to the Project.
(b) Without limitation on or restriction to the generality
of paragraph (a) of this Section the Borrower shall: (i) ensure
that not later than March 31, 1982, a site acceptable to the Asso-
ciation is available for Part C of the Project; (ii) ensure that
the following are at all times available for purposes of the
Project: (A) land and buildings located in the Hombo district of
Mutsamudu for Part A; (B) the community center in Wanani for Part
B; and (C) the site referred to in sub-paragraph (b) (i) of this
Section for Part C of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall through BEPE maintain
or cause to be maintained records adequate to reflect in accord-
ance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices
the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the ministries, departments or agencies of the Bor-
rower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall through BEPE:
(i) maintain, or cause to be maintained, as part of the
records referred to in paragraph (a) of this


﻿Section, separate accounts reflecting all expendi-
tures on account of which withdrawals a: _ requested
from 'the Credit Account on the basis of certified
statements of expenditure; and
(ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from
the Credit Account on the basis of certified
statements of expenditure, and enable the Asso-
ciation's accredited representatives to examine
such records.
(c) The Borrower shall through BEPE: (i) have its accounts
and records, including the separate accounts referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section, for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by auditors acceptable to the Borrower and the Associa-
tion; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by such audi-
tors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested, including without limitation to the
foregoing, an opinion by said auditors in respect of the separate
accounts referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section as to
whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit
Account on the basis of certified statements of expenditure have
been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said
accounts, records and expenditures and the audits thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to ensure that the teacher training school on
the island of Anjouan, the agricultural training center on the
island of Moheli and the health training school in Moroni carry
out their operations and manage their affairs in accordance with
appropriate technical, educational, financial and administrative
practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,


﻿- 10 -
facilities and other resources as well as qualified teachers and
administrators in adequate numbers required for the effective
utilization, staffing and operation of such institutions.
(b) Without in any way limiting the generality of paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall: (i) ensure that the
buildings, furniture and equipment of the training schools and
training center referred to in said paragraph are adequately
maintained and shall cause all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof to be made; and (ii) take appropriate administrative and
financial measures for the above purposes.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) that the Special Account provided for in Section
2.02 (c) of this Agreement has been opened; and
(b) that the Bureau d'Ex6cution des Projets d'Education
(BEPE) referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement has been
established.
Section 5.02. The date      \)           is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under
Article IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date
on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time re-
sponsible for finance is designated as representative of the


﻿- 11 -
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General. Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist5re des Finances
de 1'Economie, du Plan et du
Commerce Extfrieure
Botte Postale 324
Moroni,
Rpublique Ffdfrale
Islamique des Comores
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINIFINANCES                       211CW BOOTH KO
Moroni
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this


﻿- 12 -
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Paris, France,
as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERAL ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF THE COMOROS-
By             a6u
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for- items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                    1,500,000        85%
(2) Equipment and furniture          570,000       100%
(3) Textbooks and                    530,000       100%
teaching materials
(4) In-service training              160,000       100%
under Part A (2)
of the Project
(excluding salaries
of teaching staff)
(5) Project administra-              130,000       100%
tion under Part D
of the Project
(excluding:salaries
of local personnel)
(6) Consultants' services            680,000       100%
and fellowships
(7) Initial deposit in                50,000
Special Account under"
Section 2.02 (c) to
prefinance items under
Categories (4) and
(5) above


﻿- 14 -
Aiount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)   to be Financed
(8) Refunding of Advance            180,000       Amount due
under Section
2.02 (b)
(9) Unallocated                   1,500,000
TOTAL          5 300, 000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for .goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the polic. of the Association that no proceeds 6f the
Credit shall be disbur.ed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement prior Decem-
ber 15, 1981.


﻿- 15 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit;
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures ,in that Category, the Association may, by notice
to the, BorroVer: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) 11, such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall., reduce tte disbursement percentage ther!
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any -Category is ,inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or -referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures--for such item shall: be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable sopinion, represents the amount of
such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are, inter alia: (i) in primary
education, to improve the quality of instruction, to raise the
achievement level of the students and to ensure that the Bor-
rower's education policy is relevant to its development needs;
(ii) in agricultural education, to provide trained personnel for
the improved implementation of the Borrower's agricultural pdlicy;
and (iii) in health education, to train the personnel required for
carrying out the Borrower's long-term health plan.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Primary Education
(1) Construction, furnishing and equipping of a teacher
training school with places for about 180 students and a demon-
stration primary school adjacent to the training school with
places for about 300 children.
(2) Provision of in-service training courses for about 500.
primary school teachers.
(3) Provision of fellowships to train about seven instruc-
tors for the teacher training school.
(4) Purchase and distribution of about 59,000 textbooks,
4,400 teachers guides and 235,000 workbooks and booklets for use
by primary school children and teachers.
Part B:   Agricultural Education
(1) Construction, furnishing and equipping of an agricul-
tural training center on the island of Moheli with teaching and
boarding facilities for about 40 students.
(2) Provision of fellowships to train about three teachers
for the agricultural training center.
Part C:   Health Education
Construction, furnishing and equipping of a health school
in Moroni with capacity for a combined enrollment of about 75
students.


﻿- 17-
Part D:   Project Administration
Monitoring and evaluation pf the foregoing Parts of the
Project in a manner acceptable to the Association.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1986.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
].   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits", dated July
1980 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods and civil works to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender relating thereto a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information as
the Association shall reasonably request; the Association will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods and civil works in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding.
3.   (a) Detailed lists and specifications of furniture, equip-
ment and textbooks, indicating the extent to which items can be
grouped together for bulk procurement, shall be furnished to
the Association for its review and approval, and the equipment
procured, and its grouping for bulk procurement, shall be sub-
stantially in conformity with the lists so approved; and
(b) Detailed sketch designs for institutions included in the
Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and
approval.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other


﻿- 19 -
goods, offered in such bid;. (ii). customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection.- with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall-not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of
inland freight and -other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of goods. to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
B.   Preferencefor Domestic, Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the Comoros may be granted a margin of-preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the 'following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
- 2.   After evaluation, .responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following threetgroups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Comoros if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Associa-
tion that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a.value added in the Comoros equal to at
least 20% of the-ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation,
and sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale
or delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of-this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award..


﻿- 20 -
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph'3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category (1) of the table set forth in
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be pro-
cured in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of
this Schedule, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference of
7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject
to, the following provisions:
1.   Contractors applying for such preference shall be asked
to provide, as part of the data for qualification, such inform-
ation, including details of ownership, as shall be required to
determine whether, according to the classification established by
the Borrower and accepted by the Association, a particular firm or
group of firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding
documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the method
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to
give effect to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by the
Borrower, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.


﻿- 21 -
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Other Procurement r-Procedures
1.   Contracts for goods or for civil, works which cannot be
grouped into, contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or more may- be awarded on the, basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Association; provided, however, that such contracts shall not
in the aggregate exceed $400,000 equivalent.
2.   Contracts for imported textbooks may be negotiated directly
with the publishers thereof.
3.   (a) Detailed lists and specifications of furniture, equip-
ment and textbooks, shall be furnished to the Association for its
review and approval, and the equipment procured shall be sub-
stantially in conformity with the list so approved; and
(b) Detailed sketch designs for institutions included in
the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review
and approval.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods or civil works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a. final decision on the award is made,


﻿- 22 -
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on
the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract *not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the! Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Operations and Staffing of BEPE
(Section 3 01 (b) of the 'Development Credit Agreement)
1.   The Borrower, undertakes to ensure that BEPE, established
within MEN under the direction of the Project Director, will be
responsible for the execution of the Project, including: (i)
overall management of the Project; (ii) supervision of the
carrying out of .the Project; ,(iii) coordination of activities
related to the Project with all ministries, departments and
agencies of the Borrower participating in the carrying out of the
Project; and (iv) liaison with the Association. Specifically, the
Borrower undertakes that BEPE will, inter alia:
(a) coordinate and integrate all Project activities with the
ministries, departments and agencies of the Borrower, and corres-
pond with the Association on technical matters related to the
Project;
(b)  select an architect,, an equipment specialist and
a textbook specialist, define their terms of reference and
administer their contracts;.
(c) prepare with the assistance of the MPI and MSPM offi-
cials referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule and of the
Director of INE a comprehensive Project implementation schedule
for the approval of the Association.
(d) in collaboration, with the MPI and MSPM officials
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, monitor the progress
of construction, studies, preparation of new curriculae and other
education and training programs;
(e) in collaboration with the Director of INE, monitor the
progress made in carrying out i-service training and the supply
of textbooks;
(f) ensure the review and approval by appropriate autho-
rities of the reports, specifications and other material sub-
mitted to the Borrower by the architect and other specialists;
(g) regularly inspect all construction works;
(h) ensure the preparation of lists of furniture and equip-
ment and materials for the Project;


﻿- 24 -
(i) prepare invitations to bid and arrange for the award of
contracts relating to the Project;
(j) maintain recqrds and accounts and prepare for presenta-
tion to the Association through proper channels applications for
withdrawals from the Credit Account; and
(k) prepare semi annual progress reports to be furnished
to the Association within two months of the end of each semi-
annual period.
2.   The Project Director will at all times have direct access to
the officials of MPI and MSPM referred to in paragraph 4 of this
Schedule and to the Director of INE. He will be directly respon-
sible for the execution of the routine aspects of the Project,
including staff management, coordination of consultants and
specialists' services, and procurement matters, and will report to
the Minister of Education. He will also ensure that the construc-
tion, equipment and furniture of the Project facilities meet
educational and training requirements.
3.   In addition to the architect, the equipment specialist and
the textbook specialist referred to in Section 3.02 of this
Agreement, the Project Director will be assisted by, inter alios
the following full-time personnel: (a) two draftsmen; and (b) an
accountant.
4.   MPI and MSPM will each appoint a qualified and experienced
official responsible for:
(i) ensuring that the aspects of the Project related to
their respective ministries are carried out;
and
(ii) coordinating Project activities between MPI, MSPM
and BEPE.
5.   BEPE will also be provided with required supporting staff,
adequate premises, equipment, means of communication and trans-
port. In addition it will be assisted by the appropriate mini-
stries, departments and agencies in: (i) preparing and reviewing
lists of items of furniture, equipment, design sketches and mate-
rials; and (ii) certifying that such designs, specifications
and lists meet the economic and functional standards as well as
the costs and the educational targets and objectives of the
Project.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
198
FORSECRETARY


