                                  Document of
                              The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR2939



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                         (IBRD-P120170)



                                    ON A

                                   LOAN

                  IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 300.75 MILLION


                                     TO

                      THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES

                                   FOR A

       STRENGTHENING SOCIAL RESILIENCE TO CLIMATE CHANGE
                   DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN

                              September 30, 2013




Sustainable Development Department
Mexico and Colombia Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region




                                      1
                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective September 30, 2013)

                    Currency Unit = Mexican Peso
                         MX$1.00 = US$0.07
                        US$1.00 = MX$13.17

                            FISCAL YEAR
                       January 1 – December 31


               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADL        Local Development Agents (Agentes de Desarrollo Local)
AFD        French Development Agency (Agence Française de Développement)
ATL        Local Technical Agents (Agentes Técnicos Locales)
CADENA     Component for Natural Disasters Response in the Agriculture Sector
           (Componente de Atención a Desastres Naturales en el Sector
           Agropuecuario y Pesquero)
CCA        Climate Change Adaptation
CCKP       Climate Change Knowledge Platform
CCPI       Climate Change Performance Index
CENAPRED   National Center for Disaster Prevention (Centro Nacional para la
           Prevención de Desastres)
CICC       Inter-secretarial Commission on Climate Change (Comisión
           Intersecretarial de Cambio Climático)
CONABIO    National Commission for the Knowledge and Use of Biodiversity
           (Comisión Nacional para el Conocimiento y Uso de la Biodiversidad)
CONAFOR    National Forestry Commission (Comisión Nacional Forestal)
CONAP      National Council of Protected Natural Areas (Consejo Nacional de Áreas
           Naturales Protegidas)
CONAVI     National Housing Commission (Comisión Nacional de Vivienda)
COP        Conference of the Parties to the UNFCCC
CPS        Country Partnership Strategy
CTC        Consultative Technical Council (Consejo Técnico Consultivo)
CTF        Clean Technology Fund
DOF        Official Gazette of the Federation (Diario Oficial de la Federación)
DPL        Development Policy Loan
DUIS       Integrally sustainable urban development (Desarrollos Urbanos
           Integrales Sustentables)
ENACC      National Climate Change Strategy (Estrategia Nacional de Cambio
           Climático)
ESW        Economic and Sector Work
FONDEN     Fund for Natural Disasters (Fondo para Desastres Naturales)
FY         Fiscal Year
GEF        Global Environment Facility


                                    2
GoM         Government of Mexico
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
INECC       National Institute for Ecology and Climate Change (Instituto Nacional de
            Ecología y Cambio Climático)
INFONAVIT   National Workers Housing Fund (Instituto del Fondo Nacional de la
            Vivienda para los Trabajadores)
JIRA        Environment Intermunicipal Board for the Integral Management of the
            Lower Basin of the Ayuquila River (Junta Intermunicipal de Medio
            Ambiente para la Gestion Integral de la Cuenca Baja del Río Ayuquila)
NCCS        National Climate Change System (Sistema Nacional de Cambio
            Climático)
PACMUN      Municipal Climate Change Action Plan (Plan de Acción Climática
            Municipal)
PEACC       State Climate Change Action Programs (Programas Estatales de Acción
            ante el Cambio Climático)
PECC        Special Program for Climate Change (Programa Especial de Cambio
            Climático)
PEF         Federal Expenditure Budget (Presupuesto de Egresos de la Federación)
PET         Temporary Employment Program (Programa de Empleo Temporal)
PETi        Emergency Temporary Employment Program (Programa de Empleo
            Temporal inmediato)
PND         National Development Plan (Plan Nacional de Desarrollo)
PRAH        Program for Prevention of Risks in Human Settlements (Programa de
            Prevención de Riesgos en los Asentamientos Humanos)
PSIA        Poverty and Social Impact Analysis
REDD+       Reduced Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation,
            Conservation of Forest Carbon Stocks, Sustainable Management of Forest
            and Enhancement of Forest Carbon Stocks in Developing Countries
SAGARPA     Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (Secretaría de
            Agricultura, Ganadería, Desarrollo Rural, Pesca y Alimentación)
SEDATU      Ministry of Agricultural, Territorial and Urban Development (Secretaría
            de Desarrollo Agrario, Territorial y Urbano)
SEDESOL     Ministry of Social Development (Secretaría de Desarrollo Social)
SEGOB       Ministry of Interior (Secretaría de Gobernación)
SEMARNAT    Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (Secretaría de Medio
            Ambiente y Recursos Naturales)
SHCP        Ministry of Finance (Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público)
SHF         Federal Mortgage Agency (Sociedad Hipotecaria Federal)
TA          Technical Assistance
TAP         Technical Assistance Program
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
UNFCCC      United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change




                                    3
      Vice President: Hasan A. Tuluy
    Country Director: Gloria M. Grandolini
      Sector Director: Ede J. Ijjasz-Vasquez
     Sector Manager: Markus Kostner
       Sector Leader: Alexandra Ortiz
   Task Team Leader: Rodrigo Serrano-Berthet
Co-Task Team Leader: Angélica Núñez
Co-Task Team Leader: Erick Fernandes
   ICR Team Leader: Martin Lenihan




                    4
                                                       MEXICO

      STRENGTHENING SOCIAL RESILIENCE TO CLIMATE CHANGE
                  DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN
                                           TABLE OF CONTENTS




A. Basic Information ....................................................................................................... v
B. Key Dates ................................................................................................................... v
C. Ratings Summary ....................................................................................................... v
D. Sector and Theme Codes........................................................................................... vi
E. Bank Staff .................................................................................................................. vi
F. Results Framework Analysis .................................................................................... vii
G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs ................................................................. ix
H. Restructuring (if any) ................................................................................................ ix

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................ 1
   1.1 Context at Appraisal ............................................................................................. 1
   1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
   approved) .................................................................................................................... 2
   1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
   and Reasons/Justification ............................................................................................ 4
   1.4 Original Policy Areas Recognized by the Program (as approved) ....................... 4
   1.5 Revised Policy Areas ............................................................................................ 6
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
   2.1 Program Performance ........................................................................................... 7
   2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation ............................................................. 7
   2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization: ..... 8
   2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any): ............................................ 9
3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 10
   3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation ....................................... 10
   3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives ........................................... 11
   3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating ............................................................ 15
   3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts .......................................... 15
   3.5 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops ... 18
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ......................................................... 18
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 19
   5.1 Bank Performance ............................................................................................... 19
   5.2 Borrower Performance ........................................................................................ 19
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 20
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 21
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............. 22
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 24
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ................................................... 25
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 26
Annex 5. Comments of Co-financiers .......................................................................... 27
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Strengthening Social
Country:                Mexico                   Program Name:             Resilience to Climate
                                                                           Change
Program ID:             P120170                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-81340
ICR Date:               10/01/2013               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           THE UNITED
Lending Instrument:     DPL                      Borrower:
                                                                           MEXICAN STATES
Original Total
                        USD 300.75M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 300.75M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 300.75M
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (SEMARNAT)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 AGENCE FRANCAISE DE DEVELOPPEMENT

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process             Date              Process              Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       02/28/2011      Effectiveness:             11/29/2012        11/29/2012
Appraisal:            01/17/2012      Restructuring(s):
Approval:             03/01/2012      Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:                   03/30/2013        03/30/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower                        Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory    Government:                          Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                                         Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                         Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                 5
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating:
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                   Quality at Entry
Program at any time        No                                              None
                                                   (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Program at any                            Quality of
                        No                                                 None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Forestry                                                               9                   9
Irrigation and drainage                                                4                   4
Non-compulsory pensions and insurance                                 11                  11
Sub-national government administration                                76                  76


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Natural disaster management                                           28                  28
Other environment and natural resources management                    29                  29
Other rural development                                                6                  6
Other urban development                                               25                  25
Participation and civic engagement                                    12                  12

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Hasan A. Tuluy                       Hasan A. Tuluy
Country Director:          Gloria M. Grandolini                 Gloria M. Grandolini
Sector Manager:            Markus Kostner                       Maninder S. Gill
Program Team Leader:       Rodrigo Serrano-Berthet              Rodrigo Serrano-Berthet
ICR Team Leader:           Martin Henry Lenihan
ICR Primary Author:        Martin Henry Lenihan
                           Ana Paola Lopez Espinosa




                                                   6
F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of this operation is to strengthen social resilience to climate change through
policies that will directly and indirectly benefit the poor by improving: (a) adaptation
planning oriented to the state level; (b) disaster risk reduction and territorial development
actions oriented to the municipal level; and (c) sustainable community forest
management at the community level.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)
The PDO was not modified during the life of the loan.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target    Formally       Actual Value
                                             Values (from       Revised        Achieved at
    Indicator           Baseline Value
                                               approval         Target        Completion or
                                              documents)        Values        Target Years
                   Number of states that completed during 2012-13 Climate Change Action
Indicator 1 :      Programs that included Specific Adaptation Measures to promote social
                   resilience
Value
(quantitative or   o                       3                                 8
Qualitative)
Date achieved      01/27/2012               03/02/2012                        09/01/2013
Comments           Achieved (267% achievement): Currently there are 8 climate change action
(incl. %           plans that have been prepared since the program was agreed. All of which
achievement)       include measures to promote social resilience
                   Inclusion of Measures supported by SEMARNAT to address unsustainable
                   growth of Tourism in coastal areas and livelihood co-benefits of climate
Indicator 2 :
                   policies for indigenous communities in the Regional Strategy for Climate
                   Change Adaptation in the Yucatan
Value
(quantitative or   0                       1                                 0
Qualitative)
Date achieved      01/27/2012                03/02/2012                         09/01/2013
                   Partially achieved (In progress) A roadmap for the strategy has been prepared
Comments
                   during consultative workshops with stakeholders from each of the Yucatan
(incl. %
                   Peninsula States, and public commitments have been made by state
achievement)
                   government participants
                   Number of State Climate Change Action Programs that included civil society
Indicator 3 :
                   participation in the design of social resilience initiatives
Value
(quantitative or   0                       3                                 8
Qualitative)
Date achieved      01/27/2012           03/02/2012                         09/01/2013
Comments           Achieved (267% achievement): All of the climate change action plans which


                                                7
(incl. %           have been prepared involved consultation workshops, which included diverse
achievement)       civil society stakeholders, as well as public consultation of the final draft prior
                   to publication.
                   Number of municipalities with high and very high scores in PRAH's disaster
Indicator 4 :      risk index which are implementing risk reduction institutional strengthening
                   and investment activities supported by PRAH.
Value
(quantitative or   0                         60                                  105
Qualitative)
Date achieved      01/27/2012              03/02/2012                            09/01/2013
Comments           Achieved (175% achievement): 105 Municipalities in the high or very high risk
(incl. %           category benefited from institutional strengthening through the preparation of
achievement)       risk atlases.
                   Number of urban development projects evaluated within the DUIS Working
                   Group that have incorporated at least the of criteria specified in SEDESOL's
Indicator 5 :
                   Sustainable
                   Urban Development Guidelines
Value
(quantitative or   0                         5                                   10
Qualitative)
Date achieved      01/27/2012               03/02/2012                          09/01/2013
Comments           Achieved (200%) So far, ten urban development projects have been approved
(incl. %           by the DUIS working Group in accordance with the sustainable urban
achievement)       development guidelines which is now mandatory.
Indicator 6 :      Percentage of eligible surface that is covered by climate risk insurance
Value
(quantitative or   69                        74                                  75.4%
Qualitative)
Date achieved      01/27/2012              03/02/2012                        09/01/2013
Comments           Achieved (102%). 70% of new beneficiaries of CADENA were producers
(incl. %           owning less than 20ha’s. These vulnerable smallholders are now enrolled in a
achievement)       program designed to protect their income from catastrophic climate events.
                   Number of REDD+ collaboration initiatives between CONAFOR and/or
                   SAGARPA and subnational Governments in REDD+ Early Action areas that
Indicator 7 :
                   are
                   operational
Value
(quantitative or   0                         2                                   7
Qualitative)
Date achieved      01/27/2012                03/02/2012                          09/01/2013
                   Achieved (350% achievement): Seven such collaborative initiatives have been
Comments
                   established. These associations constitute an inter-institutional platform to
(incl. %
                   bring together municipal governments with representatives of federal and state-
achievement)
                   level agencies
                   Active social participation in REDD+ policy making at sub-national level
                   through the operation of local CTCREDD+ (participation of civil society in all
Indicator 8 :
                   meetings as reflected in minutes, with a minimum 3 meetings per year per
                   CTC).



                                                  8
Value
(quantitative or   0                        6                                6
Qualitative)
Date achieved      01/27/2012               03/02/2012                       09/01/2013
Comments           Achieved (100% achievement): sub-national events were held (2 in Campeche
(incl. %           and 4 in Quintana Roo). The minutes of these events confirmed civil society
achievement)       participation.
                   Percentage of participating communities in REDD+ Early Action Areas
Indicator 9 :
                   receiving support from regional landscape management agents.
Value
(quantitative or   0                        33%                              15.7%
Qualitative)
Date achieved      01/27/2012               03/02/2012                       09/01/2013
Comments
                   Partially achieved (47% achievement): 15.7% of participating communities
(incl. %
                   received support (169 communities out of 1,074).
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                               Formally
                                              Values (from                        Achieved at
      Indicator       Baseline Value                           Revised
                                                approval                         Completion or
                                                             Target Values
                                               documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 :      There was no IOI for this operation
Value
(quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
          Date ISR
 No.                             DO                          IP               Disbursements
          Archived
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1      10/12/2012          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    0.00

H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                  9
1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
1. Climate change will compound existing climatic risks, which already affect Mexico
   disproportionately due to its arid geography, extensive low lying coastal areas, and
   exposure to hydromet events arising in the Pacific, Atlantic, and Gulf of Mexico.
   Climate Change Scenarios predict that Mexico will become warmer (between 2 and 4° C by
   2050) with decreasing rainfall, that ocean temperatures will increase between 1 and 2° C
   intensifying hurricanes, and that sea levels could rise by up to 2 meters leading to increased
   flooding. Analytical work conducted during the preparation of the DPL demonstrated that
   these climatic changes would negatively affect rural livelihoods and human welfare in the
   poorest municipalities, and slow down the national rate of poverty reduction. Municipal level
   analyses of natural disaster risk show that municipalities with the highest risk to housing and
   public infrastructure also tended to be poor and rural, with large indigenous populations, poor
   quality housing, and limited access to disaster management instruments. In terms of
   vulnerability of rural livelihoods, a World Bank study on the social dimensions of climate
   change in Mexico, estimated that by 2045, vulnerability would increase in municipalities
   characterized by indigenous people and smallholders1. According to the study, moderate
   poverty is expected to decline over the coming decades. However, once climate change is
   taken into account, it is estimated that the pace of poverty reduction decreases by 2.4%,
   leaving an extra 2.9mn people in poverty2.
2. The social dimensions of climate change are even more complex in rapidly expanding
   and poorly planned urban areas, as well as forest communities. Rapid urbanization adds
   to the cumulative risks of disasters, with the percentage of people living in urban areas
   expecting to increase from 70% to 80% by 2025.3 Poor territorial and urban planning
   increases the vulnerability of urban populations, especially poor inhabitants, who may be
   more likely to build low quality structures in vulnerable locations such as slopes and
   floodplains on the urban periphery. In terms of Forest dependent communities, Mexico ranks
   12th worldwide in Forest cover, and there is a growing appreciation, not only of the role of
   Forests in carbon sequestration, but also in aiding adaptation by providing a protective layer
   that reduces soil erosion and protects watersheds. This important adaptation resource depends
   on the active management by the 8,500 indigenous communities and ejidos that own 70% of
   the forest. However, 55% of the 13mn inhabitants of forest communities live in extreme
   poverty, threatening their role as stewards of this critical adaptation and mitigation resource.
3. The need to address the challenges of global climate change has been a unifying,
   consistent, and increasingly high-profile theme of Mexican social and economic policy in
   recent years. The 2007–2012 National Development Plan (PND) incorporated environmental
   sustainability as one of its four pillars, reflecting the close connection between environmental
   and livelihood sustainability of the poor in Mexico. Building on the PND, the National

1
 Serrano-Berthet R, de la Fuente A, Lenihan M, Arnold M. 2013. Social Dimensions of Climate Change in
Mexico. Washington DC, World Bank.
2
  The rate of moderate poverty (pobreza patrimonial) is expected to decline from 49.4% in 2005 to 15.25%
in 2030, based on the study’s own sample of selected municipalities.
3
    Serrano-Berthet R, de la Fuente A, Lenihan M, Arnold M. 2013. Ibid.



                                                     1
    Climate Change Strategy (ENACC) was approved in May 2007 by the Inter-secretarial
    Commission on Climate Change (CICC). ENACC placed climate change adaptation and
    mitigation at the core of Mexico’s national development policy, establishing the long -term
    agenda and setting medium- to long-term adaptation and mitigation goals.
4. The 2009-2012 Special Program for climate Change (PECC), published in August 2009,
   established the GoM’s plan of action for addressing the challenges of climate change. It
   established 142 adaptation goals to be monitored through 2012. By establishing sector-
   specific reduction targets and adaptation measures, the PECC has mainstreamed climate
   change in the country’s economic and social development. In 2012, Mexico submitted the
   Fifth Communication to the UNFCCC, making it the Non-Annex I country with the highest
   number of national communications. Recognizing Mexico’s leadership in terms of both its
   domestic policies and programs, and its international commitments, Mexico was ranked 11th
   among all countries in the Climate Change Performance Index (CCPI) for 2010. Following
   PECC’s launch, the GoM has committed to supporting states and municipalities in designing
   their climate change action programs.
5. While providing a robust framework for long term policy engagement, the 2009-2012
   PECC faced important challenges to reducing the impact of climate change on the poor:
   (i) An emphasis on mitigation over adaptation (ii) a lack of clear policy guidance on how to
   deal with the unequal impact of climate change, and (iii) an overemphasis on the role of
   sectoral ministries, as opposed to inter-sectoral coordination. In the year leading up to the
   DPL, significant efforts were made to address these challenges including the approval of a
   mid-term adaptation policy framework that recognized the differential social impacts of
   climate change.
6. The Strengthening Social Resilience to Climate Change DPL builds on the long standing
   engagement between the Government of Mexico and the World Bank which has
   expanded in recent years to include: (a) Knowledge services such as the analysis of the
   social dimensions of climate change and the climate change public expenditure review
   produced in 2012; (b) Diverse financial services, such as a series of Development Policy
   Loans, Specific Investment Loans, Global Environmental Facility (GEF) and other grants;
   and (c) Convening and coordination services, that included high level facilitation activities
   during Conference of the Parties to the UNFCCC (COP) 16, and South-South Collaboration
   on Forestry leading up to COP 17 (see Annex 6 for the detailed Stages of Climate Change
   Engagement in Mexico by type of services provided).
7. The macroeconomic policy framework was adequate for a Development Policy Loan.
   Fiscal and monetary policies had been well-managed in years preceding the 2008 global
   financial crisis, resulting in a steady decline in public sector deficits and low, stable inflation
   rates. The GoM had carefully managed both its external and domestic borrowing to reduce
   the possibility of crowding out the private sector and to maintain Mexico’s external stability.
   As a result, Mexico was well positioned to move into economic recovery and to manage its
   debt burden.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
8. The objective of this operation is to strengthen social resilience to climate change through
   policies that will directly and indirectly benefit the poor by improving (i) adaptation oriented
   to the state level (ii) disaster risk reduction and territorial development actions oriented to the
   municipal level (iii) sustainable forestry management at the community level. Table 1
   summarizes the prior actions and key indicators agreed for each policy area.




                                                  2
                      Table 1: Policy Areas, Prior Actions, and Key Outcome Indicators

                                                                         Key Outcome Indicators by Completion
Policy Area                          Prior Actions

Strengthening       The CICC’s Adaptation Working Group has: (i)         Number of States that completed during
social resilience   approved a Mid-Term Adaptation Policies              2012-2013 Climate Change Action
to climate          Framework (Marco de Políticas de Adaptación          Programs that included specific measures
change through      de Mediano Plazo), which requires the                to promote social resilience (baseline: 0,
long-term           development of measures for reduction of             target: 3)
adaptation          differential vulnerability and strengthening of
planning            local adaptive planning; and (ii) created a
                    Technical Advisory Committee to facilitate
                    participation of experts and key stakeholders in
                    the formulation of a future national adaptation
                    strategy of Mexico.

                    The States of Yucatán, Campeche, and Quintana        Inclusion of measures supported by
                    Roo have signed a “General Coordination              SEMARNAT and/or INE to address
                    Agreement on the Yucatán Peninsula’s Climate         unsustainable growth of tourism in coastal
                    Change” to develop a Regional Strategy for           areas and livelihood co-benefits of climate
                    Climate Change Adaptation in the Yucatán             policies for indigenous communities in the
                    Peninsula and a Climate Action Fund for the          Regional Strategy for Climate Change
                    Yucatán Peninsula, coordinated by the Climate        Adaptation in the Yucatán Peninsula.
                    Change Regional Commission for the Yucatán
                    Peninsula.

                    Congress has approved a new budgetary                Number of State Climate Change Action
                    program “National Program for Climate Change         Programs that included civil society
                    Adaptation and Prevention of Natural Disasters”      participation in the design of social
                    (Programa Nacional de Adaptación del Cambio          resilience initiatives. (baseline 0, target 3)
                    Climático y de Prevención de Desastres
                    Naturales), to finance climate change adaptation
                    initiatives in an amount of 300,000,000 Pesos,
                    and implemented by SEMARNAT.
Strengthen          SEDESOL has strengthened the delivery of risk        Number of municipalities with high and
disaster risk       reduction actions in Municipalities through (i)      very high scores in PRAH's disaster risk
reduction and       the creation of a new program for risk               index which are implementing risk
resilient           prevention in human settlements (“Prevención         reduction institutional strengthening and
territorial         de Riesgos en los Asentamientos Humanos”),           investment activities supported by PRAH.
development         which offers financing for risk reduction actions    (Source: PRAH's Risk Index; Baseline
                    to Municipalities; and (ii) the issuance of new      January 2012: 0; target by March 2013: 60
                    operational rules of the temporary employment        municipalities).
                    program (Programa de Empleo Temporal, PET)
                    for the fiscal year 2011, to orient it towards the
                    financing of local disaster prevention projects.

                    SEDESOL’s guidelines for sustainable urban           Number of urban development projects
                    development, aimed at fostering sustainable          evaluated within the DUIS Working Group
                    urban territorial development and increased          that have incorporated at least the following
                    social resilience, have been incorporated by         criteria specified in SEDESOL's
                    selected housing institutions of the Borrower,       Sustainable Urban Development
                    such as CONAVI with its upfront subsidy              Guidelines: (i) location, (ii) connectivity
                    program “Esta es tu casa”, and INFONAVIT             and accessibility, and (iii) risk prevention


                                                        3
                     with its mortgage origination criteria.             (target: 5 between January 2012-March
                                                                         2013).
                     SAGARPA strengthened and improved the
                     targeting of its natural disaster risk management   Percentage of eligible surface that is
                     and prevention program (CADENA) for low             covered by climate risk insurance (baseline:
                     income farmers, by lowering the eligibility         69%; target: 74%)
                     ceiling for disaster and catastrophe insurance
                     payouts.
Foster the           CONAFOR signed bilateral cooperation                Number of two REDD+ collaboration
involvement of       agreements (Convenios de Colaboración), with        initiatives between CONAFOR and/or
federal agencies,    SAGARPA and SEMARNAT, fostering the                 SAGARPA and subnational Governments
civil society and    sharing of information among said institutions      in REDD+ Early Action areas that are
local actors in      on forestry programs, and aligning procedures       operational (baseline:0; target: 2)
community            and incentive programs on agricultural, livestock
forest               and forestry issues.
management and
                     A national multi-stakeholder consultative           Active social participation in REDD+
climate change
                     technical council and three state-level multi-      policy making at sub-national level trough
strategies in line
                     stakeholder consultative technical councils         the operation of local CTC-REDD+
with the National
                     (CTC–REDD) have been created.                       (participation of civil society in all
REDD+ Vision
                                                                         meetings as reflected in minutes, with a
to build resilient
                                                                         minimum 3 meetings per year per CTC).
livelihoods in
rural and forest                                                         At least, thirty three percent of participating
                     The Board of JIRA approved REDD+ as a
areas                                                                    communities in REDD+ Early Action
                     strategic line for its multi-annual work program.
                                                                         Areas receiving support from regional
                                                                         landscape management agents (baseline
                                                                         0%, target 33%)

   1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
   Reasons/Justification
   Not Applicable

   1.4 Original Policy Areas Recognized by the Program (as approved)
   Policy Area 1 - Strengthening Social Resilience through Long-term Climate Change
   Adaptation Planning oriented to the state level
   9. The specific objective of this policy area was to recognize the development of national and
      state government policy frameworks and funding mechanisms that foster inter-sectoral,
      intergovernmental, and multi-stakeholder coordination and collaboration to promote socially
      inclusive and pro-poor adaptation policies and programs. Climate change adaptation has a
      predominantly local dimension, especially in Mexico. However, the 2009 – 2012 PECC
      focused mainly on sectors and federal responsibilities, while state governments focus on
      directly providing services for their constituent populations. Analytical work conducted
      during the preparation of the program indicated that by 2045, vulnerability to climate change
      will increase the most in central states like Zacatecas and Guanajuato, and that important
      increases will also occur in the exposed Southern States of Yucatan and Chiapas, as well as
      the drought effected Northern state of Chihuahua. This shows the importance of state specific
      adaptation planning and the need to strengthen the mechanisms for coordination between
      different levels of government, and different government agencies. Adequate financing to
      support implementation of state-level adaptation measures has also been lacking. The three
      prior actions agreed under this policy area aim to address these challenges by strengthening
      long term adaptation planning at the state level and establishing financing mechanisms.



                                                          4
10. The first prior action focused on CICC’s adaptation working group approving a mid -term
    adaptation framework that emphasized local adaptive planning, the need to create knowledge
    resources necessary for evidence based sub-national planning, and the establishment of an
    expert working group to facilitate the preparation of a National Adaptation Strategy. The
    second prior action was the signing of an agreement between the states of the Yucatan
    Peninsula in 2010, which creates a coordination framework for the development of a regional
    climate change action plan for this particularly vulnerable zone. This breakthrough agreement
    will be initially implemented through three projects (i) a Regional Climate Change
    Adaptation Strategy, (ii) a Regional Program for Emissions Reduction from Deforestation
    and Forest Degradation, and (iii) the establishment of a Fund for Climate Action for the
    Yucatan Peninsula. The third prior action agreed under this policy area, was the establishment
    of a Climate Change Adaptation and Natural Disasters Program in 2011 as a new budgetary
    program worth an initial US$22mn, earmarked for the states considered to be socially
    disadvantaged, and vulnerable to climate risk.
Policy Area 2 – Strengthening Social Resilience through Disaster Risk Reduction and
Territorial Development Actions oriented to the municipal level
11. The specific policy objective within this policy area was to recognize government program
    incentives that enhance disaster risk reduction, increase social resilience and promote
    sustainable territorial development at the municipal level. The GoM recognizes that disaster
    risk management in Mexico has in general been reactive. The analytical work underpinning
    this DPL found that Municipalities with high levels of exposure are mostly poor and rural,
    with large indigenous populations, more housing with dirt floors, and more female-headed
    households. It was also found that only 21% of municipalities with high levels of hydro-met
    exposure had a disaster response plan, 61% had a civil defense program, while little more
    than half reported having hazard maps. Key challenges include lack of technical and financial
    support for municipalities for disaster response, and the absence of guidelines and incentives
    to prevent extensive urban expansion into hazardous zones. Another key challenge is the need
    to provide greater protection for the rural poor against climatic variability. This DPL
    recognizes aspects of the Government‘s program that aim to address these challenges by
    moving toward a more proactive, flexible and accountable disaster risk management system
    that is better linked to government programs, protects the poor from hazard event impacts
    more effectively, and strengthens long-term resilience to climate change impacts. To this end,
    three policy actions were agreed, the first of which established a new program to support
    municipalities in human settlement risk prevention (PRAH) and the altering of operational
    rules for the temporary employment program (PET) in 2011 to allow financing for disaster
    prevention programs. SEDESOL’s new program for risk prevention4 (PRAH) extends
    financing for risk reduction actions to all municipalities with high or very high risk of
    disasters, and was launched in 2011. The program finances the development of municipal risk
    atlases. Changes to the temporary employment program (PETi), involved changing the rules
    of a program designed to provide employment to poor households during the agricultural off-
    season, or following natural disasters, to allow beneficiaries to engage in public works to
    reduce disaster risk. The second prior action under policy area 2, involved the incorporation
    of SEDESOLs guidelines on sustainable urban development into the selection criteria for
    CONAVI’s Esta es Tu Casa upfront subsidy program, as well as INFONAVIT’s mortgage
    origination criteria. These guidelines call for a relatively modest densification, accompanied
    by other changes to promote sustainability such as an increase in mixed use and green spaces

4
 Under the 2013-2018 Administration, this Program now operates under the newly created Ministry of
Agricultural, Territorial and Urban Development (SEDATU).



                                                  5
    per capita. The final prior action under policy area 3 was the agreement with SAGARPA to
    better target its climate risk insurance program (CADENA) to low income farmers, by
    lowering the eligibility criteria. As a result, the minimum hectares a farmer can have in order
    to be eligible is 10, rather than the previously established cut of 20 hectares.
Policy Area 3 – Strengthening Social Resilience at the Community Level through
Sustainable Community Forest Management
12. The policy objective within this policy area was to strengthen sustainable community forest
    management practices in order to enhance the resilience of poor rural and indigenous
    communities that derive their livelihood from forests, while at the same time mitigating
    carbon emissions from deforestation and forest degradation. The analytical program for the
    DPL indicated a strong connection between hydromet disaster exposure, and local forest
    management, with 7 out of 10 municipalities with high hydromet exposure classed as being at
    high risk of deforestation by INECC. Mexico’s policy framework for sustainable community
    forestry management is recognized globally as good practice for reducing deforestation and
    mitigating climate change, while at the same time contributing to adaptation and social
    resilience by providing income and employment opportunities, and strengthening
    communities’ resilience to natural and economic disasters that may be induced by climate
    change. However, there are a number of ongoing challenges to optimizing the policy
    environment for community level forest management, including (i) discrepancies between
    forestry and other rural policies and programs, especially agriculture and livestock (ii) the
    need to increase public participation in the innovative REDD+ agenda, and (iii) geographical
    fragmentation of forest management efforts that operate only at the level of individual
    communities. The three prior actions agreed under policy area 3, address each of these
    challenges. The first prior action involved CONAFOR signing bilateral cooperation
    agreements with SAGARPA and SEMARNAT in 2011, in order to align procedures and
    incentive programs.       The CONAFOR-SEMARNAT agreement defined a basis for
    exchanging information and designing shared indicators for the forestry sector. The
    CONAFOR-SAGARPA agreement commits both institutions to support REDD+ strategies,
    share information, establish joint training and advisory services for potential beneficiaries of
    CONAFOR and SAGARPA programs, as well as the promotion of regional activities for
    water basin management and the joint design of economic integration projects. The second
    prior action aims to increase civil society participation in policy making related to forests and
    climate change, and the REDD+ agenda, by creating a national consultative stakeholder
    council, as well as state-level multi-stakeholder consultative technical councils. The national
    multi-stakeholder council was created in June 2011, and serves as an advisory body to the
    REDD+ Working Group. It is comprised of representatives from indigenous communities,
    civil society organizations, the private sector, and government agencies. State-level
    consultative councils were established in August 2011 in Chiapas, Quintana Roo and
    Campeche, and serve as a partnership between government, civil society, and academia. The
    third prior action under this policy area promotes greater geographic integration and
    collaboration among communities at the landscape level in the state of Jalisco. This action
    involved the approval of the Junta Municipal del Rio Ayuquila, as an inter-municipal board
    (comprising 10 municipalities) qualified to collaborate with CONAFOR to customize and
    implement the national REDD+ strategy at the local level. This action recognizes that the
    ecological boundaries of forests and watersheds cut across the administrative boundaries of
    Mexico’s 2441 municipalities.

1.5 Revised Policy Areas
N/A


                                                 6
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Program Performance
13. The strengthening social resilience to climate change DPL was disbursed in a single tranche
    of US$300,751,879.70 in December 2012, subsequent to the loan becoming effective in
    November 20125. All prior actions agreed had been met at the time of signing the loan
    agreement (see section 1.4). The performance of the program in terms of delivering key
    outcome indicators by time of completion is summarized below. The achievements of the
    program in most cases surpassed the targets specified in the program (for more detailed
    information – see Annex 9).


2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation
14. In addition to a favorable macroeconomic environment, there were several factors that
    positively affected the operation’s implementation, as described below:
15. Strong government commitment to climate change adaptation and mitigation. Mexico is
    one of the leaders among non-industrialized countries.6 The GoM has been actively pursuing
    the development of a climate change national strategy over the past two decades, having been
    making steady progress toward building the necessary institutional and legal scaffolding.
    This DPL, together with engagement in the preparation of adaptation plans at the state and
    municipal level, reflected the GoM’s growing interest for adaptation. As a result, the
    operation’s main focus was on climate change adaptation actions and social resilience that
    were already part of the core business of the participating institutions (i.e., SEMARNAT,
    SEDESOL, SAGARPA). Although not necessarily perceived as having a CCA focus, these
    business practices had been incorporated over the years in response to the requirement of
    each organization to carry out their daily work in the face of climate uncertainty.
16. Long-standing collaboration between the GoM and the Bank on climate change and
    disaster risk management. The GoM’s and the World Bank have been collaborating on
    climate change since the mid-1990s, while work on disaster risk management has been
    ongoing since 1998. At the time of preparation, there was a total of 36 initiatives, either
    active or in the pipeline, financed by various sources, including IBRD loans, GEF grants,
    carbon finance emission reductions purchase agreements (ERPAs), and other financial
    instruments. Preceding IBRD operations in other sectors offered useful precedents for the
    mainstreaming of climate change into sector policies. The emphasis had been mainly on
    mitigation (Climate Change DPL and the Low Carbon DPL), until the DPL on the
    Framework for Adaptation to Climate Change in the Water Sector in 2013. The
    Strengthening Social Resilience to Climate Change DPL continues the emphasis on
    adaptation, and was the first World Bank lending operation whose central, explicit theme was
    the reduction of the impacts of climate change and variability on the poor.
17. In terms of disaster risk management, the first activity of the Bank’s newly created Disaster
    Management Facility was an analysis of disaster risk management capacity in Mexico,

5
 The arrangement of disbursing the entire loan amount the day after effectiveness is relatively unique to
Mexico.

6
  Mexico was one of the first non-Annex I countries to submit a national communication in 1997. Presently,
it stands as the only one that has issued five communications, followed only by Uruguay with four
communications.


                                                     7
    prompting GoM to request the first World Bank loan on disaster risk management. The Bank
    also worked with Mexico to become the first developing country to issue a catastrophe bond,
    which provides coverage to FONDEN for very large hurricanes and earthquakes. In 2011, the
    Bank carried out a study on the Urban Poor, Disaster Risk Management and Climate Change
    in Mexico City.
18. Strong knowledge base: During the preparation and implementation of this DPL, the World
    Bank and other partners (AFD, GTZ, UNDP) collaborated with the Government of Mexico
    on a number of analytical and advisory activities as part of a comprehensive program of
    knowledge services, with the explicit goal of reducing the social impact from climate change
    effects.
19. Non-additionality acts as a disincentive for participating institutions. As it is the case
    with all World Bank lending in Mexico, the financial resources attached to this DPL were a
    transfer to the Treasury and not to the sector agencies, according to Mexican legislation;
    hence, there were limited incentives for sector agencies to support these instruments. Despite
    this challenge, the policy program agreed actually surpassed most of its targets, and the GoM
    recognizes that the technical assistance provided by the World Bank to all counterparts was a
    fundamental added value to the Program.
20. Difficulty in Coordinating Subnational Actors: One of the main factors affecting the
    implementation of a number of prior actions was the difficulties encountered in coordinating
    or incentivizing coordination among multiple sub-national actors. This challenge underpinned
    the delay in the preparation of the Yucatan Peninsula Adaptation Strategy which required
    cooperation among three different state governments, the mixed content of the State Climate
    Change Action Programs which required cooperation between different state and federal
    entities, as well as the mixed quality of the Risk Atlases produced under PRAH, which
    required coordination between municipal governments and federal entities. Thus, while the
    multi-level and cross-sectoral (environment, agriculture, urban development, forestry)
    approach adopted by the program was a significant strength, it also posed an important
    challenge.
21. Government Transition: Another factor affecting implementation was the transition to a
    new government in 2012, which resulted in changing personnel among the implementing
    agencies (especially CONAFOR), the creation of new implementing agencies such as
    SEDATU (the under-secretariat of Urban Development and Territorial Planning that was part
    of SEDESOL in the former administration, became part of SEDATU), and in some instances
    a different set of priorities (e.g. a reduction in financing for PRAH).
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:
22. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design: Overall, the DPL program benefited from a
    strong M&E system embedded in the operation’s Policy Matrix, with a robust set of outcome
    indicators. In line with the Bank’s approach to closely align its operations with the PND, the
    outcome indicators answered to objectives included in the 2007-2012 PND and other
    planning instruments that were articulated with the PND, including national communications
    to the UNFCCC, and the 2009-2012 PECC. Specifically, this Program contributed to
    achieving the objective of promoting adaptation measures to climate change effects. This
    objective was supported by specific strategies, including: promoting the inclusion of climate
    change adaptation aspects in planning instruments and operation (strategy 11.1); assessing the
    impacts, vulnerability and climate change adaptation in different socio-economic sectors
    (strategy 11.3); and promoting the dissemination of information about climate change
    impacts, vulnerability and adaptation measures (strategy 11.4), to which this DPL together
    with the activities supported under the TA program contributed.


                                                8
23. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Implementation: The Bank monitored progress under
    the DPL through regular supervison. SEMARNAT/INECC, SEDESOL/SEDATU,
    SAGARPA and CONAFOR conducted effective overall M&E of the actions included in the
    Policy Matrix as well as the activities being supported under the TA program, collecting data
    needed from the various units within these institutions, as well as the other participating
    agencies. The quality of the data collected was verified, as it had to be formally delivered to
    SHCP and NAFIN, before being shared with the task team.
24. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Utilization: INECC, SAGARPA, and SEDATU are
    using this M&E system to actively monitor the programs they are supporting (preparation of
    State Climate Change Action Programs, PRAH, and CADENA). This system also highlights
    some of the challenges faced by CONAFOR in collecting data from decentralized agencies
    and associations at the subnational levels of governments. Although it is still too early to
    assess, the data evaluated is likely to be used to inform decision-making, specifically with
    respect to further strengthening adaptation measures in planning instruments, with a greater
    emphasis on the social component by targeting the most vulnerable groups (particularly in the
    State Climate Change Action Programs). The data collected can also be used by certain
    agencies that operate federal programs, in order to receive more resources (for example, to
    increase the operational budget of PRAH for next fiscal year, in response to the high demand
    from municipalities that want to elaborate Risk Atlases).
2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):
25. There is an ongoing program of financial and knowledge services related to climate change
    adaptation in general and State Climate Change Action Programs in particular.7 These include
    a range of programmatic advisory services on environmental policy, agricultural risk, urban
    development, and disaster risk management, as well as a GEF Grant financing a Coastal Zone
    Watershed Conservation Project. Also, the National Institute for Ecology and Climate
    Change (INECC) has expressed a strong interest in continuing collaboration on the topic of
    Municipal Climate Change Action Plans (PACMUN) with a stronger focus on adaptation
    measures and analysis of social impacts, Public Participation in Climate Change Adaptation
    Planning, Indigenous Knowledge for Climate Change Adaptation, as well as Gender and
    Climate Change Adaptation. The use and application of the Climate Change Knowledge
    Portal (CCKP) to the work of INECC is also being discussed.8
26. There is an opportunity in continue collaboration on CADENA as there is a current proposal
    of restructuring the program for 2014-2018 by introducing an innovative approach: social
    component (for low-income producers affected by natural disasters without access to
    insurance); support for producers; immediate response for emergencies (which will have
    100% federal subsidy). Further, there is an area of opportunity in the Disaster Risk
    Management Area (collaborating on the development of Municipal Risk Atlases, assessing
    their quality and their usability and impact in municipal planning and disaster risk reduction).


7
 The Government of Mexico requested the Bank to engage with state governments in developing their
PEACC. The Bank responded to this request by engaging with the governments of Campeche, Michoacan,
Oaxaca and Zacatecas to prioritize interventions for climate change adaptation. See: MX MOU Subnational
CC Plans – P105849.

8
 The CCKP is a central hub of information, data and reports about climate change around the world, that
allows users to query, map, compare, chart and summarize key climate and climate-related information:
http://climateknowledgeportal.worldbank.org



                                                    9
27. There is also the possibility to engage in targeted technical collaboration to assess the longer
    term impacts of the policy measures, implemented under the program, on promoting shared
    prosperity. This could include an assessment of the impact of CADENA in protecting the
    incomes of vulnerable farmers from climate variability, the success of social resilience
    measures supported by State Climate Change Action Programs in protecting livelihoods and
    human settlements in marginalized communities, and the role of REDD+ in supporting
    income generation in impoverished forest dependent communities.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
28. The objectives of the DPL continue to be highly relevant, particularly in view of:
    -   Strategic importance of climate change in Mexico: The GoM has continued to be at
        the forefront of climate change adaptation issues and has shown a strong commitment to
        climate change adaptation planning at the federal and subnational levels. This
        commitment is underscored by the substantial progress being made toward the
        development of a national climate change strategy, including building the underlying
        legal and institutional frameworks. Some of the specific outcomes include: the
        submission of the fifth national framework in September 2012, the General Climate
        Change Law in June 2012, and the Sector level CCA in November 2012.
    -   The GoM submitted the Fifth National Communication to the UNFCCC in Continuous
        institutional support from incoming administration: In a multi-party agreement
        subscribed in December 2012, incoming authorities had already made explicit their
        commitment to continue to make climate change one of the country’s priorities.
    -   Alignment with the CPS 2008-2013: Overall, the outcomes of this DPL together with
        the TA activities have contributed to further strengthening the financial and knowledge-
        based relationship between the GoM and the World Bang Group. Specifically, this DPL
        has contributed to the thematic area IV: “Developing Infrastructure and Assuring Energy
        Security and Environmental Sustainability” as it has strengthened the knowledge and
        capacity of the federal and local governments regarding climate change adaptation
        planning and disaster risk reduction.
    -   Selection of PDO: The objective of this operation focused on policies that would directly
        and indirectly benefit the poor by improving adaptation planning, disaster risk reduction
        and territorial development, and sustainable forestry management. This was based on
        preliminary analysis, which showed that the most vulnerable to climate change continue
        to be primarily rural, indigenous and natural resource dependent.

29. The design of the DPL was relevant considering the alignment with the GoM’s planning
    instruments, such as the 2007-2012 PND, the National Communications to the UNFCCC, and
    the 2009-2012 PECC. The DPL was also considered innovative for being the Wor ld Bank’s
    first lending operation whose central, explicit theme was adaptation through strengthening
    social resilience to the impacts of climate change and variability. Understanding that climate
    change and social resilience are a cross-sectorial and multi-stakeholder issue, this Program
    integrated the following sectors: environment, agriculture, forestry, urban, territorial and
    social development.

30. The implementation of the DPL is also relevant as it puts forward adaption issues in the
    climate change agenda, and it strengthens the importance of targeting the most poor and
    vulnerable groups. The outcomes continue to be relevant to inform future planning
    instruments such as the new PECC and the National Climate Change Strategy, and at the sub-


                                                10
    national level, the State Climate Change Action Programs and the Municipal Climate Change
    Plans. The outcomes also complement the new 2013-2018 PND, which establishes a strategy
    for strengthening national climate change policy and environmental protection to transition
    into a competitive, sustainable, resilient and low-carbon economy. This operation also helped
    to strengthen inter-sectoral coordination, as demonstrated with the creation of the National
    Climate Change System and the establishment of the new CICC.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives
31. The operation has largely achieved its three program development objectives. For seven of
    the nine original outcome indicators, the achievements exceed original expectations. The
    main achievements can be summarized as follows:
Policy Area 1 - Strengthening Social Resilience through Long-term Climate Change
Adaptation Planning oriented to the state level
Ranking: Satisfactory
32. This DPL contributed significantly to GoM’s efforts to further strengthening long term
    adaptation at the state level. Evidence of the achievement of this objective can be seen from
    the fact that over twice the number of state climate change action programs were prepared (8
    in total), compared to original target of 3. At the time of preparation of the DPL, only two
    states, Veracruz and Nuevo Leon, and the Federal District had completed their State Climate
    Change Action Programs (PEACC). Since then, PEACCs have been prepared in Baja
    California, Baja California Sur, Zacatecas, Chiapas, Guanajuato, Hidalgo, Puebla and
    Tabasco. The preparation of each of these PEACCs was characterized by the participation of
    civil society, mostly through workshops, as well as a public consultation of the final draft
    prior to publication.
33. Each of the eight states that completed their PEACC since the preparation of the DPL also
    included specific measures to promote social resilience and adaptation. Baja California’s
    PEACC includes measures for the preparation of a State Risk Atlas at the human settlement
    level, in collaboration with municipalities; as well as the implementation of urban
    development programs. The state of Guanajuato’s program targets socially excluded groups,
    and prioritizes the relocation of social groups settled in risk areas, particularly those at risk of
    floods. The state of Hidalgo’s PEACC includes a vulnerability index at the municipal level,
    and aims to minimize climate change risk of human settlements, and to plan for appropriate
    geographical distribution of new settlements according to vulnerability. Other planned actions
    include incorporating climate change prevention criteria in territorial planning and
    developing an action plan to target groups that are more vulnerable to extreme weather
    events. The state of Puebla’s PEACC has a clear focus on reducing the exposure of social
    groups that are vulnerable to climate change and variability, while increasing resilience and
    adaptive capacity of the population and natural systems. Similarly, Tabasco’s PEACC is
    focused on strengthening adaptive capacity of economically and geographically vulnerable
    groups.
34. However, it is the State of Chiapas Program which stands out as a model for incorporating
    social resilience measures. This PEACC establishes an Inter-secretariat Climate Change
    Commission, designed to create mechanisms of dialogue and participation among state
    agencies and social organizations, to ensure the opinion and needs of civil society are taken
    into account. There are also actions planned to strengthen the capacity of rural and indigenous
    communities, through mechanisms that respect their culture and organization, while building
    on their traditional knowledge for sustainable use of natural resources. Adaptation guidelines
    specified in the program include: generation of detailed scientific information to deepen



                                                  11
    knowledge about climate change adaptation and disaster risk management; disaster
    prevention and relief in exposed areas through incorporating risk management at the
    community, municipal and regional level, through effective social and community
    participation; improvement of early warning systems, and state and regional emergency
    plans. Another specific action line provides guidance for vulnerability reduction and disaster
    risk management in human settlements, and includes: climate sensitive urban planning
    criteria; environmental criteria, engaging multiple social actors and economic sectors in urban
    planning; identifying the most vulnerable people in exposed areas and seeking their consent
    for relocation. The development of Chiapas PEACC has contributed to capacity building and
    synergies in the state of Chiapas, which have been strengthened through training, technical
    and educational workshops about the REDD+ mechanism for state government officials, as
    well as civil society organizations that form the current Consultative Technical Advisory
    Committee of REDD+ Chiapas.
35. Another exemplary PEACC was produced by Baja California Sur. This Program has an entire
    chapter dedicated to social vulnerability, and includes an analysis of vulnerability of human
    settlements related to their exposure to droughts, sea level rise, and proximity to coastal areas
    and floods caused by hurricanes. It also includes an analysis of the vulnerability of traditional
    farmer and fisher communities; vulnerability as perceived by inhabitants of protected natural
    areas; and the impacts of climate change on health. It also focuses on the unique vulnerability
    of women to climate change impacts. It includes policy recommendations with respect to
    vulnerability and poverty; identifying risk areas; environmental education; and adaptation
    measures.
36. Among the State Climate Change Action Programs, there were also a number of areas for
    improvement. For instance, while the Chiapas Program and Baja California Sur were
    exemplary, the attention paid to social resilience and adaption in the Zacatecas plan was
    limited to some minor proposals for legislative reform. Also, aside from Chiapas, most of the
    other PEACCs did not define specific targets, or specify monitoring and evaluation
    arrangements for the social resilience measures proposed. The difference in the quality of
    PEACCs that have been produced can be explained to some extent on the complexity and
    diversity of each state, and the nature of the consultants/academic institutions/NGOs that
    produced them. INECC only provides general guidelines of the basic contents of these
    programs, however, they have learned from this operation that they should strengthen their
    supervision to make sure that adaptation measures and indicators are included.
37. While not completed, progress has been made on the preparation of the Yucatan Peninsula
    Adaptation Strategy. A multi-stakeholder workshop that included representatives from each
    of the three states was conducted in May 2013, where it was agreed that the Strategy would
    include measures targeting sustainable tourism. A roadmap for strategy preparation is to be
    presented at a stakeholder meeting in October 2013, and has already been drafted by UNDP.
    This event will also announce the creation of a joint regional climate change adaptation fund.
    The preparation of this strategy and launching of the fund builds on an already successful
    collaborative effort in the preparation of a REDD+ Strategy for the Yucatan Peninsula
    Region. Significant progress was also made in developing information and decision making
    instruments for subnational adaptation to climate change. Since the development of the
    Strategy involves the coordination among three different sub-national actors, it has been
    challenging to complete it within the timeframe originally established, but evidence points
    out to the completion of a strong and comprehensive strategy in the medium term.
Policy Area 2 – Strengthening Social Resilience through Disaster Risk Reduction and
Territorial Development Actions at the Municipal Level



                                                 12
Ranking: Satisfactory
38. This DPL also made a significant contribution to strengthening disaster risk reduction and
    territorial development actions at the municipal level. One example is the prior action to
    establish the risk prevention program in human settlements (PRAH). This program was
    originally established under SEDESOL, but has subsequently been transferred to the new
    Ministry of Agricultural, Territorial and Urban Development (SEDATU). Since the
    establishment of the program, 177 risk atlases have been prepared in total, 105 of which were
    prepared for Municipalities facing high or very high levels of exposure, thus surpassing the
    original target of 60. These Atlases can be used to inform community decisions on land use
    and raise local awareness regarding potential natural hazards. These Atlases go a long way to
    filling the gaps in disaster management instruments which typify municipalities outside the
    national urban system. The Atlases will further help the PETi program overcome some of the
    challenges it faced in supporting municipal disaster reduction projects. Because PETi projects
    are based on municipal demand, many municipalities prioritize socio-economic infrastructure
    over disaster prevention or climate resilience projects, due to a lack of awareness of climate
    related risks. While in some cases the quality of municipal Risk Atlases has been mixed,
    demand for these instruments continues to be high from municipalities. There are current
    efforts to improving the quality of such atlases, such as the establishment of a certification
    procedure for companies that elaborate them.
39. The DPL has also contributed to the successful incorporation of SEDESOL’s sustainability
    guidelines into large housing developments. Evidence of how these guidelines have been put
    into practice can be seen for the projects approved by the Integrated Sustainable Urban
    Development Working Group (DUIS) who are responsible for evaluating large housing
    development projects applying for federal incentives for mortgages (from INFONAVIT,
    FOVISSSTE, SHF, CONAVI) and infrastructure (from FONADIN, BANOBRAS, and
    SEDESOL). The latest data indicate that at least 10 development projects have been
    approved by DUIS using SEDESOL’s sustainability criteria (which is now a mandatory
    scoring methodology). These projects are located in Baja California Norte, Guanajuato,
    Sonora, Tabasco, Jalisco, Temixco, Quintana Roo, Yucatan and Puebla. All but, one are
    greenfield developments, and taken together should produce 388,000 new housing units
    benefiting over 1.5mn people within the next 15 to 20 years. There are an additional nine
    projects currently in the process of evaluation that are expected to produce an additional
    137,000 housing units, benefiting over half a million people.
40. The expansion of CADENA following the lowering of the hectare eligibility criteria can be
    seen from the increase in eligible surface area enrolled. The percentage of eligible surface
    enrolled in the program increased from 69% during the preparation of the DPL, to 75.4% in
    2013. Also, the program resulted in an increase in the percentage of smallholders benefiting
    from the program, with 70% of new beneficiaries owning less than 20ha’s. This is evidence
    of the success of the prior action agreed during the preparation of the DPL, where the
    eligibility criterion for CADENA was changed to ensure smaller producers could benefit. In
    the near future SAGARPA expects to increase the insurance coverage prioritizing areas with
    “productive reconversion” to basic crops (rice, beans, maize, wheat and amaranth) in the 400
    priority municipalities of the “Cruzada contra el hambre”9.
Policy Area 3 – Strengthening Social Resilience at the Community Level through
Sustainable Community Forest Management

9
  Strategy of Social Inclusion and Welfare of the Federal Government 2013-2018 which prioritizes actions
to support the 400 municipalities with communities in extreme poverty.



                                                   13
Ranking: Satisfactory
41. The three prior actions agreed as part of this DPL made a significant contribution to further
    strengthening the resilience of sustainable community forest management in Mexico by
    addressing the three core challenges facing this system: (i) discrepancies between forestry and
    other rural policies and programs especially agriculture and livestock, (ii) the need to increase
    public participation in the innovative REDD+ agenda, and (iii) geographical fragmentation of
    forest management efforts that operate only at the level of individual communities. Actions
    agreed under this policy area are having significant impact on the capacities of communities
    and ejidos to take part in decision-making regarding the use of natural resources.
42. Significant progress has been made in overcoming discrepancies between forestry and other
    rural policies by establishing REDD+ Collaborative Initiatives between CONAFOR and/or
    SAGARPA and Sub-national Governments. It was originally expected that only two such
    operational initiatives would be established, but in fact this target was exceeded. Currently,
    seven new operational agreements are in place, and serving to strengthen the synergies among
    rural policies and incentive programs at the landscape level. The initiatives include new
    agreements at the state level (Jalisco, Quintana Roo), at an inter-municipal level with
    municipal associations in Jalisco (JIRA, JIRCO, JISOC), and also with other Federal agencies
    (CONABIO). These municipal associations constitute an inter-institutional platform to bring
    together municipal governments with representatives of federal and state-level agencies. This is
    an innovative governance mechanism for environmental management that can react to complex
    agendas that transcend administrations in the context of political change. Municipal
    associations make possible the comprehensiveness and continuity of environmental
    management beyond the three years of the municipal administration, notwithstanding changes
    in the administration and political parties.
43. Progress has also been made in increasing participation in the implementation of REDD+ at
    both the national and local level, through the establishment of national and local consultative
    technical councils that included representation from multiple stakeholders. The CTCREDD+ is
    a platform of participation and consultation of diverse non-governmental actors (forests
    owners, producer organizations, civil society organizations, academic and research institutions)
    to generate inputs that lead to better decision-making in public policy. It constitutes a space of
    dialogue between society and government. At the sub-national level, the CTC met four times in
    the Quintana Roo early action area, and two in the Campeche early action area, during the
    same time frame. The number of meetings was slightly less than anticipated in Campeche,
    while in Quintana Roo one additional meeting was held. All of these meetings included civil
    society representatives, improving public participation in policy-making related to forests and
    climate change policies and programs. The CTC REDD+ in Quintana Roo has made progress
    on validating and approving its rules of procedure by consensus, and discussing the State’s
    REDD+ strategy. The CTC in Campeche continues to review its rules of procedure, which
    mandate 70% Civil Society membership. During their meetings they have held workshops to
    define selection criteria and types of projects by municipality. At the same time, civil society
    groups continue to be active in the national level CTC, which held four meetings during the life
    of the program.
44. Finally, progress has been made in overcoming the risk of geographic fragmentation of forest
    management under REDD+, with 169 communities participating in REDD+ Early Action
    Areas, receiving support from regional landscape management agents (15.7% of all
    participating communities). Although, this is below the original target of 33% of participating
    communities, due mainly to the large number of communities inside the Early Action Area in
    the Yucatan Peninsula, it is still considered an important achievement, given the innovative
    approach adopted. The Local Development Agents include Agentes Técnicos Locales (ATLs)


                                                14
    and Agentes de Desarrollo Local (ADLs). ATLs are local public agencies with a mandate for
    integrated rural development (for example, JIRA) and provide technical support for REDD+
    initiatives; ADLs are civil society organizations that support and help implement one or several
    CONAFOR programs in specific regions. Collaboration between ATLs and ADLs allows for a
    broader spatial integration at the regional level, rather than responding to individual
    community demands. This is critical for successful implementation of REDD+ initiatives. With
    the support of local development agents local REDD+ initiatives had greater geographic
    integration and collaboration among communities and municipalities at landscape level. One
    of the challenges faced was the government transition in 2012, which affected implementation
    capacities at the sub-national level.

3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
45. The policies agreed under this DPL continue to be highly relevant for the GoM. The GoM has
    continued to demonstrate strong commitment to a broad policy program on climate change,
    social resilience, disaster risk management, and sustainable urban and territorial development.
     Overall, there have been important advances highlighting the growing centrality of climate
    change adaptation issues in Mexico at all government levels. These advances include a new
    Climate Change Law, a new National Climate Change Strategy, and the Fifth National
    Communication to the UNFCCC, which makes Mexico the Non-Annex I country with the
    highest number of national communications. Although the 2013-2018 PND does not have a
    specific pillar on Climate Change, it does include a number of specific objectives (e.g. promote
    inclusive green growth & strengthen national climate change policy) and action lines (develop
    institutions and policy instruments of the national system of climate change & develop
    information systems to design environmental policies of climate change mitigation and
    adaptation) which point to an ongoing commitment to this issue.
46. The operation has also been highly effective, with the prior actions agreed resulting in
    significant outcomes when implemented. Outcomes achieved included strengthened
    coordination and planning for adaptation at the state level under policy area 1. For policy area
    2, 105 municipalities are better prepared for disaster risks, 10 sustainable housing development
    projects that will benefit over 1.5 million people have been approved, and farmer enrollment in
    climate risk insurance has increased by over 6%. Policy area 3 has contributed to improved
    forest management under REDD+, by strengthening inter-agency coordination, increasing civil
    society participation in policy implementation at the sub-national level, and promoting an
    integrated landscape approach to forest management, especially in Jalisco. These outcomes
    were achieved with only minor shortcomings, with the Yucatan Adaptation Strategy still in
    process, and one less CTC meeting than anticipated being held in the Campeche Early Action
    Area, and 47% of the target for REDD+ beneficiary communities receiving support from
    ADLs. Otherwise, all other outcomes significantly surpassed original expectations.
47. The policies agreed under this program will contribute significantly to the economic
    efficiency of GoM’s Climate Adaptation efforts by (i) promoting inter -agency coordination at
    multiple levels of governance, (ii) supporting evidence based policy design and sub-national
    adaptation planning, (iii) encouraging increased accountability in the policy design and sub-
    national planning process through requiring direct involvement of civil society.
3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
48. All of the policy actions agreed as the part of the DPL are directly targeted to the poorest and
    most vulnerable states, municipalities and communities in Mexico, as well as improving the


                                                15
    sub-national and community capacity for adaptation. Under policy area 1, almost all of the
    State Climate Change Action Programs included measures to target adaption efforts to the
    poorest communities and social groups in the territories, which also tended to be the most
    vulnerable to disaster risk. The Chiapas program is particularly strong in its commitment to
    engage with indigenous communities, and to draw on indigenous knowledge for adaptation.
    Also, both Chiapas and Baja California Sur, showed a strong commitment to targeting
    adaptation measures to women, who were identified as being particularly vulnerable to
    climate change. For Policy Area 2, PRAH was especially effective in targeting institutional
    support for Risk Atlas preparation to the most marginal municipalities in the Country. Among
    the 105 municipalities supported, close to 50% were classed as being characterized by
    medium, high, or very high levels of marginality. Also, the prior action which changed the
    eligibility requirements of SAGARPA’s CADENA, meant that 70% of beneficiaries enrolled
    in the program during 2012 were farmers with holdings of less than 20has. This program
    provides important protection to the most vulnerable farmers to climate related risks. Finally,
    the policies agreed under policy area 3, serve in the long term to strengthen the livelihoods of
    over 4,000 forest dependent, mostly indigenous communities. Thus, overall it is expected
    that the program has supported measures that target the poorest areas and social groups in the
    country, and thus are likely in the long run to contribute to one of the twin goals of the World
    Bank – namely reduction of extreme poverty, assuming these measures continue to be funded
    and properly executed.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
49. This operation has had a significant impact in terms of strengthening the capacity of Federal
    and Sub-national institutions to implement climate change adaptation programs. These
    changes resulted from both the policy actions agreed under the DPL program as well as the
    accompanying program of technical support provided by the World Bank.
50. At the federal level, important institutional changes included the creation of a Mid-Term
    Adaptation Policy Framework by the CICCs Adaptation Working Group, a Technical
    Advisory Committee to the CICC to facilitate participation of experts and key stakeholders,
    and the creation of a new budgetary program to finance adaptation initiatives. Federal
    agencies that benefited from the technical support program provided during preparation and
    implementation included SEDESOL who received support for greening their local
    development program, SAGARPA who received advisory support on evaluating the impact
    of their climate risk insurance programs, and INECC who received technical support in the
    installation of a localized version of the Climate Change Knowledge Portal.
51. At the state level, coordination arrangements for adaptation and mitigation were put in place
    among the states of the Yucatan Peninsula, and significant progress was made in the
    preparation of evidence based State Climate Change Action Plans. The TAP also provided
    targeted support to adaptation planning efforts of state governments, especially in Michoacán
    and Quintana Roo.
52. At the municipal and community level, significant improvements were made to advance
    planning and coordination capacity necessary for disaster risk reduction, and sustainable
    forest management. The PRAH agreed as a prior action, directly strengthened the capacity of
    municipal governments to respond and plan for natural disasters through supporting the
    preparation of 177 risk atlases. The TAP directly supported the preparation of sustainability
    and tourism resilience strategies for the vulnerable municipality of Othon P. Blanco, in
    Quintana Roo. Furthermore, the measures agreed under policy area 3, directly targeted the
    need to strengthen national and sub-national institutions responsible for REDD+ by




                                                16
    promoting inter-agency coordination, civil society engagement, and inter-municipal
    landscape planning.
    (c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)
53. This DPL has contributed to changing the policy discourse in Mexico, by putting forward
    adaptation planning and measures in the climate change agenda. Before this operation, policy
    and programs were primarily focused on mitigation, and did not specifically address the poor
    and vulnerable groups. The emphasis placed on strengthening social resilience as a
    mechanism for adaptation can be seen in related outcomes achieved during 2012, including
    the new Climate Change Law, the new National Climate Change Strategy, and the Fifth
    National Communication to the UNFCCC. Of particular note is the priority given to
    adaptation in the Climate Change law passed in 2012. One of the main purposes of the law is
    reducing the vulnerability of the country’s population and ecosystems to the adverse effects
    of climate change, as well as creating and strengthening national capacities to respond to such
    phenomenon. It also aims to establish the foundations for public participation. The Law
    includes a chapter on adaptation which commits the GoM to the objectives of (i) reducing
    societal vulnerability, (ii) strengthening resilience of human and natural systems, (iii)
    minimizing likely risks and damage, (iv) identifying vulnerability of ecological, physical and
    social systems, (v) establishing rapid response mechanisms, and (vi) promoting food
    insecurity. The Law also mandates that Federal and state authorities include adaptation
    actions in the design of public policies, as well as the three instruments for climate change
    policy implementation, namely - the National Strategy, the Special Climate Change Program,
    as well as the State Climate Change Action Programs. Social participation and consultation
    should be promoted in the preparation of all planning instruments, in order to take into
    account public opinion (articles 60, 68). The law explicitly mentions the importance of
    preparing risk atlases, and that the information generated by these atlases is used for the
    preparation of urban development plans, and for planning risk reduction measures. It also
    mandates the creation of a Climate Change Advisory Council, formed by members of the
    social, private and academic sectors, with relevant expertise in climate change. Finally, the
    Law establishes a Climate Change Fund with the purpose of attracting and channeling public,
    private, and international donor resources in order to support the implementation of actions to
    fight climate change. Adaptation actions shall have priority in the use of the Fund’s resources
    (article 80).
54. The National Climate Change Strategy also included a specific axis on reducing vulnerability
    and increasing resilience of the social sector. Action lines supported under this axis relate to
    increase the resilience of human settlements, strengthening early warning and communication
    systems, disaster risk prevention, land use planning, potable water provision, gender, and
    social participation. Another important action line under the productive axis emphasized the
    preservation of indigenous adaptation knowledge, through rescuing and maintaining Mexican
    millennial agricultural traditions as an option for the reinforcement and protection of native
    agro-diversity for the adaptation of agricultural produce to climate change. These
    recommendations were based on a comprehensive diagnosis of vulnerability in the face of
    climate change, which in turn is based on a conceptual framework developed by the IPCC.
55. Mexico’s Fifth National Communication to the UNFCCC also included an analysis of social
    vulnerability, acknowledging that Mexico’s poorest locations and social groups show high -
    vulnerability to climate change. It was therefore recommended that vulnerability assessments
    for the preparation of adaptation measures consider unique geographical, demographic, and
    socio-economic conditions, as well as access to natural resources and services, public-health
    conditions (such as child malnutrition), gender considerations, and the specific cultural
    features of each area.


                                                17
56. Another related initiative that had an important impact during 2012 was the preparation of 20
    Municipal Climate Change Action Plans (PACMUN). This initiative is implemented by the
    international association of municipalities Local Governments for Sustainable Development
    (ICLEI), financed by the British Embassy’s prosperity fund, and hosted by the INECC. In
    total there are 200 municipalities registered with this initiative, which will continue for
    another 2 years. It is designed to complement the process of PEACCs preparation, as well as
    the Risk Atlases produced by PRAH. Similar to PRAH, PACMUN targets municipalities
    with limited capacity to finance their own adaptation plans.
3.5 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
N/A
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low to negligible
57. Overall risk to the development outcome is considered low to negligible due to the
    ongoing commitment of the GoM to being a global leader in Climate Change Adaptation
    and Mitigation Policy. The latest policy documents (Climate Change Law, NCCS, and 5th
    National Communication) prepared by GoM in 2012 and 2013 include commitments to
    strengthening of social resilience to climate change. The new Government is committed to
    creating of a national climate change system, and the number of ministries involved in the
    CICC has expanded. Furthermore, the Government will finalize a new PECC and National
    Climate Change Strategy by the end of 2013, and will establish a dedicated climate change
    fund.
58. Strengthening Social Resilience through Long-term Climate Change Adaptation
    Planning oriented to the state level. The risk to this PDO is considered low to negligible.
    The state governments of Quintana Roo, Campeche and Yucatan, which make up the Yucatan
    Peninsula, have publicly committed to finalizing the Regional Adaptation Strategy and the
    establishment of a regional fund. Furthermore, INECC has confirmed that three additional
    states are in the process of preparing State Climate Change Action Programs, and additional
    funds have been made available to support this initiative.
59. Strengthening Social Resilience through Disaster Risk Reduction and Territorial
    Development Actions at the Municipal Level. PRAH continues to support Municipal
    Climate Change Resilience efforts, despite institutional responsibility being moved from
    SEDESOL to the newly constituted SEDATU. One potential risk is the decreased budget
    resources which have been assigned to PRAH for the purposes of continuing Atlas
    preparation (when the Program was created in 2011 it was originally allocated a budget of
    190mn MXN, but in 2012 it was cut down to 45mn MXN). Another potential risk relates to
    the limited capacity on the part of municipalities to control the quality of risk atlases
    produced. Recently, SEDATU has taken steps to improve quality, through better coordination
    with CENAPRED, as well as introducing guidelines for the preparation of quality risk atlases.
    Furthermore, the sustainable urban development guidelines prepared by SEDESOL as part of
    the DPL program are now mandatory elements of the scoring criteria used by DUIS during
    their evaluation of applications for state-backed mortgages. The main challenge facing the
    implementation of projects evaluated using these criteria is the mixed capacity of municipal
    governments in territorial planning and urban management, and the transition of
    responsibility for coordinating DUIS to the newly established SEDATU. Finally, SAGARPA
    continues to be committed to enrolling additional smallholders in the CADENA program, and
    is in the process of rolling out a new generation of CADENA, with a specific focus on
    vulnerable social groups and municipalities.



                                               18
60. Strengthening Social Resilience at the Community Level through Sustainable
    Community Forest Management. By all accounts, the gains made in establishing
    collaborative institutions for more sustainable community forest management appear durable,
    and have significant institutional support at the federal (from SEMARNAT, CONABIO, and
    SAGARPA), State and Municipal Level. Further evidence of sub-national commitment to
    DUIS can be seen from the successful preparation of a REDD+ Strategy on the Yucatan
    Peninsula.
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
   Rating: Satisfactory
61. The performance of the Bank in assisting the Borrower to identify, prepare and appraise the
    operation is deemed satisfactory. The Bank team effectively built upon the experience gained
    by the GoM through implementation of climate change programs and activities, including a
    comprehensive National Climate Change Strategy and the related PECC. In addition, the
    team did a thorough review of relevant lessons learned in other operations, both in Mexico
    and elsewhere, as well as the August 2009 Development Policy Lending Retrospective. These
    lessons served to inform the operation’s design and ensure its successful implementation.
    The operation’s design benefited from Mexican as well as international experience. A
    particular strength of the preparation of the operation was the engagement of multiple sectors
    from the World Bank and Government of Mexico, namely environment and natural
    resources, agriculture and rural development, urban development and disaster risk
    management, and social development (for more details see Annex 8).
(b) Quality of Supervision
   Rating: Satisfactory
62. Members of the Bank team provided ongoing implementation support, helping client
    counterparts progress towards meeting the operation’s outcome indicators and providing
    timely technical support. Task team members included social development, forestry, climate
    change, and urban development specialists. The technical support program provided during
    implementation was particularly valuable and included intensive technical support to INECC
    for the installation and operation of a Mexico-specific version of the climate change
    knowledge portal, a stakeholder workshop on developing robust information systems for
    climate change adaptation, and a dissemination workshop to discuss the latest results of the
    analytical work conducted by the Bank on the topic of social resilience to climate change.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
   Rating: Satisfactory
63. Overall, the Bank’s performance is considered satisfactory. The Bank team provided external
    validation as well as valuable analytical and advisory services to GoM’s counterparts.
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
   Rating: Satisfactory
64. As mentioned earlier, the actions agreed under this operation were part of the GOM’s own
    agenda with respect to climate change adaptation and disaster risk management. Thus, the
    operation had a remarkable level of support. In addition to the political support, Mexico has


                                               19
    the institutional and technical tools characteristic of a sophisticated middle-income country,
    which makes it a highly effective partner.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
   Rating: Satisfactory
65. Inter-sectorial coordination was an important determinant of the operation’s success.
    SEMARNAT played a key leadership role as the ministry responsible for overseeing the
    PECC’s implementation and for preparing Mexico’s Communications to UNFCCC, which, in
    turn, defined the climate change adaptation agenda. The Under-secretary of Urban
    Development formerly under SEDESOL, and currently under SEDATU, played a crucial role
    in successfully implementing and monitoring priority programs and initiatives agreed under
    the program (PRAH, the Sustainable Urban Development Guidelines). SAGARPA continued
    to collaborate with the World Bank on the evaluation of its flagship climate risk insurance
    program, and was well placed to provide timely information on progress towards the agreed
    outcome indicator.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
   Rating: Satisfactory
66. Overall, the Borrowers’ performance is deemed satisfactory for the reasons stated above.
6. Lessons Learned
(a) Lessons of wide general application
67. Sustained engagement on the part of the Bank is critical to effectively engage in reform
    processes over the medium and long term. The Bank program of climate change in
    Mexico constitutes an outstanding example of engagement with a sophisticated middle-
    income country in which the Bank has deployed the full range of available instruments,
    including investment lending, Development Policy Loans as well as CTF concessional
    financing, GEF and other grants. The Bank’s program of financial and knowledge services
    has also included credit enhancement, hedging swaps, catastrophe risk management and
    advisory services.
68. INECC recognized the positive impact of this DPL for encouraging the strengthening of
    social resilience, as there is still a gap in assessing the social impacts of climate change,
    and most climate change planning instruments tend to focus primarily on mitigation.
    Going forward, the institutions working on climate change in Mexico recognize the need for
    promoting adaptation measures and strategies, encouraging social participation, incorporating
    gender issues, as well as considering the views of the most vulnerable groups, especially
    indigenous communities.
69. As a coordinator of State Climate Change Action Programs and Municipal Climate
    Action Plans, INECC should emphasize the importance of focusing on adaptation
    measures, establishing clear actions with the institutions that are responsible for them,
    defining indicators with baseline values and goals, and including a description of their M&E
    systems. It would be difficult otherwise to measure the impacts of these Programs, and to
    address the needs of the most vulnerable groups.
70. The sectors relevant to climate change go beyond those addressed in this operation.
    Aside from environment, agriculture, forestry, urban, territorial and social development, it is
    important to consider the integration of climate change adaptation in a wider range of sectors.
    For example, it may be necessary to consider changes in education policy to create curricula
    that addresses climate change adaptation, and is tailored to specific regional vulnerabilities.



                                                20
71. The creation of stakeholder forums at the national and subnational level presents an
    opportunity to share information and generate feedback on adaptation measures. The
    program contributed to the establishment of a number of participatory and multi-actor forums
    such as REDD+ consultative technical councils. These forums can serve as mechanisms for
    generating feedback on the quality and sustainability of adaptation tools and measures,
    providing a participatory feedback mechanism.
(b) Project-specific lessons
72. The operation’s policy content and prior actions should reflect the Borrower’s own
    program and priorities developed with the benefit of a national policymaking process
    that involves broad public consultation. The Borrower’s ownership and stakeholder
    support for the program were critical to its successful implementation. This DPL was fully
    inserted within Mexico’s PECC, which in turn, supports key components of the PND, which
    was widely consulted in accordance with participatory processes mandated by Mexican law.
73. Prior actions should be limited to a few key policy and institutional reforms. Without
    such a focus, implementation by the Borrower and supervision by the Bank risk losing sight
    of the operation’s priorities. These actions proved to be essential and sufficient to achieving
    the program’s outcomes.
74. During the Program preparation it is important to define indicators to             which the
    Federal Government is committed as part of their existing programs and             initiatives.
    Because the Federal ministries are the main counterparts, it is difficult to       assure the
    achievement of indicators that involve the active participation and commitment     from other
    levels of government, such as states.
75. Given the innovative nature of the actions agreed, a Development Policy Loan was the
    most appropriate financing instrument. This was especially the case as enhancing social
    resilience is based more on innovative arrangements for policy planning and implementation.
    Because of the innovative characteristic of the policy actions agreed, a stand-alone DPL (as
    opposed to a programmatic series DPL) was an appropriate approach, allowing for a great
    degree of flexibility in policy experimentation.
76. One of the challenges related to focusing on institutional arrangements is the longer
    term and indirect impact on the goal of shared prosperity and eliminating extreme.
    However, the policy program was successful in putting in place important institutional and
    governance arrangements that can enable shared prosperity, and poverty reduction, in the
    future.
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies
Comments have been received from Government of Mexico and were included in the main text.
Additional comments are included in Annex 4.
(b) Cofinanciers
See Annex 5.
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not applicable.




                                                21
Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                            Responsibility/
           Names                            Title                   Unit
                                                                              Specialty
                                            Lending
   Rodrigo Serrano-Berthet    Sr Social Development Specialist     LCSSO        TTL
       Angélica Núñez                 Sr Urban Specialist          LCSUW       Co-TTL
      Laurent Debroux                    Sector Leader             ECSSD       Co-TTL
     Ricardo Hernández            Sr. Environment Specialist       LCSEN      LEN, TAP
      Margaret Arnold         Sr. Social Development Specialist      SDV      LEN, TAP
      Richard Damania          Lead Environmental Economist        LCSEN      LEN, TAP
      Ana Elisa Bucher             Climate Change Specialist         ENV      LEN, TAP
       Oscar Ishizawa        Disaster Risk Management Specialist   LCSUW        LEN
         Ulrich Hess                     Sr. Economist              CPMF      LEN, TAP
       Fabio Pittaluga        Sr. Social Development Specialist    LCSSO      LEN, TAP
    Alejandro de la Fuente      Social Development Economist         SDV      LEN, TAP
       Todd Crawford              Lead Operations Consultant       LCSSD        LEN
        Nicolas Perrin        Sr. Social Development Specialist     ECSS4     LEN, TAP
          Maria Poli              Extended Term Consultant         LCSSO        LEN
       Gisela Campillo            Junior Professional Officer        LC1        LEN
      Ana Paola López               Short Term Consultant          LCSSO        LEN
     Maximillian Ashwill          Extended Term Consultant         LCSSO        LEN
   Graciela Reyes Retana,        Junior Professional Associate       LC1        LEN
       Maribel Cherres                 Program Assistant           LCSSO        LEN
       Damaris Garay               Language Team Assistant           LC1        LEN
    Nancy Montes de Oca            Language Team Assistant           LC1        LEN
        Diana Jimenez              Language Team Assistant           LC1        LEN
     Mariangeles Sabella,                 Sr. Counsel              LEGLA        LEN
       Gamila Kassem                       Consultant              LEGLA        LEN
       Xiomara Morel         Sr. Financial Management Specialist   LCSFM        LEN
       Joost Draaisma               Sr. Country Economist            LC1        LEN
       Victor Ordoñez               Senior Finance Officer         CTRLN        LEN
        Maninder Gill                   Sector Manager             LCSSO        LEN
       Gustavo Saltiel                 Program Manager             AFTWR        LEN
       Alexandra Ortiz                   Sector Leader             LCSSD      LEN, TAP
       Harold Bedoya                  Operations Advisor             LC1        LEN
                                          Supervision
       Martin Lenihan         Sr Social Development Specialist     LCSSO      ICR, TAP
      Rodrigo Serrano         Sr Social Development Specialist     LCSSO      SPN, TAP
   Alejandro de La Fuente                  Economist               AFTP1      ICR, TAP
      Ana Paola Lopez          Social Development Consultant       LCSSO      ICR, TAP
        Ana Bucher                 Climate Change Specialist        CPF         TAP
    Juan Carlos Serrano           Sr Financial Mgt Specialist      LCSFM        SPN
                                       ICR Preparation
       Martin Lenihan         Sr Social Development Specialist     LCSSO
      Ana Paola Lopez          Social Development Consultant       LCSSO




                                             22
(b) Staff Time and Cost


 Stage                       Labor        Travel    Total
 Current FY (2014)*          11084          7458    18572
 FY 2013                     67372         34082   128032
 FY 2012                    136337         22751   178760
 FY 2011                    181160         52040   324525
 FY 2010                      4259
 Total                      400212        116331   649889
*Difference is other cost




                                     23
Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results
Not Applicable




                                      24
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not Applicable




                                    25
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
Comments have been received from Government of Mexico and were included in the main text.

The Government of Mexico also points out that this lending operation was implemented
to recognize the Government’s policies, programs and procedures that contribute to strengthening
social resilience to climate change.

The GoM would like to clarify that the total amount of the loan was used in conformity with the
requirements of the Borrower’s income, budgetary and public debt laws and the terms of the Loan
Agreement. The percentage of the Sector Code (Section D of the Data Sheet) should be
understood as the distribution of the actions with respect to the Program, and not as a distribution
of resources among the sectors that implemented the policies.




                                                26
Annex 5. Comments of Co-financiers
Agence Francaise de Developpement (AFD) provided co-financing, in the form of €300,000,000
for the third policy area of the operation (Sustainable Community Forestry), and used the same
policy matrix to monitor progress. They also participated in joint AFD-WB implementation
support missions. Overall, AFD were highly satisfied with the results of the program. It was noted
that the collaboration agreement between CONAFOR and SAGARPA worked well, resulting in
an improved policy dialogue between the two institutions. They were similarly impressed by the
results of the initiative to foster a landscape approach to forest management through inter-
municipal coordination in Jalisco, and now Yucatan. It was noteworthy that the collaborative
institutions created had been charged with administering federal funds, which is a significant
development in Mexico.

The focus of the program on sub-national initiatives allowed a unique opportunity for AFD and
the Bank to collaborate on municipal and inter-municipal initiatives. In additional to the DPL,
AFD provided a €2mn Technical Assistance Grant to support these initiatives. AFD, was also
satisfied with the engagement of civil society in policy planning, having observed the active
participation of civil society representatives in National Consultative Technical Councils. Based
on their experience with this policy area, AFD are hoping to apply the lessons learned, in terms of
good practice, to implement a similar program with CONANP, which will focus on biodiversity
and territorial planning.




                                                27
                                        Annex 6. Stages of Climate Change Engagement in Mexico by type of services
                                        provided.
                                                                              .
                                                    Stages of Climate Change Engagement in Mexico

                                       Foundations                  Early Support                  Strengthening                     Consolidation
                                      (Before 1999)                  (1999–2007)                    (2007–2009]                       (2010–2014)

                                  Solid Waste Management     Renewable Energy for           Mexico: Waste               Adaptation to Climate Change
                                   Pilot Project (P007628)     Agriculture Project             Management and Carbon        Impacts in the Coastal Wetlands in
                                  Urban Transport Project     (P060718)                       Offset Project (P088546)     the Gulf of Mexico (P100438)
                                   (P007615)                  Introduction to Climate-       Climate Change DPL          Urban Transport Transformation
Financial Services




                                  Community Forestry          friendly Measures in            (P110849)                    Program (P107159)
                                   (P007700)                   Transport (P059161)            Environmental               Green Growth DPL (P115608)
                                                              Programmatic Environment        Sustainability DPL          Adaptation to CC in the Water
                                                               DPLs I and II (P079748)         (P095510)                    Sector DPL (P120134)
                                                                                              Sustainable Rural           Low-carbon DPL (P121800)
                                                                                               Development (P108766)       Strengthening Social Resilience to
                                                                                              First Multi-peril CAT        Climate Change (P120170)
                                                                                               bond                        Forest and Climate change SIL, and
                                                                                                                            Forest Investment Program (FY12)
                                                                                                                           Modernization of National
                                                                                                                            Meteorological Service SIL (FY12)
                                                             LAC Region Landfill Gas        Carbon Finance Program      PA for Environmental and Climate
                                                               Initiative (P104757)            for Mexico (P104731)         Change Policies
                                                              Evaluation of Energy           Low-carbon Study            Social Impacts of Climate Change
                                                               Efficiency Initiatives          (MEDEC) (P108304)            (P112024)
                                                               (P099734)                      Mass Urban Transport-       MoU Subnational CC (P105849)
                                                              Economic Assessment of          Federal Program             Othon P. Blanco Sustainable
                                                               Policy Interventions in the     (P110474)                    Development Strategy (P122021)
       Knowledge Services




                                                               Water Sector (P096999)                                      SEP Adaptation of the Water Sector
                                                                                                                            to CC
                                                                                                                           CC Public Expenditure Review
                                                                                                                            (FY12)
                                                                                                                           Forest Carbon Partnership Facility
                                                                                                                            (FY11-13)
                                                                                                                           Policy Framework Development and
                                                                                                                            Mainstreaming Climate Change in
                                                                                                                            Key Development
                                                                                                                            Sectors (P121527)
                                                                                                                           Mexico Case Study for the Financial
                                                                                                                            Innovations for Social and Climate
                                                                                                                            Resilience (FISCR) Initiative
                                                                                                                            (P125838)
                                                              Consolidation &                Preparation of the CTF      Water sector events in the lead-up to
            Convening Services




                                                               Strengthening of the            Investment Plan              COP16
                                                               Mexican Office for                                          Energy-efficiency conference
                                                               Greenhouse Gas Mitigation                                   High-level facilitation activities
                                                               (P060412)                                                    related to COP16
                                                                                                                           Agriculture and forestry sector
                                                                                                                            events during COP16
                                                                                                                           South-south collaboration on
                                                                                                                            forestry during COP17




                                                                                              28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Comisión Inter-sectorial de Cambio Climático (2009), Programa Especial de Cambio Climático
    2009-2012, Poder ejecutivo, México, D.F.
Gobierno de México (2013), Plan Nacional de Desarrollo 2003-2018.
Gobierno de México (2012), Ley General de Cambio Climático. DOF 06-06-2012
Gobierno de México (2007), Plan Nacional de Desarrollo 2007-2012
Secretaría de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales – SEMARNAT (2013), Estrategia Nacional
    de Cambio Climático. Visión 10-20-40.
Secretaría de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales – SEMARNAT (2012), México - Quinta
    comunicación nacional ante la Convención Marco de las Naciones Unidas sobre el Cambio
    Climático. November 1, 2012; México, DF.
Serrano-Berthet R, de la Fuente A, Lenihan M, Arnold M. (2013). Social Dimensions of Climate
    Change in Mexico. Washington DC, World Bank.
World Bank (2012), Mexico – Strengthening Social Resilience to Climate Change Development
    Policy Loan, Program Document, Report No. 65160-MX, January 25 2012, Washington,
    D.C.
World Bank (2010), Mexico - Framework for Adaptation to Climate Change in the Water Sector
    Development Policy Loan, Program Document, Report No. 53637-MX, May 6, 2010,
    Washington, D.C.
World Bank (2008), Country Partnership Strategy for the United Mexican States for the Period
    FY2008–2013, Washington, D.C.




                                            29
Annex 8. Analytical Program during Preparation and Implementation

During preparation, findings of preliminary PSIA work pointed out the vulnerability of the
most marginal municipalities and the absence of disaster prevention instruments such as risks
atlases, which contributed to the identification of associated prior actions. The PSIA focused on
the distributional impacts of climate change, which served to inform the prioritization of social
vulnerability and resilience to climate change as a policy priority. Other relevant analytical and
advisory work conducted during preparation included two reports on Climate Change and
territorial development in the State of Michoacan; a Technical Advisory Program with SEDESOL
and SEMARNAT on Climate Change Adaptation, which developed a Climate Vulnerability
Municipal Index and a guide to Sustainable Local Development, and support to the municipality
of Othon P. Blanco in Quintana Roo, in formulating a Sustainable Development and Sustainable
Tourism Strategy.
During implementation, an ESW on Social Dimensions of Climate Change in Mexico, was
published and disseminated to GoM counterparts. This report identified the key drivers of socio-
spatial differences in resilience and vulnerability10 to climate change in Mexico, along with policy
actions and institutional reforms at different levels of governance to strengthen resilience and
reduce vulnerability among poor households in exposed places. These analytical findings
underpinned the agreed policy areas of the DPL. The report identified as a challenge the limited
municipal capacity to pro-actively prevent and manage disasters, which was addressed by the
efforts to strengthening municipal capacity to prevent disasters under SEDATU’s PRAH. Another
challenge was mainstreaming adaptation within local and rural development initiatives, which
was addressed by the support to the PEACCs coordinated by INECC. Finally, the study analyzed
the role of SAGARPA’s CADENA in assisting household disaster recovery, which was further
strengthened under the DPL. The operation recognized the ambitious goals for adaptation to
climate change that had been set forth in the PND and PECC. However, it was also noticed that
there was a gap in assessing the social impacts of climate cha nge in the government’s plans and
instruments, as well as the need to strengthening adaptation in the Mexican policy framework.
Bank team responsible for preparation benefited from an intimate knowledge of the country’s
social development sector and its priorities. It worked closely with SEMARNAT, SEDESOL-
SEDATU, and SAGARPA to identify a set of key steps needed to further mainstream the
adaptation to climate change with focus on the most vulnerable.
Additionally, during implementation, the Bank facilitated access and use of real-time climate
relevant information through the WB Climate Change Knowledge Portal (CCKP). This virtual
platform facilitates the analysis, exploration, and synthesis of global, national, and subnational
climate change impacts and risk reduction datasets at multiple levels of details.




10
  Vulnerability is defined as the extent to which climate change might damage or harm social or
environmental systems.


                                                   30
   Annex 9. Status of Key Outcome Indicators

     Key Outcome Indicators by Completion                                       Status
Policy Area 1:
Number of States that completed during 2012-2013         8 Completed / 267% Achieved
Climate Change Action Programs that included
specific measures to promote social resilience
(baseline: 0, target: 3)

Inclusion of measures supported by SEMARNAT              In progress / Partially Achieved. Since the
and/or INE to address unsustainable growth of            development of the Strategy involves the
tourism in coastal areas and livelihood co-benefits      coordination among three different sub-national
of climate policies for indigenous communities in        actors, it has been challenging to complete it within
the Regional Strategy for Climate Change                 the timeframe originally established, but evidence
Adaptation in the Yucatán Peninsula.                     points out to the completion of a strong and
                                                         comprehensive strategy in the medium term. A
                                                         roadmap for the strategy has been prepared during
                                                         consultative workshops with stakeholders from
                                                         each of the Yucatan Peninsula States, and public
                                                         commitments have been made by state government
                                                         participants for its completion, and the
                                                         establishment of a climate change action fund.


Number of State Climate Change Action Programs           8 Completed / 267% Achieved
that included civil society participation in the
design of social resilience initiatives. (baseline 0,
target 3)

Policy Area 2:
Number of municipalities with high and very high         105 Completed / 175% Achieved
scores in PRAH's disaster risk index which are
implementing risk reduction institutional
strengthening and investment activities supported
by PRAH. (Source: PRAH's Risk Index; Baseline
January 2012: 0; target by March 2013: 60
municipalities).

Number of urban development projects evaluated           10 Completed / 200% Achieved
within the DUIS Working Group that have
incorporated at least the following criteria specified
in SEDESOL's Sustainable Urban Development
Guidelines: (i) location, (ii) connectivity and
accessibility, and (iii) risk prevention (target: 5
between January 2012-March 2013).

Percentage of eligible surface that is covered by        75.4% Completed / 102% Achieved
climate risk insurance (baseline: 69%; target: 74%)




                                                         31
    Key Outcome Indicators by Completion                                    Status
Number of REDD+ collaboration initiatives              7 Completed / 350 % Achieved
between CONAFOR and/or SAGARPA and
subnational Governments in REDD+ Early Action
areas that are operational (baseline:0; target: 2)
Active social participation in REDD+ policy
                                                       2 meetings in Campeche, 4 in Quintana Roo / 100%
making at sub-national level trough the operation of
                                                       achieved
local CTC-REDD+ (participation of civil society in
all meetings as reflected in minutes, with a
minimum 3 meetings per year per CTC).
At least, thirty three percent of participating        15.7% of participating communities received
communities in REDD+ Early Action Areas                support - 169 communities out of 1,074 / 47%
receiving support from regional landscape              achieved
management agents (baseline 0%, target 33%)




                                                       32
