                                       Document of
                                      The World Bank

                                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                                                        Report No. 65160-MX




       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT


                                 PROGRAM DOCUMENT
                                     ON A PROPOSED


           STRENGTHENING SOCIAL RESILIENCE TO CLIMATE CHANGE

                             DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN



                         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 300,751,879.70
                                             TO
                             THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES




                                      January 27, 2012




Sustainable Development Department
Colombia and Mexico Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region


 This document is being made publicly available prior to Board consideration. This does not
 imply a presumed outcome. This document may be updated following Board consideration
 and the updated document will be made publicly available in accordance with the Bank‘s
 policy on Access to Information.
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                (Exchange Rate Effective December 7th, 2011)
                      Currency Unit = Mexican Pesos
                          MX$1.00 = US$0.0740
                           US$1 = MX$ 13.510

                  ABBREVIATION AND ACRONYMS

AECID      Spanish Agency for International Development Cooperation (Agencia
           Española de Cooperación Internacional para el Desarrollo)
AFD        French Development Agency (Agence Française de Développement)
CADENA     Componente de Atención a Desastres Naturales en el Sector
           Agropecuario y Pesquero
CCCR       Carbon Cities Climate Registry
CCKP       Climate Change Knowledge Platform
CCPI       Climate Change Performance Index
CDI        National Indigenous Peoples‘ Commission (Comisión Nacional para el
           Desarrollo de los Pueblos Indígenas)
CDM        Clean Development Mechanism
CENAPRED   National Center for Disaster Prevention (Centro Nacional para la
           Prevención de Desastres)
CFAA       Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CICC       Interministerial Climate Change Commission (Comisión Intersecretarial
           de Cambio Climático)
CO2        Carbon dioxide
CO2e       Carbon dioxide equivalent
CONABIO    National Commission for the Knowledge and Use of Biodiversity
           (Comisión Nacional para el Conocimiento y Uso de la Biodiversidad)
CONAFOR    National Forestry Commission (Comisión Nacional Forestal)
CONAGUA    National Water Comission (Comisión Nacional del Agua)
CONANP     National Council of Protected Natural Areas (Consejo Nacional de ?reas
           Naturales Protegidas)
CONAVI     National Housing Commission (Comisión Nacional de Vivienda)
COP16      16th Session of the Conference of the Parties (UNFCCC)
CPAR       Country Procurement Assessment Report
CPS        Country Partnership Strategy
CSOs       Civil Society Organizations
CTC        Consultative Technical Council (Consejo Técnico Consultivo)
CTF        Clean Technology Fund
DOF        Official Gazette of the Federation (Diario Oficial de la Federación)
DPL        Development Policy Loan
DRM        Disaster Risk Management
DUIS       Integrally planned urban development (Desarrollos Urbanos Integrales
           Sustentables)
ECUVE      Qualitative Evaluation of the House and the Environment (Evaluación
           Cualitativa de la Vivienda y su Entorno)
ENACC       National Climate Change Strategy (Estrategia Nacional de Cambio
            Climático)
ESW         Economic and Sector Work
FAO         Food and Agriculture Organization
FCPF        Forest Carbon Partnership Facility
FONDEN      Fund for Natural Disasters (Fondo para Desastres Naturales)
FOPREDEN    Disaster Prevention Program (Fondo para la Prevención de Desastres)
FY          Fiscal Year
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GEF         Global Environment Facility
GHG         Greenhouse Gases
GiZ         German Agency for International Cooperation (Gesellschaft für
            Internationale Zusammenarbeit)
GoM         Government of Mexico
GT–ADAPT    Working Group on Policies and Strategies for Adaptation (Grupo de
            Trabajo sobre Políticas y Estrategias de Adaptación)
IBRD        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IADB        Inter-American Development Bank
IFC         International Finance Corporation
IMCO        Mexican Institute for Competitiveness (Instituto Mexicano de la
IMF         Competitividad)
            International Monetary Fund
INE         National Institute of Ecology (Instituto Nacional de Ecología)
INFONAVIT   National Workers Housing Fund (Instituto del Fondo Nacional de la
            Vivienda para los Trabajadores)
JIRA        Environment Intermunicipal Board for the Integral Management of the
            Lower Basin of the Ayuquila River (Junta Intermunicipal de Medio
            Ambiente para la Gestion Integral de la Cuenca Baja del Río Ayuquila)
LAIF        Latin America Investment Facility
LULUCF      Land use, land-use change, and forestry
MCP         Mexico City Pact
MEDEC       Low-carbon study for Mexico (México: Estudio sobre la disminución de
            emisiones de carbono)
mt          Million tons
MOU         Memorandum of Understanding
PACC        Program for Climate Contingencies (Programa de Atención a
            Contingencias Climatológicas)
PECC        Special Program for Climate Change (Programa Especial de Cambio
            Climático)
PEF         Federal Expenditure Budget (Presupuesto de Egresos de la Federación)
PER         Public Expenditure Review
PET         Temporary Employment Program (Programa de Empleo Temporal)
PETi        Emergency Temporary Employment Program (Programa de Empleo
            Temporal inmediato)
PFM         Public Financial Management
PND         National Development Plan (Plan Nacional de Desarrollo)
PRAH          Program for Prevention of Risks in Human Settlements (Prevención de
              Riesgos en los Asentamientos Humanos)
PROCAMPO      Farm-support program (Programa de Apoyos Directos al Campo)
PROGAN        Livestock support program (Programa de Estímulos a la Productividad
              Ganadera)
PSIA          Poverty and Social Impact Analysis
PSV           Local Social Promoters (Promotores Sociales Vecinales)
REDD+         Reduced Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation,
              Conservation of Forest Carbon Stocks, Sustainable Management of Forest
              and Enhancement of Forest Carbon Stocks in Developing Countries
SCCP          State Climate Change Plans
SAGARPA       Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (Secretaría de
              Agricultura, Ganadería, Desarrollo Rural, Pesca y Alimentación)
SEDESOL       Ministry of Social Development (Secretaría de Desarrollo Social)
SEGOB         Ministry of Interior (Secretaría de Gobernación)
SEMARNAT      Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (Secretaría de Medio
              Ambiente y Recursos Naturales)
SEP           Strategic Engagement Program
SFLAC         Spanish Fund for Latin America and the Caribbean
SFP           Ministry of Public Administration (Secretaría de la Función Publica)
SHCP          Ministry of Finance (Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público)
SHF           Federal Mortgage Corporation (Sociedad Hipotecaria Federal)
SINAPROC      National Civil Protection System (Sistema Nacional de Protección Civil)
TA            Technical Assistance
TESOFE        Treasury of the Federation (Tesorería de la Federación)
UN            United Nations
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
UNEP          United Nations Environment Program
UNFCCC        United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
URA           Urban Risk Assessment
UTTP          Urban Transport Transformation Program
WDR           World Development Report
WII           Weather Index Insurance

                 Vice President:      Hasan A. Tuluy
               Country Director:      Gloria M. Grandolini
                 Sector Director:     Ede J. Ijjasz-Vasquez
                Sector Manager:       Maninder Gill
                  Sector Leader:      Alexandra Ortiz
              Task Team Leader:       Rodrigo Serrano-Berthet
           Co-Task Team Leader:       Angélica Núñez
           Co-Task Team Leader:       Laurent Debroux
                           THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
                  STRENGTHENING SOCIAL RESILIENCE TO CLIMATE CHANGE
                              DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN

                                              TABLE OF CONTENTS

LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY ........................................................................................ I

I. CLIMATE CHANGE ENGAGEMENT IN MEXICO .......................................................... 1

II. COUNTRY CONTEXT .......................................................................................................... 8
           A. Recent Economic Developments                                                                                   8
           B. Macroeconomic Outlook                                                                                         11
           C. Context for Sustainable and Resilient Development                                                             16


III. THE GOVERNMENT PROGRAM AND PARTICIPATORY PROCESSES .............. 21
           A. The Government Program                                                                                        21
           B. The Participatory Process                                                                                     30


IV. BANK SUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT PROGRAM ............................................ 33
           A. Link to Country Partnership Strategy                                               33
           B. Collaboration with IMF and Other Development Partners                              33
           C. Integrated World Bank Engagement on Social Resilience, Forest Policies and Climate
           Change                                                                                34
           D. Analytical Underpinnings                                                           39


V. THE PROPOSED OPERATION ......................................................................................... 42
           A. Operation Description                                                                                         42


VI. OPERATION IMPLEMENTATION................................................................................. 59
           A. Poverty and Social Impacts                                                                                    59
           B. Environmental Aspects                                                                                         62
           C. Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation                                                                     63
           D. Fiduciary Aspects                                                                                             64
           E. Disbursements and Audit                                                                                       66
           F. Risks and Risk Mitigation                                                                                     66
ANNEXES ................................................................................................................................... 69

ANNEX 1. LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY............................................................ 69

ANNEX 2. POLICY AREAS, PRIOR ACTIONS AND OUTCOMES ................................. 73

ANNEX 3. FUND RELATIONS NOTE ................................................................................... 76

ANNEX 4. LONGER-TERM CLIMATE CHANGE .............................................................. 77

ANNEX 5: NATURAL DISASTERS AND UNPLANNED URBAN GROWTH ................. 80

ANNEX 6: FOREST MANAGEMENT .................................................................................... 84

ANNEX 7 – PARTICIPATORY PROCESSES ....................................................................... 86

ANNEX 8 - LESSONS LEARNED ........................................................................................... 88

ANNEX 9 – MEXICO AT A GLANCE .................................................................................... 92

ANNEX 10. MAP OF MEXICO ................................................................................................ 96




This DPL was prepared by a team led by Rodrigo Serrano-Berthet (LCSSO), Angélica Núñez (LCSUW),
and Laurent Debroux (LCSAR) and included Ricardo Hernández, Sr. Environment Specialist (LCSEN);
Margaret Arnold, Sr. Social Development Specialist (SDV); Richard Damania, Lead Environmental
Economist (LCSEN); Ana Elisa Bucher, Climate Change Specialist (ENV); Oscar Ishizawa, Disaster
Risk Management Specialist (LCSUW); Ulrich Hess, Sr. Economist (CPMF); Fabio Pittaluga, Sr. Social
Development Specialist (LCSSO); Alejandro de la Fuente, Social Development Economist (SDV); Todd
Crawford, Lead Operations Consultant (LCSSD); Nicolas Perrin, Sr. Social Development Specialist
(ECSS4); Maria Poli, ETC (LCSSO); Gisela Campillo, JPO (LC1); Ana Paola López, STC (LCSSO);
Maximillian Ashwill, ETC (LCSSO); Graciela Reyes Retana, JPA (LC1); Maribel Cherres, Program
Assistant, (LCSSO); Damaris Garay, Language Team Assistant (LC1); Nancy Montes de Oca, Language
Team Assistant (LC1); Diana Jimenez, Language Team Assistant (LC1); Mariangeles Sabella, Sr.
Counsel (LEGLA); Gamila Kassem (LEGLA); Xiomara Morel, Sr. Financial Management Specialist
(LCSFM); Joost Draaisma, Sr. Country Economist (LC1), and Victor Ordoñez (CTRLN). The Team is
grateful for the close collaboration of the Government of Mexico during the preparation of the loan.
Maninder Gill (LCSSO), Gustavo Saltiel (AFTWR), Alexandra Ortiz (LCSSD), and Harold Bedoya
(LC1) provided internal quality oversight. The peer reviewers are Robin Mearns, Lead Social
Development Specialist, Team Leader Social Dimensions of Climate Change (SDV); Abhas Jha, Lead
Urban Development Specialist, Regional Coordinator DRM (EASIN); and Benoit Bosquet, Lead Carbon
Finance Specialist (ENVCF).
                      LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY

                 THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
      STRENGTHENING SOCIAL RESILIENCE TO CLIMATE CHANGE
                  DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN

Borrower            The United Mexican States
Implementing
                    Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources
Agency

                    US$300,751,879.70, IBRD Flexible Loan with a variable spread,
                    commitment linked, bullet repayment on August 15, 2023, all
Financing Data
                    conversion options (currency, interest rate and Caps/Collars),
                    and February 15 and August 15 as payment dates.

Operation Type      Single Tranche Development Policy Loan

                    Social Development, Disaster Risk Management, Urban
Main Policy Areas
                    Development, Forestry, Climate Change, Subnational Planning

                    Long term adaptation planning
                        Number of States designing              Climate Change Action
                            Programs during 2012 that have included specific measures
                            to promote social resilience (baseline: 0, target: 3)
                        Regional Strategy for Climate Change Adaptation in the
                            Yucatán Peninsula has included measures (supported by
                            SEMARNAT and/or INE) to address unsustainable growth of
                            tourism in coastal areas and livelihood co-benefits of climate
                            policies for indigenous communities.
                        Number of States designing Climate Change Action
                            Programs during 2012 that have included civil society
                            participation in the design of social resilience initiatives.
Key Outcome                 (baseline: 0, target 3)
Indicators
(by March 2013)     Disaster Risk Management and Sustainable Territorial Development
                        Percentage of municipalities with high and very high scores
                            in PRAH's disaster risk index which are implementing risk
                            reduction institutional strengthening and investment activities
                            supported by PRAH. (Source: PRAH's Risk Index; Baseline
                            January 2012: 0; target by March 2013: 60 municipalities).
                        Number of urban development projects evaluated within the
                            DUIS Working Group that have incorporated at least the
                            following criteria specified in SEDESOL's Sustainable Urban
                            Development Guidelines: (i) location, (ii) connectivity and
                            accessibility, and (iii) risk prevention (target: 5 between
                            January 2012-March 2013).
                        Percentage of eligible surface that is covered by climate risk
                            insurance (baseline: 69%; target: 74%)

                                                                                              i
                   Sustainable Community Forest Management
                         Number of REDD+ collaboration initiatives between
                            CONAFOR and/or SAGARPA and subnational Governments
                            in REDD+ Early Action areas that are operational
                            (baseline:0; target: 2)
                         Active social participation in REDD+ policy making at sub-
                            national level trough the operation of local CTC-REDD+
                            (participation of civil society in all meetings as reflected in
                            minutes, with a minimum 3 meetings per year per CTC).
                         Percentage of participating communities in REDD+ Early
                            Action Areas receiving support from regional landscape
                            management agents (baseline 0%, target 33%)
                   The objective of this operation is to strengthen social resilience to
                   climate change through policies that will directly and indirectly
Program            benefit the poor by improving: (a) adaptation planning oriented to the
Development        state level; (b) disaster risk reduction and territorial development
Objective(s) and   actions oriented to the municipal level; and (c) sustainable
Contribution to    community forest management at the community level. A multi-
CPS                sectoral DPL to enhance climate change adaptation capacity is
                   anticipated in the CPS.

                   Economic. A sharp weakening in the economic recovery of the
                   United States would pose downside risks to Mexico‘s growth due to
                   the high degree of integration. Even in the case of a prolonged
                   weakness in the U.S., strong macroeconomic policy fundamentals
                   should favor recovery of the Mexican economy and a return to the
                   medium-term potential output rate of growth. A greater emphasis on
                   growth-oriented structural reforms is crucial to improve Mexico‘s
                   medium-term growth potential, which is driven by labor force and
                   capital accumulation growth but remains constrained by lack of any
                   significant productivity improvements.

                   Fiscal. Sovereign debt problems in Europe and fiscal sustainability
                   concerns in other countries, could increase global risk aversion, and
                   lead to higher volatility in Mexico‘s financial markets. The
Risks and Risk     Government‘s record of sound and predictable macroeconomic
Mitigation         management, reflected in their successful response to the 2009 global
                   crisis, and the increased insurance provided by the international
                   reserve accumulation and a successor IMF Flexible Credit Line
                   mitigate some of the tail risks of global financial market volatility.

                   Institutional. The implementation of programs recognized by the
                   proposed DPL will require significant multi-institutional
                   collaboration. Five of the nine prior actions proposed in this DPL
                   mitigate this risk by strengthening mechanisms of inter-sectoral
                   coordination. These measures are supported by complementary
                   activities by the Bank to assist the government through capacity-
                   building programs and investment lending that strengthens the ability
                   of institutions to plan, implement, and monitor sectoral programs.
                   The Working Groups for REDD+ and Adaptation and their respective
                   Consultative Technical Committee or Expert Technical Committee

                                                                                              ii
               bring together the agencies and civil society.

               Political. Political support to the climate change program could
               weaken, particularly given the upcoming national elections and the
               subsequent government transition in January 2013. This risk is
               considered low. Mexico was the first of the two non-Annex 1
               countries to date that have submitted their third communications to
               the UNFCCC (the other being Uruguay) and is the only one to have
               submitted its fourth. It is already at work on its fifth. The National
               Climate Change Strategy and Special Program for Climate Change
               were widely consulted and enjoy broad support among political
               parties, all levels of government, civil society organizations, and
               Mexico‘s academic and scientific communities. With these and with
               Mexico‘s effective management of COP 16, it has consolidated its
               reputation as a global leader on climate change adaptation. It is not
               likely that Mexico would cede that leadership role. The Bank‘s on-
               going engagement with the government on climate change matters is
               also expected to help maintain political support.

               Environmental and social. Likelihood of unanticipated
               environmental and social impacts is low as most of the potential
               impacts are well known and manageable. Overall, the operation is
               likely to have strong, positive environmental and social impacts.
                Also, the key agencies involved in the DPL have strong track-records
               as well as significant capacity to address environmental and social
               issues, the resolution of which constitutes a core part of their
               mandate.

               Stakeholder. The manner in which Mexico has been able to build a
               strong consensus among stakeholders, including government
               agencies, civil society and the private sector on a range of climate-
               related actions, particularly in the run-up to COP 16, provides
               significant assurance that the risk of stakeholder opposition to the
               proposed policy actions is small. The fact that most of the actions
               will be highly beneficial to a broad range of stakeholders should also
               contribute to strong support among them.
Operation ID   P120170




                                                                                        iii
                     THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
          STRENGTHENING SOCIAL RESILIENCE TO CLIMATE CHANGE
                      DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN


                   I. CLIMATE CHANGE ENGAGEMENT IN MEXICO
1.      The Government of Mexico (GoM) has requested a Strengthening Social Resilience
to Climate Change Development Policy Loan (DPL) in the amount of US$300,751,879.70
million. This request underscores the GoM‘s continuing desire to engage with the World Bank in
its efforts to promote sustainable, resilient development through improved climate change
adaptation and mitigation policies that benefit the poor.

2.      The Government of Mexico and the World Bank have a long-standing, deep
engagement on climate change. This commitment encompasses the initial steps of international
efforts to build a broad agenda. As shown in Figure 1, this engagement has progressed in recent
years, with subsequent stages built on previous actions. The Bank‘s engagement in the field of
climate change in Mexico currently comprises the full range of Bank instruments, including:
    a.       Knowledge Services: providing advice on a range of development options to tackle
        climate change and acting as an incubator of innovation.
    b.       Financial services: including investment lending, Development Policy Loans as well
        as CTF concessional financing, GEF and other grants. The Bank also provides credit
        enhancement, hedging swaps, catastrophe risk management and advisory services.
    c.       Convening and Coordination Services: including knowledge sharing, South-South
        exchange, event organization and high-level coordination.

3.      Four stages of climate change engagement between the Bank and the GoM can be
distinguished: (i) Foundations; (ii) Early Support; (iii) Strengthening; and (iv) Consolidation.
During the first stage, Foundations (before 1999), Bank support was focused on small
investment projects in the waste, transport and forest management areas. Moreover, with the
launch of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in 1991, Mexico gained new opportunities for
grants on projects related to biodiversity, climate change, international waters, land degradation,
the ozone layer, and persistent organic pollutants. Although climate change was not explicitly
included in this phase, it laid the foundations of the climate change engagement between the
Bank and the GoM, leading to the creation of the Mexican Office for Greenhouse Gas Mitigation
in FY99.

4.      The second stage, Early Support (1999–2007), corresponds to Mexico‘s ratification of
adherence to the Kyoto Protocol, which led to the establishment of a national strategy and
sectoral committee on climate change issues. During this stage, support to the climate change
agenda became explicit. The projects were mainly focused on specific sectors such as clean
transport, waste management and energy provision. The Bank‘s leading role in knowledge on
climate change was recognized by a series of Knowledge Services and represented a new
relationship with the GoM, going beyond traditional financial services. The Programmatic
Environment Development Policy Loans I and II (US$200 million each) recognized and
supported national environmental strategies on tourism, energy, forestry and water, some of them
explicitly related to climate change.

                                                                                                 1
5.      In the third stage, Strengthening (2007–2010), Bank support was focused on cross-
sectoral strategies to address climate change and was closely related to the National Climate
Change Strategy. The flagship of this period was the Climate Change DPL (US$501 million)
which was presented to the Board in 2007 for its approval along with a new Country Partnership
Strategy (CPS). In this stage, the analytical and knowledge activities continued to increase
considerably, evidencing the GoM‘s intensifying demand for the Bank‘s technical expertise on
climate change.

6.      One of the key activities developed during this stage was the preparation of the Clean
Technology Fund (CTF) Investment Plan (IP), which provides support for the low-carbon
growth objectives in Mexico‘s 2007–2012 National Development Plan, Climate Change Strategy
and Special Climate Change Program. Preparation of the IP was led by the GoM and the Bank,
in partnership with the Inter-American Development Bank (IADB) and the International Finance
Corporation (IFC). The IP addresses programs in three key sectors: urban transport, renewable
energy, and energy efficiency. The choice of programs reflects a combination of the GoM‘s
ambitious strategies and sector implementation readiness, as well as the development banks‘
capacity and focus, and priorities established by the CTF.

7.     In the fourth and current stage, Consolidation (2010–), the focus has been on
mainstreaming mitigation and adaptation to climate change across sectors and levels of
government. Some of the key instruments that were deployed during this stage and are underway
include:
    a.      The Urban Transport Transformation Program (UTTP, 2010), which combines
       various Bank instruments, including a Clean Technology Fund (CTF) loan in the amount
       of US$200 million and an IBRD loan in the amount of US$150 million. The program is
       also supported by a GEF grant of US$ 5.4 million aimed at the development of clean
       transport solutions at the local level. The objective of the UTTP is to contribute to the
       transformation of urban transport in Mexican cities toward a lower carbon growth path by
       improving the quality of service provided by urban transport systems.
    b.      The Green Growth DPL (2010) in the amount of US$1.504 billion, which
       recognized and supported the cross-cutting mitigation measures embedded in the
       objectives of the Programa Especial de Cambio Climático (PECC, Special Program for
       Climate Change).
    c.      The Low-carbon DPL (2010) in the amount of US$401 million, which recognized
       and supported the GoM‘s reforms and implementation of policies and programs under the
       PECC. This DPL included the energy, transport, urban housing and forestry sectors and
       was informed by the flagship Low-carbon Study (MEDEC).
    d.      The Subnational Climate Change Program (2010–), which is composed of a series
       of activities, including: (i) the Subnational Climate Change Plans, financed by a grant
       from the Spanish Fund for Latin America and the Caribbean (SFLAC) and Bank budget.
       Its aim is to develop State Adaptation Plans. The Bank has been supporting five states
       (Michoacán, Campeche, Quintana Roo, Oaxaca and Zacatecas) in capacity building, and
       has been providing technical advice related to climate change adaptation and risk
       management strategies; (ii) the SFLAC grant for Local Sustainable Development, which
       aims to provide advisory services to develop a Municipal Climate Vulnerability Index

                                                                                              2
      and Guidelines for Municipal Climate Change Action Plans; and (iii) the Cities Alliance
      Grant to support the municipality of Othon P. Blanco, Quintana Roo, in developing a
      municipal sustainability and climate change strategy.
   e.      These are complemented by an Engagement in the Water Sector and Climate
      Change, which defines an integrated series of instruments, including: (i) the Adaptation
      to Climate Change in the Water Sector DPL (2010) in the amount of US$450 million,
      which supports the GOM‘s efforts to strengthen the institutional framework and
      monitoring capacity in Integrated Water Resources Management and Mainstreaming
      Adaptation to Climate Change in Water Programs; (ii) Adaptation to Climate Change
      Impacts on the Coastal Wetlands in the Gulf of Mexico (2010), partially financed by a
      GEF grant in the amount of US$ 4.5 million, which promotes adaptation to climate
      impacts in the coastal wetlands of the Gulf of Mexico and will assess the overall impacts
      of climate change and potential response options, with a focus on coastal wetlands and
      associated watersheds; and (iii) the Strategic Engagement Program (SEP) to Support
      Adaptation of the Water Sector to Climate Change (2011), which furthers the partnership
      between Mexico and the Bank by strengthening CONAGUA‘s capacity to address the
      challenges that climate change and population growth pose to the security of the water
      supply needed for Mexico‘s economic and social development.

8.     During FY12 and FY13, the engagement will be further consolidated through
incorporation of new sectors and instruments. Some of the ongoing and planned activities that
deserve prominence include:
   a.        The Strengthening Social Resilience to Climate Change DPL (FY12), which is
       proposed in this document.
   b.        The Forests and Climate Change Investment Program (FY12), which will further
       implementation of the related policies recognized by this DPL. It will deploy various
       instruments, including technical assistance (e.g., South–South collaboration on REDD+),
       policy advice, convening services (e.g., the Forest Carbon Partnership Facility),
       institutional strengthening and direct support to communities (e.g.proposed Forest and
       Climate Change SIL), and the piloting of innovative financial services (including a
       possible Forest Bond with the Bank‘s Treasury Department). The program will also
       support innovative and cross-cutting activities in Mexico through the Forest Investment
       Program (FIP), which explicitly mainstreams climate resilience considerations and will
       contribute to multiple co-benefits such as biodiversity conservation, protection of the
       rights of indigenous peoples and local communities, and poverty reduction through rural
       livelihoods enhancements.
   c.        Other future activities. These include the Modernization of the National
       Meteorological Service Specific Investment Project (FY12), and the Climate Change
       Public                    Expenditure                    Review                  (FY12).




                                                                                             3
                              Figure 1: Stages of climate change engagement in Mexicoa


                                                         Stages of Climate Change Engagement in Mexico

                                        Foundations                      Early Support                       Strengthening                          Consolidation
                                       (Before 1999)                      [1999–2007)                         [2007–2009]                             [2010–)

                                                                 LAC Region Landfill Gas             Carbon Finance Assistance          Social Impacts of Climate Change
                                                                  Initiative (P104757)                 Program for Mexico                  (P112024)
         Knowledge Services




                                                                 Evaluation of Energy                 (P104731)                          MoU Subnational CC (P105849)
                                                                  Efficiency Initiatives              Low-carbon Study                   Othon P. Blanco Sustainable
                                                                  (P099734)                            (MEDEC) (P108304)                   Development Strategy (P122021)
                                                                 Economic Assessment of              Mass Urban Transport-              SEP Adaptation of the Water
                                                                  Policy Interventions in the          Federal Program (P110474)           Sector to CC
                                                                  Water Sector (P096999)                                                  CC Public Expenditure Review
                                                                                                                                           (FY12)
                                                                                                                                          Forest Carbon Partnership Facility
                                                                                                                                           (FY11-13)
                               Solid Waste Management           Renewable Energy for                Mexico: Waste Management           Adaptation to Climate Change
                                Pilot Project (P007628)           Agriculture Project (P060718)        and Carbon Offset Project           Impacts in the Coastal Wetlands in
                               Urban Transport Project          Introduction to Climate-             (P088546)                           the Gulf of Mexico (P100438)
                                (P007615)                         friendly Measures in Transport      Climate Change DPL                 Urban Transport Transformation
                               Community Forestry                (P059161)                            (P110849)                           Program (P107159)
  Financial Services




                                (P007700)                        Programmatic Environment            Environmental Sustainability       Green Growth DPL (P115608)
                                                                  DPLs I and II (P079748)              DPL (P095510)                      Adaptation to CC in the Water
                                                                                                      Sustainable Rural                   Sector DPL (P120134)
                                                                                                       Development (P108766)              Low-carbon DPL (P121800)
                                                                                                                                          Strengthening Social Resilience to
                                                                                                                                           CC DPL (FY12)
                                                                                                                                          Forest and Climate change SIL, and
                                                                                                                                           Forest Investment Program (FY12)
                                                                                                                                          Modernization of National
                                                                                                                                           Meteorological Service SIL (FY12)
                                                                 Consolidation & Strengthening       Preparation of the CTF             Water sector events in the lead-up
Convening and
 Coordination




                                                                  of the Mexican Office for            Investment Plan                     to COP16
                                                                                                                                          Energy-efficiency conference
   Services




                                                                  Greenhouse Gas Mitigation
                                                                  (P060412)                                                               High-level facilitation activities
                                                                                                                                           related to COP16
                                                                                                                                          Agriculture and forestry sector
                                                                                                                                           events during COP16
                              a
                                  The figure highlights several significant examples and does not aim to exhaustively illustrate all climate change activities.

                              9.      The Bank program of climate change in Mexico constitutes an outstanding example of
                              engagement with a sophisticated middle-income country in which the Bank has deployed the full
                              range of available instruments to support the evolution of the government‘s program through the
                              years in a consistent manner (see Figure 2). The focus has been on using the existing range of
                              Bank instruments in ways that build collective synergy and have delivered knowledge services
                              combined with lending services.




                                                                                                                                                                  4
            Figure 2: Timeline of the Bank engagement with the GoM in climate change
                             1995
                1993         Community member         2000                                                     2005                      2007                           2010            2012
                Ratification participation Advisory   Ratification of the                                      Kyoto Protocol            National Climate               COP 16          National
                UNFCCC Councils for Sustainable       Kyoto Protocol                                           entered into force        Change Strategy                Cancun          Adaptation
                             Development                                                                                                                                                Strategy




        Foundations                                                         Early Support                                                    Strengthening                          Consolidation



                                 1999
…                                                                                                                                         2007                               2010
                                                                                                                                                                                                  …
FY86                               FY99
Solid Waste                        Greenhouse                                                                                                      FY08                                  FY11-FY12
Management                         Gas Mitigation                  FY01                                                                            Low-carbon        FY09                Social Resilience
Pilot Project                      Office                          Methane Gas FY03                                                                Study (MEDEC)     Sustainable         and CC DPL
                                                                   Capture and Use Introduction to                                  FY06                             Rural               Forest and CC
                             FY97              FY00                at a Landfill   Climate-friendly
                                                                                                    FY04                            Second                           Development         Program
          FY90               Community         Renewable                           Measures in
                             Forestry                                                               LAC Region                      Programmatic
          Forestry                             Energy for                          Transport                                                                                             Social Impacts of
                             Project                                                                Landfill Gas                    Environment
          Development                          Agriculture                                                                                                      FY09                     Climate Change
          Project                                                                                   Initiative                      DPL
                                               Project                                                                                                          Climate
                                                                                                                                                                Change DPL     FY10
                                                                                                                                                                               Green Growth DPL
                                                                                                                                                                               Adaptation to Climate
                                                                                                                                                                               Change in the Water
                                                                                                                                                                               Sector DPL
                                                                                                                                                                               MoU Subnational
                                                                                                                                                                               Climate Change
           1992     1994      1997                                  2001                                     2004                     2006                            2009
           Adoption UNFCCC Adoption of                              Mexico‘s Second National                 Mexico‘s GHG             Mexico‘s Third National         Special Climate
           UNFCCC entered intothe Kyoto                             Communication to the                     Program                  Communication to the            Change Program
                    force     Protocol                              UNFCCC                                                            UNFCCC                          (PECC)
                              Mexico‘s First National                                                                                                                  Mexico‘s Fourth National
                                                                                                                                                                                     5
                              Communication to the                                                                                                                     Communication to the
                              UNFCCC                                                                                                                                   UNFCCC
Strengthening Social Resilience to Climate Change DPL
10.     Climate change threatens socially sustainable development in Mexico, as it does
elsewhere, but it also provides an important opportunity to bring to the forefront the needs
of the poor in adaptation and mitigation strategies, policies and programs. It is indisputable
that the poor are the least resilient to climate change. Strengthening social resilience to the
impacts of climate change (i.e., climate change adaptation) and ensuring inclusive benefits of
mitigation policies are closely intertwined with sustainable approaches to development and
poverty reduction. Natural disasters occurring between 2000 and 2005 increased poverty in
Mexico by 3.7 percent.1 Disasters expose the cumulative consequences of many earlier
decisions, notably disorderly and unsustainable patterns of territorial and urban development.
Climate change multiplies the existing vulnerabilities of poor people to extreme weather events,
such as increased water insecurity, greater health risks, and loss of livelihoods due to the collapse
of ecosystems. One ecosystem of particular importance in Mexico is its forests. Not only do the
forests have significant carbon emissions reduction potential in Mexico, they also represent a
physical and financial buffer against natural disasters (i.e., storms and droughts) and constitute a
source of revenue and livelihood for over ten thousand rural and indigenous communities, which
manage 70 percent of the forests in the country. Thus, reducing deforestation and forest
degradation is an essential element of a pro-poor mitigation and adaptation policy.

11.     Thinking about resilience has evolved over recent years beyond the ability of a
community to cope and recover from disturbances to incorporate also their ability to learn,
change, and adapt in response to stresses and shocks. Among the authors grappling with
defining and measuring resilience of social systems in the face of climate change, Martin-Breen
and Anderies (2011)2 lay out a spectrum of resilience, with a synthesis of resilience theory and
its applications across disciplines. In the face of unpredictable climate changes, the most useful
definition for social resilience comes from complex adaptive systems: the ability of systems—
households, people, communities, ecosystems, nations—to generate new ways of operating and
new systemic relationships. Hence in the context of climate change, social resilience is best
defined as the ability to withstand, recover from, and reorganize in response to crises.
Function is maintained, but system structure may not be.

12.      The Strengthening Social Resilience to Climate Change DPL is the first World Bank
lending operation whose central, explicit theme is the reduction of the impacts of climate
change and variability on the poor. The three policy areas recognize and support the GoM‘s
progress in addressing critical obstacles to enhancing social resilience to climate change. These
obstacles, which are articulated in the Government‘s Mid Term Adaptation Policy Framework,
are: (i) the lack of policy frameworks, state-level institutional arrangements, and funding to
facilitate adaptation to the differentiated effects of climate change on the poor and vulnerable;
(ii) the lack of incentives to promote disaster resilient and socially sustainable territorial and
urban planning and weaknesses in pro-poor targeting of agriculture sector disaster insurance; and
(iii) and institutional weaknesses in forestry management, including misaligned policies and

1
  Rodriguez-Oreggia et al. (2010). ―The Impact of Natural Disasters on Human Development and Poverty at the
Municipal level in México‖ in CID Working Paper No. 193, Harvard University. January.
2
  Martin-Breen, Patrick and J. Marty Anderies. Resilience: A Literature Review. The Rockefeller Foundation,
September 2011.

                                                                                                         6
incentives, limited community and civil society involvement, and weak municipal capacity. The
three areas are:
   i. Strengthening social resilience through long-term climate change adaptation planning
        oriented to the state level. The DPL addresses a core challenge by recognizing the
        development of national frameworks and funding mechanisms that foster intersectoral,
        intergovernmental, and multi-stakeholder coordination and collaboration to promote
        socially inclusive and pro-poor adaptation policies and programs.

 ii.    Strengthening social resilience through disaster risk reduction and territorial
        development oriented to the municipal level. The DPL addresses core challenges by
        recognizing financial and other incentives for disaster risk reduction and for socially and
        environmentally resilient territorial development and urban development.

 iii.   Strengthening social resilience at the community level through pro-poor sustainable
        community forest management. The DPL addresses core challenges by recognizing
        policies and programs to foster community-based forest management and public
        participation in policy-making, in order to enhance the resilience of poor rural and
        indigenous communities that derive their livelihoods from forests while at the same time
        mitigating carbon emissions from deforestation and forest degradation.

13.      World Bank President Zoellick has stated that climate change “offers an
opportunity for economic and social transformation that can lead to an inclusive and
sustainable globalization.? The GoM‘s progress in formulating and implementing its climate
change adaptation strategy and programs provides a unique opportunity to support improvements
in social inclusion and sustainable poverty reduction through improved climate change planning
at the state level, strengthened disaster risk reduction capacity at the municipal level, better
territorial and urban planning, better targeted programs to cushion the poor against adverse
weather events, and promotion of synergies between climate change mitigation and adaptation in
the forestry sector benefiting especially indigenous, poor communities.

14.     The document is structured as follows: Section II describes the country context,
paying special attention to key challenges that the country faces in terms of sustainable and
resilient development. Section III outlines the Government‘s program to deal with these
challenges. Section IV sets forth the Bank‘s recognition of the Government‘s program. Section
V describes the proposed operation. Section VI discusses program implementation, including
key risks and risk mitigation measures. Ten annexes provide greater detail on several aspects of
the operation.




                                                                                                 7
                                   II. COUNTRY CONTEXT

    A. Recent Economic Developments

15.     The Mexican economy rapidly recovered from the impact of the global economic
crisis. After a severe contraction in late 2008 and early 2009, resurgence in demand for Mexican
manufactured exports led to a sharp rebound of economic activity. By the end of 2010 output
returned to its pre-crisis level, with an upturn in domestic demand sustaining growth of 5.4
percent for the year, and supporting convergence to the country‘s potential output.

16.      Strong links between the Mexican and U.S. manufacturing industry contributed to a
surge in external trade. With almost 80 percent of trade directed to the U.S., a recovery of
economic activity and, in particular, of industrial production in the U.S. led to a sharp rebound of
Mexican exports. Manufactured exports increased by 30 percent in 2010, surpassing their pre-
crisis level, and continue to expand at a healthy annual rate of 14 percent in 2011. The rapid
expansion of exports led to an increase of Mexico‘s market share in the U.S. to over 12 percent
from 10.5 percent prior to the crisis. Recent external competitiveness gains are the result of
moderate wage growth, a relatively weaker peso and higher global transport costs.

17.     The recovery spurred a moderate increase in employment. Though the Mexican labor
market is recovering from the trough, unemployment remains above pre-crisis levels. The
unemployment rate, which reached a record high of 6.4 percent in September 2009, has remained
over 5 percent over the last two years, two percent above the average pre-crisis level. After net
job destruction in 2009, approximately 500 thousand formal sector jobs have been created
annually leaving an equal number of net labor force entrants to look for other alternatives in self-
or informal sector employment. Over the past four years, real wages in the formal sector have
languished, compared to an annual average increase of one percent previous to the crisis.

18.     After more than a decade of rapid growth, outward migration and remittances have
stagnated. Recent population census data show that the number of Mexican migrants in the U.S.
remained at 12 million between 2007 and 2010, compared to an estimated average annual net
migration of 500 thousand in the preceding years. This is likely due to tighter migration controls
and the downturn of U.S. economic activity, in particular in the construction sector. As a result,
annual remittance inflows of US$ 22.7 billion in 2011 are still 13 percent below their end-2007
peak. The impact of the slump in remittances in terms of purchasing power, poverty relief and
domestic consumption was somewhat mitigated by currency depreciation in 2008-2009 and more
recently in the second half of 2011.

19.     Credit growth has recovered and is now in line with nominal Gross Domestic
Product (GDP) growth. Consumer and corporate credit have expanded at an annual nominal
rate of about 12 percent. Housing finance has trailed behind, with 10 percent annual nominal
growth, partly attributed to the demise of the specialized housing non-bank financial
intermediaries (Sociedades Financieras de Objeto Limitado - SOFOLES). Commercial banks
non-performing loan ratio remains at 2.7 percent and is adequately provisioned for.
Provisioning levels (180 percent) are significantly higher than in the rest of the region.


                                                                                                  8
        Chart 1: Mexico Selected Macroeconomic Charts
          Fig.1-Aggregate demand (2008:II=100)                                                                                                                                                          Fig.2- Labor market indicators

                                                                                                                                                                             6.5                                                                                                                                                            15.5
115
                                                                                           Pub. Exp.                                                                         6.0
110
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            15
105                                                                                                                                                     GDP                  5.5
                                                                                Exports
                                                                                                                                                                             5.0                                                                                                                                                            14.5
100

 95                                                                                                                                                                          4.5                                                                                                                                                            14
                                                                                               Priv. Cons.                                                                                                                                                                                        Unemployment
 90                                                                                                                                                                          4.0                                                                                                                  rate (s.a.)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            13.5
 85                                                                                                                                  Priv. Inv.                              3.5                                                                                                                  Insured workers
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (million) RHS
 80
                                                                                                                                                                             3.0                                                                                                                                                            13




                                                                                                                                                                                               Sep-08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Sep-09




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Sep-10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Sep-11
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Jan-09




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Jan-10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Jan-11
                                                                                                                                                                                   May-08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                               May-09




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  May-10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               May-11
 75
                                               09:I




                                                                                           10:I




                                                                                                                                         11:I
                         08:III




                                                                    09:III




                                                                                                                 10:III




                                                                                                                                                                11:III
              08:II




                                                         09:II




                                                                                                      10:II




                                                                                                                                                    11:II
                                    08:IV




                                                                                09:IV




                                                                                                                             10:IV




                                        Fig.3- Inflation rate (%)                                                                                                                  Fig.4- International Reserves (US$ billions)

11                                                                                                                                                                           145
                                                                                                                                                                             140
10                                                                                                                                                                           135
                                                           Food
 9                                                                                                                                                                           130
                                                                                                                                                                             125
 8                                                                                                                                                                           120
 7                                Headline                                                                                                                                   115
                                                                                                                                                                             110
 6                                                                                                                                                                           105
 5                                                                                                                                                                           100
                                    Core                                                                                                                                      95
 4                                                                                                                                                                            90
 3                                                                                                                                                                            85
                                                                                                                                                                              80
 2                                                                                                                                                                            75
 1                                                                                                                                                                            70
                                                                                                                                                                              65
 0                                                                                                                                                                            60
                           Dec-08




                                                                       Dec-09




                                                                                                                    Dec-10




                                                                                                                                                                    Dec-11




                                                                                                                                                                                                        Dec-08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Dec-09




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Dec-10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Dec-11
                Sep-08




                                                           Sep-09




                                                                                                        Sep-10




                                                                                                                                                       Sep-11




                                                                                                                                                                                            Sep-08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Sep-09




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Sep-10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Sep-11
     Jun-08




                                                Jun-09




                                                                                             Jun-10




                                                                                                                                           Jun-11




                                                                                                                                                                                   Jun-08




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Jun-09




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Jun-10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Jun-11
                                      Mar-09




                                                                                  Mar-10




                                                                                                                                Mar-11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Mar-09




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Mar-10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Mar-11

                 Fig.5- Exchange rate (June 2008=100)                                                                                                                                       Fig.6 External Accounts (US$ billions)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9
16                                                                    12
                                                                      10
15
                                                                       8
14                                                                     6

13                                                                     4
                                                                       2
12
                                                                       0
11                                                                     -2
                                                                                                                                                   CAB
10                                                                     -4
                                                                                                                                                   FDI
                                                                       -6                                                                          Portfolio inv.
 9
     Nov-08
      Jan-09




     Nov-09
      Jan-10




     Nov-10
      Jan-11




     Nov-11
      Jan-12
     Sep-08




     May-09

     Sep-09




     May-10

     Sep-10




     May-11

     Sep-11
       Jul-08




       Jul-09




       Jul-10




       Jul-11
     Mar-09




     Mar-10




     Mar-11
                                                                       -8




                                                                            08:I




                                                                                                            09:I




                                                                                                                                            10:I




                                                                                                                                                                             11:I
                                                                                           08:III




                                                                                                                           09:III




                                                                                                                                                                                            11:III
                                                                                                                                                            10:III
                                                                                   08:II




                                                                                                                   09:II




                                                                                                                                                    10:II




                                                                                                                                                                                    11:II
                                                                                                    08:IV




                                                                                                                                    09:IV




                                                                                                                                                                     10:IV
     20.     The authorities are gradually withdrawing the fiscal stimulus to reassure markets of
     Mexico’s fiscal sustainability. Fiscal discipline and strong fiscal policy frameworks, including
     the establishment of stabilization funds and the acquisition of oil price hedges, provided the
     authorities with some space to conduct countercyclical policy during the height of the crisis
     without jeopardizing long-term sustainability. Fiscal stimulus in 2009 was mainly financed by
     non-recurrent revenue that was no longer available in 2010, when the authorities initiated a
     program of fiscal consolidation by increasing taxes and containing public expenditures. To
     moderate the withdrawal of fiscal support a modest budget deficit was allowed in 2010, 2011 and
     2012, with a return to a balanced budget as stipulated in Mexico‘s fiscal responsibility law
     envisaged for 2013.3

     21.    Monetary policy remains accommodative after substantial easing in 2009. The sharp
     contraction of economic activity in 2009 created a particularly large output gap, suggesting that
     the economy may, for the medium-term, expand moderately above its potential without
     generating inflation pressures. Consumer price inflation has trended down for the major part of
     2011, and is currently at 3.8 percent within the authorities‘ target interval of 3 plus/minus 1
     percent.

     22.     International reserve accumulation and a new International Monetary Fund (IMF)
     Flexible Credit Line (FCL) strengthen Mexico’s insurance against external shocks. The
     buildup of international reserves stems from net public sector foreign exchange receipts, due to
     elevated oil prices, and the introduction of a rules based mechanism that enables market
     participants to sell foreign exchange to the Central Bank. Gross international reserves now stand
     at US$142 billion, an increase of US$29 billion over the last twelve months. A new FCL was
     contracted with the IMF in January 2011 for a two-year period to an amount of approximately
     US$73 billion.

     23.    Over the past two years Mexico experienced substantial capital inflows, mainly
     directed at the domestic government bond market. Loose global monetary conditions and

     3
       The budget balance targeted in the Fiscal Responsibility Law excludes investments in the oil sector amounting to about 2.0
     percent of GDP annually over the past couple of years. A broader deficit measure like the Public Sector Borrowing
     Requirements (PSBR) does include these outlays as well as additional adjustments for concepts such as inflation-indexed debt
     and financial intermediation by development banks.

                                                                                                                                                                                    10
inclusion of Mexican local currency government bonds in Citibank‘s World Government Bond
Index (WGBI) in October 2010 led to a surge of capital inflows of about US$16 billion in the
last half of 2010 and first half of 2011, respectively. However, increased global risk aversion has
recently put pressure on asset and currency markets. Mexico‘s flexible exchange rate and
increased financial cushion (reserves and the FCL) should help mitigate the effect of a sudden,
sharp reversal in capital flows.

24.     The Mexican authorities recently adjusted their foreign exchange intervention
mechanism in response to sharply increased market volatility. The higher degree of risk
aversion on the back of the European sovereign debt and banking sector problems has triggered a
sharp depreciation of the peso and increased the volatility of the peso-U.S. dollar exchange rate.
To reduce market volatility, the authorities reintroduced in end-November 2011, a rules-based
foreign exchange intervention mechanism that announces the auction of USD400m on days
when the Mexican peso has depreciated by 2 percent or more compared to the previous day. At
the same time, the authorities suspended the monthly sale of dollar put options through which the
Central Bank accumulated additional international reserves. The measure aims at enhancing
liquidity conditions in the foreign exchange market and therefore reducing USD/MXN volatility.

25.    Food price inflation and the economic crisis have increased poverty over the past
few years. Total poverty increased from 44.5 to 46.2 percent between 2008 and 2010, according
to a new official poverty measure. Approximately a quarter of the poor, 10.4 percent of the total
population in 2010, live in extreme poverty. These figures are the result of a new poverty
measure based on a multidimensional concept of poverty. Though no historical time series of the
new poverty measure exist, the previous income based poverty measure exhibited a reversal in
the declining trend of poverty as of 2008. The increase was largely attributed to food price
increases, whereas the recent increase in poverty levels is mainly due to the economic crisis and
labor market slack.

        B. Macroeconomic Outlook and Debt Sustainability

26.     Economic growth has moderated but is forecast to remain healthy in 2012.
Economic growth has moderated to about 3.8 percent in 2011. Growth in 2012 is projected to
slow to 3.3 percent, and stabilize at 3.5 over the medium-term (see base case scenario Table 1).4
Despite a slowdown in U.S. growth, external demand will likely remain buoyed by growth in
U.S. industrial production and improved Mexican external competitiveness. Domestic demand is
expected to remain expansionary and driven by labor market improvements, credit growth and
infrastructure investment. Downside risks to growth, associated with a U.S. slowdown and the
ongoing problems in Europe, remain significant.

27.    A lower case growth scenario may materialize if Mexico’s main trading partner falls
back into a recession in the near term (see Box 1). Weaker demand for Mexican exports and a
slowdown in investment may lead to a below potential rate of growth in the short term, 2012, of
about 2 percent. Such a low case scenario also includes a return to the lower bound of Mexico‘s
medium-term potential output growth range at 3.0 percent and impacts the Government‘s fiscal
4
    See also IMF Selected Issues (2011).


                                                                                                11
and debt projections. A greater emphasis on growth-oriented structural reforms is crucial to
improve Mexico‘s medium-term growth potential, which is driven by growth of the labor force
and capital accumulation but remains constrained by lack of any significant productivity
improvements.

28.      Mexico’s security situation continues to impact growth and pose challenges for the
authorities. The growing violence, in particular in northern Mexico, stems from the conflict
between drug cartels and among cartels and Mexican security services. The domestic security
threat is undermining economic growth and investment, in particular in the areas most impacted
by violent crime. As a result, improving public security remains one of the Government‘s
priorities. Increasing resources needed to address the rise in violence could detract from
spending on social needs and public investment.

29.    Uncertainty over the global outlook and a more moderate domestic growth outlook
will continue to restrain price pressures. Annual headline consumer price inflation, 3.8
percent by the end of 2011, maintains a downward trend, approaching Bank of Mexico‘s medium
term target. A deceleration in the economic recovery is slowing the closure of the output gap,
suggesting that monetary conditions can remain relatively accommodative.

30.    The current account deficit has widened moderately with the upturn in domestic
demand. Mexico‘s current account deficit will likely widen to around 0.9 percent of GDP in
2011, and be financed via FDI investment, projected at US$20 billion. Export growth, projected
at approximately 18 percent in 2011, will likely moderate over the medium term, and average
approximately 9 percent annually, while the current account deficit may widen but remain
financeable by FDI. Remittances are projected to amount to $22.7 billion in 2011 and may
increase modestly if the economic environment in the U.S. improves.

31.      The Government remains on track with its fiscal consolidation plan. The fiscal
deficit, in terms of the Public Sector Borrowing Requirements (PSBR), is expected to narrow to
2.9 percent of GDP in 2011 and the Government plans on a further deficit reduction to 2.8
percent in 2012. Stronger oil related revenues are compensating for slightly weaker tax revenue.
Similar to 2010 and 2011, the Government has proposed to remove the caps on the stabilization
funds for 2012.

32.      Improvements in Mexico’s debt structure mitigate the impact of shocks on public
finances. The Government‘s debt management strategy continues to favor the local debt market,
and use external financing in a complementary manner. Due to ongoing uncertainty and
volatility in international financial markets, Mexico will continue to meet the Government‘s
financing needs with the lowest cost and risk combination of internal and external debt, while
strengthening local debt markets and maintaining a diverse access to credit.

33.      A return to a balanced budget as of 2013 would ensure a sustainable public debt
path. The public sector debt-to-GDP ratio increased over the past few years mainly due to the
partial inclusion in 2008 of public sector workers‘ pension liabilities in public debt following the
ISSSTE (Instituto de Seguridad Social al Servicios de los Trabajadores del Estado)-pension
reform, the fiscal stimulus program and sharp drop in economic activity in 2009. Nevertheless,
Mexico maintains a moderate net public debt-to-GDP ratio at about 37 percent and the
                                                                                                 12
Government‘s medium term fiscal framework foresees a 2 percent reduction in the debt-to-GDP
ratio over the next five years.

34.     The main risk to the public debt-to-GDP ratio is the uncertainty surrounding the
GDP growth rate. The GOM‘s medium term fiscal projections show a declining debt-to-GDP
path based on a diminishing PSBR from 2.3 percent of GDP in 2013 to 2.0 percent in 2017 and
annual economic growth of 3.9 percent. Net debt-to-GDP diminishes under these assumptions
from 36.3 percent in 2013 to 34.6 percent in 2017. The base case scenario presented in Table 1
projects annual medium term growth of 3.5 percent, which maintains a downward debt-to-GDP
path towards a ratio of 35.4 percent by 2017, whereas a low case scenario of 3 percent annual
growth would roughly stabilize the debt-to-GDP ratio over the medium term.

35.     Despite significant foreign ownership, Mexico’s financial sector remains relatively
insulated from problems in Europe. Strong capitalization levels and prudential policies
implemented over the last few years have strengthened the sector‘s vulnerability to shocks.
Though foreign ownership is significant in the banking sector and ring fencing measures are
difficult to implement, recent policies including tighter limits on dividend distribution and
related-party lending should limit contagion from the European banking sector. However, a
sovereign default and/or ongoing instability in European debt markets would reinforce global
risk aversion, intensify stock market volatility, heighten capital outflows and tighten domestic
credit growth. Furthermore, Mexican institutional investors (pension, mutual and insurance
funds) could experience asset losses, which could in turn generate domestic market instability.

36.    Notwithstanding the significant challenges posed by the current global economic
climate, Mexico’s macroeconomic policy framework is considered adequate for the
purposes of the proposed Development Policy Loan.




                                                                                             13
Box 1: Weakening global growth prospects and increased financial volatility: Impact on Mexico


Extraordinary downward adjustments in the prospects for global economic activity and extremely high
global financial market volatility have been observed over the past few months. Since end-July 2011,
global markets have suffered major financial turbulence and a flight from risky assets, related to weak
economic activity and fiscal problems in the U.S., the sovereign debt crisis in several European countries
and associated weakness in the European banking system. The perceived lack of political resolve in both
regions significantly increases downside risks to the world economy.

Weakening growth prospects in advanced economies, in particular in the U.S., and global financial market
volatility led to rapid adjustment in Mexico‘s growth prospects and currency valuation. Private sector
analysts‘ average growth estimates1 for 2011 and 2012 fell from 4.2 and 4.1 percent respectively to 3.8
and 3.4 percent within a period of two months (July-September). The deteriorating outlook and flight to
quality led to a depreciation of the peso by 16 percent between end-July and beginning December,
reversing the gradual appreciation trend that followed the currency collapse during the 2008-2009
financial crisis.

Rapidly deteriorating domestic growth prospects are due to the strong links between Mexican industry and
the U.S. economy, the market for almost 80 percent of Mexican manufactured exports. Weakening
external demand also has an important impact on the service sector as the share of services directly linked
to manufacturing in Mexico is high by international standards (Organization for Economic Co-operation
and Development -OECD 2011). An external demand shock generated by the U.S. falling back into
recession would create a substantial short-term impact on economic growth in Mexico. Even in the case
of a prolonged weakness in the U.S., strong macroeconomic policy fundamentals should favor a recovery
of the Mexican economy and a return to the medium-term potential output rate of growth.

An abrupt decline in commodity prices and of oil in particular, would have a negative impact on economic
activity and the trade balance, though lower oil production has reduced net oil exports to less than 1
percent of GDP thereby significantly diminishing the terms of trade effect of oil price fluctuations. In
terms of public finances, a reduction of the oil price by US$10 per barrel reduces public sector revenue by
0.3 percent of GDP.

The recent sharp currency depreciation suggests a reversal in capital flows. In the year prior to the current
instability (July 2010-June 2011), investment by foreign residents in peso-denominated government bonds
amounted to US$32 billion, while international reserves increased by US$28 billion. The policy response
to what has been perceived as a disorderly depreciation and excess volatility of the peso dollar exchange
rate has been to intervene in the foreign exchange market through a rules based mechanism that has been
applied earlier with success (see paragraph 24). The weaker peso has led to some easing of monetary
conditions, however concerns about a pass-through to domestic prices are relatively muted in the current
environment of low inflation and weakening economic activity.
1
    According to the monthly survey among private sector analysts by Banco de Mexico.




                                                                                                        14
        Table 1: Main macroeconomic indicators (2007-2014), base case scenario
                                                                                             Est.              Projection
Indicator                                              2007      2008      2009     2010     2011     2012       2013     2014
National Accounts                                     annual real percent change, unless noted
Real GDP                                                 3.3%      1.2%     -6.1%    5.4%     3.8%     3.3%       3.5%     3.5%
Consumption                                              3.9%      1.6%     -5.7%    4.7%     4.2%     3.2%       3.7%     3.4%
Gross Domestic Investment                                3.3%      3.0% -15.9%       6.8%     6.7%     4.9%       4.8%     4.9%
Gross Domestic Investment ( % of GDP)                  26.5% 26.9% 23.5% 25.0% 25.7%                  25.9%      25.9%    26.2%
External Accounts                                     in US$ billions, unless noted
Current Account Balance                                   -8.9     -16.3      -6.4    -5.6    -10.2    -15.2      -18.7    -19.5
Current Account Balance (% of GDP)                      -0.9%     -1.5%     -0.7%   -0.5%    -0.9%    -1.4%      -1.5%    -1.5%
   Trade Balance                                         -10.1     -17.3      -4.7    -3.0     -3.1     -6.2       -8.3     -9.2
        Merchandise Exports Current                     271.9     291.3     229.7    298.5    353.7   384.9      416.5    444.8
        Merchandise Exports Current (annual growth)      8.8%      7.2% -21.2%      29.9% 18.5%        8.8%       8.2%     6.8%
                Oil Exports                               43.0      50.6      30.8    41.7     55.0     52.7       51.4     49.7
                Non Oil Exports                         228.9     240.7     198.9    256.8    298.7   332.2      365.0    395.1
        Merchandise Imports Current                     281.9     308.6     234.4    301.5    356.8   391.1      424.7    454.0
        Merchandise Imports Current (annual growth)    10.1%       9.5% -24.0%      28.6% 18.3%        9.6%       8.6%     6.9%
   Transfers, net                                         26.4      25.5      21.5    21.5     22.7     24.4       25.6     26.9
   Factor and non factor services , net                  -25.2     -24.5     -23.2   -24.1    -29.8    -33.4      -36.1    -37.2
Direct Investment                                         29.7      26.3      15.3    18.7     19.0     20.5       21.3     22.2
Portfolio Investment                                       7.3       2.4       7.6    23.8     28.0     18.0       15.0     15.0
Gross Reserves                                            87.2      95.3      99.9   120.6    142.5   149.3      156.3    163.3
Public Sector                                         in percent of GDP, unless noted
Total Revenues                                         22.0% 23.5% 23.7% 22.7% 21.7%                  21.6%      21.3%    21.2%
   Oil Revenues                                          7.8%      8.7%      7.4%    7.4%     7.4%     7.6%       7.4%     7.3%
   Non Oil Revenues                                    14.2% 14.8% 16.4% 15.3% 14.3%                  14.1%      13.9%    13.9%
     Tax                                                 9.3%      9.9%      9.5%   10.1%     9.9%     9.8%       9.7%     9.7%
     Non tax                                             1.4%      1.2%      3.2%    1.4%     0.7%     0.5%       0.5%     0.5%
     Public Enterprises                                  3.5%      3.7%      3.7%    3.8%     3.7%     3.7%       3.7%     3.7%
Public Expenditure (%)                                 23.0% 25.1% 26.3% 26.1% 24.6%                  24.4%      23.6%    23.4%
   Current Expenditure                                 18.7% 19.7% 21.2% 21.1% 20.0%                  20.3%      19.8%    19.6%
   Capital Expenditure                                   4.3%      5.4%      5.1%    5.1%     4.6%     4.1%       3.8%     3.8%
PSBR Balance (% GDP)                                    -1.0%     -1.6%     -2.6%   -3.5%    -2.9%    -2.8%      -2.3%    -2.2%
Net Public Sector Debt (% GDP)                         29.3% 33.4% 36.9% 36.8% 36.7%                  36.7%      36.7%    36.4%
Prices
Inflation (e.o.p.) (%)                                  3.8%     6.5%      3.6%     4.4%      3.8%    3.1%        3.0%    3.0%
Nominal Exchange Rate (average- pesos/dll)               10.9     11.1      13.5     12.6      12.4    13.5        13.0    13.2
Oil Price (US$ per barrel)                               61.6     84.4      57.4     72.3       100    97.7        95.5    92.2
Source: INEGI, Banxico, SHCP, and WB estimates.




                                                                                                                    15
     C. Context for Sustainable and Resilient Development

37.     This section presents an overview of the challenges that human settlements face in
Mexico due to climate related problems: (a) Mexico‘s long-term climate challenges and the need
to plan for them; (b) Mexico‘s current vulnerability to natural disasters and the need to
strengthen the adaptive response through disaster risk reduction and territorial development; and
(c) current forest management patterns and the need to strengthen them to ensure long-term
sustainability of this socially and economically important resource. Annexes II to IV provide
more detail.

Long-term climate change challenges
38.     Climate change will add to existing climatic risks that are already high in Mexico
due to its largely arid geography, extensive low-lying coastal areas, and exposure to
hydrometeorological events arising in the Pacific Ocean as well as in the Atlantic and Gulf
of Mexico. Climate change models, both for Mexico and the world, predict that climate change
will lead to more extreme weather events, rising temperatures, changing rainfall patterns, sea
level rise, and shifting patterns of diseases.5 In Mexico, mean annual temperature is projected to
increase by 0.5±0.5°C in the south and by 1.3±0.8°C in the northern areas by the end of 2020; by
1.3±0.3ºC in the south and by 2.3±1.0°C in the north by the end of 2050; and by an estimated
2.5±0.3ºC in the south and 3.5±1.3°C in the north by the end of 2080.6 Temperatures have
already increased by 0.6°C since 1960.7 The projected rate of warming is similar in all seasons,
but more rapid in the north and central regions of the country. Mean annual rainfall is projected
to decrease in most regions of Mexico.8 Humid tropical zones are expected to receive more
rainfall and this, combined with extreme events and sea level rise, is expected to result in more
frequent and severe floods. In agriculture, many small-scale farmers depend on rainfed
agriculture, which is likely to be severely impacted by the increasing irregularity of rainfall
affecting productive capacity and competing needs for water resources. Some projections
suggest that in the arid Northern parts of Mexico temperatures in the A2 scenario9 could exceed

5
  At a global level, UNFCCC (2007) states, ―As a result of global warming, the type, frequency, and intensity of
extreme events, such as tropical cyclones (including hurricanes and typhoons), floods, droughts and heavy
precipitation events , are expected to rise even with relatively small average temperature increases. Changes in
some types of extreme events have already been observed, for example, increases in the frequency and intensity of
heat waves and heavy precipitation events.‖ (Meehl et al. 2007)
6
  Mexico 4th National Communication on Climate Change to the UNFCCC. Analysis included the use of an
ensemble of 20 IPCC models downscalled at 50x50 km for A2 SRES scenario.
7
  Word Bank Climate Change Knowledge Portal (http://climateknowledgeportal.worldbank.org) and Mexico 4th
National Communication on Climate Change to the UNFCCC.
8
  Projections of mean annual rainfall from a range of IPCC models in an ensemble are broadly consistent in
indicating overall decreases in rainfall for Mexico. Model ensemble median values for almost all seasons and
emissions scenarios are negative. Climate projections vary between -60% and +8% change from 1980-2000 baseline
by the 2090s, with model ensemble median values of -3% to -15%. Relative changes in projected rainfall show the
strongest decreasing signal in dry season (December, January, and February and March, April, and May) rainfall.
9
  Scenarios are alternative images of how the future might unfold and are an appropriate tool with which to analyse
how driving forces may influence future emission outcomes and to assess the associated uncertainties. They assist in
climate change analysis, including climate modeling and the assessment of impacts, adaptation, and mitigation. Four
different narrative storylines were developed to describe consistently the relationships between emission driving

                                                                                                                 16
4C10– dangerously close to climate thresholds – and would call for a fundamental change in rural
livelihoods.

39.      Mexico’s social diversity and varied geography require locally-driven, tailored
approaches to adapting to the impacts of climate change. Indigenous peoples and rural
communities that depend on rainfed agriculture are among those most affected by climate
change/variability due to their stronger dependence on natural environments, particularly forests,
for their livelihoods. Indigenous peoples are among the most vulnerable people, with or without
climate change, given their limited capacity to cope with long-term changes and greater exposure
to natural climate related hazards. Climate change will have severe impacts on coastal
populations of Mexico where large numbers of people dwell in low-lying areas and rely on
climate sensitive coastal assets. The impacts too would likely differ. For instance sea level rise
and flooding are the more likely scenarios in the South of Mexico (the Yucatán); while drought
and erratic rainfall would be the main challenge further North. In short, there will be no ―one-
size-fits-all‖ adaptation strategy.

40.     Successfully reducing vulnerability to climate change and climate variability
requires national frameworks and policies that identify the current and future needs of the
most vulnerable and strengthen both autonomous and planned adaptation.11 National
policies need to provide meaningful adaptation frameworks and incentives for actions, while
state and local levels need to tailor those frameworks and incentives to suit their specific climate
threats and economic conditions.

Natural disasters and unplanned urban growth

41.     Mexico has a high level of exposure to natural hazards. Both coasts of the country
stand in the path of hurricanes and tropical storms originating in the Caribbean Sea and the
Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. The country also lies within one of the world‘s most active seismic
regions, is prone to volcanic activity, and its northern zone and central areas are prone to
recurrent droughts. This wide geographic exposure renders more than two-thirds of the country‘s
population and GDP at hazard risk (de la Fuente 2009). The bulk of natural hazards (turning into
disasters) that affect Mexico are hydro-meteorological. More worryingly, the occurrence of
disaster events in Mexico over the last five decades has shown an increasing trend (see Figure 3)
and would increase in severity with climate change.12




forces and their evolution and add context for the scenario quantification (A1, A2, B1, B2). (see IPCC 2000, IPCC
Special Report Emission Scenarios, for a description of each scenario).
10
   Ibid
11
   Autonomous adaptation is that which is done by individuals without government assistance; planned adaptation
needs policy to induce individuals or organizations to change their practices and behaviors.
12
   Mexico is ranked 23 amongst the countries at relatively high economic risk from multiple hazards. Around 41%
of Mexico‘s territory and 31% of its population are exposed hurricanes, storms, floods, earthquakes and volcanic
eruptions. In economic terms, this translates into 30% of GDP considered to be at risk from three or more hazards
and 71% at risk from two hazards or more.


                                                                                                              17
                       Figure 3. Incidence of Natural Disasters in Mexico (1960–2009)
                                    12


                                    10


                                     8




                          Eventos
                                     6


                                     4


                                     2


                                     0
                                         1964

                                                1967

                                                       1970

                                                              1973

                                                                     1976

                                                                            1979

                                                                                   1982

                                                                                          1985

                                                                                                 1988

                                                                                                        1991

                                                                                                               1994

                                                                                                                      1997

                                                                                                                             2000

                                                                                                                                    2003

                                                                                                                                           2006

                                                                                                                                                  2009
         Source: Centro de Investigación sobre Epidemiología de los Desastres, Universidad Católica de Lovaina

42.     The trend towards increasingly frequent and increasingly severe weather-related
natural disasters in Mexico and the social damage associated with those disasters reinforce
the need to place more attention on climate change adaptation in the national poverty
agenda and on poverty reduction in the national climate change adaptation agenda. A
disaster‘s effect on an economy‘s output is not the same as its effect on people‘s welfare, health
and well-being. In many cases (particularly in large economies), a major disaster will not have
large or lasting effects on the macroeconomic outlook. However, at the micro level, poor
households are invariably affected most severely and can be trapped in poverty by being hit by
even ―small‖ hazards that do not garner media attention.

43.      There is ample evidence that the poor not only often face greater exposure to
natural hazards, but also have lower adaptive capacities. A Poverty and Social Impact
Analysis (PSIA) conducted for this DPL found that poverty in Mexico correlates with a higher
susceptibility to suffer losses from hazard events (see Table 1 in Annex 5). Likewise municipal
data on disaster risk show that disaster-prone municipalities in Mexico are those that are
predominantly rural and indigenous, with limited access to services, high rates of deforestation
and other environmental problems. The poor also hold more of their wealth in physical assets
that are climate sensitive – notably assets related to agriculture, forestry, or fishery based
activities.

44.     Rapid urbanization in Mexico adds to the cumulative risks of disasters. More than 70
percent of the population lives in urban areas, and the projections show that by 2025 as much as
80 percent of the population will live in the 358 cities than comprise the Sistema Urbano
Nacional. The pattern of territorial and urban development of Mexican cities is quickly
increasing the vulnerability of the urban population, as populations, particularly the poor,
concentrate in vulnerable areas. Poor urban planning and land use are key underlying factors
contributing to hazard events becoming disasters. In particular it is the poor who live in
structures and in areas that are more vulnerable to hazards. Housing and urban policies that
promote sustainable cities are one of the no-regrets options that should be promoted, because
they provide benefits with or without climate change.


                                                                                                                                                         18
Forest management

45.     In Mexico, sustainable forestry management has an important role to play in
increasing the social resilience of the poor in the face of climate change, from both a
mitigation and an adaptation perspective. Sustainable community forest management
contributes directly to social resilience of the poor to climate change in important ways,
including: (i) providing sources of income that are less susceptible to short-term droughts or
flooding; (ii) reducing the risk of floods that inflict loss of life and significant damage; (iii)
helping to control forest fires which, other things being equal, will tend to increase in Mexico
with climate change; (iv) providing ecosystem services that enhance people‘s livelihoods,
including the provision of food and fuel and the regulation of water flows and temperature; and
(v) helping to increase communities‘ social capital, which enhances social resilience.

46.     Synergies between mitigation and adaptation to climate change in the forestry
sector are widely recognized. Mexico ranks twelfth worldwide in forest cover, with more than
64 million ha of forests, about half of which are considered commercially viable. With its wide
range of ecosystems, species richness is expectedly high and the country ranks fourth worldwide
in terms of its overall biological diversity. Fifty-five percent of the 13 million inhabitants living
in the forests suffer from extreme poverty. About 8,500 indigenous communities and ejidos13
own around 70 percent of the country‘s forests under a legally recognized collective land
ownership system–a situation unique in the world.14 Officially, around 300,000 people are
employed in the forest sector, and forestry activities account for about 1.8 percent of GDP.
Official net deforestation rate is moderate, while forest degradation is relatively high; 15 and both
show significant variation across the country.

47.     Forests play an important role in adaptation to climate change. While Mexico‘s
forests have long been valued as a source of timber, they are increasingly being appreciated for
their role in helping to regulate the environment. For example, by providing a protective canopy
and roots that hold and bind the soil, forests greatly reduce erosion and storm flow, which helps
to regulate the hydrologic cycle and protect watersheds. Moreover in times of natural disasters
(e.g., floods and droughts), forests not only lessen the physical impacts, but also provide
livelihood and marketable resources that build economic resilience to the impacts of extreme
events. For instance in times of disaster access to timber and non-timber forest produce can
provide an alternative stream of income to cope with short term emergencies.

48.    The forestry sector provides the single greatest potential for reducing greenhouse
gas emissions over the coming decades in Mexico. Because trees and forests sequester carbon
through their photosynthetic processes, they provide efficient mechanisms for fixing carbon

13
   Communities and ejidos are landholdings with either indigenous or non-indigenous members with rights,
stipulated by law, to communal resources under which an individual family has a right to an individual plot of land
allocated formally by the community as well as access to communally owned lands (often forest lands, pastures and
waterways).
14
   Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO). 2010. Global Forest Resources Assessment 2010. Rome; Italy
15
    Government estimates for annual deforestation and forest degradation rates are 0.25 percent and 0.45 percent,
respectively (based on the Readiness Preparation Proposal–CONAFOR 2011).

                                                                                                                19
(either by reducing carbon dioxide emissions from conversion of forests to non-forests or by
removing carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and sequestering carbon in growing biomass and
soils, thereby reducing carbon concentrations in the atmosphere). It is estimated that REDD
interventions have an emissions reduction potential of 1,120 Mt CO2e.16 Other forestry
interventions with high greenhouse gas mitigation potential are reforestation and restoration (10
percent) and afforestation (9 percent)17. The GoM recognizes that only by improving forestry
management, including reducing the emissions from deforestation, can the country meet its
climate mitigation goals.




16
     Based on the six REDD interventions proposed by the Low-carbon Study (MEDEC).
17
     However, is hard to compare percentage to the REDD+ potential expressed in Metric tons (Mt).

                                                                                                    20
      III. THE GOVERNMENT PROGRAM AND PARTICIPATORY PROCESSES

A. The Government Program
49.     Since the inauguration of President Calderón on December 1, 2006, the need to
address the challenges of global climate change has been a unifying, consistent and
increasingly high-profile theme of Mexican social and economic policy. The 2007–2012 Plan
Nacional de Desarrollo (NDP or National Development Plan) was the first broad statement of
the Calderón administration‘s development priorities and, following broad consultation with civil
society, incorporated environmental sustainability as one of its four pillars, reflecting the close
connection between environmental sustainability and livelihood sustainability of the poor in
Mexico. This pillar advocates four strategies: (a) design and develop national adaptation
capacity; (b) design regional (subnational) climate scenarios for Mexico; (c) evaluate the impacts
of vulnerability to, and the capacity to adapt to, climate change in different socioeconomic
sectors and ecological systems; and (d) promote the dissemination of information on the impacts,
the vulnerabilities associated with, and the measures to improve adaptation to climate change.

50.     Building on NDP, the Estrategia Nacional de Cambio Climático (ENACC or National
Climate Change Strategy), approved in May 2007 by the Comisión Intersecretarial de
Cambio Climático (CICC or Interministerial Climate Change Commission), was the GoM’s
next important step in furthering its climate change agenda. Announced by President
Calderón himself, ENACC placed climate change adaptation and mitigation at the core of
Mexico‘s national development policy, establishing the long-term agenda and setting medium- to
long-term adaptation and mitigation goals. Since 2007, nine ministries and two specific sectoral
programs have incorporated climate change adaptation goals into their programs. These include
environment and natural resources, agriculture and fisheries, civil protection, social
development, health, energy, communications and transport, and the statistics bureau, in addition
to the strategies and programs of CONANP and CONAGUA.

51.     The Programa Especial de Cambio Climático (PECC or Special Climate Change
Program), published in August 2009, established the GoM’s plan of action for addressing
the challenges of climate change. It includes sectoral programs and targets for reducing
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, identified the principal climate change risks and broad plans
for adaptation, and established cross-cutting policy initiatives. It outlined three phases of action:
Phase 1 (2008 to 2012) to assess the country‘s vulnerability and conduct an economic evaluation
of priority measures; Phase 2 (2013 to 2030) to strengthen strategic adaptation capacities; and
Phase 3 (2030 to 2050) to consolidate the overall mitigation and adaptation work at all levels in
the country. It established 142 adaptation goals to be monitored through 2012 pertaining to
knowledge generation, key actions and economic activities to deal with the population‘s
vulnerability to the impacts of climate change, and financial instruments to support them. PECC
also called for coordination among federal government actions.

52. By establishing sector-specific reduction targets and adaptation measures, the
PECC has mainstreamed climate change in the country’s economic and social


                                                                                                  21
development. To date, Mexico is one of only two UNFCCC non-Annex 1 countries18 to have
submitted its Third National Communication (the other being Uruguay) and the only one to have
submitted its Fourth and, moreover, is already at work on its Fifth for submission by 2012.
Recognizing Mexico‘s leadership in terms of both its domestic policies and programs and its
international commitments, Mexico is ranked 11th among all countries in the Climate Change
Performance Index (CCPI) for 2010.

53.     Following PECC’s launch, the GoM has supported states and municipalities in
designing their climate change strategies. The focus has been on promoting the creation of
intersectoral commissions and co-financing the generation of Greenhouse Gas Inventories and
Climate Change Scenarios, which constitute the minimum knowledge bases to design their
mitigation and adaptation strategies. The National Institute of Ecology and the Council for
Science and Technology have provided critical support for these tasks.

54.     The Federal District of Mexico City and the states of Veracruz, Guanajuato, Puebla,
and Nuevo León have already developed climate change programs, while others are planning
to produce them in the short term.19 The World Bank is providing technical assistance to develop
climate change plans for the States of Michoacán, Campeche, Zacatecas, Quintana Roo and
Oaxaca. IADB will provide technical assistance to the states of Tabasco and Yucatán to develop
climate change plans and this assistance will subsequently be extended to Tamaulipas and
Campeche. The Municipality of Chihuahua has also developed a Climate Action Plan while the
Municipality of Othón P. Blanco is currently developing a Climate Change and Sustainable
Development Plan. The Federal District has been among the subnational actors showing the
greatest leadership in the climate change agenda.

55.    While the PECC provides the country with a robust framework for long-term policy
engagement on climate change, there is a consensus that it has three important challenges
with regard to reducing the impacts of climate change on the population, particularly the
poor:

        First, the PECC emphasizes mitigation over adaptation objectives. This is not uncommon
         among other countries since mitigation objectives are easier than adaptation objectives to
         transform into concrete, measurable, and outcome related goals. The GoM acknowledged
         this at the COP-16 and stressed its commitment to strengthen the pro-poor adaptation
         agenda moving forward.
        Second, while the PECC highlights that the socio-economic characteristics of places and
         people make them differently vulnerable to climate change, its typology of vulnerable
         populations is very general, and it does not provide clear guidance on the policy
         instruments to accommodate the differences among those populations.
        Third, the PECC was structured predominantly along sector ministry lines. Since the
         PECC was approved three years after the start of the current administration, it had to
         build upon the pre-existing sectoral programs created along the lines of the legal mandate

18
  See list at: http://unfccc.int/parties_and_observers/parties/non_annex_i/items/2833.php
19
  The states of Guerrero and Yucatán are expected to complete their Climate Change Plans in 2011, followed by
Campeche, Zacatecas, Aguascalientes, Jalisco, Quintana Roo, and Tlaxcala in 2012. Baja California, Chiapas,
Durango, Querétaro, and Tabasco are also elaborating plans.

                                                                                                          22
         and scope of action for each ministry. While the PECC highlights the cross-sectoral,
         intergovernmental, and multi-stakeholder nature of the climate change agenda, it leaves
         many of the mechanics and details for cross-sectoral and inter-institutional strategies and
         action plans to be worked out more fully in later stages.

56.     Over the last year or so, the GoM has taken a number of steps to strengthen the
social resilience of poor people to climate change and variability through new policies,
institutional arrangements, and programs in three areas: (i) long term adaptation
planning at the state level; (ii) pro-poor disaster risk reduction and territorial development
at the municipal level; and (iii) pro-poor mitigation and adaptation policies in the forestry
sector. These steps aim to:

        Fill gaps in the PECC with respect to the adaptation agenda as evidenced by: (a)
         approving a Mid-term Adaptation Policy Framework, which points to the differential,
         adverse effects of climate change on the poor as one of the central issues to address in the
         formulation of a National Adaptation Policy; (b) passing a battery of programs and
         reforms aimed at reducing and managing disaster risks, again with particular emphasis on
         the disproportionate impact of natural disasters on the poor; and (c) including climate
         change considerations within its disaster risk management policy.
        Strengthen the pro-poor orientation of its adaptation and mitigation policies as
         evidenced by the socially inclusive approach which is the guiding principle of the Mid-
         term Adaptation Policy Framework and which is also central to the REDD+ Vision.
        Promote a cross-sectoral, inter-governmental and multi-stakeholder approach to
         climate change policies by strengthening state, municipal and territorial level planning
         and management instruments that bring together local and national actors around climate
         change actions.

These new steps are further described below.

Climate Change Adaptation Policy
57.     The National Medium-term Climate Change Adaptation Policy Framework, which
the GoM presented at COP 16 in December 2010 is a key outcome of the first phase of the
PECC and responds to the consensus described above regarding the important gaps in the
PECC.Elaborated by the Working Group on Policies and Strategies for Adaptation20 under the
coordination of SEMARNAT and supported by UNDP, process for preparing the Framework
involved all relevant government sectors. It served to build an understanding both broader and
deeper of the language, concepts, and instruments of adaptation and the need to address climate
vulnerability differentiated by population group, geographic area, and sector of activity. By
engaging all relevant government sectors, the Framework goes beyond the sectoral orientation of
the PECC and its focus on mitigation, provides a truly cross-sectoral, inclusive vision of the
solutions required to adapt to Mexico‘s climate change challenges. .



20
   Grupo de Trabajo sobre Políticas y Estrategias de Adaptación, GT-ADAPT. Led by SEMARNAT, it also
incorporates SAGARPA, SALUD, SCT, SE, SEDESOL, SEGOB, SENER, SHCP, SER, and SECTUR.

                                                                                                  23
58.     The Framework sets forth the path for development of the National Adaptation
Strategy and its implementation plan. It establishes the guiding principles, strategic priorities
and courses of action to strengthen the adaptation capacities of society, ecosystems and
productive systems through a process that involves all social groups. It focuses on reducing
social vulnerability, promoting adaptation at the state, municipal, and local level, and ensuring
broad stakeholder support. The prior actions for this operation map to the key elements of the
Framework, which are outlined in Table 2 below and include the reduction of disaster and
climate risk, improved municipal development planning, intersectoral coordination, and
promoting synergies between forestry activities, REDD+ (which has been recognized as
instrument to bring both adaptation and mitigation benefits), and climate change adaptation.

        Table 2. Components of the National Mid-Term Climate Change Adaptation Policy Framework
      (in bold: the courses of action that are being recognized through or are closely related to this DPL)

Objective: To develop and strengthen the adaptation capacities of society, ecosystems and productive systems
     Guiding             Strategic Priorities                            Courses of action
    principles
1. Territorial and I. Institutional development, I.1 Strengthening of cross-sectoral coordination mechanisms
   ecosystem       cross-sectoriality, and       I.2 Coordination among the three levels of government
   approach        coordination                  I.3 Collaboration between the public sector and other sectors
                                                 of society
                   II. Coordination,             II.1 Achievement of international treaties and instruments
                   implementation, and           II.2 Legal instruments
                   evaluation of public policies II.3 Planning instruments and land-use planning
2. Human rights,                                 II.4 Management instruments
   social justice                                II.5 Economic instruments
   and gender                                    II.6 Monitoring and evaluation
   equity          III. Reduction of social and III.1 Reduction of vulnerability in human settlements
                   physical vulnerability        III.2 Reduction of vulnerability of productive sectors
                                                 III.3 Reduction of vulnerability of infrastructure
                    IV. Conservation and        IV.1 Protection and conservation of ecosystems and
                    restoration of the ecological
                                                biodiversity
3. Ensuring the function of landscapes and      IV.2 Design and implementation of an ecological-territorial
   participation of basins                      connectivity strategy
   society                                      IV.3 Restoration of ecosystems linked to hydrological function of
                                                basins and coasts
                                                IV.4 Productive conversion in agricultural areas with high
                                                vulnerability
                   V. Financing for adaptation V.1 Planning and exercising of public spending
4. Access to                                    V.2 Coordination of funding sources
   information                                  V.3 Financial instruments for risk reduction
   and
   transparency    VI. Technological research VI.1 Generation and deepening of knowledge on climate change
                   and development              scenarios
                                                VI.2 Generation of scenarios of climate change vulnerability and
                                                adaptation at different scales
                                                VI.3 Social, environmental and economic evaluation of adaptation
                                                activities
                                                VI.4 Technology development and appropriation
                                                VI.5 Development of an inventory of good adaptation practices
                   VII. Communication for       VII.1 Development of a strategy for communication, education
                   vulnerability and adaptation and promotion of adaptation actions
                   to climate change

                                                                                                               24
Source: Government of Mexico (2010). Mid-Term Adaptation Policy Framework.

59.     The GoM’s current expectation is that the National Adaptation Strategy will be
fully consulted and ready for publication in June 2012. A firm schedule is, however, difficult
to establish. The issues are complex and ample consultations are required at the federal, state,
and municipal levels of government, as well as with a wide range of sectors and business, local,
and other civil society stakeholders. The schedule of presidential and subnational elections in
2012 is an additional factor adding to the uncertainty of the time line for finalizing and
publishing the National Adaptation Strategy.

Disaster Risk Management and Territorial Development
60.     The PECC recognizes that institutional, policy, and program changes are required
in the areas of ex ante disaster risk reduction, urban planning, and ex post disaster
response in order to strengthen capacity at the state, municipal, and local (including
household) levels to confront the challenges of climate change successfully. Key institutions
have tended to focus on disaster preparedness and response and have lacked the mandate or
policy orientation to develop a proactive integrated risk management strategy.

 The Ministry of the Interior (Secretaría de Gobernación, SEGOB) is the main agency
  responsible for civil protection, but apart from efforts to raise awareness and promote
  disaster prevention, it has hitherto not oriented its efforts to influencing investment
  decisions to incorporate considerations of ex ante disaster risk mitigation. Aware that it
  needs to shift its focus from preparedness and response toward proactive integrated risk
  management, SEGOB is publishing a new National Strategy for Disaster Mitigation, which
  recognizes the cross-sectoral nature of disaster risk management and seeks to coordinate
  more closely with government agencies and civil society that can have greater influence on
  ex ante risk reduction.

 The National Civil Protection System (SINAPROC), created in 1985 after the Mexico
  City earthquake, was not designed with the then-unanticipated potential impacts of
  climate change in mind. In general, the system works well for such functions as early
  warning, evacuations, etc. Municipal governments are responsible for identifying high-risk
  areas; taking precautionary measures to move and house people in temporary shelters; and
  developing appropriate local legislation to increase security. State governments step in when
  the municipalities lack the necessary capacity, and the federal government steps in when the
  states lack the resources. Despite arrangements for inter-governmental coordination and a
  range of advisory bodies and mechanisms for community participation, post-disaster
  response systems, however, have weaknesses – fragmented among agencies and programs
  and uncoordinated at lower levels of government. Financial resources are sometimes not
  timely and sufficient and disaster aid does not reliably reach the poorest and most vulnerable.

61.     To address these weaknesses, the GoM has taken a number of steps to strengthen
risk identification and ex ante risk reduction. These include:

 The GoM modified the operational rules of its flagship disaster prevention program,
  the Fondo para la Prevención de Desastres (FOPREDEN), to require the preparation of

                                                                                              25
   risk assessments prior to approval of disbursements for civil works. Cofinancing formulas
   are variable, depending on the cost-benefit analysis, the number of municipalities involved,
   and the per capita cost. Reflecting the new emphasis on prevention, FOPREDEN will
   finance 100 percent of the development of Risk Atlases in all 32 states, using the same
   methodology as was used for the Atlas Nacional de Riesgos prepared by National Center for
   Disaster Prevention (Centro Nacional para la Prevención de Desastres, CENAPRED).

 SEDESOL established a new program, Program for Risk Prevention in Human
  Settlements (Prevención de Riesgos en los Asentamientos Humanos-PRAH), to address a
  key gap in assistance to municipalities to strengthen disaster risk reduction. Previously,
  risk reduction support was available to states through FOPREDEN, but municipalities faced
  challenges in accessing the funds. SEDESOL‘s Habitat Program supports risk-reduction
  activities in municipalities but only those with 15,000 or more inhabitants whereas, as shown
  by the PSIA, the most disaster- prone municipalities are predominantly rural, indigenous, and
  small. PRAH fills this gap by making resources available to all municipalities located in risk
  areas.

 SEDESOL also changed the 2011 Operational Rules of its Temporary Employment
  Program (Programa de Empleo Temporal, PET) to orient it toward financing of local
  disaster prevention projects. PET‘s fundamental objective is to absorb seasonal
  unemployment of the very poor. By having beneficiaries engage in public works that reduce
  disaster risk, the program will now provide a dual-protection function of reducing both the
  physical and livelihood risks of the poor.

 Finally, in 2009, the GoM required that CENAPRED and the Ministry of Education
  include the topic of integrated disaster risk reduction into school curricula for the six
  levels of basic education, and this effort has now been completed. This is expected over
  time to increase the public‘s awareness of exposure to risk and of the role that individuals
  and communities can play in reducing and better managing risk.

62.     The GoM has also taken steps to strengthen ex post disaster risk financing system
which, while relatively sophisticated, is still unable to meet post-disaster obligations. The
Fund for Natural Disasters (Fondo para Desastres Naturales, FONDEN), established in 1966 as
part of the SINAPROC to provide support for rapid recovery following disasters saw its reserves
were wiped by a single event, Hurricane Alex, which struck northeastern Mexico in July 2010,
leaving it unable to play a significant role after the historic floods that subsequently affected
various southern states. The Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (Secretaría de Hacienda y
Crédito Público, SHCP) and FONDEN are now trying to transfer the risk to the market by
insuring FONDEN against the major natural hazards and, to that end, Mexico was the first MIC
to issue a catastrophe bond, which provides coverage for very large hurricanes and earthquakes
to FONDEN. Recognizing, however, that the drain on FONDEN‘s resources arises not so much
from the severe, but infrequent catastrophes as it does from the more frequent but less severe
events, the GOM has also taken some steps in connection with the latter:

 The Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, Rural Development and Fisheries (SAGARPA)
  has strengthened the poverty focus of its catastrophic insurance program, CADENA,

                                                                                              26
     formerly called the Programa de Atención a Contingencias Climatológicas (PACC). The
     program helps low-income agricultural producers that suffer weather-related disasters,
     droughts in particular, to smooth their consumption and resume productive activities. It
     covered 3.4 million poor smallholder farmers in 2009. To target poorer rural households
     better, CADENA lowered the eligibility cut-off point from a maximum of 20 hectares to a
     maximum of 10 hectares and increased the maximum to eligible farmers from MX$900 to
     MX$1,200 per hectares. CADENA uses two instruments: index-based and traditional crop
     and livestock insurance or direct income transfers. Weather-indexed insurance is jointly
     contracted by the state and the federal governments, with the federal government paying 90
     percent of the costs and the state governments the remainder for high risk and
     underdeveloped municipalities; for lower risk, more developed municipalities, the split is
     70:30, respectively. CADENA‘s direct support component indemnifies affected rural
     smallholders where state governments have not purchased insurance or where the insurance-
     triggered payouts are insufficient to cover damaged crop areas or livestock.

 The Emergency Temporary Employment Program (Programa de Empleo Temporal
  Inmediato, PET Inmediato), which is largely administered by SEDESOL, targets the poor
  and provides employment after disasters through labor-intensive public works to rebuild
  infrastructure or clean up.

63.    Recent disasters such as Hurricane Alex, which hit the northern states of Mexico in
June 2010, have highlighted how poor urban planning and management increase
vulnerability in urban areas. The PECC calls for integrating existing planning instruments
(urban, ecological and territorial plans) in order to strengthen ―strategic capacities for
adaptation.‖ As a starting point in the urban sector, the PECC calls for the publication of urban
design guidelines to be applied to housing developments that receive funding through federal
subsidies.21 A number of actions support this objective:

 In 2009, SEDESOL published guidelines for sustainable urban and territorial development
  for large-scale housing developments. Adherence to the guidelines was envisaged as an
  eligibility criteria to access federal funding. Guidelines called for adequate risk assessments
  prior to the works and also for investments in green spaces, social services, public transport,
  and other infrastructure to ensure that the new developments would be socially inclusive and
  linked to employment and economic opportunities. These guidelines faced initial opposition
  from the developer industry and municipal governments (due to concerns about the impact
  on affordability) and were never formally approved as mandatory. However, during 2010 and
  2011 several housing institutions incorporated the core elements of the guidelines into their
  policy and programs as part of the country‘s Sustainable Housing Program (Programa
  Sustentable de Vivienda). Importantly, the Instituto del Fondo Nacional de la Vivienda para
  los Trabajadores (INFONAVIT), which finances 70 percent of all mortgages in Mexico,
  included environmental and social sustainability within its core mandate as part of their
  2011-2015 financial plan launched in December 2010. In December 2011, the Comisión
  Nacional de Vivienda (CONAVI) modified the operational rules of the government‘s main

21
   The Federal Government has a limited ability to influence urban design and planning. Since these are the
responsibility of municipal governments, the most effective way may be to link the guidelines as conditions to
disburse federal subsidies for low-income housing.

                                                                                                           27
   up-front subsidy program to include a sustainability rating as part of the eligibility criteria.
   Both INFONAVIT‘s 2011-2015 financial plan and CONAVI‘s new subsidy rules evaluate
   social and environmental sustainability based on the guidelines prepared by SEDESOL in
   2009.

 SEDESOL‘s guidelines have also been incorporated into the Desarrollos Urbanos Integrales
  Sustentables (DUIS) initiative led by SHCP and Sociedad Hipotecaria Federal (SHF). The
  DUIS initiative is a coordination effort whereby sixteen national-level agencies (including
  sector agencies, development banks and public mortgage institutions) agree to support an
  integrally planned urban development and housing project, provided it complies with certain
  eligibility criteria. In a nutshell, projects are submitted for DUIS approval by private or
  public sponsors and if they adhere to a set of eligibility criteria – which incorporates
  SEDESOL‘s guidelines - they can receive a comprehensive package of subsidies and
  incentives from local and federal government. The DUIS initiative is expected to promote
  integral urban and territorial development throughout Mexico in coordination with private
  sector and local governments.

 INFONAVIT has begun working with CENAPRED to incorporate within the recently
  completed Atlas Nacional de Riesgos a module to screen the suitability of proposed sites for
  large housing developments in order to reduce the potential home buyers‘ vulnerability to
  natural disasters. This will complement the PRAH by helping to fill gaps in the information
  that municipalities need in order to carry out their responsibilities for updating building
  codes, developing urban plans, and issuing building licenses.

 In parallel, the legislative branch has started to consider constitutional reforms and changes
  to the General Law for Human Settlements (Ley General de Asentamientos Humanos) and
  other legislation to foster long-term urban planning at all levels of government, not just at the
  municipal level as is currently the case. Working with the federal government, legislators
  have undertaken consultations on the proposed amendments at three regional forums and the
  reform package is expected to be presented for discussion by mid-2011.

Sustainable Community Forest Management
64.     Mexico´s progress with sustainable community forest management is increasingly
recognized as a worldwide good practice reference. In various states throughout the country,
indigenous communities carry out forest management and marketing operations, operate
community-based enterprises, and in some cases have obtained third-party certification from the
Forest Stewardship Council. Though much work remains to be done, these early experiences are
recognized as global good practices in terms of reducing deforestation and mitigating climate
change while at the same time ensuring income and employment opportunities and building
social organization and strengthening communities‘ resilience to natural and economic disasters
that may be induced by climate change, hence contributing to adaptation.

65.    The 2007–2012 National Development Plan states that it is a priority of the GoM to
protect Mexico’s forest cover and to increase the areas with sustainable forest
management. Some of the key strategies envisaged in the NDP are to promote sustainable
community forest management; restore degraded forests, and better manage the advance of

                                                                                                28
agriculture over forest frontiers. Over 30 percent of the objectives of the PECC are related to
forestry, and include: (i) increasing forest areas under sustainable management; (ii) creating new
forest plantations; and (iii) designing an incentive scheme to reduce emissions from deforestation
and forest degradation.22

66.     Mexico has made substantial progress toward achieving its sustainable forestry
goals through the design and implementation of key related programs, guided by the 2025
Strategic Forestry Program for Mexico (Programa Estratégico Forestal para México 2025).23
The federal umbrella initiative for forest-related strategies, Pro?rbol, was created in 2007 by the
Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (Secretaría de Medio Ambiente y Recursos
Naturales, SEMARNAT), under the operation of the National Forestry Commission (Comisión
Nacional Forestal; CONAFOR) in order to unite and expand several previous forestry programs
under a single framework. The core objective of Pro?rbol is to foster development and increase
the living standards of the population that lives in the poorest areas of Mexico, with the
valuation, conservation, recovery and sustainable use of Mexico‘s forests, and arid lands.24
During 2007–2009 more than US$1.3 billion were allocated to Pro?rbol.25 The six support areas
under the 2011 Operational Rules and Special Guidelines (Reglas de Operación and
Lineamientos Especiales) are: (i) Forestry Studies; (ii) Forestry; (iii) Certification; (iv)
Commercial Forestry Plantations; (v) Reforestation and Lands; (vi) Environmental Services; (vii)
Community Forestry; (viii) Forestry Productive Chain; (ix) Forests Sanitation; and (x) Special
Programs. 26 Around 8 million hectares under sustainable community management are currently
supported by CONAFOR. The main focus of CONAFOR‘s policies has been to empower local
communities to manage and protect their forest area for their own long-term benefit.

67.    The Government of Mexico reaffirmed its commitment to reduce emissions from
deforestation and forest degradation in Mexico’s REDD+ Vision, led by CONAFOR and
launched by President Calderón during the session of the Conference of the Parties to the
UNFCCC in December 2010 in Cancún. Mexico is among the first countries in the world to
adopt a comprehensive national policy document on REDD+. President Calderon‘s personal
commitment in sharing his country‘s REDD+ Vision with the rest of the world reflects the
importance of the REDD+ agenda for Mexico and Mexico‘s global leadership in this area.
Mexico‘s REDD+ Vision supports REDD+ as an instrument for reducing carbon emissions,
while at the same time supporting sustainable economic development for poor forest-dependent
communities and strengthening community resilience to disaster risks. The REDD+ Vision is a
milestone of the government-social sector cooperation (See Box 2) and represents the first step
towards the National REDD+ Strategy, which includes both adaptation and mitigation benefits.

22
   Comisión Intersecretarial de Cambio Climático, 2009. Programa Especial de Cambio Climático 2009–2012.
México
23
   CONAFOR. 2001. Programa Estratégico Forestal para México 2002. México
24
    Comisión Nacional Forestal (CONAFOR) 2011. Official Webpage http://www.conafor.gob.mx. Consulted
January 4, 2011
25
   Comisión Intersecretarial de Cambio Climático. 2009. Cuarta Comunicación Nacional ante la Convención Marco
de las Naciones Unidas sobre el Cambio Climático. México
26
   Secretaría de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales (SEMARNAT). 2011. Reglas de Operación del Programa
Pro?rbol 2011. México.
Secretaría de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales (SEMARNAT). 2011. Lineamientos Especiales del Programa
Pro?rbol 2011. México.

                                                                                                          29
                                       Box 2. Mexico’s REDD+ Vision

The REDD+ Vision emphasizes the importance of enhancing cross-sector coordination especially with
the agricultural and livestock sectors, and the involvement of civil society and sub-national institutions in
climate change strategies. The REDD+ Vision has been adopted by the Comision Intersecretarial para el
Desarrollo Rural Sustentable (Intersecretarial Commission for Sustainable Rural Development) led by
SAGARPA. It was developed by ten ministries and more than 40 civil society organizations and experts,
guided by the CTC-REDD+ and coordinated by CONAFOR.

The key action lines stated in the REDD+ Vision that are essential to develop the REDD+ Strategy by
2012 are as follows:
a) Institutional arrangements and public policies;
b) Financing mechanisms;
c) National forest baseline, and measurement reporting and verification system;
d) Capacity building; and
e) Communication, social participation and transparency

The document identified more than 15 policy tools for forest and climate change in Mexico, and an
additional 11 policy tools that affect forestry in the agricultural and livestock sectors.

    B. The Participatory Process

68.     Mexico is at the forefront of regional efforts to promote open, participatory and
accountable governments. Particularly in the past ten years, the National Congress and the
federal government have championed several landmark laws, institutions and policy measures
that have enhanced the environment for a participatory democracy. In practice, this has led to the
development of a broad legal and institutional framework, establishing access to information and
participation mechanisms in public programs, including participatory rule-making procedures,
and civil society engagement in state, regional and municipal planning processes. This applies to
social and territorial development, disaster risk management, environment and climate change,
and forestry sectors. Therefore, the programs, policies and procedures recognized by this DPL
integrate civil society participation in their design and implementation through various
mechanisms.

69.    The government relied on a wide set of consultation and participatory mechanisms
to develop the policy actions recognized by this operation which are reflected in the
participatory content of many of them:

       The Mid-Term Adaptation Policy Framework defines the need to ensure citizen
        participation in climate change adaptation as one of the basic principles to be contained in
        the National Adaptation Strategy. State level climate change plans include consultative
        bodies or processes to channel civil society inputs during the design process and validate
        the final plan.
       The National System for Civil Protection (SINAPROC) provides for a system of
        intergovernmental cooperation and mechanisms for community participation. Operational

                                                                                                          30
       rules for the Programa de Empleo Temporario (PET) require the creation of ―Social
       Participation Committees‖ composed of representatives of communities in which PET
       projects are executed. Technical proposals submitted by municipalities under the new
       Program for Risk Prevention in Human Settlements (Programa de Prevención de Riesgos
       en Asentamientos Humanos) must indicate whether local communities have provided
       their no-objection to project implementation. The new methodology to be applied by
       INFONAVIT in housing origination procedures includes criteria on community
       participation and is piloting the use of ―local social promoters‖ to assess community
       integration in housing developments as one criterion for prioritizing access to
       INFONAVIT finance.
      The forestry sector also relies on several participatory institutions for policy design and
       implementation. The main advisory body in the forestry sector is the Forestry Advisory
       Council (Consejo Asesor Forestal, CONAF), which supervises and assesses the policy
       instruments included in the General Law of Sustainable Forestry Development. Other
       consultation mechanisms include the Sustainable Development Consultative Councils
       (Consejos Consultivos de Desarrollo Sustentable, CCDS), the Technical Advisory
       Council of the Indigenous Peoples Development Council (Consejo de Desarrollo
       Indigena, CDI), the Comités Técnicos Consultivos (CTCs, multi-stakeholder groups
       supported by this operation), and annual regional and local consultations.

70.    In addition, the identification of the proposed operation is the result of a wider
engagement with Mexico on climate change issues through an array of knowledge and
financial services during which the Bank has collaborated with the GoM in an active
dialogue with local and national government stakeholders, NGOs, community
organizations, academia, and private sector.          All of these activities facilitated an
understanding of perspectives of various stakeholders to inform the content of this operation.
Key activities include:

      Over the last two years the Bank has had a robust engagement supporting state and
       municipal climate change plans, which included many instances for civil society
       participation. Recognizing the pivotal role that state governments will have in the
       implementation of climate change policies, in FY10, the Bank started to reinforce its
       work at the subnational level. The government of Michoacán, with the support of the
       Bank, developed a consultative process which included a Strategic Environmental
       Assessment that had wide participation from civil society and other local stakeholders.
       Similar processes have been followed in the state climate change engagement in
       Campeche, and Oaxaca, as well as in forestry through the Bank‘s support to several
       SFLAC and GEF activities.
      At the municipal level, the Bank supported the development of an action plan for a
       sustainable and resilient Othón P. Blanco which began with a two-day workshop with
       local representatives from civil society and state and municipal government to discuss the
       basic challenges and opportunities in this area. Critical areas identified for action were
       disaster risk management, sustainable tourism, and sustainable forest management. The
       workshop was followed up with a wider consultation of communities throughout the
       municipality based on Local Agenda 21 approach to develop priorities for action.


                                                                                               31
      Joint workshops with the Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) on
       climate change adaptation planning and the National Adaptation Strategy: In partnership
       with GIZ, the Bank team co-hosted two workshops in Mexico City in relation to the
       identification, prioritization and design of adaptation measures and access to tools and
       climate information for improved decision making. Held in June and October, 2011, the
       workshops engaged a cross section of national, state and local authorities, academics and
       civil society representatives and fostered knowledge sharing among local research and
       public institutions, as well as dialogue among similar communities of practices. A
       particular outcome of the workshop was a formal request submitted by INE to the World
       Bank requesting an additional training event (hands-on and training for trainers sessions)
       and the possibility of having the CCKP (and the Mexico Climate Change Country
       Adaptation Profile) tailored to the needs of Mexican government
      REDD+ dialogue: The Bank participated as an invitee in all the meetings that civil
       society organizations had to organize the CTC-REDD+ and continues to do so after its
       official launch.

Annex 7 expands on the most relevant participatory provisions and actions incorporated under
the three policy areas covered by the DPL.




                                                                                              32
                 IV. BANK SUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT PROGRAM

A. Link to Country Partnership Strategy

71.     Mexico and the World Bank Group have a long-standing partnership that
encompasses a full menu of financial, knowledge, and coordination and convening services.
The Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for Mexico, which was discussed by the Board in April
2008, and the February 2010 CPS Progress Report, build on the Mexican authorities‘ desire to
maintain a strong financial and knowledge-based relationship with the Bank, focusing on
flexibility and innovation in responding to the partner‘s development challenges and demand for
borrowing as market conditions evolve. The aim of the CPS is to provide a flexible framework
for World Bank Group support to Mexico. The strategy is based on a streamlined approach to
lending that is in line with the priorities set in the 2007–2012 PND. The CPS envisioned a multi-
sector DPL, such as this, to support the GOM‘s Climate Change strategy.

B. Collaboration with IMF and Other Development Partners

72.       The proposed operation has benefited from collaboration with other agencies:


         UNDP has assisted SEMARNAT in preparing a national climate change adaptation
          strategy. The Bank has coordinated with and provided feedback to UNDP and
          SEMARNAT on this activity.
         The French Development Agency (AFD) has contributed to the financing of GoM
          Climate Change strategy through two DPLs. The first €185 million Climate Change Loan
          has been totally disbursed. The second in the amount of €300 million –focused on
          forestry and coordinated with this Bank Social Resilience to Climate Change DPL- was
          disbursed in two tranches in September and November 2011. AFD is supporting the
          GoM in five important activities: (i) Mexico‘s Climate Change agenda (mainly PECC)
          through financial support; (ii) a Technical Cooperation Program in the Forestry Sector
          focused on the REDD+ pilot project in Jalisco‘s Coastal Basins; (iii) implementation of
          REDD+ early actions in priority water basins through local governance mechanisms; (iv)
          analytical studies of sustainable territorial planning; and (v) methodology and results
          evaluation of the actual PECC in order to issue recommendations for the next one. The
          Bank and AFD collaborated together in developing with the GoM the policy matrix for
          the Forestry pillar of this operation, which will constitute the framework for AFD and the
          proposed DPL.
         The Government of Spain has been an important source of finance for the advisory
          services through which the Bank has supported climate change adaptation. Grants from
          the Spanish Fund for Latin America and the Caribbean (SFLAC) have supported: (i)
          advisory and capacity building services for strengthening the Subnational Climate
          Change Plans, which the States of Michoacán, Campeche, Oaxaca, Quintana Roo and
          Zacatecas; and (ii) the development of training guides and indices to promote sustainable
          and resilient local development in poorest municipalities of Mexico. With support from
          an additional SFLAC grant, the World Bank will carry out for the first time a Climate


                                                                                                 33
         Change Public Expenditure Review at the national level to inform decisions on further
         implementation of the Special Program on Climate Change (PECC).
        The Inter American Development Bank (IADB) has been collaborating with the
         Bank within the framework of the Forest Investment Program (FIP - P124988). At
         the GoM‘s request, the Bank will be the leading Multilateral Development Bank of the
         FIP in the country. IADB will collaborate on one project included in the FIP to design
         and implement innovative financial products, a project which is expected to promote
         learning and innovation and have potential global benefits. During scoping, preparation
         and assessment of this project, the Bank and IADB had a series of joint meetings with
         CONAFOR and Financiera Rural.
        On October 26, 2011, the Forestry pillar of this operation was discussed jointly with a
         number of donors working in Mexico in Forests and Climate Change in order to
         assure coordination and complementation with other operations: AFD, USAID, Norway
         Embassy, GIZ, Spanish Cooperation Agency (AECID), United Nations Environment
         Program (UNEP), Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), and the European Union.
        The Bank also co-hosted with GIZ two workshops on climate change adaptation
         planning and the National Adaptation Strategy in Mexico City, focusing on the
         identification, prioritization and design of adaptation measures and access to tools and
         climate information for improved decision making.

C. Integrated World Bank Engagement on Social Resilience to Climate Change

73.    The World Bank is supporting through a variety of complementary financial and
knowledge-based instruments the government‘s objectives to reduce the impacts of climate
change on the poor. Key milestones of this engagement in the three policy areas that are part of
this DPL are highlighted in Box 3.

74.     The proposed operation builds on a long-standing and comprehensive policy
dialogue and operational relationship between the World Bank Group and the GoM on
disaster risk management dating back to 1998. In 1998, the first activity of the Bank‘s newly-
created Disaster Management Facility was an analysis of disaster risk management capacity in
Mexico, which prompted the GoM to request the first World Bank loan on disaster risk
management.27 The Bank also supported Mexico in becoming the first developing country to
issue a catastrophe bond, which provides coverage to FONDEN for very large hurricanes and
earthquakes. In 2011, the Bank carried out a study on the Urban Poor, Disaster Risk
Management and Climate Change in Mexico City, to better understand climate change and
disaster risks for the urban poor and form the basis for developing strategies to address those
risks for the more vulnerable population in cities.

75.   As part of the preparation for this operation, specific support has been given to
address the poverty related dimensions of natural disasters through:



27
   Kreimer, Alcira; Arnold, Margaret; Barham, Christopher; Freeman, Paul; Gilbert, Roy; Krimgold, Frederick;
Lester, Rodney; Pollner, John D.; Vogt, Tom. Managing Disaster Risk in Mexico: Market Incentives for Mitigation
Investment, World Bank, 1999.

                                                                                                            34
        real time and video seminars with Bank experts on global lessons related to index
         insurance for disaster risk and the integration of disaster risk management into social
         protection programs;
        analytical work on a municipal disaster risk index to inform adaptation investment
         decisions;
        exploration of innovative for risk financing tools for the poor. These include: (i) technical
         support to an impact evaluation of the PACC to assess awareness and interest in
         insurance products for additional coverage; (ii) risk modeling for the Emergency
         Temporary Employment Program (Programa de Empleo Temporal Inmediato (PETi);
         and (c) the establishment of community vouchers and a regional hurricane risk pooling
         mechanism as part of climate change adaptation strategies in the states of Oaxaca and
         Yucatán peninsula.

76.    In addition, the Bank is currently preparing with the GoM a Fiscal Risk
Management DPL with a natural disaster risk management component. This is expected to
improve the Government‘s ability to respond to the effects of natural disasters on the poor and
mitigate the budgetary impact of natural disasters.

77.    In the area of urban development and housing, the Bank has had an ongoing
engagement with SEDESOL and CONAVI through the programmatic series of Housing and
Urban Development DPLs and an associated technical assistance loan (2005-2009). Through
these operations the Bank supported, inter alia:

        the preparation of a methodology for municipal governments to undertake a risk analysis
         under the Habitat program;
        a new housing construction code be used as reference by local governments;
        technical assistance to municipal governments on community participation for urban
         infrastructure investments: and
        technical assistance to municipal governments on crime and violence prevention through
         urban design and management.

78.     In the area of adaptation to climate change, the Bank’s multifaceted, multilevel
engagement includes analytical, advisory and financial support, with an important focus on
adaptation planning at the subnational level. In addition to what has already been mentioned
in sections I. and IV.B, there are two initiatives worth highlighting. First, the access and use of
real-time climate relevant information through the WB Climate Change Knowledge Portal
(CCKP) and the development of a Climate Change Country Adaptation Profile28; these virtual
platforms will facilitate the analysis, exploration, and synthesis of global, national, and sub-
national climate change impacts and risk reduction datasets at multiple levels of details. The
Bank provided training to Mexico Government officials and NGOs in using the CCKP to support
the National Adaptation Strategy and the development of the 5th national communication to the
UNFCCC. With high uncertainty, knowledge is crucial for defining and where necessary
adjusting adaptation priorities. The Government has requested Bank support to link the CCKP

28
  In partnership with the Global Facility for Disaster Recovery and Reconstruction.
http://climateadaptationprofiles.gfdrr.org (under development)

                                                                                                   35
and develop a Climate Change Adaptation Country Profile tailored to serve as a potential
knowledge and decision support tool at the national and subnational levels with the objective to
support Mexican states in their development of their State Climate Change Plans. Second,
through a Cities Alliance Grant the Bank has supported the municipality of Othon P. Blanco,
Quintana Roo, in developing a sustainability and climate change strategy, which is serving to
explore how to use participatory approaches to introduce sustainability and climate change
considerations in municipal plans.

79.     Since the 1990s, the Bank has been supporting Mexico’s community-based approach
to forest management with two Community Forestry Projects (CFP-I, US$18 million, 1997-
2003; and CFP-II, US$26 million, 2003-2009). The Bank‘s engagement contributed to the
creation of the National Forestry Commission and the launching of new instruments, particularly
the Payment for Environmental Services (2005), which has now nearly two million hectares of
forests under active conservation agreements.

80.    The Bank and the GoM are currently engaging in a new, comprehensive package of
collaboration in the area of Forests and Climate Change. This package would combine the
proposed DPL with various other instruments, including:

        The US$350 million Forest and Climate Change SIL. The SIL will help consolidate
         the community forestry and payments for environmental services programs, scale them
         up at national level, and reduce emissions from deforestation and degradation (REDD+)
         while enhancing communities‘ resilience to the impacts of climate change. Most
         resources will be used to support demand-driven, community based initiatives. The SIL
         mainstreams climate resilience considerations and is expected to contribute to multiple
         co-benefits such as biodiversity conservation, protection of the rights of indigenous
         peoples and local communities, and poverty reduction through rural livelihoods
         enhancements
        The FIP financing. This pilot program of the Climate Investment Funds (CIF) aims to
         design and scale up new approaches for reducing emissions from deforestation and
         degradation (REDD+) in eight pilot countries worldwide. In Mexico, US$42 million of
         FIP resources will be merged with the SIL and will focus on: promoting the alignment of
         public policies dealing with rural development, specially forest, agriculture and livestock;
         on promoting public participation in policy making; and promoting geographical
         integration for better management of the rural landscape. The FIP resources will be
         implemented in the REDD+ Early Action Areas.29
        The Forest Carbon Partnership Facility (FCPF) for Readiness Preparation. This
         will finance studies and consultations that are expected to culminate in a Readiness
         Package consisting of a national REDD+ strategy, a national forest reference level, a
         forest monitoring and verification system, and a system for addressing environmental and
         social safeguards. In the future, and building upon the Readiness Preparation, Mexico

29
   Initial Early Action areas have been identified for their REDD+, learning, implementation, and replication
potential, and were included in Mexico‘s FIP Forest Investment Plan. The project will support piloting of new
approaches for REDD+ initially in two of those areas (State of Jalisco and the Yucátan Península). Expansion to
other areas will be considered based on project progress, lessons learned and opportunities for further learning and
implementation.

                                                                                                                 36
       may also access the FCPF Carbon Fund which would pilot a system of payments for
       verified emissions reductions.
      The Program on Forests (PROFOR). This consists of grants to support CONAFOR
       in: conducting a South-South exchange initiative on REDD+ and benefit-sharing
       mechanisms, re-designing the Mexican Forest Fund, and assessing the competitiveness of
       Mexico‘s community forestry enterprises in local and global markets.
      A pilot Forest Bond, which the GoM is currently exploring with the Bank‘s Treasury
       Department.

81.   The forest component of this DPL would build upon the policies recognized and
supported by four recent DPLs to the Government of Mexico: the Climate Change DPL
(March 2008); the Environmental Sustainability DPL (September 2008); the Climate Change in
the Water Sector DPL (May 2010); and the Low-carbon DPL (October 2010). The proposed
DPL would consolidate and deepen policies recognized by these operations and help Mexico
bring its forest and climate change agenda an additional step forward.




                                                                                          37
                       Box 3. Schematic of Programmatic Engagement by Policy Area
                       …2006                                                             2011 and beyond…

                                            Social Resilience through Adaptation Planning
                                                          Knowledge Services
Economic Assessment of Policy              Addressing Mexico‘s Water Challenges          Sustainable Climate Resilience in Othon P.
Interventions in the Water Sector          (P119943) (2009)                              Blanco (P122021)
(P096999) (2006)                           MX Water Sector Adaptation Technical          Subnational Climate Change Program
                                           Cooperation Program (P122166)                 (Michoacán, Campeche, Q. Roo, Oaxaca,
                                                                                         Zacatecas (P105849)
                                                                                         Social Impacts of Climate Change ESW
                                                                                         (P112024) (2011)
                                                                                         Municipal Climate Vulnerability Index –
                                                                                         SFLAC Climate Change Public Expenditure
                                                                                         Review (CC PER)
                                                                                         Access to Mexico Country Adaptation Profile
                                                                                         and virtual Climate Change Knowledge
                                                                                         Portal (FY 12)
                                                           Financial Services
Programmatic Environmental DPL             Adaptation to Climate Change in the Water     Strengthening Social Resilience to Climate
(P079748) (2005)                           Sector DPL (P120134) (2010)                   Change DPL (P120170) (FY12)
                                           Adaptation to Climate Change Impacts on
                                           Coastal Wetlands in the Gulf of Mexico
                                           (P100438) (2010)
                           Social Resilience through Disaster Risk Prevention and Territorial Development
                                                          Knowledge Services
                                           Study on Urban Poor and Climate Change in       PSIA of Disaster and Climate Risks in
                                           Mexico City                                     Mexico
                                           Territorial Development and Climate Change in Mexico Southern States Sustainable
                                           Michoacán                                       Development (P116549)
                                                                                           MOU on Disaster Risk Financing and
                                                                                           Management
                                                                                           Just-in-time advice to SAGARPA on
                                                                                           Impact Evaluation of PACC
                                                           Financial Services
Programmatic Housing and Urban             Low-carbon DPL (sustainable housing)            Strengthening Social Resilience to Climate
DPL&TA (2005-2009)                                                                         Change DPL (P120170)

                                   Social Resilience through Sustainable Forest Management
                                                       Knowledge Services
CDM Technical Assistance (P082219)     Low-carbon Study, MEDEC (P108304)            Support to Mexico ‗s participation in the
(2006)                                 (2007)                                       Forest Carbon Facility Partnership (FCPF)
                                                                                    Readiness Fund (FY11-13)
                                                                                    PROFOR support for: (i) South-South
                                                                                    collaboration on PES and REDD finance
                                                                                    (FY12); (ii) Competitiveness in the forestry
                                                                                    sector (FY11), and (iii) good practices with
                                                                                    forest funds (FY12)
                                                        Financial Services
MX Community Forestry (P007700)        Climate Change DPL (P110849) (2008)          Strengthening Social Resilience to Climate
(1997)                                 Green Growth DPL (P115608) (2009)            Change DPL (P120170) (FY12)
2nd Indigenous Community Forestry      Low-carbon DPL (P121800) (2010)              Forests and Climate Change SIL (FY12)
Development Project (P055827) (1997)                                                Forest Investment Program (FY12)
Community Forestry (P035751) (2003)                                                 Support to design of Forest Bond with World
Environmental DPL I and II (P079748)                                                Bank Treasury (FY12)
(2005)                                                                              Biodiversity and Ecosystems Resilience DPL
                                                                                    (FY13)


                                                                                                                                38
                                                                            Potential financial assistance from the FCPF
                                                                            Carbon Fund (FY13-)
D. Analytical Underpinnings

82.     The design of the proposed operation is backed by solid analytical work and
dialogue conducted by the Bank, the Government of Mexico and others and a rich set of
technical assistance activities covering climate change adaptation, disaster risk management and
risk financing, territorial development, forest management, and—more broadly—climate change,
social development and environmental management. Table 3 shows the links between the
components included in the DPC and the recommendations provided by recent analytical work.
Table 3: Links between the DPL and Prior Analytical Work
                                                                                                          Links to
                      Analytical Reports – Findings and Recommendations                                  DPL Prior
                                                                                                          Actions
                                I. LONG TERM ADAPTATION PLANNING
                               The report looks at the distributional impacts of climate change on
                               different regions, sectors and social groups of Mexico. It examines
                               the level of vulnerability—as a function of climate exposure,
                               sensitivity    and      adaptive    capacity—experienced       across
                               municipalities, sectors such as agriculture, and social groups such
                               as types of small farmers, indigenous peoples, and others. It
  World Bank (forthcoming
                               measures the welfare impacts and levels of risk that Mexico‘s
     2012). The Social                                                                                    1.1., 1.2.,
                               municipalities, sectors, regions and population groups face from
   Dimensions of Climate                                                                                     1.3.
                               natural disasters and the effectiveness of certain social programs in
    Change in Mexico..
                               reducing those impacts. The GoM will draw on some of the
                               background papers of the study (particularly the ones related to CC
                               impacts on malnutrition and poverty and the municipal
                               vulnerability index) to inform the social dimensions aspect of the
                               National Adaptation Strategy and the 5th Communication of
                               UNFCCC.
                               The study is the product of a broad and extensive collaborative
                               effort between the World Bank and the Government of Michoacán.
   Damania et al (2011).       A cutting-edge risk management approach was pioneered to
  Confronting a Changing       combine the complexities of climate science with local expertise in
                                                                                                           1.1, 1.2
Climate in Michoacán. World    an iterative and participatory process. The approach was used to
           Bank.               build consensus on priorities for adaptation in the water and
                               agricultural sectors. The work has informed and fed into the state‘s
                               climate change plans and the state level dimension of the DPL.
                               The report looked at the ways in which communities in Mexico are
Territorial Development and
                               affected socially by climate change and the strategies they are using
   Adaptation to Climate                                                                                     1.2
                               to adapt to it, including changes to natural resource practices,
Change in Michoacán (2010)
                               agricultural diversity, and migration.
   Technical Assistance
Program with SEDESOL and       This developed a Climate Vulnerability Municipal Index and
                                                                                                             1.3.
  SEMARNAT on Climate          supported the municipality of Othon P. Blanco, Quintana Roo, in
    Change Adaptation          formulating a sustainability and climate change strategy.
                               This analysis focused on the previously neglected and poorly
                               understood social dimensions of climate change. It highlighted
Social Dimensions of Climate
                               equity and vulnerability as central organizing themes and illustrated
    Change: Equity and
                               the multiple ways that pro-poor climate policy and action should be        1.1, 1.2.
 Vulnerability in a Warming
                               integrated into existing approaches to poverty reduction and
        World (2010)
                               development, from the local to global level, in order to better
                               manage the social risks and potential benefits associated with

                                                                                                                      39
                                measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.

              II. DISASTER RISK MANAGEMENT AND TERRITORIAL DEVELOPMENT
                             Poverty in Mexico correlates with a higher susceptibility to losses
 Cruz, de la Fuente, Soriano
                             from hazard events. Disaster-prone municipalities in Mexico are
(2011). Riesgo de Desastres
                             those that are predominantly rural and indigenous, with limited
a Nivel Municipal en México:
                             access to services, high rates of deforestation and other
Diagnóstico General y                                                                                       2.1
                             environmental problems. The poor also hold more of their wealth
Correlación con Pobreza.
                             in physical assets that are climate sensitive – notably assets related
Report prepared as part of
                             to agriculture, forestry of fishery based activities.
PSIA for this DPL.
                                As part of the Project preparation the team prepared an inventory
                                of the different programs and financing mechanisms for risk
  Ballesteros, Luis (2011).     reduction and climate change adaptation: Catalog
Catálogo de Mecanismos del      of Federal mechanisms for Natural Disaster Risk Reduction in
     Gobierno Federal           Mexico (2011). The document focuses on developing a catalog of
    Relacionados con la         the different mechanisms, policy instruments, information systems,
                                                                                                          2.1, 2.3
  Reducción del Riesgo de       financing sources, cooperation mechanisms and functions, within
  Desastres Naturales en        the various units and departments of the Mexican Federal
México. Report prepared for     Government whose operation has a positive potential reducing the
          this DPL.             risk of disasters, including those earmarked for (structural) climate
                                change adaptation.

Dickson et al (2011). Urban     This diagnosis of climate change and disaster risks for the urban
    Poor, Disaster Risk         poor in Mexico City forms the basis for developing strategies to            2.1.
 Management and Climate         address those risks for the more vulnerable population in cities.
  Change in Mexico City
                               The WDR demonstrates that in order to reduce vulnerability to
                               climate change, societies will need to increase natural resource
                               protection efforts and pursue other intersectoral, ―climate-smart‖
                               practices. It concludes that urbanization, if adequately managed,
                               can increase resilience to climate-related risks. Higher population
                               densities lower the per capita costs of providing piped treated
                               water, sewer systems, waste collection, and most other
 World Development Report
                               infrastructure and public amenities. Sound urban planning restricts
   2010–Development and                                                                                     2.2.
                               development in flood-prone areas and provides critical access to
      Climate Change
                               services. Infrastructure developments (embankments or levees) can
                               provide physical protection for many people and will require
                               additional safety margins where climate change increases risk.
                               Well-established communication, transport and early warning
                               systems help evacuate people swiftly. Such measures can increase
                               the ability of urban dwellers to cope with shocks in the short term
                               and adapt to a changing climate in the long term.
                       III. SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITY FOREST MANAGEMENT
 IPCC Reports (for example,
IPCC (2001) Climate change
2001: mitigation, contribution
  of working group III to the
third assessment report of the IPCC reports strongly recognize the synergy between mitigation
 Intergovernmental Panel on and adaptation to climate change in the forestry sector.
                                                                                                        3.1, 3.2, 3.3
 Climate Change. and IPCC
(2001) Climate change 2001:
   impacts, adaptation and
  vulnerability, summary for
        policy makers)

                                                                                                                     40
 Comisión Intersecretarial de
  Cambio Climático (2009)     The PECC highlights the importance of inter-institutional cross-
                                                                                                      3.1
Programa Especial de Cambio cutting cooperation to promote climate change adaptation.
     Climático (PECC)
                              Coordinated by the CTC–REDD+, this document represents the
                              first step toward Mexico‘s National REDD+ Strategy. The
                              document presents some of the complex problems of forest
 CONAFOR (2010). Mexico       reduction and deforestation in Mexico. The document is consistent   3.1, 3.2 and
                              with the selected prior action, as it stresses the importance of
    REDD+ Vision.                                                                                      3.3
                              intersectoral coordination, civil society participation and
                              strengthens of local governance structures in the context of
                              adaptation and mitigation to the effects of climate change.

                         Developed by CONAFOR as part of the FCPF Readiness
                         Preparation, the Proposal is explicit about the poverty alleviation
                         benefits of GoM‘s REDD+ strategy, noting, for example, the social
                         as well as environmental benefits of sustainable community
                         forestry management and biodiversity conservation. Mexico´s
                         Forest Investment Plan, developed by CONAFOR as part of the
                         FIP, identifies among the main underlying causes of deforestation
                         and forest degradation in Early Action REDD+ Areas: (i) high
CONAFOR (2010), Mexico’s
                         transaction costs due to forest regulatory compliance; (ii) leakages
  Readiness Preparation                                                                           3.1, 3.2, 3.3
                         and perverse incentives for agriculture and livestock production;
     Proposal (RPP)
                         (iii) weak indigenous and local community organizational structure;
                         and (iv) limited government capacity for forest control and
                         supervision. The Investment Plan also suggests potential mitigation
                         measures: (i) the creation of cooperative agreements between rural
                         government agencies for sectoral policy alignment and
                         implementation, and multi-sectoral action; and (ii) establishment of
                         the Territorial Management Entity to coordinate technical and
                         financial services.
                         The Mexico´s Forest Investment Plan developed by CONAFOR as
                         part of the FIP is fully consistent with the Prior Actions included in
                         this operation. The plan states as some of the main underlying
                         causes of deforestation and forest degradation in Early Action
                         REDD+ Areas are: high transaction cost due to forest regulatory
                         compliance; leakages and perverse incentives for agriculture and
                         livestock production; weak indigenous and local community
CONAFOR (2011). Mexico´s                                                                           3.1., 3.2,
                         organizational structure; and limited government capacity for forest
  Forest Investment Plan                                                                              3.3.
                         control and supervision. The Investment plan also suggests as
                         potential mitigation measures: the creation of cooperative
                         agreements between rural government agencies for sectoral policy
                         alignment and implementation, and multi-sectoral action and
                         establishment of the Territorial Management Entity to coordinate
                         and facilitate technical assistance action and financial services.




                                                                                                                41
                                  V. THE PROPOSED OPERATION
A. Operation Description

83.     The proposed Strengthening Social Resilience to Climate Change DPL constitutes an
essential piece of the consolidation stage (2010-) of the Bank‘s climate change engagement in
Mexico. The objective of this operation is to strengthen social resilience to climate change
through policies that will directly and indirectly benefit the poor by improving: (a) adaptation
planning oriented to the state level; (b) disaster risk reduction and territorial development
oriented to the municipal level; and (c) sustainable forest management at the community level.
Prior actions are summarized in Box 4.

                                         Box 4. Summary of Prior Actions
 Policy Area 1: Strengthening Social Resilience through Long-term Climate Change Adaptation
 Planning oriented to the state level
 The CICC‘s Adaptation Working Group has: (i) approved a Mid-Term Adaptation Policies Framework
 (Marco de Políticas de Adaptación de Mediano Plazo), which requires the development of measures for
 reduction of differential vulnerability and strengthening of local adaptive planning; and (ii) created a
 Technical Advisory Committee to facilitate participation of experts and key stakeholders in the formulation of
 a future national adaptation strategy of Mexico.
 The States of Yucatán, Campeche, and Quintana Roo have signed a ―General Coordination Agreement on the
 Yucatán Peninsula‘s Climate Change‖ to develop a Regional Strategy for Climate Change Adaptation in the
 Yucatán Peninsula and a Climate Action Fund for the Yucatán Peninsula, coordinated by the Climate Change
 Regional Commission for the Yucatán Peninsula.
 Congress has approved a new budgetary program ―National Program for Climate Change Adaptation and
 Prevention of Natural Disasters‖ (Programa Nacional de Adaptación del Cambio Climatico y de Prevencion
 de Desastres Naturales), to finance climate change adaptation initiatives in an amount of 300 million Pesos,
 and implemented by SEMARNAT.
 Policy Area 2: Strengthening Social Resilience through Disaster Risk Reduction and Territorial
 Development Actions oriented to the municipal level
 SEDESOL has strengthened the delivery of risk reduction actions in Municipalities through (i) the creation of
 a new program for risk prevention in human settlements (―Prevención de Riesgos en los Asentamientos
 Humanos‖), which offers financing for risk reduction actions to Municipalities; and (ii) the issuance of the
 new operational rules of the temporary employment program (Programa de Empleo Temporal, PET) for the
 fiscal year 2011, to orient it toward the financing of local disaster prevention projects for the fiscal year 2011.
 SEDESOL‘s guidelines for sustainable urban development, aimed at fostering sustainable urban territorial
 development and increased social resilience, have been incorporated by selected housing institutions of the
 Borrower, such as CONAVI with its upfront subsidy program ―Esta es tu casa‖, and INFONAVIT with its
 mortgage origination criteria.
 SAGARPA strengthened and improved the targeting of its natural disaster risk management and prevention
 program (CADENA) for low income farmers, by lowering the eligibility ceiling for disaster and catastrophe
 insurance payouts.
 Policy Area 3: Strengthening Social Resilience at the Community Level through Sustainable
 Community Forest Management
 CONAFOR signed bilateral cooperation agreements (Convenios de Colaboración), with SAGARPA and
 SEMARNAT, fostering the sharing of information among said institutions on forestry programs, and aligning
 procedures and incentive programs on agricultural, livestock and forestry issues.
 A national multi-stakeholder consultative technical council and three state-level multi-stakeholder
 consultative technical councils (CTC–REDD) have been created.
 The Board of JIRA approved REDD+ as a strategic line for its multi-annual work program.

                                                                                                                42
Policy Area 1. Strengthening Social Resilience through Long-term Climate Change
Adaptation Planning oriented to the state level
84.     Policy Context and Challenges: Climate change adaptation has a predominantly local
dimension. People adapt to the specific contours of their physical and natural environments and
state and local governments have responsibility for implementation of many adaptation activities.
The relevance of this local dimension is particularly evident in Mexico, given its diverse
geography, which includes coastal zones, mountainous areas, lowlands, forested tropical hills,
and drought-prone environments in the north. PECC focuses mainly on sectors and federal
responsibilities while state governments focus on managing or coordinating services directly for
the population in their territories. Thus, reducing vulnerability to climate change and climate
variability requires that national policies allow for and strengthen participatory autonomous
adaptation. It also requires that national programs provide states and local communities with
useable information about risks (short- and long-term), cost-effective adaptation measures,
modalities to spread risk, etc. Ensuring that adaptation is successful at the appropriate
subnational levels (territorial units, municipalities, watersheds etc.) also requires strengthening
the mechanisms for coordination between different levels of government and different
government institutions. Adequate financing to support implementation of state-level adaptation
measures has also been lacking.

85.     The objective of this policy area is to recognize the development of national and state
government policy frameworks and funding mechanisms that foster intersectoral,
intergovernmental, and multi-stakeholder coordination and collaboration to promote socially
inclusive and pro-poor adaptation policies and programs.

86.    Prior Actions: Three prior actions have been completed.

87.     Prior Action 1.1. The CICC’s Adaptation Working Group has: (i) approved a Mid-
Term Adaptation Policies Framework (Marco de Políticas de Adaptación de Mediano Plazo),
which requires the development of measures for reduction of differential vulnerability and
strengthening of local adaptive planning; and (ii) created a Technical Advisory Committee to
facilitate participation of experts and key stakeholders in the formulation of a future national
adaptation strategy of Mexico.

88.    The Mid-Term Adaptation Policies Framework, which the GoM unveiled at the COP16
in December 2010, responds to the challenges identified above.
    a. The Framework emphasizes the importance of autonomous adaption, draws attention to
       the municipal governments‘ responsibility for implementing actions and decisions
       affecting land use, and points to the need to strengthen their participation in the design,
       implementation, monitoring and evaluation of measures to reduce vulnerability to climate
       change in urban and rural areas. It calls for capacity building measures to help the
       municipalities mainstream climate change adaptation in their development, land use, and
       civil protection plans. To this end, SEDESOL has begun development of a Municipal
       Guide for Climate Change Adaptation. The Framework also flags the need to strengthen
       municipal and inter-municipal institutions and communication channels.

                                                                                                43
   b. The Adaptation Framework highlights the need to identify the most vulnerable
      population and those living in high risk places, both in cities as well as in rural areas.
      Following up on this, the GT–ADAPT is developing municipal-level ―disaster risk
      scores‖ and a Municipal Climate Change Vulnerability Index to identify particularly
      exposed areas and people in order to improve targeting and the use of adaptation funds.
      The Bank‘s advisory services associated with this operation have been supporting
      development of this index.
   c. The Framework recognizes the vital role that local institutions, community and
      indigenous organizations, civil society, and the private sector must play in shaping local
      adaptation strategies. In this connection, GT-ADAPT created a Technical Advisory
      Committee (TAC) to facilitate participation of experts and key stakeholders in the
      formulation of the National Adaptation Strategy so as to draw on their experience in a
      broad range of climate change adaptation areas, including vulnerability of human
      settlements, ecosystems, infrastructure, and productive systems.

89.   Prior Action 1.2. The States of Yucatán, Campeche, and Quintana Roo have signed a
“General Coordination Agreement on the Yucatán Peninsula’s Climate Change? to develop a
Regional Strategy for Climate Change Adaptation in the Yucatán Peninsula and a Climate
Action Fund for the Yucatán Peninsula, coordinated by the Climate Change Regional
Commission for the Yucatán Peninsula.

90.     This action responds to the necessity to improve regional inter-governmental cooperation
to address climate change adaptation needs that cut across political and administrative
boundaries and have particular importance in the special context of the Yucatán Peninsula. The
Peninsula is highly vulnerable to climate change impacts due to its geographical location and
topography, high incidence of extreme hydrometeorological events such as hurricanes and severe
floods, low agricultural productivity, and high levels of biodiversity and endemic species. It is
home to 22 per cent of Mexico‘s bird species, 40 per cent of mammals, 24 per cent of mangroves
and has the second largest ecological reserve in Latin America. This, together with its 1,100 km
of coastline, makes it one of the most important ecotourism centers in the country and in Latin
America. Despite its vulnerability to climate change impacts, the Peninsula also makes a
substantial contribution to climate change mitigation due to its extensive forest reserves. The
forests in the Sian Kaan-Calakmul Natural Corridor are one of the biggest carbon reservoirs in
the world after the Amazonian Forest.

91.     The Agreement signed in December 2010 by Campeche, Quintana Roo and Yucatán, the
three states of the Yucatán Peninsula, represents a breakthrough in Mexico‘s environmental
history, as it recognizes for the first time the key role of local governments in adaptation to
climate change and empowers the three governments to work jointly to build resilience to the
common challenges of climate change and efficiently manage natural resources at a regional
scale. The agreement establishes a framework for coordination to develop a regional climate
change adaptation and mitigation action plan setting forth sustainable socioeconomic
development strategies. The agreement will be initially implemented through three projects:
         The Regional Strategy of Adaptation to Climate Change of the Yucatán Peninsula;
         The Regional program of Reduction of Emissions from Deforestation and Forest
            Degradation (REDD+) in the Yucatán Peninsula; and

                                                                                              44
            The establishment of a Fund for Climate Action of the Yucatán Peninsula

92.    Prior Action 1.3. Congress has approved a new budgetary program “National Program
for Climate Change Adaptation and Prevention of Natural Disasters? (Programa Nacional de
Adaptación del Cambio Climatico y de Prevencion de Desastres Naturales), to finance climate
change adaptation initiatives in an amount of 300 million pesos, and implemented by
SEMARNAT.

93.     The Climate Change Adaptation and Natural Disasters Program is a new budgetary
program that aims to address the lack of adequate financing to support implementation of state-
level adaptation and natural disaster risk reduction measures. It was established in the Mexican
Federal Budget of 2011 by the Chamber of Deputies with an initial allocation of approximately
300 million Mexican pesos (US$22 million), demonstrating the commitment of the GoM to
continue pioneering in the field of climate change adaptation by bringing to bear its own
domestic resources to complement those available internationally. The initial allocation has been
earmarked for the States of Chiapas (MX$240 million) and Tabasco (MX$60 million). Subject
to the availability of budget resources going forward, it will be extended to other states. Tabasco
and Chiapas were chosen due to their high vulnerability to climate change and natural disasters,
as well as their great ecologic value. In addition, they have high levels of socioeconomic
vulnerability (Tabasco is ranked 21/32 and Chiapas 32/32 in the latest national ranking of the
Human Development Index).30

94.     Resources will be channeled through CONANP, CONAFOR and CONABIO to finance
projects in the following areas: (i) prevention and attention to environmental contingencies; (ii)
conservation and management of priority forests, (iii) productive reconversion for the integration
of biological corridors; (iv) restoration and conservation of coastal and marine ecosystems; (v)
restoration of terrestrial ecosystems; (vi) dissemination, communication and knowledge activities
and (vii) climate monitoring.

95.     Expected results and Government Medium-term Agenda. The GoM expects these three
actions to strengthen the capacities at the state and municipal levels to develop adaptation
strategies that integrate the perspectives and needs of a range of public, private, expert and
community groups, recognize and address the differential impacts of climate change across space
and social groups, and orient themselves by natural rather than political or administrative
boundaries. At least half of the state-level climate change adaptation strategies that have been
completed have monitoring and evaluation systems with defined indicators of vulnerability and
resilience. These systems provide for continuous monitoring, establishing the feedback loop that
is needed for a flexible strategy that can adjust to the dynamics of vulnerability in the context of
uncertain climate change projections.

96.     Over the next three years, the GoM aims to deepen and scale up its adaptation policy. It
expects to launch its National Adaptation Strategy at Rio +20 in June 2012 and then present its
5th National Communication to UNFCCC at COP18 in December 2012. Both documents will
emphasize actions to reduce the social impacts of climate change by strengthening the resilience
of the most vulnerable groups. To deepen and extend its engagement on adaptation, the
30
     Informe sobre Desarrollo Humano México, 2011. Programa de las Naciones Unidas para el Desarrollo. México

                                                                                                                45
Government intends to continue increasing its efforts to support state- and municipal-level
adaptation plans. Having developed guidelines for state climate change plans, the GoM intends
to begin a consultation, revision and implementation of the plans. Of the thirty-two states that
form the Mexican federation, only two states (Veracruz and Nuevo León) plus the Federal
District have finished their State Climate Change Plans (SCCPs). Twenty states are at various
stages of the development of their SCCPs, and ten have not started yet. In addition, the
government is aiming to focus in developing information and decision making instruments to
support improved access to climate-relevant information for development of policy actions. With
high uncertainty, knowledge is crucial for defining and where necessary adjusting adaptation
priorities. INE has requested Bank support to link to its Climate Change Knowledge Portal and
develop a Climate Change Adaptation Country Profile tailored to serve as a potential knowledge
and decision support tool at the national and subnational levels. The Bank will provide training
and technical assistance for this purpose.

Policy Area 2. Strengthening Social Resilience through Disaster Risk Reduction and
Territorial Development Actions oriented to the municipal level


97.      Policy Context and Challenges: The GoM recognizes that disaster risk management in
Mexico has in general been reactive and is in need of strengthening, not only to manage current
levels of risk effectively, but also to build resilience to long-term climate change impacts,
especially on the poor. One key challenge has been to develop mechanisms to integrate disaster
risk considerations into territorial and urban planning and create synergies with other
government programs. Among the barriers to such integration has been the lack of adequate
technical and financial support to municipalities, which bear the responsibility for the bulk of
territorial planning as well as for disaster response. Another weakness in the DRM system has
been the lack of policies, guidelines, and incentives to arrest the uncontrolled, extensive pattern
of urban areas development, which has resulted in the expansion of human settlements into
increasingly hazardous areas and created demands for infrastructure that cannot affordably be
met. A final challenge has been the need to provide greater protection to the rural poor against
climatic variability and reduce their migration to urban areas, which adds to the disorderly urban
expansion. This DPL supports aspects of the Government‘s program that aim to address these
challenges by moving toward a more proactive, flexible and accountable disaster risk
management system that is better linked to government programs, protects the poor from hazard
event impacts more effectively, and strengthens long-term resilience to climate change impacts.

98.    The objective of this policy area is to recognize government program‘s incentives that
enhance disaster risk reduction, increase social resilience and promote sustainable territorial
development at the municipal level.

99.    Prior Actions: Three policy actions have been completed.

100. Prior Action 2.1. SEDESOL has strengthened the delivery of risk reduction actions in
Municipalities through (i) the creation of a new program for risk prevention in human
settlements (“Prevención de Riesgos en los Asentamientos Humanos?), which offers financing
for risk reduction actions to Municipalities; and (ii) the issuance of the new operational rules


                                                                                                46
of the temporary employment program (Programa de Empleo Temporal, PET) for the fiscal
year 2011, to orient it toward the financing of local disaster prevention projects.

101. SEDESOL‘s new Program for Risk Prevention in Human Settlements (Prevención de
Riesgos en los Asentamientos Humanos, PRAH) extends financing of risk reduction action to all
municipalities, filling a critical gap. While risk reduction support is available to states through
FOPREDEN, municipalities face challenges in accessing the funds. SEDESOL‘s Habitat
program supports risk reduction activities in municipalities, but only those belonging to the
National Urban System (cities of 15,000 or more inhabitants)31. According to the PSIA
undertaken for the proposed DPL, high disaster-risk-prone municipalities in Mexico are
predominantly rural and indigenous, which have populations of less than 15,000 inhabitants.
Launched in 2011 with a budget of MX$184 million (US$15 million), the PRAH overcomes
the operational limitations of the Hábitat Program, which only benefits poverty polygons32 in
urban areas,33 and makes all municipalities with high or very high risk of disasters eligible for
disaster risk reduction support. PRAH finances the development of municipal risk atlases,
climate-resilient infrastructure, reforestation efforts, improvements in building code practices,
and awareness raising activities related to disaster risk reduction. Furthermore, the operational
framework of PRAH recognizes the potential effects of climate change and extreme weather
events and their relation to social vulnerability and insufficient management of disaster risk. In
its first year of operation, 135 municipalities sought funding for municipal risk atlases, greatly
exceeding SEDESOL‘s expectation of 38, showing the strong appetite of municipalities for risk
reduction tools.

102. The design and implementation of this program constitutes a significant step forward in
the integration of risk prevention activities in the framework of urban development strategies.
Programs like FOPREDEN and Hábitat both address risk prevention activities, but are managed
by different government agencies (Ministry of Interior and SEDESOL, respectively) which has
made program coordination challenging. SEDESOL, as the government agency with the mandate
to execute the social policy and plan the urban development and land use in the country, is best
endowed to become the leading integrator between the two closely interlinked fields (urban
development and disaster risk management). SEDESOL has the planning and program executing
capacity and experience, as well as a highly decentralized structure that allows for the successful

31
     SEDESOL‘s Hábitat Program was originally developed in order to align urban development and land
use planning with federal social policy to help reduce urban poverty and improve the quality of life of marginalized
urban communities. The program has three elements aimed at improving the urban environment, fostering social and
community development, and promoting of urban development. Hábitat includes prevention, mitigation, and
recovery components, such as investments to mitigate threats to infrastructure and the natural environment,
education activities focused on urban population, and the replacement of appliances for urban households. From
2003 to 2009, Hábitat provided over MX$915 million in financing for mitigation and prevention activities and
works, which corresponds to 3.46 percent of the total executed budget of the Program. The Program supports 1,257
urban municipalities from a total of 2,456 municipalities in Mexico.
32
   Poverty Polygons are defined by SEDESOL as areas that: (i) are located in cities of 15,000 inhabitants or more;
(ii) have at least 50 percent (30 percent in specific cases) of its households considered to suffer from asset poverty;
(iii) have insufficient infrastructure and urban services; (iv) at least 80 percent of the allotments are occupied; (v) are
clearly defined and within the city limits; (vi) are not irregular settlements; (vii) are not in an area of ecological or
archeological interest.
33
      See Diagnóstico nacional de los asentamientos humanos ante el riesgo de desastres:
http://www.sedesol2009.sedesol.gob.mx/archivos/802567/file/Diagnostico_PRAH.pdf

                                                                                                                        47
operation of programs at the regional and local level. The PRAH builds on the lessons learned of
disaster risk management experience in Mexico and in the world and therefore prioritizes the
execution at the local level.
103. SEDESOL has also changed the 2011 Operational Rules of its Temporary Employment
Program (Programa de Empleo Temporal, PET) to orient it toward financing local disaster
prevention projects. PET targets the extreme poor and provides employment in labor intensive
public works to build infrastructure or in works related to environmental or sustainable
agricultural improvements. While its primary function is to provide employment to the poor
during the agriculture sector low season, it also has a safety net component (PET Inmediato,
PETi) where incremental funds are made available for additional employment in areas that have
been affected by systemic shocks due to natural hazards or other causes. PET successfully
combines a poverty alleviation function with a shock mitigating function, serving two purposes:
(i) absorbing seasonal unemployment in rural areas affecting especially the very poor, thus
alleviating poverty; and (ii) providing assistance in situations of emergency. By having
beneficiaries engage in public works that reduce disaster risk, the program will provide a dual
protection function of reducing the physical and livelihood risks of the poor. In addition to
supporting disaster risk reduction in a more proactive and pro-poor way (about 20 percent of
PET Inmediato goes to prevention), SEDESOL plans to take its efforts further in 2012 by adding
climate change adaptation efforts as an area of activity for PET support.

104. Prior Action 2.2. SEDESOL’s guidelines for sustainable urban development, aimed at
fostering sustainable urban territorial development and increased social resilience, have been
incorporated by selected housing institutions of the Borrower, such as CONAVI with its
upfront subsidy program “Esta es tu casa?, and INFONAVIT with its mortgage origination
criteria.

105. Poor urban planning and land use policies are key underlying factors contributing to
hazard events becoming disasters. This is especially important in Mexico where more than 70
percent of the population currently lives in urban areas. By 2025 as much as 80 percent of the
population is expected to live in the 358 cities that comprise the Sistema Urbano Nacional. The
pattern of territorial and urban development of Mexican cities since 2000 has been largely
determined by the expansion of housing construction, which has resulted in uncontrolled urban
sprawl, creating demand for infrastructure and services that cannot be met. There is an urgent
need to promote development and densification of inner cities, where the infrastructure
investments needed to reduce the probability of abandoned housing units and deteriorating
neighborhoods are less costly. To address this issue, SEDESOL developed guidelines that
promote sustainable and resilient urban and housing development. These guidelines were a
necessary first step in the definition of what constitutes sustainable housing and urban
development and how it should be measured. The guidelines call for a relatively modest
densification, accompanied other changes to promote sustainability such as an increase in mixed-
use and green spaces per capita and more options for non-motorized transport. The increase in
densification, while modest, results in a lower net present value cost of provision of adequate
infrastructure services, compared with the prevailing extensive model of territorial
development.34 These guidelines have influenced at least two very important policy programs

34
  Mexican cities have an average density of 50 persons per hectare, but medium-sized cities (100,000 to 1,000,000
population) have lower than average densities (45 persons per hectare) and are the most rapidly growing in terms of

                                                                                                                48
and instruments which are expected to result in increased environmental and social sustainability
at local level: INFONAVIT‘2011-2015 financial plan, and the 2012 program rules for the main
up-front housing subsidy program Esta es Tu Casa operated by CONAVI.

106. INFONAVIT‘s 2011-2015 Financial Plan operationalized the guidelines within its
mortgage-lending mandate. INFONAVIT recently revised its mission statement from pure
mortgage lending to focus more on improving the quality of life of its beneficiaries 35. An
underlying premise of the Financial Plan is that sustainable housing and urban policies can also
help strengthen INFONAVIT‘s loan portfolio by lowering vacancy and default ratios and
reducing exposure to natural hazards of new housing developments. The new Financial Plan
hence envisages offering incentives for households that select housing units that incorporate
sustainability criteria. At a first stage, incentives include faster loan disbursement or the
possibility of a federal subsidy attached to the loan. At a later stage, INFONAVIT is
contemplating introducing other incentives such as a lower interest rate or a higher subsidy.

107. INFONAVIT‘s methodology to define and evaluate a sustainable housing unit combines
inputs from SEDESOL‘s urban sustainability guidelines, CONAVI‘s ―green‖ subsidy policy, and
the Municipal Competitiveness Index (MCI) jointly developed with the Instituto Mexicano de la
Competitividad (IMCO). Broadly, the methodology takes into account three components
(described below) to construct a final ―grade‖ for each housing unit, which INFONAVIT then
takes into account when deciding if a ―sustainability incentive‖ is applicable. These components
are briefly described below:

a.                                             Municipal Competitiveness Index: A system to
     assess the degree to which urban codes, regulations and practices incorporate sustainability
     criteria. The index includes indicators related to municipalities‘ institutional capacity, codes
     and regulations (with higher scores for higher densities and mixed-use areas), ability of the
     municipality to identify natural hazards (for example through the preparation of risk atlas)
     and mitigate them, community participation, infrastructure and governance. INFONAVIT
     conducts periodic assessments of municipalities and has developed jointly with SEDESOL
     capacity building training for municipalities that score lower.
b.                                             Qualitative Evaluation of the House and the
     Environment (ECUVE): A comprehensive list of indicators to evaluate (i) the eco-
     technologies incorporated into the housing unit at construction stage (as defined by
     CONAVI for the green subsidies); and (ii) the urban environment in which the housing unit
     is located, including such factors as access to basic infrastructure and services, proximity to
     jobs and markets, green areas, and accessibility as defined by SEDESOL‘s sustainable urban
     guidelines. Preliminary evaluations conducted in 2010 found that existing (i.e. older)
     housing, which is normally located closer to city center, in general scored higher than new
     housing. This finding has led INFONAVIT to encourage customers to seek a house from
     the existing housing stock.



population and territorial reach and. While cities of all sizes are struggling to provide adequate infrastructure
services, those with higher density are facing particularly high net present value costs of meeting infrastructure
demand.
35
   INFONAVIT‘s affiliates are private-sector employees that contribute monthly to this housing fund.

                                                                                                               49
108. Community Organization: Research shows that housing units (in particular the newer
developments) are more likely to keep their value over time when there is strong community
organization and participation. For this reason, INFONAVIT grades those housing developments
that have implemented community organization and participation mechanisms higher than those
that do not have this feature.36 Typically these community participation mechanisms have been
established by housing developers seeking to minimize the reputational risk associated with
housing units that do not keep their value over time. To extend this good practice to a larger
number of developers, INFONAVIT created a program called Local Social Promoters
(Promotores Sociales Vecinales, PSVs) whereby recognized professionals work with the new
inhabitants to promote social cohesion and community organization within new housing
developments.

109. In December 2011, CONAVI published the changes to the operational rules of the
government‘s main up-front housing subsidy program – Esta es tu Casa. Amongst the most
important changes is the inclusion of a sustainability rating as part of the eligibility criteria. The
rating assigns a value for each of the criteria included in SEDESOL‘s guidelines for sustainable
urban development. Subsidy eligibility depends on a minimum ―sustainability scoring‖, which
allows flexibility for developers to choose which of the criteria is most relevant for the project
site. The combination of subsidy and mortgage whch refer to the same sustainability guidelines
is expected to increase social resilience also for the poorer segments of the population, which
suffer the most the consequences of poor urban planning.

110. Prior Action 2.3. SAGARPA strengthened and improved the targeting of its natural
disaster risk management and prevention program (CADENA) for low income farmers, by
lowering the eligibility ceiling for disaster and catastrophe insurance payouts.

111. The PACC includes a component on natural disaster risk management in the agriculture,
livestock, and fishing sectors. The component consists of a direct payout in addition to a
catastrophe insurance component. For the catastrophe insurance component, the premium is paid
by SAGARPA. Insurance payouts are triggered by either an excess or deficit of rainfall (a
parametric trigger). While parametric insurance products have been found to have the advantages
of transparency, cost-effectiveness, and quick disbursement, they also have inherent basis risk.
CADENA manages the basic risk through a complementary mechanism at the state level that
draws on information from other sources to assess the potential mismatch between the payouts to
farmers and their actual overall income losses and provide additional compensation where
appropriate.

112. A recent econometric study found that PACC positive economic benefits. The study took
advantage of the staggered roll out of the program across counties to assess the economic impact
of the Weather Index Insurance (WII) component of PACC (now CADENA). Results showed
that WII significantly increases yields per hectare by 6 percent and WII increases income by 8
percent, pointing towards a positive spillover effect. Exploring the potential mechanisms of this
spillover effect, the authors find that WII decreases the planted area of maize (Mexico‘s main
crop) by 8 percent. This allows farmers to use the gained land potentially more effectively by
36
  In this case, scores are binary (i.e. having vs. not having a community organization scheme in the housing
development)

                                                                                                         50
substituting into other cash crops raising overall farm output. Important credit constraints are
likely relaxed as well. Generally, the most significant benefits occur in ‗medium‘ income
counties, raising productivity by 8 percent. WII has instead less affects in the very richest
counties. The authors also find that the Government is paying a very high premium (16 percent)
when compared to other countries like India that pay 9 percent.37

113. With the shift in rules from PACC to CADENA, disaster assistance is better targeted, as
the maximum hectares that a farmer can have in order to be eligible is 10 rather than the
previously established cut-off point of 20 hectares. This ensures that poorer, smallholder farmers
with less land are the focus of the program. In addition, the payout to farmers through CADENA
was increased to a maximum of MX$1,200 per hectare (formerly MX$900/hectare) for rainfed
annual crops and up to MX$2,000 per hectare for irrigated crops. This expands the coverage of
the program to poorer, smallholder farmers. Table 4 presents the payouts for each type of activity
covered under CADENA.

Table 4: Payouts by CADENA per type of activity covered
        Support Scheme           Direct Support            Catastrophic                       Amounts
                                                        Insurance Support
     A. Agriculture
     AI. Annual crops         Up to 5 hectares per      Up to 10 hectares      MX$1,200 per hectare in rain fed crops
                                     farmer                  per farmer        MX$2,000 per hectare in irrigated crops
     AII. Perennial crops     Up to 5 hectares per     Up to 5 hectares per    MX$2,000 per hectare both in rain fed
     (fruits, coffee)                farmer                    farmer                  and irrigated crops
     B. Livestock activity    Up to 45 hectares per     Up to 45 hectares           MX$600 per Animal Unit
                                farmer in case of      per farmer in case of
                             nutritional supplement          nutritional
                             Up to 5 animal units in        supplement              MX$1,500 per Animal Unit
                                  case of death
     C. Fishing activity     One boat per producer        One boat per                  MX$10,000 per boat
                                                           producer
     D. Aquaculture
     DI. Extensive or         Up to 2 hectares per     Up to 5 hectares per            MX$8,000 per hectare
     semi-intensive system         producer                  producer
     DII. Intensive System    Up to 2 aquaculture      Up to 2 aquaculture         MX$8,000 per aquaculture unit
                              units per producer.       units per producer
     DIII. Mollusk culture    Up to 2 aquaculture      Up to 2 aquaculture         MX$1,000 per aquaculture unit
                              units per producer.       units per producer

114. Expected Results and Government‘s Medium-term Agenda: Over the medium-term, the
GoM expects to continue shifting progressively the focus of the disaster risk management
framework from ex-post/reactive approaches to a more proactive, preventive, and inclusive
approach to disaster risk management that mainstreams considerations of climate change
adaptation and sustainability in urban, housing, and territorial planning and development and
better targets the poor and most vulnerable. Moreover, it aims to mainstream social inclusion
and resilience, disaster risk reduction and sustainability within the existing government programs
(for example PETi and CADENA and INFONAVIT's lending) while increasing capacity at local

37
  Fuchs, Alan and Hendrik Wolff (2011). ―Drought and Retribution: Evidence from a Large Scale Rainfall Indexed
Insurance in Mexico.‖ http://www.gwu.edu/~iiep/adaptation/docs/Wolff


                                                                                                                   51
levels (in particular at the municipal level) to adapt and plan accordingly. Achieving this will
take a strong coordination effort since several agencies and programs are involved. In this
regard, one of the highlights of this operation is its support for arrangements to bring several
agencies together towards a cross-cutting theme (such as DRM), instead of looking at it in a
typical sector-based approach. The PRAH is expected to increase capacity at the municipal level
to understand and cope with disaster risk, in particular for indigenous and rural municipalities
which, to date, have not been eligible to receive counterpart funding from the federal programs
for risk identification and mitigation initiatives. The decision to ―house‖ PRAH within
SEDESOL‘s Urban Development and Territorial Planning Under-secretariat within SEDESOL is
expected to strengthen the links between disaster risk identification and mitigation and urban
planning, the general principles and guidelines for which are the Under-secretariat‘s
responsibility. A critical issue in Mexico has been the development of ―proper‖ risk atlas (which
includes adequate analysis of social vulnerability in addition to hazard exposure). A
compounding issue has been linking the risk atlas to development planning. With the policy
actions of the DPL, it is expected that municipalities that have had their risk atlas financed by
PRAH are integrating the information into their municipal development plans. In the first year, at
least ten percent of the 617 municipalities with high and very high risk of disaster will be
implementing risk reduction institutional strengthening and investment activities supported by
PRAH.

115. The changes in the operational rules of PET to increase financing for local disaster
prevention projects are expected to increase social resilience of the most vulnerable, rural poor
by reducing their physical vulnerability to disasters. This will be accomplished within
framework of the program‘s central function of income support during the agricultural low
season and, through PETi, restoration of livelihoods in the aftermath of disasters.

116. The changes in INFONAVIT‘s credit origination policies, aligned with the 2012 subsidy
program rules are expected to promote sustainable territorial development by stimulating greater
consumer demand for sustainable housing as potential home buyers come to know that
INFONAVIT provides priority access to mortgage financing for dwellings classified as
sustainable, both in terms of location/surroundings and specific characteristics. The subsidy
component will ensure that sustainability is not only a privilege for the middle or upper income
segments. Over the medium-term, the criteria will also act as an indirect incentive to housing
builders to invest in sustainable developments, which can be more rapidly sold, and to
municipalities to take advantage of the new financing available from SEDESOL to support risk
reduction investments, including the development of municipal risk atlases, which will increase
their municipal competitive index scores.

117. At a later stage, INFONAVIT is expected to introduce additional incentives for
sustainable housing through higher subsidies or lower interest rates. The subsidy would be
provided through the federal Esta Es Tu Casa (This Is Your House) program of the National
Housing Commission (Comisión Nacional de Vivienda, CONAVI) and would be linked to a
credit from a public or private lender for the acquisition or improvement of a house. The
proposed budget for this program is MX$9.0 billion, up substantially from MX$5.0 billion in
2011. This will support INVONAVIT‘s on-going efforts to move down market, providing
mortgage financing to individuals earning only 1.5 MW, which had not previously been possible.

                                                                                               52
In addition, CONAVI is contemplating for 2012 additional subsidies specifically geared at
promoting higher densities in housing development.

118. With the expansion of the CADENA program to poorer households in rural areas, it is
expected that their capacity for consumption smoothing in times of disaster will be strengthened
and that, over time, their livelihood resilience will increase. Specifically, in the short-term, it is
expected that the percentage of poorer smallholder farmers owning less than ten hectares of land
who are covered by the climate risk management insurance will increase.

Policy Area 3. Strengthening Social Resilience at the Community Level through Sustainable
Community Forest Management

119. Policy context and challenges: Forests are owned by about 10,000 communities among
the poorest in Mexico, and among those, about 3,000 depend on forest as their primary
economic, social, and cultural asset and source of income. Forests are vulnerable to climate
change (pest, fires, and drought) and managing them sustainably will enhance
communities' resilience to natural disasters and economic downturns related to climate change. If
sustainably managed, forests provide communities with stable and sustainable employment and
income. They also help communities to build social organization, which is key for community
resilience in general. Moreover, sustainable forest management has an important mitigation
impact (reducing carbon emissions, REDD+) which is increasingly recognized as an
environmental service of global value and may in the future sustain financial flows (payments for
reduced emissions) to communities, hence generating a new type of community income.
Mexico‘s progress in promoting sustainable community forest management is increasingly being
recognized as a worldwide reference. Though much work remains to be done, these early
experiences are recognized as global good practices in reducing deforestation and mitigating
climate change while at the same time contributing to adaptation and social resilience by
providing income and employment opportunities, building social capital, and strengthening
communities‘ resilience to natural and economic disasters that may be induced by climate
change. However, a series of barriers hinder the achievement of sound policy objectives in the
field.

120. The prior actions of the forestry pillar address three main challenges in forest
management in Mexico: (i) the discrepancies with between forestry and other rural policies and
programs especially agriculture and livestock, reducing overall development impact and
sustainability); (ii) the interest to promote increasing public participation in policy making
including in the innovative REDD+ area, leading to insufficient buy-in and inapplicability of
new policies and instruments; and (iii), geographical fragmentation of forest management
efforts that operate only at the level of individual communities, hence missing economies of
scale and synergies, while a broader landscape approach can better link the federal, state, and
local levels.

121. The objective of this policy area is to strengthen sustainable community forest
management practices in order to enhance the resilience of poor rural and indigenous
communities that derive their livelihood from forests while at the same time mitigating carbon
emissions from deforestation and forest degradation.

                                                                                                   53
122.   Prior Actions: Three prior actions have been completed.

123. Prior Action 3.1. CONAFOR signed bilateral cooperation agreements (Convenios de
Colaboración), with SAGARPA and SEMARNAT, fostering the sharing of information
among said institutions on forestry programs, and aligning procedures and incentive
programs on agricultural, livestock and forestry issues.

124. Mexico‘s Special Program for Climate Change (PECC) and the Mid-Term Climate
Change Adaptation Policy Framework highlight the importance of inter-institutional cross-
cutting cooperation to promote climate change adaptation. There has been, however, a lack of
instruments that allow the timely exchange of information and policies among SAGARPA,
CONAFOR, SEDESOL and other institutions working on in the rural landscape to ensure that
their various programs as a whole support adaptation. For example, the National Development
Plan sets forth as an objective halting the encroachment of the agricultural frontier on forests.
Since 1995, however, the GoM has offered agricultural subsidies through the farm-support
program Programa de Apoyos Directos al Campo (PROCAMPO) led by SAGARPA, and the
livestock-support program Programa de Estímulos a la Productividad Ganadera (PROGAN).
The lack of inter-institutional information exchange and collaboration heightens the risk that the
incentives of these programs work at cross purposes with the objective of the PND to promote
sustainable forest management. Closer collaboration between the agencies will make it easier for
communities to engage in sustainable forest management, thereby raising their incomes, assuring
the survival of their own natural asset, and increasing both their economic and natural resilience
to climate change.

125. The objective of the Convenios de Colaboración between CONAFOR and SEMARNAT
and CONAFOR and SAGARPA is to mitigate such risk by sharing information among
institutions, and coordinating procedures and incentive programs at the landscape level .

126. The Convenio de Colaboración CONAFOR-SEMARNAT signed on November 7, 2011
aims to: (i) define the basis for analysis and exchange of information from both the Sistema
Nacional de Información Forestal (SNIF-CONAFOR‘s system) and the Sistema Nacional de
Gestión Forestal (SEMARNAT‘s system) with the intention of having current and reliable
information to design indicators relevant for the forestry sector; (ii) design development
indicators based on the environmental and forest statistics; (iii) collaborate in forestry reports and
statistics; and (iv) design statistical and economic indicators relevant to the forestry sector and
useful for SNIF‘s users. This will help to address the lack of alignment among incentives that has
impeded the achievement of sound policy objectives with respect to climate change adaptation
and mitigation in the forestry sector.

127. The Convenio de Colaboración CONAFOR-SAGARPA signed on November 9, 2011
states that both institutions will work together in: (i) joint support to REDD+ and climate change
strategies; (ii) promotion, support and integration of regional activities for water basin
management; (iii) identification, design, development and/or consolidation of economic
integration projects; (iv) sharing of information between SAGARPA and CONAFOR; and (v)
establishment of training and advisory services to potential beneficiaries related to CONAFOR‘s

                                                                                                   54
and SAGARPA‘s respective subsidy programs. This Convenio envisions jointly developed
special guidelines aimed at encouraging agroecology and silvopastoral models to improve
economic results while reducing impacts on natural habitats.

128. This policy action aims to foster community management of forests by strengthening the
synergies among rural policies and incentive programs, which in the current situation are still
disconnected from each other. In medium-term, rural and forest policies and incentive programs
are expected to be better aligned in the field through enhanced procedures, joint databases and
cross-checking mechanisms. As stated in the PECC, the cross-cutting coordination will enhance
the climate change adaptation capacity of ejidos and communities. By project end, it is expected
that the inter-sectoral harmonization will be the basis to create synergies among the tools,
programs and policies of SAGARPA, CONAFOR, SEMARNAT and other government
institutions working in forestry areas. The development of an information system of national
forestry management within SEMARNAT and the identification of synergies among tools,
programs and policies with SAGARPA are also expected. This should create easier access to
public programs and a better coherence between those programs, giving the communities a real
opportunity to develop sustainable management strategies and improve their resilience and
adaptation to climate change.

129. Prior Action 3.2. A national multi-stakeholder consultative technical council and three
state-level multi-stakeholder consultative technical councils (CTC–REDD) have been created.

130. Until recently, none of the existing forums for the design and monitoring of REDD+ or
climate change policies allowed for significant inputs from civil society organizations (CSOs)
and community representatives. The formalization of the national Comité Técnico CTC–REDD+
in June 2011 was a key step toward greater civil society participation. The CTC–REDD+ was
conceived as an advisory body of the government‘s REDD+ Working Group (GT-REDD+). It
comprises academics, representatives of indigenous communities, civil organizations, the private
sector and government agencies. Throughout 2010, the CTC–REDD+ participated in the
preparation of Mexico‘s National REDD+ Vision which was launched by President Calderon at
the 16th Conference of the Parties in Cancún, December 2010. It held regular meetings and
maintained a public networking website (www.reddmexico.org). Nevertheless, greater civil
society participation at federal, state, and local levels is needed to promote successful climate
change adaptation and mitigation programs in the field.

131. This policy action aims to foster public participation in policy-making related to forests
and climate change. Addressing this need to increase the voice of civil society in forestry sector
policies and programs, the prior action is the creation of three local-level multi-stakeholder
REDD+ committees (CTC–REDD+) to parallel the national CTC. Each local CTC–REDD+
works independently and comprises civil society, academics and other local organizations. The
representation of indigenous and vulnerable groups is also essential. CONAFOR participates as
an external agent, providing technical and logistical advice. The local CTCs REDD+ were
formally established as a partnership among government, civil society and academia in: (i)
Chiapas August 12, 2011; (ii) Quintana Roo in August 25, 2011; and (iii) Campeche in August
29, 2011.



                                                                                               55
132. In the medium-term, the creation of these committees will help sustain inclusive, locally
designed REDD+ strategies. It represents an essential step to enhance civil society participation
in policy making and reach important livelihoods and social resilience co-benefits that are
expected through this program, contributing to social resilience to the expected effects of climate
change.

133. Prior Action 3.3.The Board of JIRA, approved REDD+ as a strategic line for its multi-
annual work program.

134. Inter-municipal organization is essential for sustainable territorial development and
community forest management. It may help reduce the fragmentation of efforts and the risk of
potential discrepancies among isolated forest management initiatives. The ecological boundaries
of Mexico‘s watersheds and forests cut across the political and administrative boundaries of
Mexico‘s 2,441 municipios. Individual municipios vary greatly in their capacity to operate
programs and mobilize financial resources. Moreover, inter-municipal cooperation is also
required to provide some degree of continuity in the three-year municipal electoral cycle.

135. The prior action promotes greater geographic integration and collaboration among
communities and municipalities at landscape level, in order to achieve synergies and economies
of scale in implementing sustainable community forest management.. The decentralized Junta
Municipal del Río Ayuquila (JIRA) brings together 10 municipios in the State of Jalisco. In July
15 2010, JIRA became the first REDD-related inter-municipal initiative in Mexico, signing a
collaboration agreement with CONAFOR to design, with the active involvement of local
stakeholders, REDD+ strategies for long-term sustainable territorial development along the
Ayuquila River in Jalisco to customize, and implement the national REDD+strategy at local
level. CONAFOR provides technical assistance and matching funds.

136. JIRA previously received support for this from the French Development Agency (Agence
Française du Développement, AFD). The first component of AFD‘s Climate Change technical
cooperation program with the GoM, linked to its DPL of €185 million, supports integrated forest
management and national REDD+ strategy through capacity building workshops and design of
mechanisms to link rural development and integrated forest management, in particular in poor
communities, with international payments for the reduction of deforestation and forest
degradation (REDD+). The second phase of this pilot project is progressing.

137. In the medium-term, it is expected that inter-municipal collaboration and others local
development agents38 will drive local REDD+ initiatives and provide the foundation for inclusive
federal incentive programs. Arrangements such as JIRA represent the technical agent for
bringing to the communities the opportunity of a sustainable way of development and adaptation
to climate change. As the inter-municipal associations develop capacities to implement REDD+
38
   The Local Development Agents could also include Agentes Técnicos Locales (ATLs) or Agentes de Desarrollo
Local (ADLs). ATLs are local public agencies with a mandate in integrated rural development (for example, JIRA);
ADLs are civil society organizations that support and help implement one or several CONAFOR programs in
specific regions. Collaborating with ATLS and ADLs would allow for a broader spatial integration at the regional
level which is found important for successful REDD+ initiatives, instead of just responding to individual community
demands.


                                                                                                                56
strategies, in medium-term they will be the key actors for the implementation of strategies to
foster adaptation and social resilience to climate change.

138. By project end, building on the example of JIRA, it is expected that CONAFOR will sign
similar agreements with other inter-municipal associations and local development agents.
CONAFOR‘s project on ―Early REDD+ Actions on Priority Water Sheds‖ financed by AFD-
AECID (with European Union funds called Latin America Investment Facility--LAIF) is
currently fostering the constitution of six more inter-municipal associations (in Quintana Roo,
Campeche, Yucatán and Jalisco). There are potential synergies between REDD+ and the ability
of populations to cope with the impacts of climate change such as an increase of water scarcity
and changes in crop yields due to rising temperature. As a consequence, REDD+ is a mechanism
which can enable climate change adaptation, helping to protect biodiversity and reducing
erosion, whilst also building resilience of local livelihoods and resources.

139. Expected results and Government‘s Medium-term Agenda. By better aligning forestry,
livestock and agriculture rural investment programs, by ensuring public participation in policy-
making on REDD+ and forestry in general, and by promoting a broader integrated landscape
approach based on new models such as the intermunicipal associations, the proposed
DPL provides a framework that will help communities better manage their forest assets, protect
it against climate-induced disasters, and use it as a source of income and community
organization. By doing so, it represents a major breakthrough to help forest-dependent
communities to strengthen their economic, social and physical resilience to climate change. This
should have positive environmental and social resilience to climate change through: (i) carbon
sequestration and biodiversity conservation, with more forests under sustainable management;
(ii) poverty alleviation, with more communities earning an income for the sustainable extraction
of their natural resources; and (iii) increasing the communities‘ resilience capacity by decreasing
climate change risks and vulnerabilities. However, it is important to note this long-term outcome
also depends on multiple other factors. The DPL only contributes to achieving it by establishing
a conducive, enabling policy framework (short-term outcome, addressing the three above-
mentioned bottlenecks on the path to improved community-based management leading
to improved social resilience).

140. The prior actions of the forestry pillar are fully consistent with the GoM priorities in the
area of Forests and Climate Change. The prior actions complement the broad Forests and
Climate Change package described in Section IV, C. For example, the SIL/FIP Component 1
will support Policy Design, and Cross-Sector Coordination, and Component 3 will include
Building Capacities of Local Governance Structures for REDD+ in Early Action Areas –all
related and mutually reinforcing with: better alignment of rural policies (DPL prior action 3.1),
public participation in policy-making (DPL prior action 3.2), and integrated landscape
management (DPL prior action 3.3).




                                                                                                57
                           Box 5. Good Practice Principles for Conditionality


Principle 1: Reinforce Ownership
• The policy content of this operation is fully aligned with government plans and strategies including the
2007-2012 PND, ENACC, PECC, and Medium-term Climate Change Adaptation Policy Framework, all
of which have been consulted with civil society, political and governmental bodies, and expert groups.
• As discussed elsewhere in this document, Mexico has a consistent track record of commitment to
addressing issues of climate change adaptation and mitigation through domestic and international actions
going as far back as its adoption of the UNFCCC in 1992.
• As outlined in Table 3, the policy content of this operation is underpinned by a substantial analytical and
advisory work through which the Bank and the GoM have engaged to strengthen Mexico‘s resilience to
climate change and its contributions to the global agenda for climate change mitigation.

Principle 2: Agree up front with the government and other financial partners on a coordinated
accountability framework
• The policy and outcomes matrix in Annex 2 and the GoM‘s Letter of Development Policy provide an
agreed accountability framework for measuring progress under the program. Outcomes and their
indicators constitute essential aspects of program implementation to be monitored.
• AFD is supporting, through its DPL, objectives similar to those of this operation in the forestry sector
and is also using GoM targets and indicators to monitor progress in program implementation.

Principle 3: Customize the accountability framework and modalities of Bank support to country
circumstances
• The choice of a single-tranche DPL for Board review in the first half of calendar year 2012 responds
directly to the GoM‘s request for support for its debt management strategy.
• The policy areas that this operation supports are all core aspects of the GoM‘s own strategy to strengthen
social resilience to climate change at the state, municipal, and community levels through improvements in
long-term climate change adaptation planning, disaster risk management and sustainable territorial
development, and sustainable forest management.

Principle 4: Choose only actions critical for achieving results as conditions for disbursement
• Prior actions have been limited to nine – three for each of the policy areas – and have been agreed with
the GoM as essential to achieving its objectives with respect to strengthening social resilience to climate
change, particularly the resilience of urban and rural poor and indigenous peoples.
• As indicated above, each of the prior actions is drawn directly from the GoM‘s own plans.

Principle 5: Conduct transparent progress reviews conducive to predictable and performance-based
financial support
• Progress reviews will be conducted jointly by the Bank and SEMARNAT, in collaboration with SHCP,
SEDESOL, SAGARPA, CONAFOR, and other concerned agencies.
• The policy and outcomes matrix in Annex 2 has been agreed with the GoM and, coupled with the
GoM‘s Letter of Development Policy in Annex 1, will provide a transparent basis for monitoring progress
in program implementation.




                                                                                                        58
                              VI. OPERATION IMPLEMENTATION

A. Poverty and Social Impacts

141. The policy actions recognized by this DPL are expected to have significant positive
poverty alleviation and social impacts by reducing the climate vulnerability of the poor,
improving disaster risk management in both rural and urban areas, and promoting more
sustainable forestry management. Specific impacts will include more spending on risk
reduction and resilience building in poor, underserved communities; improved access to
information and risk management infrastructure and services; increased voice of civil society in
the development of adaptation policy; and the restoration of forest, wetland, and other ecosystem
services that both protect the poor from disaster impacts and contribute to their livelihoods. A
robust PSIA was undertaken for this project and has served as a key element in policy
dialogue for the preparation of this DPL and associated advisory services.

142. The PSIA found that climate variability and change are likely to have significant
and disproportionate effects on poor communities and people. Poverty levels increased
between 1.5 and 3.7 percent (depending on the poverty measured considered) in those
municipalities affected by disasters between 2000 and 2005, with floods and droughts being the
most detrimental. Disaster affected municipalities lost on average two years of gains in human
development over the same period.39 Other studies also showed the impact of climate variability
on poverty in the agricultural sector,40 on rural consumption,41 on the propensity of children
under five to get sick,42 on stunting,43 on dropping out of school in rural areas in Central
Mexico,44 and on the occurrence of malaria.45 In terms of climate change, the PSIA looked at the
impact of climate change on rain fed maize agriculture which is grown by 2.94 million small
holders, mostly for subsistence, and represents the main source of livelihood for the rural poor in
Mexico. Looking at 354 municipalities located in 13 states in the Pacific, Gulf, and Central
regions, results suggest that climate change will reduce maize yields in 2030 by 5.31 percent (or
0.12 tons per hectare) on average which represents over one fifth (21.3 percent) of the total


39
   Rodríguez-Oreggia et al. 2010. ―The Impact of Natural Disasters on Human Development and Poverty at the
Municipal Level in Mexico‖, en: CID Working Paper No. 193. Harvard, January, 2010.
40
   Ahmed et al 2009),
41
   Skoufias, E. and Katja Vinha. 2010. ―The Impacts of Climate Variability on Household Welfare in Rural
Mexico‖. The World Bank.
42
   De la Fuente, A. and R. Fuentes. 2010. ―The Impact of Natural Disasters on Children Morbidity in Rural
Mexico,‖ in Ricardo Fuentes and Papa Seck (eds.). Risk, Vulnerability and Human Development: On the Brink.
Palgrave Macmillan. New York: N.Y
43
   Emmanuel Skoufias, Katja Vinha (2011). ―Climate Variability and Child Height in Rural Mexico‖ Economics and
Human Biology (revised and resubmitted). They found that in 2002 children under 3 in rural Mexico become shorter
(measured by the height-for-age z score) when temperatures increase and precipitation decreases.
44
   De Janvry, Alain, Frederico Finan, Elisabeth Sadoulet, and Renos Vakis. (2006) ―Can conditional cash transfer
programs serve as safety nets in keeping children at school and from working when exposed to shocks?‖ Journal of
Development Economics Vol. 79 (2), 349– 373.
45
   Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, Inter-Ministerial Commission on Climate Change. 2007.
Mexico‘s Third Communication to the United Nation‘s Framework Convention on Climate Change. National
Institute of Ecology. (INE-SEMARNAT)

                                                                                                             59
production in the sample. Preliminary results also suggest significant impacts of reduced yields
on malnutrition and poverty.46

143. The effects are likely to be higher for the poor and other vulnerable groups. For
instance, municipal data on disaster risk was used to construct profiles according to the level of
hazard, exposure or disaster risk concentration by municipality. High disaster-prone
municipalities in Mexico are predominantly rural and indigenous, with limited access to
health and other basic services, high probability of deforestation and other environmental
problems, and a mixed display of institutional capacity to manage disaster risks. They receive
relatively higher public relief following disasters, but there is a lower presence of civil protection
services and risk awareness (e.g., through risk maps) that would help to prepare communities
before events occur. (see Annex 5 for additional information).

144. The reforms recognized by this operation strengthen the Government’s capacity to
build resilience to climate variability and change. The National Adaptation Strategy will
encourage the development of diagnostic, planning, and financing mechanisms to target and
protect social groups that are more vulnerable to climate change, particularly poor people. The
Yucatán Peninsula Climate Change agreement and the Climate Change Adaptation and Natural
Disasters Program will strengthen the capacities of sub-national governments to develop climate
change actions that are customized to the local realities and specific forms of social vulnerability
to climate change. All these reforms are expected to amplify the voice that local stakeholders
have in adaptation planning, therefore strengthening feedback loops to learn about what works
and what does not and make adjustments throughout implementation.

145. SEDESOL’s new Program for Risk Prevention in Human Settlements (PRAH) will
benefit underserved high-risk communities by extending risk reduction investment support to
rural municipalities that were previously ineligible for SEDESOL support under its Habitat
program (which reaches only municipalities with 15,000 inhabitants or more). The program will
give priority to high ranking disaster-prone municipalities and will benefit the most deprived and
vulnerable municipalities in the country. In addition, the Emergency Temporary Employment
Program (PET Inmediato), which already supports low-income households that suffer from
climatic shocks, will reinforce its pro-poor focus and impact protecting its budget from political
pressures. Both PRRAH and PET Inmediato fund the construction and maintenance of public
critical infrastructure for disaster emergencies, such as schools and roads, which are lower than
average (in value and number) for the poorest municipalities in the country.47

146. A better targeting of CADENA resources on smaller farmers should help expand its
economic benefits among the poor. A recent econometric study took advantage of the
staggered roll out of the program across counties to assess the economic impact of the Weather
Index Insurance (WII) component of PACC (now CADENA). Results showed that WII

46
   Olivera, Marcelo and A. de la Fuente. 2011. ―The Impact of Climate Change on Rain Fed Maize Productivity,
Poverty, and Malnutrition in Mexico.‖ Background paper for the PSIA on Building Resilience of the Poor to
Disaster and Climatic Risk in Mexico.
47
   Cruz, Denisse, A. de la Fuente and J. Soriano (2011). ―Riesgo de Desastres a Nivel Municipal en México:
Diagnóstico General y Correlación con Pobreza.‖ Background paper for the PSIA on Building Resilience of the
Poor to Disaster and Climatic Risk in Mexico.

                                                                                                         60
significantly increases yields per hectare by 6 percent and WII increases income by 8 percent,
pointing towards a positive spillover effect. Exploring the potential mechanisms of this spillover
effect, the authors find that WII decreases the planted area of maize (Mexico‘s main crop) by 8
percent. This allows farmers to use the gained land potentially more effectively by substituting
into other cash crops raising overall farm output. Important credit constraints are likely relaxed
as well. Generally, the most significant benefits occur in ‗medium‘ income counties, raising
productivity by 8 percent. WII has instead less affects in the very richest counties.48

147. As urban disaster risk is also rapidly increasing, the integration of incentives for
urban sustainability and social resilience in housing origination procedures are expected to
improve the quality of life of poor people living in both urban and peri-urban areas. The
regulatory changes included in the operation are likely to bring benefits to the poor and the
population at large through the generation of risk maps and other relevant information.
Overlapping this information with other administrative data can go a long way in helping
resource-constrained municipalities to harmonize territorial and ecological land use planning
including climate change considerations. Introducing risk-related property valuations in housing
markets and risk considerations in the benefit-cost analysis of large-scale public infrastructure
operations will promote construction in safer areas and encourage preventive protective
measures that will benefit the poor.

148. The creation of a Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) for the National Adaptation
Policy and or National and local REDD+ Consultative Technical Councils (CTCs) will
facilitate participation of experts and a broad set of stakeholders in these policies, likely
benefitting poor constituencies and vulnerable sectors of society to climate change by giving
them an opportunity to influence decision making. Most proposed (adaptation and prevention)
actions will have distributional implications. Prior actions for this project call for the government
to disclose information and plans related to climate change adaptation, and to engage the views
of those who have less economic power or political voice.

149. The policy actions related to sustainable community forest management will have a
significant effect on the capacity of poor communities and ejidos to participate in making
decisions on the use of their natural resources, which should strengthen the resilience of
their livelihoods and reduce their climate risk. Evidence from Mexico and other countries
around the world suggests that community-based management of natural resources not only
generates higher economic benefits to the communities, but also creates social capital and
strengthens cohesion. The incorporation of more hectares under participatory sustainable
management schemes through REDD+ programs should generate additional income and
employment opportunities for the ejidos and forestry communities. Both the PRAH and PET
Inmediato contemplate reforestation and soil conservation actions, among other activities, to
recreate environmental buffers that offer communities protection from recurrent climate events,
environmental degradation, and deforestation hazards to which they are disproportionately
vulnerable. In some agriculture areas, there may be a short-term negative impact if agricultural
incomes fall due to new, participatory programs to promote sustainable forestry management.

48
  Fuchs, Alan and Hendrik Wolff (2011). ―Drought and Retribution: Evidence from a Large Scale Rainfall Indexed
Insurance in Mexico.‖ http://www.gwu.edu/~iiep/adaptation/docs/Wolff


                                                                                                            61
However, this is mitigated because in Mexico forests belong to communities and participation in
forest management programs is community-based, demand driven, and on a voluntary basis. The
risk that communities would abandon profitable agriculture/livestock for less profitable forest
management appears limited. Furthermore, the cross-sector alignment with SAGARPA as
supported in this DPL is meant to reduce the risk of discrepancies and negative competition
between forests and agriculture/livestock agencies and programs.

B. Environmental Aspects

150. The GoM’s policies to increase social resilience to climate change that are supported
by this operation are expected to have significant positive environmental impacts. Actions
in the areas of long-term climate change adaptation planning, disaster risk management and
sustainable territorial development, and sustainable forestry development should produce
environmental benefits over the medium- to long-term, for example: (i) reduced vulnerability to
climate change, including extreme hydrometeorological events, restoration of sensitive
ecosystems, biodiversity protection; (ii) more sustainable land use, including incentives for
―green‖ urban densification; climate change adaptation, disaster risk management, and natural
resource management plans that are more evidence-based and, due to stakeholder participation in
their formulation and implementation, better adapted to local conditions; and (iii) improvements
in forestry management leading to climate change mitigation and adaptation co-benefits.

151. With respect to the first policy area, long-term adaptation planning at the state
level, the Mid-term Adaptation Policy Framework, which is part of this operation, should
strengthen stakeholder participation in adaptation planning, resulting in plans that are more
suited to local conditions and improve identification of areas and populations that are vulnerable
to climate-related hazards, thus permitting improved targeting of public funding for climate
change adaptation and reducing settlement in those areas. The agreement among the states of the
Yucatán Peninsula to develop a regional strategy for climate change adaptation, to be supported
by a climate action fund is expected to focus policies and financing on protecting sensitive
ecosystems and biodiversity and reducing extreme weather-related risks to lives and property.
The GoM‘s climate change adaptation and natural disasters expenditure program, the
establishment of which this operation recognizes, is targeted to two disaster-prone and
ecologically rich states, Chiapas and Tabasco. Investments that this fund will support are
expected to produce benefits in terms of sustainable forest management, integration of biological
corridors, and restoration of terrestrial, coastal, and marine ecosystems that serve, inter alia, to
protect communities from hazard impacts.

152. The second policy area, relating to disaster risk reduction and sustainable territorial
development at the municipal level, should also be environmentally beneficial. SEDESOL‘s
new program, PRAH, the establishment of which is recognized by this operation, is expected to
support the capacity of municipalities to identify high risk areas, invest in disaster reduction
infrastructure, improve building codes, and facilitate restoration of degraded lands through
reforestation. INFONAVIT‘s prioritization of financing for sustainable housing development is
expected to contribute to a reduction in urban sprawl and settlement in disaster-prone areas,
promote use of non-vehicular and other ―green‖ transportation options with lower greenhouse
gas emissions, and expansion of green spaces in urban areas, with associated benefits to the

                                                                                                 62
physical environment. By improving smallholder farmers‘ access to catastrophe insurance and
disaster compensation, SAGARPA expects to be able to reduce incentives for unsustainable
agricultural practices as well as provide income support during times of high crop losses.

153. The third policy area of this operation, sustainable forestry management, is also
expected to have significant positive environmental impacts. The program will bring more
hectares of forest under sustainable management schemes, thus protecting this critical resource.
In addition, it will provide incentives to forestry communities and ejidos to engage in sustainable
forestry practices and strengthen their leadership role in protecting the forests and will support
the national REDD+ strategy presented within the framework of COP-16 in the Mexico‘s
REDD+ Visión (see Box 2 in Section III).

154. The GoM has in place adequate environmental impact assessment requirements to
guarantee an appropriate screening of eventual management practices and works
associated with any physical investments that might arise from the policies recognized by
this operation. Although the World Bank would not supervise such private or public
investments, it does have an ongoing relationship with the GoM to support the consistent
strengthening of the legal framework and the institutional capacities of the environmental
authorities.

C.     Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation

155. Implementation of the program will require close coordination among Government
agencies and the World Bank. SEMARNAT constitutes the primary counterpart, and
SEDESOL, SAGARPA and CONAFOR will also be involved in program implementation. As
the World Bank‘s primary counterpart, SEMARNAT will be responsible for coordinating
information reporting on the program‘s monitoring indicators, and the World Bank team will
also maintain a close dialogue with Government counterparts. The matrix of proposed indicators
is presented in Annex 2.

156. The sectoral Ministries and agencies responsible for the monitoring and evaluation
of the different policy areas are:

a.     Policy Area 1: Strengthening Social Resilience through Long-term Climate Change
Adaptation Planning oriented to the state level. SEMARNAT has the main GoM mandate for
climate policy. It launched the Grupo de Trabajo de Adaptación (GT–ADAPT) to follow up on
the objectives stated in the PECC and to facilitate cross-sectoral coordination on climate change
issues. It will be responsible for monitoring the development of national frameworks and
funding mechanisms that foster inter-sectoral, intergovernmental, and multi-stakeholder
coordination and collaboration to promote socially inclusive and pro-poor adaptation policies
and programs.

b.     Policy Area 2: Strengthening Social Resilience through Disaster Risk Reduction and
Territorial Development Actions oriented to the municipal level. SEDESOL is the agency
responsible for both social and human development and urban and territorial planning. This
Ministry will be responsible for monitoring and evaluating the development and implementation

                                                                                                63
of the financial and institutional arrangements related to ex ante risk reduction and resilient urban
and territorial development. SAGARPA is the agency responsible for promoting agricultural and
rural development. This Ministry will be responsible for monitoring and evaluation the
development and implementation of the financial and institutional arrangements related to
catastrophic agricultural insurance.

c.     Policy Area 3: Strengthening Social Resilience at the Community Level through
Sustainable Community Forest Management. CONAFOR led the development of Mexico’s
REDD+ Vision launched at the 16th Conference of the Parties in December 2010 in Cancún.
CONAFOR will be responsible for monitoring and evaluating REDD+ as an instrument for
reducing carbon emissions, while at the same time supporting sustainable economic
development for poor forest-dependent communities and strengthening community resilience to
disaster risks.

157. The proposed monitoring framework for this operation includes monitoring
indicators and corresponding expected outcomes, which can be considered strategic
milestones in assessing progress in the implementation of the DPL. The Bank will monitor
actions taken to achieve these outcomes and review progress in the implementation of the DPL,
as well as subsequent government actions, through the closing of the loan.

158. The monitoring and evaluation of environmental and social effects of the forestry
pillar of this operation will benefit from the monitoring of complementary Bank operations
in Mexico. The forest pillar included in this operation is part of a broader engagement in Mexico
related to forests and climate change, which deploys analytical, convening and financial services.
Complementary operations include a series of REDD+-related workshops with civil society and
the use of Strategic Environmental and Social Assessment for the REDD Readiness, among other
initiatives.

159. In the long term, the Government of Mexico‘s adaptation policies anticipate having a
system to monitor improvements in household resilience and livelihoods across time. Resilience
could be measured by a demonstrable change in risk perception revealed by head of household
through household surveys, and a decrease in adverse impacts on livelihood indicators as a result
of climate events. The GoM could use its poverty indicators to gauge progress.

D.     Fiduciary Aspects

160. As documented in the latest Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA),
the Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR), and other analytical work, the
country public financial management (PFM) systems at federal level are adequate to
support development policy lending. As envisioned in the CPS, the Bank has been
collaborating with the Mexican Government at the central and sub-national level in strategic
areas aimed at modernizing and reforming public finances, and increasing transparency. This has
been supported by a number of knowledge services to the SHCP and Secretariat of Public
Administration (Secretaría de la Función Pública, SFP), through a package of different Bank
financing instruments.



                                                                                                  64
161. In the last decade, the Government has introduced a number of laws and policy
reforms in public finances aimed at improving fiscal responsibility and transparency by
modernizing the budget process and creating a more efficient and transparent fiscal
framework in line with international good practices. The funding from this DPL will support
the Federal Expenditure Budget (Presupuesto de Egresos de la Federación, PEF) and,
accordingly, will be subject to provisions of the annual PEF Law, the Federal Budget and Fiscal
Responsibility Law, the Government Accounting Law, and the Rules of Budget Procedures
among others. The PEF is published and available in the Web site of the SHCP for the current
and prior years.49 The date of the publication of the latest Mexican budget is December 7, 2010.
This set of legal and regulatory arrangements, together with the country financial management
operating systems, provides for sound budget formulation, execution and internal control
arrangements for public expenditures. Other internal control aspects are ruled by the Federal
Public Administration Internal Control Standards.

162. Although rules and procedures governing the budget, accounting and public
expenditure laws are clear and comprehensive, and the budget monitoring and control
systems perform well, there remain areas within the public finances where further
advances could be pursued. Developing a long-term focus for the budget, including
performance results in the budget formulation process, and engaging the public sector to focus
on results are key priorities. Currently the Government is working towards achieving the
envisioned PFM reforms, including harmonizing budget and financial reporting, modernizating
of its treasury operations, as well as designing and implementing an integrated financial
information management system at federal level, which is expected by 2012.

163. The current Government has the objective to align public procurement more closely
with economic expenditure policy, aimed at producing value for money, ensuring transparency,
economy and efficiency, while improving the overall quality of the goods and services. In
addition, operational changes as well as amendments to the legal and regulatory framework
advanced in 2009 and 2010 have taken several important steps towards addressing the issues
identified in previous World Bank assessments of the federal procurement system in Mexico
(200750, 201051, and 201152). As envisioned in the Country Procurement Strategy, the World
Bank is collaborating with the Mexican Government in modernizing its public procurement and
other aspects of the PFM. This support is being provided by a number of knowledge services as
well as lending instruments.

164. As for external oversight, the Federal Supreme Audit Institution conducts a number
of regular performance, financial and compliance audits of Government federal programs.
The annual public accounts are prepared and sent to Congress within four months of the end of
each fiscal year. The external audit of these accounts is undertaken by the Auditor General‘s

49
    See http://www.shcp.gob.mx/ApartadosHaciendaParaTodos/paquete_economico_2012/index.html
50
   The World Bank Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) of 2007 (prepared jointly with the IADB)
identified issues in the public procurement system including excessive regulatory complexity and need for more
effective governance and coordination.
51
   Relevant aspects of the legal, operational and institutional structures of the federal procurement system in Mexico
was reviewed as part of the Strengthening the Business Environment for Enhanced Economic Grow Development
Policy Loan, November 2010.
52
   World Bank knowledge Services, November 2011

                                                                                                                    65
office and submitted to the legislature fourteen months after the end of each fiscal year in
accordance with national legislation. Audit reports are comprehensive and there is a system in
place to follow up on audit findings and recommendations, in coordination with SFP. The results
of audits by the Auditor General‘s office are made public in the Annual Audit Report on the
Federal Public Accounts. Recent amendments to the Federal Constitution and a new Law on
Supreme Auditing and Accountability have contributed to the overall strengthening of country
fiscal transparency and accountability.

E.      Disbursements and Audit

165. The flow of fund arrangements for this operation will be those customarily observed in
DPLs for Mexico, per long-standing agreements with the Government. The SHCP has informed
the Bank that Nacional Financiera (NAFIN) will be the financial agent of the Borrower with
regard to this DPL.53 Under this arrangement, upon effectiveness and compliance with any
withdrawal tranche release conditions, the Bank would deposit the single tranche disbursement
to a designated account of the financial agent in US Dollars for subsequent credit to an account
of the National Treasury (SHCP/Tesorería de la Federación, TESOFE) used for budgeted
expenditures. Based on the review of the 2010 audit reports of the financial agent and the
extensive experience between the Bank and the financial agent regarding funds flow from Bank-
financed projects, there is no evidence that the banking control environment into which the DPL
proceeds would flow is other than adequate. If requested by the Bank, the SHCP would provide
the Bank with a written confirmation of the described transaction after funds are disbursed by the
Bank.

166. Based on the assessment of the borrower’s current PFM and the conclusion that the
fiduciary arrangements for this financing are adequate, the Bank will not require an audit
of the designated account of the financial agent, and no additional fiduciary arrangements
are considered necessary at this time.

F. Risks and Risk Mitigation

167.    The matrix below sets out of the principal risks and their mitigating measures.

          Economic and Fiscal Risks                                     Mitigation Measure
 A sharp weakening in the economic recovery      An external demand shock generated by the U.S. falling back
 of the United States would pose downside        into recession would create a substantial short-term impact on
 risks to Mexico‘s growth due to the high        economic growth in Mexico. Even in the case of a prolonged
 degree of integration.         Sovereign debt   weakness in the U.S., strong macroeconomic policy
 problems in Europe and fiscal sustainability    fundamentals should favor recovery of the Mexican economy and
 concerns in other countries could increase      a return to the medium-term potential output rate of growth. A
 global risk aversion and lead to higher         greater emphasis on growth-oriented structural reforms is crucial
 volatility in Mexico‘s financial markets.       to improve Mexico‘s medium-term growth potential, which is
                                                 driven by labor force and capital accumulation growth but
                                                 remains constrained by lack of any significant productivity
                                                 improvements.

53
  The use of a financial agent and designated account is a standard procedure of the Government of Mexico for their
control purposes and not an additional requirement by the Bank.

                                                                                                                66
Sovereign debt problems in Europe and fiscal      The Government‘s record of sound and predictable
sustainability concerns in other countries,       macroeconomic management, reflected in its successful response
could increase global risk aversion and lead to   to the 2009 global crisis, and the increased insurance provided by
                                                  the international reserve accumulation and a successor IMF
higher volatility in Mexico‘s financial
                                                  Flexible Credit Line mitigate some of the tail risks of global
markets.                                          financial market volatility.

 Political and Institutional Risks                 Mitigation Measure
                                                  Five of the nine prior actions proposed in this DPL mitigate this
                                                  risk by strengthening mechanisms of inter-sectoral coordination.
                                                  Agencies involved in the DPL are keen to coordinate with each
The implementation of programs recognized         other since it is clear to them that the next set of gains on
by the proposed DPL will require significant      sustainable climate change mitigation and adaptation will come
multi-institutional collaboration. The cross-     from stronger inter-sectoral coordination.
institutional nature of the program and the
uneven capacity across the sectoral agencies at   These measures are supported by complementary activities by the
federal, regional, state, and municipal levels    Bank to assist the government through capacity-building
present a risk to an even and timely              programs and investment lending that strengthen the ability of
implementation of reforms going forward.          institutions to plan, implement, and monitor sectoral programs.
                                                  The Working Groups for REDD+ and Adaptation and their
                                                  respective Consultative Technical Committees bring together the
                                                  agencies and civil society while the process for gaining approval
                                                  of the PECC has entailed a strong collaboration among federal
                                                  government agencies as well as with sub-national institutions.
                                                   Mexico was the first of the two non-Annex 1 countries to date
                                                   that have submitted their third communications to the
                                                   UNFCCC (the other being Uruguay) and is the only one to
 Lack of continuing political support to the
                                                   have submitted its fourth. It is already at work on its fifth. As
 climate change program, particularly given
                                                   such and as was witnessed in Cancún, it has consolidated its
 the upcoming national elections and the
                                                   reputation as a global leader on climate change adaptation.
 subsequent government transition in
                                                   Political support is therefore likely to continue. Participatory
 January 2013
                                                   and consultative processes and arrangements are likely to
                                                   maintain the support of other stakeholders. The Bank‘s on-
                                                   going engagement with the government on climate change
                                                   matters is also expected to help maintain political support.
 Social and Environmental                          Mitigation Measure

                                                   Likelihood of unanticipated environmental and social impacts
                                                   is extremely low as most of the potential impacts are well
                                                   known and manageable. Overall, the operation is likely to
 Unanticipated environmental and social            have strong, positive environmental and social impacts. Also,
 impacts associated with the program               the key agencies involved in the DPL have strong track-
                                                   records as well as significant capacity to address
                                                   environmental and social issues, the resolution of which
                                                   constitutes a core part of their mandate.


                                                   The manner in which Mexico has been able to build a strong
                                                   consensus among stakeholders, including government
 Stakeholder opposition to some of the             agencies, civil society and the private sector on a range of
 proposed policy actions:                          climate-related actions, particularly in the run-up to COP 16,
                                                   provides significant assurance that the risk of stakeholder
                                                   opposition to the proposed policy actions is small. The fact
                                                   that most of the actions will be highly beneficial to a broad

                                                                                                                   67
range of stakeholders should also contribute to strong support
among them.




                                                             68
                                         ANNEXES

                      ANNEX 1. Letter of Development Policy




                                                                         OFICINA DEL C. SECRETARIO

                                                              OFICIO NUM.    . 0 0 lOr.
SlECRETARlA DE: MlDIO AMllIENTE
   Y ItECUR80I NATUItALU

                                                              C IUDAD DE MexiCO, A        19   EIE 2012

       Robert B. Zoellick
       Presidente del.!'lanco Intemacional de
       Reconstrucci6n y Fomento
       Presellte ,.

                            •
       EI Gobierno de Mexico ha lIevado a cabo y continua promoviendo reformas
       institucionl'lles y nuevas polfticas para alcanzar un desarrollo humane
       sustentable. .Estas medidas correspond en a las :estrategias y Ifneas de
       acci6n para proteger y mejorar el nivel de vida de los mexicanos,
       contenidas en ef Plan Nacional de Desarrollo 2007-2012. Dicho plan
       incluye el eje 4 de polftica destinado a la ·Sustentabilidad ambiental", con
       especial enfasis en el eambio climatico.

        As!, en el marco de un desarrollo humane sustentable, uno de los objetivos
       fundamentales de la gesti6n ambiental ha side alcanzar una · mejor
      . integraci6n de las polfticas sectoriales ql:le influyen en el acCeso a los
        recursos naturales y alteran el medio ambiente, buscando la articulaci6n
        entre.un mayor crecimiento econ6mico, fortalecimiento de la competitividad
        de la economfa, mejorfa del nivel de vida y perrnanente superaci6n de la
        pobreza, con un aprovechamiento racional de los recurSos naturales y del
        medio ambiente.

       Desde el inicio de la Administraci6n se ha otorgado especial enfasis al
       tema de las emisiones d!l gases de efecto invernadero y a la protecci6n de
       la poblaci6n frente a los fen6menos climatol6gicos extremes agudizados
       p~r el cambio climatico.


       Por ello, esta Secretarfa apoya a la decisi6n de la Secretarfa de Hacienda y
       Credito Pubico de suscribir el prestamo denominado Strengthening Social
       Resilience to Climate Change Development Poll~y Loan, con el Banco
                                  Bou levard Adol fo Ruiz Cortlnez 42 09 , Col . Jard lnes e n 1& Hontaft. ,
                                                D el. Tl alpan, M~xico D. F. , 14210 T61 . (55) 5628 0600
                                                                                    · www . s emarnat.gob .mx




                                                                                                                69
                                                                                   OFICINA DEL C. SECRETARIO

                                                                    OFICIO NUM:         00 lOr,
                                                                    CIUDADDEMtXlCO,A              1 g ENE 2012



  a su digno cargo, el cual representa reconocer los avances en las pollticas
  publicas dirigidas al fortalecimiento de la adaptaci6n social al cambio
  climatico, principalmente en los siguientes ejes: i) planeaci6n para la
  adaptaci6n a largo plazo; ii) reducci6n de la exposici6n de riesgos frente a
  desastres naturales y iii) el manejo sustentable forestal.

  Esperamos que esta nueva colaboraci6n entre el Banco Mundial yel
  Gobierno de Mexico contribuya al fortalecimiento de nuestras capacidades
  institucionales frente a los retos del cambio climatico y sirva de ejemplo
  para sentar las bases de una nueva actitud de la comunidad internacional
  frente a este gran problema global.

  Aprovecho la oportunidad para reiterarle las seguridades de mi mas
  distinguida consideraci6n.



  EL SECRETARIO




~ING.JU~~




  C.c.p. J0s6 Antonio Meade KuribreftJ!. Secretario de Hacienda y Cr6d1tO PUblIc:o. Presente.
         Femando Tude!a. Sublea8tario de Pllneadiln y PoUtica Amblental.-PteMnta
         Ricaldo Ochoa. Tltullt de II Unldad de Aauntosintemacionilies de Hacienda. Pnlsenta


                                  Boulevard Adolfo Ruiz Cort1nez 4209, Col. Jardines en 14 Hontana,
                                               Del. Tlalpan . H6xico D.F. , 14210 T61. (55) 5628 0600
         )                                                                        www .semarnat.gob.mx




                                                                                                                 70
          English Translation of Development Policy Letter

LVC/LGC




SEAL OF THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES                            OFFICE OF THE Hon.
                                                             SECRETARY
Secretariat of the Environment and
                                                             DOCUMENT NUMBER: 00106
Natural Resources
                                                             Mexico City, January 19, 2012




Robert B. Zoellick,
President
International Bank for
Reconstruction & Development



The government of Mexico has carried out institutional reforms and keeps on encouraging new
policies to achieve sustainable human development. These measures correspond to strategies and
action lines bound to the protection and improvement of the living conditions of Mexicans
contained under the National Development Plan 2007 – 2012. Such Plan includes the policy’s axis 4
for “Environmental Sustainability? with special emphasis in climate change.



Thus, within the framework of sustainable human development, one of the fundamental objectives
of environmental management under this administration has been the achievement of an improved
integration of sectorial policies that influence the access of natural resources and that affect the
environment, looking for the articulation between greater economic development, strengthening of
economy competitiveness, improvement of living conditions and the permanent surmounting of
poverty, with rational exploitation of natural resources and environment.




                                                                                                 71
Since the beginning of this Administration, special emphasis has been given to the greenhouse effect
gas emission question and to the protection of the population in the event of extreme climate
phenomena worsened by climate change.



That is why this Secretariat supports the decision of the Treasury Department to subscribe the loan
known as Strengthening Social Resilience to Climate Change Development Policy Loan with the
Bank that you represent, acknowledging the advancement of public policies bound to the
strengthening of social adaptation to climate change, mainly in the following axis: i) planning for
long-term adaptation, ii) reduction of risk exposure in the event of natural disasters and iii)
sustainable forest management.



We hope this new collaboration between the World Bank and the Mexican Government contributes
to the strengthening of our institutional capabilities to face the climate change challenges, and to be
the example to set the grounds of a new attitude of the international community concerning this
huge global problem.

Respectfully yours,

The Secretary

Signature

Eng. Juan Rafael Elvira Quesada




Copies: Jose Antonio Meade Kuribreña, Secretary of the Treasury Department – Present
Fernando Tudela, Sub-secretary of Environmental Policy and Planning – Present
Ricardo Ochoa, Head of the Office of the Treasury Department’s International Affairs – Present




                                                                                                    72
                                                    ANNEX 2. Policy Areas, Prior Actions and Outcomes

Objective: The proposed Strengthening Social Resilience to Climate Change DPL constitutes an essential piece of the consolidation stage
(2010-) of climate change engagement in Mexico. The objective of this operation is to strengthen social resilience to climate change through policies
that will directly and indirectly benefit the poor by improving: (a) adaptation planning oriented to the state level; (b) disaster risk reduction and
territorial development oriented to the municipal level; and (c) sustainable forest management at the community level.

                                                                                                                                      Medium-term
Objective                Issues and Obstacles                           Prior Actions                           Outcomes at ICR Date
                                                                                                                                         Outcomes
                                                                                                                    (March 2013)
                                                                                                                                     (December 2014)
         Policy Area 1: Strengthening Social Resilience through Long-term Climate Change Adaptation Planning oriented to the state level a
Strengthening social    Lack of policy              The CICC‘s Adaptation Working Group has: (i)              Number of States that            State governments‘
resilience to climate   frameworks and              approved a Mid-Term Adaptation Policies Framework         completed during 2012-2013       capacity for flexible
change through          instruments to facilitate   (Marco de Políticas de Adaptación de Mediano Plazo),      Climate Change Action            learning and multiple
long-term               local adaptation to         which requires the development of measures for            Programs that included           feedback loops has
adaptation planning     climate change and to       reduction of differential vulnerability and               specific adaptation measures     been developed.
                        address the                 strengthening of local adaptive planning; and (ii)        to promote social resilience
                        differentiated effects of   created a Technical Advisory Committee to facilitate      (baseline: 0, target: 3)         Indicator: Number of
                        CC on the poor and          participation of experts and key stakeholders in the                                       States that developed
                        more vulnerable             formulation of a future national adaptation strategy of                                    and used Climate
                        groups.                     Mexico.                                                                                    Change Knowledge
                                                                                                              Inclusion of measures            Platforms to support
                                                    The States of Yucatán, Campeche, and Quintana Roo         supported by SEMARNAT            decision making and
                                                    have signed a ―General Coordination Agreement on the      to address unsustainable         monitoring of climate
                                                    Yucatán Peninsula‘s Climate Change‖ to develop a          growth of tourism in coastal     change adaptation and
                                                    Regional Strategy for Climate Change Adaptation in        areas and livelihood co-         social resilience
                                                    the Yucatán Peninsula and a Climate Action Fund for       benefits of climate policies     initiatives (baseline:
                                                    the Yucatán Peninsula, coordinated by the Climate         for indigenous communities       0, target 3)
                                                    Change Regional Commission for the Yucatán                in the Regional Strategy for
                                                    Peninsula.                                                Climate Change Adaptation
                                                                                                              in the Yucatán Peninsula.

                                                    Congress has approved a new budgetary program             Number of State Climate
                        Lack of funding at          ―National Program for Climate Change Adaptation and       Change Action Programs that
                        federal government          Prevention of Natural Disasters‖ (Programa Nacional       included civil society
                        level for adaptation.       de Adaptación del Cambio Climático y de Prevención        participation in the design of
                                                    de Desastres Naturales), to finance climate change        social resilience initiatives.
                                                    adaptation initiatives in an amount of 300 million        (baseline 0, target 3)
                                                    Pesos, and implemented by SEMARNAT.

                                                                                                                                                              73
    Policy Area 2: Strengthening Social Resilience through Disaster Risk Reduction and Territorial Development Actions oriented to the municipal level
Strengthen disaster    Reactive approach to     SEDESOL has strengthened the delivery of risk            Percentage of municipalities
risk reduction and     disaster risk            reduction actions in Municipalities through (i) the      with high and very high
resilient territorial  management,              creation of a new program for risk prevention in human scores in PRAH's disaster
development            dominated by ex post     settlements (―Prevención de Riesgos en los               risk index which are
                       policy responses,        Asentamientos Humanos‖), which offers financing for      implementing risk reduction
                       limited mechanisms       risk reduction actions to Municipalities; and (ii) the   institutional strengthening
                       and incentives to        issuance of new operational rules of the temporary       and investment activities
                       mainstream disaster      employment program (Programa de Empleo Temporal, supported by PRAH.                      Number of
                       risk reduction in        PET) for the fiscal year 2011, to orient it towards the  (Source: PRAH's Risk Index; municipalities of the
                       territorial and urban    financing of local disaster prevention projects.         Baseline January 2012: 0;       National Urban
                       planning, especially at                                                           target by March 2013: 60        System that have
                       the municipal level, and                                                          municipalities).                incorporated disaster
                       weak and insufficient                                                                                             risk management
                       incentives to reduce                                                                                              actions with support
                       uncontrolled urban       SEDESOL‘s guidelines for sustainable urban               Number of urban                 from the Federal
                       growth and promote       development, aimed at fostering sustainable urban        development projects            Government (baseline
                       sustainable urban        territorial development and increased social resilience, evaluated within the DUIS       2011: 100; target:
                       planning.                have been incorporated by selected housing institutions Working Group that have          250; Source: PECC
                                                of the Borrower, such as CONAVI with its upfront         incorporated at least the       monitoring system)
                                                subsidy program ―Esta es tu casa‖, and INFONAVIT         following criteria specified in
                                                with its mortgage origination criteria.                  SEDESOL's Sustainable
                                                                                                         Urban Development
                                                                                                         Guidelines: (i) location, (ii)
                                                                                                         connectivity and
                                                                                                         accessibility, and (iii) risk
                                                                                                         prevention (target: 5 between
                                                                                                         January 2012-March 2013).

                                                 SAGARPA strengthened and improved the targeting of      Percentage of eligible surface   Percentage of eligible
                                                 its natural disaster risk management and prevention     that is covered by climate       surface that is covered
                                                 program (CADENA) for low income farmers, by             risk insurance (baseline:        by climate risk
                                                 lowering the eligibility ceiling for disaster and       69%; target: 74%)                insurance (baseline:
                                                 catastrophe insurance payouts.                                                           69%; target: 76%)




                                                                                                                                                          74
                     Policy Area 3: Strengthening Social Resilience at the Community Level through Sustainable Community Forest Management b
    Foster the               Lack of harmonization    CONAFOR signed bilateral cooperation agreements Number of REDD+                    Increase in number of
    involvement of           in statistical data      (Convenios de Colaboración), with SAGARPA and collaboration initiatives            communities building
    federal agencies,        generation and           SEMARNAT, fostering the sharing of information between CONAFOR and/or              social organization
    civil society and        distribution among       among said institutions on forestry programs, and SAGARPA and subnational          and generating
    local actors in          SEMARNAT,                aligning procedures and incentive programs on Governments in REDD+                 income from
    community forest         CONAFOR and other        agricultural, livestock and forestry issues.         Early Action areas that are   sustainable production
    management and           sister agencies.                                                              operational (baseline:0;      of forest goods and
    climate change           Difficulty in aligning                                                        target: 2)                    services (baseline
    strategies in line       policies and incentives                                                                                     2011: 4000; target
    with the National        affecting forestry                                                                                          2014: 12% increase)
    REDD+ Vision to          territories.
    build resilient
                             Limited involvement of A national multi-stakeholder consultative technical Active social participation in
    livelihoods in rural
                             local civil society      council and three state-level multi-stakeholder REDD+ policy making at
    and forest areas
                             organizations to help    consultative technical councils (CTC–REDD) have sub-national level trough the
                             adapt the national       been created.                                        operation of local CTC-
                             sustainable forestry                                                          REDD+ (participation of
                             management strategy to                                                        civil society in all meetings
                             local conditions.                                                             as reflected in minutes, with
                                                                                                           a minimum 3 meetings per
                                                                                                           year per CTC).

                                                                                                               Percentage of participating
                          Restricted capacity of    The Board of JIRA approved REDD+ as a strategic
                                                                                                               communities in REDD+
                          municipios in the area    line for its multi-annual work program.
                                                                                                               Early Action Areas receiving
                          of sustainable forestry
                                                                                                               support from regional
                          management, due to
                                                                                                               landscape management
                          economic, geographic
                                                                                                               agents (baseline 0%, target
                          and political
                                                                                                               33%)
                          limitations.

a
 The GoM intends to use these indicators as part of its monitoring of the on-going implementation of its overall program to strengthen social resilience to climate
change after the closing date of the DPL. They are listed here to give the reader an idea of the GoM‘s medium-term targets
b
  In order promote coordination among development partners and alignment with the GoM‘s policies, the Bank and AFD are using the same SOM policy actions
for the forestry component of their respective operations.




                                                                                                                                                                75
                                 Annex 3. Fund Relations Note

IMF Executive Board Completes Review of Mexico’s Performance Under
the Flexible Credit Line
Press Release No. 11/480
December 22, 2011

The Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) completed on December 21,
2011, its review of Mexico’s qualification for the arrangement under the Flexible Credit Line
(FCL) and reaffirmed Mexico’s continued qualification to access FCL resources. The Mexican
authorities have indicated that they intend to continue treating the arrangement as
precautionary.
The two year arrangement for Mexico for SDR 47.292 billion (about US$73 billion), approved in
January 10, 2011 (see Press Release No. 11/4), was the first under the reforms to the FCL
approved in August 30, 2010 (see Press Release No. 10/321).
Following the Executive Board discussion of Mexico, Mr. David Lipton, First Deputy Managing
Director and Acting Chairman of the Board, made the following statement:
“The Flexible Credit Line (FCL) arrangement for Mexico, approved a year ago in a context of
heightened risks to the global economic outlook, has played an important role in supporting the
authorities’ overall macroeconomic strategy, providing an insurance against global tail risks and
bolstering market confidence. Today, the Executive Board reaffirmed that Mexico continues to
meet the qualification criteria for access to FCL resources.
“Mexico’s rapid rebound from the global crisis and the resilience of economic activity in recent
months bear witness to Mexico’s sound fundamentals and skillful policy management. The
strong policy track record and frameworks, including a balanced-budget rule, a credible inflation
targeting regime, and prudent financial oversight, have underpinned sound public and private
balance sheets.
“The authorities are committed to rebuilding policy buffers gradually in light of heightened global
risks. Fiscal consolidation and supportive monetary policy are poised to be maintained, while the
increase in external buffers is being complemented by the FCL arrangement. The floating
exchange rate regime will continue to play a key role in buffering external shocks.
“Downside risks to Mexico’s near-term outlook arise from unsettled global growth prospects and
the turbulence in international financial markets. However, Mexico retains policy space to
contain the potential fallout from external shocks, supported by the FCL arrangement, and the
authorities remain committed to the rules-based macroeconomic framework and to adjust
policies as needed,? Mr. Lipton said.


IMF EXTERNAL RELATIONS DEPARTMENT

Public Affairs                     Media Relations

E-mail:publicaffairs@imf.org Phone: 202-623-7100

Fax:    202-623-6278               Fax:     202-623-6772



                                                                                                 76
                        Annex 4. Long-term climate change impact in Mexico
Climate change brings additional layers to existing risks, including more extreme weather
events, changing rainfall patterns, rising sea levels, and shifting patterns of disease. For
example, humid tropical zones are expected to receive more rainfall; combined with extreme
events and sea level rise, this will result in more frequent and severe floods. In agriculture, many
small-scale farmers depend on rainfed agriculture, which will be severely impacted by the
increasing irregularity of rainfall affecting productive capacity as well as access to water for
domestic purposes. In urban areas, the lack of urban development policy, planning, regulation
and public investment has led to the settlement of rural immigrants in risky areas such as
hillsides and riverbeds.

Climate change will have differential impacts on the population of Mexico, and
understanding specific forms of economic and/or territorial vulnerability will be crucial to
design effective adaptation policies. In the water sector, for example, the availability of water
does not correspond to the distribution of the population and of economic activity, creating water
stress in several of the most highly populated areas of the country (see Box 1). Seventy-seven
percent of Mexico‘s residents live in the arid and semiarid northern, central and northeastern
regions, an area that accounts for 87 percent of national GDP but receives only 31 percent of the
available water. The discrepancy between the physical supply and economic demand for water
has played out in different ways. At present at least 33 million people—or about 32 percent of
Mexico‘s total population—face water scarcity (pressures ranging from 40 to over 80 percent).
In all climate change scenarios, water stress is expected to increase, with detrimental impacts
both for poor peasants who depend on rain for their crops and for the urban poor who are settled
in marginal areas with deficits in access to drinking water. It is expected that the cost of water,
will increase, affecting the poor the most.

Indigenous peoples and rural communities are among those most affected by climate
change/variability due to a stronger dependence on natural environments for their
livelihoods, particularly forests. Indigenous peoples are among the most vulnerable people
with or without climate change, with limited capacity to cope with long-term changes and a
greater exposure to natural climate related hazards.
Box 1. The figures below illustrate how Mexico‘s current water scarcity situation will be significantly aggravated in
the future, especially when not only socioeconomic projections but also climate scenarios are considered.




                                                                                                                   77
(left) Degree of present pressure on water resources in Mexico (2005), without climate change impact
considered. (right) Degree of future pressure on water resources for 2030 when both socioeconomic
projections and climate scenarios are considered.
Source: Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, 2007.


Climate change will have severe impacts on smallholders whose livelihoods depend on
rainfed cash crops as well as subsistence agriculture. In 2005, about 38.7 percent of the
extreme rural poor were engaged in agricultural activities either as independent farmers or
through agricultural wage labor. Poor dryland farmers in the northern states of Sinaloa, Sonora
and Chihuahua are particularly at risk as they face falling productivity caused by worsening
water shortage and soil degradation. Many of these arid regions are already at risk of
desertification. At present there is a high degree of erosion in Mexico with 36 percent of all
irrigated land affected, 54 percent of the rainfed crop area and 90 percent of the rangeland area
(LADA). Climate variability is likely to speed up the salinization and desertification of
agricultural lands, compounding the effects of reduced rainfall. An estimated 48 percent of all
the land in Mexico is considered vulnerable to the impacts of climate change, particularly in the
north and in densely populated areas (Hernandez et. al, 1995). Severe impacts on poor
agriculturalists will be felt by other regions as well. For example, Chiapas is one of the Mexican
states richest in biodiversity and is Mexico‘s main coffee-producing state, with an average
annual production that surpasses 115 million kg. One million jobs depend on coffee production
in the state, and 60 percent of the producers are smallholders, farming fewer than five hectares
each, the majority of whom are indigenous peoples. However, a recent study shows that the
specific climate conditions on which this coffee production depends may not persist much
longer.

Climate change will have severe impacts on coastal populations of Mexico. Climate change
is likely to compound the damage to natural ecosystems, including mangroves and coral reefs,
caused by human activities, placing severe pressure on poor coastal communities both directly as
the result of storms and rising sea levels, and indirectly by gradually degrading the ecosystems
on which their livelihoods depend. Mangroves and coral reefs, for example, play vital roles in the
livelihoods of millions of people who depend on them for fisheries and tourism. In the past 50
years, nearly 80 percent of corals reefs in the Caribbean Sea have died off due to abuse as well as
to climate change and variability impacts such as coral bleaching. Furthermore, as much as 65
percent of mangrove coverage in Mexico was lost from 1978 to 1998. Although fisheries add
very little to overall GDP in Mexico (0.8 percent of GDP), they play a significant role in local
economies, supporting the small households and villages along its coast. In 2006, 257,600
persons were employed in fisheries. However, if persons employed in related industries are
added up and fishermen‘s families are counted, it is safe to say that more than a million are
directly reliant on fisheries (FAO 2008 [Fisheries and Aquaculture profile]).

Reducing vulnerability to climate change and climate variability will require national
frameworks and policies that identify the needs of the most vulnerable and strengthen both
autonomous and planned adaptation. National policies need to provide meaningful adaptation
frameworks at the state and local levels, offering local communities useable information about
risks (short- and long-term), cost-effective adaptation measures, modalities to spread risk, etc.
Maladaptation too remains a challenge with a reliance on water intensive crops in arid areas.

                                                                                                       78
Paradoxically, the introduction of monoculture with high-tech seeds that require more intensive
use of land and agrochemicals could also increase vulnerability by concentrating risk, whereas
the diversification of products and varieties and the use of altitudinal corridors contribute to
improved resilience to climate shocks and hence the food security of the large number of small-
scale farmers by better distributing risk (ceteris paribus).

Adaptation to climate change requires a strong subnational focus due to Mexico’s
territorial, environmental and social diversity. Under the constitutional distribution of
competencies between federal and state governments, together with the ―federalization‖
(decentralization) of a large number of sectoral development programs, state and municipal
governments are responsible for most of the practical measures that can be implemented to
increase the vulnerable population‘s resilience to climate change impacts.

In addition, the scientific literature on adaptation stresses that adaptation has, and will
continue to have, a predominantly local dimension because people adapt to the specific
contours of their physical and natural environments, which in Mexico are extremely
heterogeneous and include two very diverse coastal zones, mountainous areas, lowlands, forested
tropical hills, and drought-prone environments in the north. Thus, participation of people
(including the poor and most vulnerable) in the definition of adaptive policies will be crucial
because they embody the practical knowledge of local environments on which their resilience
depends. In that context, special attention should be given to the role of groups such as the
“nucleos agrarios,? community forestry groups, and indigenous traditional authorities in leading
adaptation strategies at local levels, in conjunction with national, state and municipal efforts.
Such informal institutions may play a crucial role in providing information to the most
vulnerable sectors of Mexican society (those who rely heavily on natural resources for their
livelihoods, those who live in remote areas, etc.), incorporate valuable local traditional ecological
knowledge in adaptation strategies, plans and actions, monitor the implementation of adaptation
initiatives and provide feedback to formal authorities on the effectiveness of the measures
undertaken.




                                                                                                  79
                   ANNEX 5. Natural disasters and unplanned urban growth

Mexico has a high level of exposure to natural hazards. Both coasts of the country stand in
the path of hurricanes and tropical storms originating in the Caribbean Sea and the Atlantic and
Pacific Oceans. The country also lies within one of the world‘s most active seismic regions, is
prone to volcanic activity, and its northern cone and central areas are prone to recurrent droughts.
This wide geographic exposure renders more than two-thirds of the country‘s population and
GDP at hazard risk (de la Fuente 2009). More worryingly, the occurrence of disaster events in
Mexico over the last five decades has shown an increasing trend (see Figure 1).

                             Figure 1. Incidence of Natural Disasters in Mexico (1960–2009)

                            12


                            10


                             8
                  Eventos




                             6


                             4


                             2


                             0
                                 1964

                                        1967

                                               1970

                                                      1973

                                                             1976

                                                                    1979

                                                                           1982

                                                                                  1985

                                                                                         1988

                                                                                                1991

                                                                                                       1994

                                                                                                              1997

                                                                                                                     2000

                                                                                                                            2003

                                                                                                                                   2006

                                                                                                                                          2009
         Source: Centro de Investigación sobre Epidemiología de los Desastres, Universidad Católica de Lovaina


The bulk of natural hazards (turning into disasters) that affect Mexico are hydro-
meteorological. Under the current Mexican system of disaster assistance, the Ministry of Interior
is responsible for declaring a ―natural disaster‖ upon request from the governor of the affected
state. Between 1999 and 2007, there have been around 6,500 disaster declarations at municipal
level, out of which 90 percent relate to rains, floods and hurricanes (see Figure 2). Output
damages (as a share of GDP) accounted for only 0.5 percent of national GDP during 2005 and
2007. However, Hurricanes Stan and Wilma, both in 2005, represented a huge blow to the GDP
of the southern states of Chiapas (9.2 percent) and Quintana Roo (14.4 percent), respectively, as
were the floods in Tabasco two years later (10 percent).
                 Figure 2: Number of Disaster Declarations by Natural Event (1999–2007)




                                                                                                                                                 80
                                 Source: Diario Oficial de la Federación. (Secretaría de Gobernación)

The social impacts of natural disasters in Mexico underscore the need to place more
attention on such events as part of the national poverty agenda. A disaster‘s effect on an
economy‘s output is not the same as its effect on people‘s welfare, health and well-being. In
many cases (particularly in large economies), a major disaster will not have large or lasting
effects on the macroeconomic outlook. However, at the micro level, poor households are
invariably affected most severely, and can be trapped in poverty by being hit regularly by even
―small‖ hazard events that do not garner media attention. The poor have fewer assets to respond
to and recover from hazard events, and often have less access to formal assistance mechanisms.

There is ample evidence from a number of sources that the poor often face greater
exposure to natural hazards and have lower adaptive capacities. For instance a Poverty and
Social Impact Analysis (PSIA) conducted for this DPL found that poverty correlates with a
higher susceptibility to suffer losses from hazard events (see Table 1). The PSIA constructed
scores of disaster risk (the probability of losses from floods, hurricanes and earthquakes in
schools, health clinics, roads and bridges, and low-income housing) for all municipalities in the
country. These were then spatially correlated with the poverty incidence and Human
Development Index in 2005. It was also found that the poorest municipalities had lower levels
(in value and number) of critical public infrastructure for disaster emergencies, such as schools,
hospitals and roads (Soriano, de la Fuente and Cruz 2011).


                                      Table 1. Correlation Between Disaster Risk and Deprivation
                                                                                       Deprivation Indicators


                                                                          Human                             Capacity          Asset
   Indicadores de Riesgo:                               Marginality                     Food Poverty                                      FGT2
                                                                        Development                         Poverty          Poverty

  Earthquake Risk (Housing in Poverty)                     0.458           - 0.370          0.453            0.456            0.456       0.377
  Hydro-Meteorological Risk (Housing in Poverty)           0.479           - 0.386          0.414            0.412            0.405       0.414
  Earthquake Risk (Public Portfolio)                       0.406           - 0.313          0.407            0.413            0.419       0.352
  Hydro-Meteorological Risk (Public Portfolio)             0.253           - 0.158          0.195            0.201            0.213       0.217
  Earthquake Risk (Total Portfolio)                        0.451           - 0.360          0.446            0.450            0.454       0.382
  Hydro-Meteorological Risk (Total Portfolio)              0.380           - 0.280          0.321            0.324            0.331       0.327
  Earthquake & Hydro Risk (Total Portfolio)                0.514           - 0.394          0.475            0.482            0.492       0.419


  Notas: Hydro-meteorological risk includes floods and cyclones. Public portfolio includes federal schools, clinics, roads and bridges. FGT2 is a
  poverty indicators that takes into account poverty depth as well as the income distribution across poor people.
  Source: Own calculations. Marginality Index (CONAPO), Human Development and FGT2 (UNDP, Oficina de Investigación sobre Desarrollo
  Humano en México), and Food, Capacity and Asset Poverty (CONEVAL).




While correlations between poverty and hazards do not provide conclusive evidence on
causation, additional studies on the impact of natural disasters on human development
(measured through the Human Development Index developed by UNDP) and poverty
(measured under three different lines of income poverty: food, skills and assets) during the
2000–2005 period show significant adverse effects. Poverty levels increased between 1.5 and
3.7 percent, based on the measurement considered. Moreover, for affected municipalities, the
impact on the Human Development Index was similar to going back an average of two years in

                                                                                                                                                    81
human development over the same period analyzed. Floods and droughts had the most adverse
effects (Rodríguez-Oreggia et al. 2010).

Municipal data on disaster risk also helped to construct profiles according to the level of hazard,
exposure or disaster risk concentration by municipality. High disaster-prone municipalities in
Mexico are predominantly rural and indigenous, with limited access to health and other basic
services, high probability of deforestation and other environmental problems, and a mixed
display of institutional capacity to manage disaster risks. They receive relatively higher public
relief following disasters, but there is a lower presence of civil protection services and risk
awareness (e.g., through risk maps) that would help to prepare communities before events occur.

A disaster exposes the cumulative implications of many earlier decisions, some taken
individually, others collectively, and a few by default.54 Several factors contribute to explain
why a disaster happens; for example, poor building standards or designs are immediate causes.
Poor urban planning and land use are key underlying factors contributing to hazard events
becoming disasters. This is especially important in Mexico where more than 70 percent of the
population lives in urban areas, and the projections show that by 2025 as much as 80 percent of
the population will live in the 358 cities than comprise the Sistema Urbano Nacional. The
pattern of territorial and urban development of Mexican cities is increasing the vulnerability of
the urban population. Moreover, poor urban planning and disorderly expansion are also resulting
in higher CO2 emissions (through lower densities and longer motorized trips), disintegration of
the social networks for the most vulnerable people (who end up living further away), higher
transportation costs for the poor, and inability to take advantage of agglomeration economies. A
recent study of a sample of 21 cities, which analyzed the expansion of the urban areas between
1996 and 2006, suggests increases of at least 23 percent and reaching up to 80 percent in the
smaller cities55 (see Table 2).

        Table 2: Urban areas, selected cities
                                      Base            Extended                     Extended     Difference
                                                                     Base urban
         City size (inhabitants)     radio*            radio**                      urban
                                                                     area* (km2)              (km2)    (%)
                                      (km)              (km)                        area**
     More than 3 million               18.2              21.9             260.04    376.55    116.51   44.8
     Between 1 and 3 million          11.44             12.69             102.87    126.47     23.6    22.9
     Between 100,000 and 1 million     5.13              6.16             20.63      29.85     9.22    44.7
     Between 15,000 and 100,000        3.59              4.81             10.14      18.17     8.03    79.2
     * From the city center to the urban limit (average)
     ** From the city center to the new housing complex limit (average)
     Source: SEDESOL


The poor face risks to their livelihoods and social capital due to the poorly planned urban
expansion, and climate change will add an additional layer of risks. Properly planned
urbanization can increase resilience to climate-related risks: sound urban planning restricts
development in flood-prone areas and provides critical access to services; infrastructure
development can provide physical protection in risk areas; and effective early warning systems

54
  Natural Hazards, UnNatural Disasters – the economics of effective prevention, UN–WB.
55
  Estudio de la Integración Urbana y Social en la Expansión reciente de las Ciudades en México 1996–2006:
Dimensión, características y soluciones, R. Eibenschutz Hartman, Carlos Goya Escobedo Coordinadores

                                                                                                              82
combined with well-established transportation systems help evacuate people in a timely manner
(WDR 2010). Climate-smart urban design can also promote synergies between mitigation and
adaptation, especially related to building characteristics (green roofs provide cooling and
attenuate storm water).

Mexico has begun to rethink the urban sector policies, programs and incentives to make
more efficient use of the territory and promote more competitive cities, mitigate carbon
emissions from the urban sector, adapt urban planning to respond to climate variability
and change, while at the same time continuing to promote access to housing. This challenge
requires coordination from federal, state and municipal governments since most of the incentives
for housing are federal but responsibilities for urban planning are held at municipal level.

Some cities are already taking steps in this direction. Notably, Mexico City has taken the lead
in promoting the so-called Mexico City Pact (MCP). The MCP consists of two parts: the first
mentions considerations as to why cities are strategic in combating global warming; the second
establishes a set of voluntary commitments to promote strategies and actions aimed at mitigating
GHG emissions and adapting cities to the impacts of climate change. To establish and follow up
on cities‘ commitments, the signatories will establish their climate actions in the Carbon Cities
Climate Registry (CCCR) powered by the Bonn Center for Local Climate Action and Reporting
(carbon). The CCCR will provide cities with a sound and transparent instrument for establishing
links and negotiations with multilateral, regional, subregional and national financing agencies, by
having a common methodology supported by scientific and technical criteria that validates their
climate actions.

Housing and urban policies that promote sustainable cities are one of the no-regrets
options that should be promoted, because they provide benefits with or without climate
change. The concept of ―adaptive management‖ (as defined in the WDR 2010) is an approach to
guide intervention in the face of uncertainty: the basic principle is that management actions
should be informed by explicit learning from policy experiments and the use of scientific
information, monitoring the outcome of these interventions and developing new practices.
Adaptive management aims to improve the ability to make decisions under uncertainty, using
existing scientific information and learning from policy experiments, and places decisions with
the scale of ecological contexts and processes, having a long-term planning horizon. The actions
recognized in the proposed operation respond to this category.




                                                                                                83
                                     ANNEX 6. Forest Management

The majority of the forest territories in Mexico belong to rural communities and ejidos,
many of them indigenous, vulnerable and/or poor. Mexico ranks twelfth worldwide in forest
cover, with more than 64 million hectares (ha) of forests, about half of which are considered
commercially viable. With its wide range of ecosystems, species richness is expectedly high and
the country ranks fourth worldwide in terms of its overall biological diversity. Fifty-five percent
of the 13 million inhabitants living in the forests suffer from extreme poverty. About 8,500
indigenous communities and ejidos56 own around 70 percent of the country‘s forests under a
legally recognized collective land ownership system–a situation unique in the world.57 Officially,
around 300,000 people are employed in the forest sector, and forestry activities account for about
1.8 percent of GDP.

Official rates of deforestation in Mexico are moderately high, but the annual change rates
have been decreasing. From 1990 to 2010, the annual net loss was about 354,000 ha per year (-
0.52 percent); from 2000 to 2005 about 235,000 ha per year (-0.35 percent); and from 2005–
2010 the annual change was about 155,000 ha per year (-0.24 percent). Forest degradation is also
high, estimated at approximately 457,000 ha annually (0.7 percent). Historically, three patterns
of deforestation have been observed in Mexico: (i) clearing of temperate coniferous, tropical and
subtropical forests for subsistence agriculture and cattle grazing; (ii) deforestation in tropical
forests associated with the settling of land under the agrarian reform; and (iii) land clearing for
commercial large-scale cattle ranching and farming. Causes of degradation include unsustainable
and/or illegal logging, unsustainable forest grazing, pests, fires and other human impacts.
However, Mexico‘s forestry efforts placed it in the top ten countries with the largest area of
reforestation and afforestation (2005).

CONAFOR operates a range of thematic, demand-driven, community-based incentive
programs, collectively known as Pro-?rbol. The scope of these programs has evolved rapidly
since 2001, from traditional forest management to payment for environmental services and
climate change mitigation and adaptation activities in the forest landscape. CONAFOR‘s budget
increased from $27 million in 2001 to $486 million in 2011, and its portfolio has reached a total
of about 12,000 transactions annually benefiting about 4,000 communities.

In Mexico, given the demographics of the forestry sector, sustainable forestry management
has a key role to play in increasing the social resilience of the poor in the face of climate
change, in terms of both mitigation and adaptation. Sustainable community forest
management contributes to social resilience to climate change in important ways.
      Forests provide sources of income that are less susceptible to short-term droughts or
       flooding. Analysis of flood data from 56 developing countries found a significant link
       between forest loss and flood risk. ‖Unabated loss of forests may increase or exacerbate
56
   Communities and ejidos are landholdings with either indigenous or non-indigenous members with rights,
stipulated by law, to communal resources under which an individual family has a right to an individual plot of land
allocated formally by the community as well as access to communally owned lands (often forest lands, pastures and
waterways).
57
   Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO). 2010. Global Forest Resources Assessment 2010. Rome; Italy

                                                                                                                84
       the number of flood-related disasters, negatively impact millions of poor people and
       inflict trillions of dollars in damage in disadvantaged economies over the coming
       decades.‖58 In Mexico specifically, floods caused the loss of approximately 100,000
       lives and US$1 trillion in damage during the 1990s.59
      Forest fires will tend to increase in Mexico due to changes in atmospheric and soil
       temperatures and the amount and geographic and temporal distribution of rainfall. With
       the variability of climate, pests and diseases may also develop new patterns and affect
       forest stands on a large scale, effective sustainable forest management can help control
       this hazard.
      Forests provide ecosystem services that enhance people‘s livelihoods, including the
       provision of food and fuel and the regulation of water flows and temperature. 60
      Finally, forest resources in Mexico are typically managed by communities, increasing
       their social capital and enhancing social resilience.


Synergies between mitigation and adaptation to climate change in the forestry sector are
widely recognized. While Mexico‘s forests have long been valued as a source of timber, they
are increasingly appreciated for their role in regulating the environment. For example, by
providing a protective canopy and roots that hold and bind the soil, forests greatly reduce erosion
and storm flow, which helps to regulate the hydrologic cycle and protect watersheds. In addition,
because trees and forests sequester carbon through their photosynthetic processes, they provide
efficient mechanisms for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, especially carbon dioxide, which
contribute to climate change.

The forestry sector provides the single greatest potential for reducing Mexico’s greenhouse
gas emissions over the coming decades, even though energy-related emissions dominate its
current and projected CO2e trajectories. Emissions from deforestation and forest degradation
interventions have a reduction potential of 1,120 Mt CO2e.61 Other forestry interventions with
high greenhouse gas mitigation potential are reforestation and restoration (10 percent) and
afforestation (9 percent).

The Government of Mexico recognizes that only by improving forestry management,
including reducing the emissions from deforestation, can the country meet its climate
mitigation goals. Land use, land-use change, and forestry (LULUCF) contributed about 14
percent of Mexico‘s GHG emissions in 2006, with 10.5 percent of emissions due to deforestation
associated with forest conversion to agriculture and pasture. The remaining 3.5 percent of GHG
emissions in 2006 were due to degradation driven by factors such as over-logging, illegal
logging, high grading (harvesting only the best trees), bad management, forest grazing, pests,
fires and other human activities.



58
   Bradshaw, C. J. A.; Sodhi, N. S.; Peh, K. S. -H. and Brooks, B.W. (2007) ―Global evidence that deforestation
amplifies flood risk and severity in the developing world‖, Global Change Biology 13 (11), 2379–2395.
59
   Laurance, W. F. (2007) ―Environmental science: Forests and floods‖, Nature 449, pp409-410.
60
   Millennium Ecosystem Assessment (2005). ―Ecosystems and Human Well-being: Synthesis‖. Island Press,
Washington, DC.
61
   Based on the six REDD interventions proposed by the Low-carbon Study (MEDEC).

                                                                                                            85
                   ANNEX 7. Participatory Processes in Sector Policy Making

An extensive array of participatory institutions and mechanisms has been mainstreamed
into sector policy making, implementation and monitoring at national and local levels. Most
sector programs have set up advisory bodies aimed at receiving periodic feedback from external
stakeholders. For instance, the National System for Civil Protection (SINAPROC) provides for a
system of intergovernmental cooperation and mechanisms for community participation. The
system involves a wide range of stakeholders in coordination and functional/advisory
relationships from national through municipal level, including government departments,
academics and NGOs. The forestry sector also relies on several participatory institutions for
policy design and implementation. The main advisory body in the forestry sector is the Forestry
Advisory Council (Consejo Asesor Forestal, CONAF), which supervises and assesses the policy
instruments included in the General Law of Sustainable Forestry Development.62

Prior actions under Policy Area 1 encompass consultation and participation mechanisms
that build on the GoM’s progressive development of climate change adaptation policies.
The Mid-Term Adaptation Policies Framework defines the need to ensure citizen participation in
climate change adaptation as one of the basic principles to be contained in the National Climate
Change Adaptation Policy. The framework includes specific actions aimed at promoting
collaboration between the public sector and civil society, including communication, education
and adaptation actions. External stakeholders, including civil society organizations and think
tanks, were informally consulted in the preparation of the adaptation framework. Participatory
provisions contained therein, along with the need to devise a participatory mechanism for
obtaining external feedback throughout the preparation of the National Adaptation Policy, have
prompted the GoM‘s decision to create a Technical Advisory Committee. The TAC will contain
a core nucleus of distinguished experts on climate change adaptation from academia, civil
society, and government; and a broader group formed by a wider set of individuals and
organizations committed to climate vulnerability reduction.

Several provisions regarding participatory processes and integration of community
participation criteria are embedded in the programs and regulations identified as prior
actions for Policy Area 2:
     Operational rules for the Programa de Empleo Temporario (PET) require the creation of
       ―Social Participation Committees‖ composed of representatives of communities in which
       PET projects are executed. In addition, under the revised 2011 rules, prioritized activities
       under the newly incorporated natural disaster prevention category include social
       communication and citizen education in PET‘s local disaster prevention projects.63
     Technical proposals submitted by municipalities under the new Program for Risk
       Prevention in Human Settlements (Programa de Prevención de Riesgos en Asentamientos
62
    Other consultation mechanisms include the Sustainable Development Consultative Councils (Consejos
Consultivos de Desarrollo Sustentable, CCDS), the Technical Advisory Council of the Indigenous Peoples
Development Council (Consejo de Desarrollo Indigena, CDI), annual regional and local consultations.
63
   See Official Gazette (Diario Oficial de la Federación), ―Acuerdo por el que los integrantes del Comité Técnico
del Programa de Empleo Temporal modifican las Reglas de Operación del Programa de Empleo Temporal para el
ejercicio           fiscal           2011‖,           DOF            31/12/2010,             accessed           at
http://dof.gob.mx/nota_detalle.php?codigo=5173564&fecha=31/12/2010 on February 17, 2010.

                                                                                                               86
         Humanos) must indicate whether local communities have provided their no-objection to
         project implementation. The program is also required to promote the participation of
         beneficiaries through ―social monitoring‖ activities, as in the case of PET.64
        The new methodology to be applied by INFONAVIT in housing origination procedures
         includes criteria on community participation (in the municipal competitiveness index),
         and is piloting the use of ―local social promoters‖ to assess community integration in
         housing developments.

Prior actions under Policy Area 3 also focus on consultation and participation mechanisms
that build on the GoM’s progressive development of climate change mitigation and
adaptation policies. CONAFOR carried out extensive consultations with forest sector
stakeholders during the preparation of the Readiness proposal. Over 70 representatives from the
public sector, academia, national and international civil society organizations participated in
workshops and meetings. This participatory mechanism around the REDD+ was formalized at
the COP16, where the GoM, under the leadership of CONAFOR, presented the Consultative
Technical Council (Comité Técnico Consultivo, CTC), an advisory body of CICC‘s REDD+
Working Group. CTCs are made up of civil society organizations, including academic and
private sector institutions, and indigenous communities‘ representatives. During a CTC REDD
ordinary session held in Mexico City the 9th of June 2011, CONAFOR and the Bank consulted
the forestry policy area included in this operation with 81 participants from forestry
communities, civil society and government. This discussion helped to confirm the institutional
actions supported by this operation.




64
   Operational Rules for the Programa de Prevención de Riesgos en Asentamientos Humanos, accessed at
http://www.sedesol.gob.mx/index/index.php?sec=342

                                                                                                 87
                                  ANNEX 8. Lessons Learned

Adaptation Planning

The focus of the proposed operation on sub-national/local levels in adaptation planning,
and on multi-stakeholder engagement in framing adaptation actions and priorities, reflects
learning from the latest Bank research and the frontier of global discourse on how best to
support climate change adaptation. Participatory research through the Bank‘s social
component of the Economics of Adaptation to Climate Change (2011) and Pro-Poor Adaptation
to Climate Change in Urban Centers (2010) both indicate the important of recognizing the ways
that poor communities are already adapting to climate change. The findings suggest that
delivering resources to the local level to support these strategies can be an effective part of long
term investment for building climate resilience. A key first stage is understanding how
communities are already experiencing and responding to climate change.

Findings from these and other studies indicate that while climate science is limited and
laden with uncertainty, this should not be a constraint on thinking how to build resilience.
Indeed, by drawing on the living experience of communities much can be learned about both the
impacts of climate change and ways in which autonomous adaptation can be supported. The
scientific literature on adaptation stresses that adaptation has, and will continue to have, a
predominantly local dimension, as people adapt to the specific contours of their physical and
natural environments. This is particularly important in Mexico, with its social diversity and
varied geography including two very diverse coastal zones, mountainous areas, lowlands,
forested tropical hills, and drought-prone environments in the north. Thus, local adaptation
solutions developed in a participatory way will be crucial to reflect the practical knowledge of
local communities and their environments on which their resilience depends. Participatory
Scenario Development Approaches for Identifying Pro-Poor Adaptation Options (World Bank
2010) reinforces this message and demonstrates that engaging communities in their own process
of assessing climate risk and developing resilience strategies can develop locally relevant options
for adaptation while informing actors of potential trade-offs and consequences of climate action.

Finally, as the Bank’s work on The Social Dimensions of REDD+ (2011) (including a case
study on Carbon Rights in Mexico, 2010) and the forestry pillar of this DPL show there are
important synergies between pro-poor adaptation and REDD+. The case study analyzes the
current legal framework on ownership rights on forest lands in Mexico, addresses issues related
to benefit-sharing and participation of indigenous peoples and ejidos in REDD+ programs. The
study highlights the implications for indigenous peoples and forest communities in terms of
potential economic benefits, risks, and liabilities. As programs like REDD+ become more
widespread, promoting low-carbon livelihood options that deliver development co-benefits—
particularly in the areas of agriculture, forestry and sustainable land management—will be an
important benchmark for the success and sustainability of climate mitigation. This calls for
participatory approaches that place particular emphasis on robust safeguards and equitable
benefit-sharing opportunities. Work from REDD-net reinforces that REDD+ can contribute to
human adaptation to climate change at different scales through its support to ecosystem services.



                                                                                                 88
For example, REDD+ aims to conserve the global ecosystem service of carbon sequestration and
may contribute to conserving other services (e.g. water regulation, provision of goods).65

Disaster Risk Reduction and Territorial Development

The design of this project takes into account the lessons learned from 25 years of Bank
operations and programs in the area of disaster risk management, as reflected in the flagship
study by the Independent Evaluation Group (IEG), entitled ―Hazards of Nature, Risks to
Development: An Evaluation of World Bank Assistance for Natural Disasters.‖ 66 The report
recommends that the Bank assist its most vulnerable clients to shift from focusing entirely on
disaster response to implementing programs and policies for comprehensively managing disaster
risk. Key lessons from the more than 500 projects that were evaluated are described below:
 Disaster risk needs to be proactively managed rather than dealt with as an exogenous
    shock to social and economic development. Disasters must be managed instead of being
    treated as exogenous shocks to development that cannot be proactively addressed. In addition
    to the IEG study, it has been documented in a wide array of studies and is the underpinning
    of the Hyogo Framework for Action, the international agreement adopted by 168
    governments.67 The GoM has acknowledged that hazard risk is a manifestation of flawed
    development plans, and that managing risk is an integral part of sustainable development.
 Disaster risk management is most efficient when based on robust risk identification. To
    support programs that mainstream risk reduction and prepare for hazard events, the GoM is
    supporting the development of risk atlases in all states. The information available in the
    country is used to support decision making and land-use planning, and as an input for risk
    modeling and the design of projects for prevention and risk reduction.
 Ex ante risk financing mechanisms can help to limit the diversion of funding from
    ongoing development priorities to relief and recovery activities. It is essential for faster
    recovery after a disaster event that a country prepare for how to finance the recovery and
    reconstruction process. When this is not done, the results have often been expensive debt
    instruments, diversion of resources from ongoing development programs, and/or slow and
    insufficient reconstruction financing. Funding mechanisms recognized by this operation will
    strengthen the country‘s risk financing strategy, thus helping to minimize budget
    restructuring and ensure continuity in the implementation of development programs,
    including those financed by the Bank. The immediate availability of liquidity is essential for
    a government to reestablish critical services as fast as possible in the aftermath of a disaster
    event. This can help accelerate recovery, minimize business interruption, which is often the
    highest economic cost associated with disaster events, and secure critical public facilities
    such as those for health services.

65
   REDD+ and Adaptation to Climate Change. UK Department for International Development, 2011. Available on
www.redd-net.org
66
   ―Hazards of Nature, Risks to Development: An IEG Evaluation of World Bank Assistance for Natural Disasters,‖
World Bank Independent Evaluation Group, 2006.
67
   The Hyogo Framework for Action (HFA) was formulated as a comprehensive, action-oriented response to
international concern about the growing impacts of disasters on individuals, communities and national development.
Based on careful study of trends in disaster risks and on practical experience in disaster risk reduction, and subjected
to intensive negotiations during 2004 and early 2005, the HFA was finally adopted by 168 governments at the World
Conference on Disaster Reduction, held in Kobe, Hyogo Prefecture, Japan, January18–22, 2005.


                                                                                                                     89
     Sustainable Community Forest Management

     The design of this project takes into account the lessons learned from Bank operations
     and programs in the forestry sector worldwide, including over 20 years of Bank
     operations and sector work in Mexico. The Bank‘s first Mexican operation in the forestry
     sector was shut down prematurely. The lessons drawn by the Bank included: i) the need for a
     more decentralized and participatory project management; ii) the importance of integrating
     adequate environmental and social assessment during project preparation; and iii) the
     requirement to communicate more effectively with non-governmental organizations, which
     had criticized the Bank for failing to give a more central role to the indigenous communities
     that occupied much of the land in the project area. Following a comprehensive series of
     studies that led to the Forest ESW Report (1995), a new innovative engagement in the
     forestry sector included the Community Forestry series which paved the road to innovative
     approaches including the Environmental Services Project and Biodiversity Endowment Fund,
     the GEF Indigenous and Community Biodiversity Conservation Project, the Mexico-
     Mesoamerican Biological Corridor and the new GEF operation under preparation: Fostering
     Sustainable Competitive Production Chains.

     The major keystones in the sector policy supported by the Bank in the last decade are
     summarized in the successful implementation of the forestry triggers of the Environment
     SAL and DPL series, including: (i) preparation of a long term plan (Programa Estratégico
     Forestal 2025); (ii) updating of the regulatory framework (Ley Forestal); (iii) creation of the
     National Forestry Commission (CONAFOR); (iv) consolidation of the Community Forestry
     program and restructuring of the three main subsidy programs: Prodefor (native forest
     sustainable management), Prodeplan (commercial plantations) and Pronare (reforestation);
     (v) support to forest management certification and best practices; and (vi) introduction of a
     Payment for Environmental Services program. The current initiative to formalize a forum for
     civil society participation builds on the consultations for the Community Forestry project and
     the creation of a Consultative Technical Committee during the design and operation of the
     Payment for Environmental Services project.

     The broad acceptance of the Community Forestry Model indicates that the best
     approach for REDD+ will be to build on the forest communities’ and ejidos’
     organizational and technical capacities to design and implement forest management
     strategies68. The Community Forestry project gained acceptance through a participatory
     approach which helped identify the needs of the forest landowners (over 80% ejidos and
     indigenous communities) and initiate the promotion through local technicians and peer-to-
     peer exchange (“Seminarios de Comunero a Comunero?) to improve the communities‘
     capacities to plan the use of their resources and obtain larger benefits while ensuring long
     term conservation and improvement of their natural capital. CONAFOR has expanded the
     use of the Community Forestry model to approach the nearly ten thousand ejidos and
     communities with forest resources and contribute to the design of their long term communal

68
   However, it is acknowledged a below-average performance in the three plantation program of CONAFOR (which
is not included in this or any Bank operation).

                                                                                                          90
strategies where the different programs should fit in, including: sustainable management,
productive chains, commercial plantations, reforestation and restoration, and environmental
services (water, biodiversity and carbon). Having the consensus of the assembly around a
long-term strategy facilitates the technical and feasibility assessments for each one of the
programs and increases the probability of success and sustainability.

There are also some relevant lessons from other international agencies’ activities. The
first phase of cooperation between the GoM and the French Agency of Development‘s
project (AFD) with JIRA was executed between September 2010 and July 2011 (second
phase is going from October 2011-2012). It aimed to implement a pilot project in the
watershed of the Ayuquila river with the following activities: (i) REDD+ workshop with
local stakeholders, (ii) elaboration of the methodology for a local Monitoring, Reporting and
Verification System (MRV) required to access REDD+ financing, (iii) capacity building
workshops on forest management, (iv) development of the key components for the
systematization of the governance model, and (v) design of the work plan for the forest
component of the JIRA general strategy. This first phase led to the hiring and training of
additional staff, an integration plan, and management actions for the alignment of forestry
and agricultural development policies and public programs. To achieve those objectives, it
was necessary to prioritize validation processes of the Plans of Territorial Management in the
Priority Micro-watershed and also obtain expert staff to carry out an analysis of land use
changes with a scale of 1:50,000 in order to obtain the reference level and deforestation
trends in the JIRA‘s municipios.

Throughout this project, JIRA built a Strategy for Sustainable Management of Productive
Systems and Natural Resources. This strategy displays actions for adaptation and mitigation
of the global climate change, contributing to reduce emissions from deforestation and forest
degradation, and improving the life level of rural population and MRV system‘s design.

While working on the project, awareness arose of the need to consolidate the first phase in
order to obtain important insights for the capitalization and the replication of this technical
and institutional pilot to other watersheds and link the implementation of such project with
the national REDD+ strategy.

Therefore, another project was financed by the AFD with the collaboration of the AECID
(Spanish Agency of International Cooperation for Development) and funds of the European
Union (LAIF) in order to replicate the JIRA model: ―Early REDD+ Actions on priority water
sheds‖. The strategic lines of that project are: planning of the territorial management;
strengthening of communal, institutional and small landowners‘ capacities; social
participation for planning and territorial management; alignment of programs and
fundraising; activation of productive economical flows (markets); and Monitoring, Reporting
and Verification (MRV). An early output of that project is the formalization of two
intermunicipal associations: JISOC (Junta Intermunicipal de Medio Ambiente de Sierra
Occidental y Costa) and JIRCO (Junta Intermunicipal de Medio Ambiente para la Gestión
Integral de la Cuenca del Río Coahuyana), both in Jalisco. JISOC is finishing its constitutive
documents while JIRCO has already done some activities in order to implement REDD+
actions.

                                                                                            91
ANNEX 9. Mexico at a glance




                              92
•                                                                                                                                                                       •
 Mexico at a glance                                                                                                                                                             1    /1
                                                                                                                                                                                 0/31 1

                                                                                        Latin          Upper
Ke y D e v e lo pm e nt Indic a t o rs                                               A merica         middle
                                                                        M exico      & Carib.        inco me           Age distribution, 2009
•2 0 10 )
(
                                                                                                                                                  Male                            Female

P o pulatio n, mid-year (millio ns)                                        108.5           572         1,002           75-79
Surface area (tho usand sq. km)                                            1,964        20,422        48,659
                                                                                                                       60-64
P o pulatio n gro wth (%)                                                     1.0           1.1           0.9
Urban po pulatio n (% o f to tal po pulatio n)                                78            79            75           45-49

                                                                                                                       30-34
GNI (A tlas metho d, US$ billio ns)                                      1,008.0            4,510      14,410
                                                                                                                       15-19
GNI per capita (A tlas metho d, US$ )                                      9,290           7,802       5,884
GNI per capita (P P P , internatio nal $ )                                 15,010          10,951      9,904                   0-4
                                                                                                                                     10                5            0             5          10

GDP gro wth (%)                                                              5.4             6.0          6.0                                     percent of total population
GDP per capita gro wth (%)                                                   4.3             4.9          5.1

( m o s t re c e nt e s t im a t e , 2 0 0 3 – 2 0 10 )

                                  .25
P o verty headco unt ratio at $ 1 a day (P P P , %)                            4               8           ..
                                                                                                                      Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)
P o verty headco unt ratio at $ 2.00 a day (P P P , %)                         8              17           ..
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                              75              73          71
                                                                                                                      60
Infant mo rtality (per 1,000 live births)                                     15              19          20
Child malnutritio n (% o f children under 5)                                   3               4           ..         50

                                                                                                                      40
                                   5
A dult literacy, male (% o f ages 1 and o lder)                              95              92           95
                                                                                                                      30
                                     5
A dult literacy, female (% o f ages 1 and o lder)                             91             90           92
Gro ss primary enro llment, male (% o f age gro up)                           1
                                                                             15               1
                                                                                             18            1
                                                                                                          11          20
Gro ss primary enro llment, female (% o f age gro up)                         1
                                                                             13               1
                                                                                             14            1
                                                                                                          10          10

                                                                                                                           0
A ccess to an impro ved water so urce (% o f po pulatio n)                    94              93          95                               1990            1995         2000      2008
A ccess to impro ved sanitatio n facilities (% o f po pulatio n)              85              79          84

                                                                                                                               •     Mexico
                                                                                                                                                  •    Latin America & the Caribbean


                                                                                                                 a
N e t A id F lo ws                                           19 8 0       19 9 0        2000          2008

(US$ millio ns)
Net ODA and o fficial aid                                       55           156             -58         149          Growth of GDP and GDP per capita (%)
To p 3 do no rs (in 2008):
 United States                                                      9         23              24         103           8
 Germany                                                           15          9              15          39           6
                                                                                                                       4
 Euro pean Co mmissio n                                             0          5               4          22
                                                                                                                       2
                                                                                                                       0
A id (% o f GNI)                                                0.0           0.1            0.0          0.0         -2
A id per capita (US$ )                                            1            2               -1           1         -4
                                                                                                                      -6
                                                                                                                      -8
Lo ng- T e rm E c o no m ic T re nds                         19 8 0       19 9 0        2000           2 0 10        -10




                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                                                  95                             05

Co nsumer prices (annual % change)                            26.4         26.7              9.5          4.2
GDP implicit deflato r (annual % change)

Exchange rate (annual average, lo cal per US$ )
                                                              33.4

                                                               0.0
                                                                           28.1

                                                                             2.8
                                                                                             12.1

                                                                                             9.5         1
                                                                                                          4.4

                                                                                                          2.6
                                                                                                                                                 GDP
                                                                                                                                                             -              GDP per capita



Terms o f trade index (2000 = 100)                             194           106             100            1
                                                                                                           11
                                                                                                                       19 8 0 – 9 0 19 9 0 – 2 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 – 10
                                                                                                                              (average annual gro wth %)
P o pulatio n, mid-year (millio ns)                           67.6         83.2           98.0          108.5                             2.1                     1.6                 1.0
GDP (US$ millio ns)                                        194,851      262,710        581,428      1,034,804                             1.1                     3.1                 2.1
                                                                            (% o f GDP )
A griculture                                                   9.0          7.8              4.2         3.9                              0.8                     1.5                 1.7
Industry                                                      33.6         28.4             28.0        34.3                               1.1                    3.8                 1.3
  M anufacturing                                              22.3         20.8             20.3         18.1                             1.5                     4.3                  1.1
Services                                                      57.4         63.7             67.8        61 .7                             1.4                     2.9                 2.5

Ho useho ld final co nsumptio n expenditure                   65.1         69.6             67.0        64.8                           1.4                        2.3                 2.9
General go v't final co nsumptio n expenditure                10.0          8.4               1
                                                                                             1 .1        1 .7
                                                                                                          1                            2.4                        1.8                  1.1
Gro ss capital fo rmatio n                                    27.2         23.1             23.9        25.0                          -3.3                        4.7                 0.4

Expo rts o f go o ds and services                             10.7         18.6             30.9        30.3                              7.0                 14.6                    4.6
Impo rts o f go o ds and services                             13.0         19.7             32.9        31.8                              1.0                 12.3                    4.7
Gro ss savings                                                22.0         20.3             20.5        24.2


No te: Figures in italics are fo r years o ther than tho se specified. . .. indicates data are no t available.
• A id data are fo r 2008.
a.




                                                                                                                                                                                                  93
                                                                                                                                                                          Mexico

B a la nc e o f P a ym e nt s a nd T ra de                       2000         2 0 10
                                                                                              Governance indicators, 2000 and 2009
(US$ millio ns)
To tal merchandise expo rts (fo b)                           166,121       298,473
To tal merchandise impo rts (cif)                           174,458        301,482              Voice and accountability
Net trade in go o ds and services                           -10,660         -3,009
                                                                                                        Political stability

Current acco unt balance                                     -18,743         -5,632
                                                                                                      Regulatory quality
 as a % o f GDP                                                  -3.2           -0.5
                                                                                                              Rule of law
Wo rkers' remittances and
 co mpensatio n o f emplo yees (receipts)                        7,525          ,91
                                                                              21 4                  Control of corruption

Reserves, including go ld                                    35,520         120,277                                           0        25           50           75        100


                                                                                                     D 2009                       Country's percentile rank (0-100)
C e nt ra l G o v e rnm e nt F ina nc e                                                                                             higher values imply better ratings
                                                                                                     D 2000
(% o f GDP )
                                                                                             Source: Kaufmann-Kraay-Mastruzzi, World Bank
To tal revenue (including grants)                                 18.5          22.7
  Tax revenue                                                      9.1           9.6
P ro grammable expenditure                                        13.4          20.0
P ublic Secto r B o rro wing Requirements                         n.d.          -3.5       T e c hno lo gy a nd Inf ra s t ruc t ure                         2000         2008
B udgetary surplus/deficit                                        -1.0          -2.8
                                                                                           P aved ro ads (% o f to tal)                                         32.8       38.2
Highest marginal tax rate (%)                                                              Fixed line and mo bile pho ne
 Individual                                                          ..              28                         00
                                                                                            subscribers (per 1 peo ple)                                           27             90
 Co rpo rate                                                        35               28    High techno lo gy expo rts
                                                                                            (% o f manufactured expo rts)                                       22.4         19.4
E xt e rna l D e bt a nd R e s o urc e F lo ws
                                                                                           E nv iro nm e nt
(US$ millio ns)
To tal debt o utstanding and disbursed                       150,901        200,081        A gricultural land (% o f land area)                                  55         55
To tal debt service                                          58,509            ,21
                                                                             31 6          Fo rest area (% o f land area)                                       34.3       33.3
Debt relief (HIP C, M DRI)                                         –              –        Terrestrial pro tected areas (% o f surface area)                       ..        8.0

To tal debt (% o f GDP )                                          26.0              19.3   Freshwater reso urces per capita (cu. meters)                    4,090          3,846
To tal debt service (% o f expo rts)                              30.4               9.2   Freshwater withdrawal (billio n cubic meters)                       78.2            ..

Fo reign direct investment (net inflo ws)                         8,1 0
                                                                 1 1         18,679        CO2 emissio ns per capita (mt)                                        4.0        4.5
P o rtfo lio equity (net inflo ws)                                 447        4,169
                                                                                           GDP per unit o f energy use
     Composition of total external debt, 2010                                               (2005 P P P $ per kg o f o il equivalent)                            8.0        7.6

                                                                                           Energy use per capita (kg o f o il equivalent)                      1,505      1,750
                     Short-term,             IBRD, 12,462
                      39,013
                                                                                           Wo rld B a nk G ro up po rt f o lio                               2000          2 0 10
                                                                   Other multi-
                                                                  lateral, 8,651
                                                                                           (US$ millio ns)

                                                                 Bilateral, 4,542          IB RD
                                                                                            To tal debt o utstanding and disbursed                             1
                                                                                                                                                              1 ,444      12,462
                                                                                            Disbursements                                                      1,748       2,449
                                                                                            P rincipal repayments                                              1,330         194
                                                                                            Interest payments                                                    890           1
                                                                                                                                                                              13

                                                      Private,
    US$ millions
                                                      135,413
                                                                                           IDA
                                                                                            To tal debt o utstanding and disbursed                                    –           –
                                                                                            Disbursements                                                             –           –
P riv a t e S e c t o r D e v e lo pm e nt                       2000        2009           To tal debt service                                                       –           –

Time required to start a business (days)                             –               1 3   IFC (fiscal year)                                                 2000         2009
Co st to start a business (% o f GNI per capita)                     –               1
                                                                                    1 .7    To tal disbursed and o utstanding po rtfo lio                     1,234         683
Time required to register pro perty (days)                           –               74      o f which IFC o wn acco unt                                        723          611
                                                                                            Disbursements fo r IFC o wn acco unt                                179         132
Ranked as a majo r co nstraint to business                       2000        2009           P o rtfo lio sales, prepayments and
 (% o f managers surveyed who agreed)                                                        repayments fo r IFC o wn acco unt                                    66          1
                                                                                                                                                                              13
• A ntico mpetitive o r info rmal practices                           ..       19.0
• Co rruptio n                                                        ..       17.8        M IGA
                                                                                            Gro ss expo sure                                                          –           –
Sto ck market capitalizatio n (% o f GDP )                        21.5          38.7        New guarantees                                                            –           –
B ank capital to asset ratio (%)                                   9.6          9.6


No te: Figures in italics are fo r years o ther than tho se specified.                                                                                                    1    /1
                                                                                                                                                                           0/31 1
.. indicates data are no t available. – indicates o bservatio n is no t applicable.



                                                                                                                                                                                      94
Millennium Development Goals                                                                                                                                               Mexico


With selected targets to achieve b etween 1990 and 2015
(estimate clo sest to date sho wn, +/- 2 years)                                                                                      M e xic o


G o a l 1: ha lv e t he ra t e s f o r e xt re m e po v e rt y a nd m a lnut rit io n                              19 9 0          19 9 5             2000                 2008
                                     .25
 P o verty headco unt ratio at $ 1 a day (P P P , % o f po pulatio n)                                                4.5            7.0                 4.8                  4.0
 P o verty headco unt ratio at natio nal po verty line (% o f po pulatio n)                                        53.5            69.0                53.6                 47.4
 Share o f inco me o r co nsumptio n to the po o rest qunitile (%)                                                   3.9            4.3                 3.9                  3.9
 P revalence o f malnutritio n (% o f children under 5)                                                             13.9                 ..            6.0                  3.4


G o a l 2 : e ns ure t ha t c hildre n a re a ble t o c o m ple t e prim a ry s c ho o ling
 P rimary scho o l enro llment (net, %)                                                                               98               98                     97               98
 P rimary co mpletio n rate (% o f relevant age gro up)                                                               88               97                    100              104
 Seco ndary scho o l enro llment (gro ss, %)                                                                          55               58                     73               90
 Yo uth literacy rate (% o f peo ple ages 1 5-24)                                                                     95               96                     97              98


G o a l 3 : e lim ina t e ge nde r dis pa rit y in e duc a t io n a nd e m po we r wo m e n
 Ratio o f girls to bo ys in primary and seco ndary educatio n (%)                                                    97               97                    100              102
 Wo men emplo yed in the no nagricultural secto r (% o f no nagricultural emplo yment)                               37                36                     37               39
 P ro po rtio n o f seats held by wo men in natio nal parliament (%)                                                  1 2             14                      18               26


G o a l 4 : re duc e unde r- 5 m o rt a lit y by t wo - t hirds
 Under-5 mo rtality rate (per 1 ,000)                                                                                 45               37                    26                17
 Infant mo rtality rate (per 1,000 live births)                                                                       36               31                    22                15
 M easles immunizatio n (pro po rtio n o f o ne-year o lds immunized, %)                                              75               90                    96                95


G o a l 5 : re duc e m a t e rna l m o rt a lit y by t hre e - f o urt hs
 M aternal mo rtality ratio (mo deled estimate, per 1     00,000 live births)                                         93              85                     90                85
 B irths attended by skilled health staff (% o f to tal)                                                               ..            86                       ..              93
 Co ntraceptive prevalence (% o f wo men ages 1         5-49)                                                          ..             67                     70               73


G o a l 6 : ha lt a nd be gin t o re v e rs e t he s pre a d o f H IV / A ID S a nd o t he r m a jo r dis e a s e s
 P revalence o f HIV (% o f po pulatio n ages 1  5-49)                                                            0.2                 0.3                    0.3             0.3
 Incidence o f tuberculo sis (per 100,000 peo ple)                                                                 61                 44                     32                17
 Tuberculo sis case detectio n rate (%, all fo rms)                                                               28                  28                     58                93


G o a l 7 : ha lv e t he pro po rt io n o f pe o ple wit ho ut s us t a ina ble a c c e s s t o ba s ic ne e ds
 A ccess to an impro ved water so urce (% o f po pulatio n)                                                     85                    88                     90                94
 A ccess to impro ved sanitatio n facilities (% o f po pulatio n)                                               66                    72                     76                85
 Fo rest area (% o f to tal land area)                                                                        36.2                      ..                  34.3            33.3
 Terrestrial pro tected areas (% o f surface area)                                                                ..                    ..                     ..             8.0
 CO2 emissio ns (metric to ns per capita)                                                                       4.3                   3.8                    4.0             4.5
 GDP per unit o f energy use (co nstant 2005 P P P $ per kg o f o il equivalent)                                7.0                   7.0                    8.0             7.6


G o a l 8 : de v e lo p a glo ba l pa rt ne rs hip f o r de v e lo pm e nt
                               00
 Telepho ne mainlines (per 1 peo ple)                                                                                 6.4             9.7                   12.6             19.4
                                     00
 M o bile pho ne subscribers (per 1 peo ple)                                                                          0.1             0.8                   14.4             70.8
                        00
 Internet users (per 1 peo ple)                                                                                       0.0             0.1                    5.2             22.2
                               00
 P erso nal co mputers (per 1 peo ple)                                                                                0.8             2.6                    5.8            14.4



   Education indicators (%)                                   Measles immunization (% of 1-year                              ICT indicators (per 100 people)
                                                              olds)
  125                                                         100                                                           100
                                                                                                        t-                   90
  100     ~         ~    g    ~                                                                                              80
                                                               75
   75                                                                                                                        70
                                                                                                                             60
   50                                                          50                                                            50
                                                                                                                             40



                                                                                                                                   rL[~
   25
                                                                                                                             30
                                                               25
    0                                                                                                                        20
                                                                                                                             10




    --
         2000     2002       2004     2006      2008
                                                                 0                                                            0
                                                                            1990       1995   2000    2008                         2000       2002      2004        2006      2008




    -
            Primary net enrollment ratio


                                                                     •             •                                                   •   Fixed + mobile subscribers
            Ratio of girls to boys in primary & secondary
            education
                                                                         Mexico    Latin America & the Caribbean
                                                                                                                                       •   Internet users




No te: Figures in italics are fo r years o ther than tho se specified. .. indicates data are no t available.                                                               1    /1
                                                                                                                                                                            0/31 1



                                                                                                                                                                                     95
                      To
                  Los Angeles            115°W                                       110°W                                                  105°W                                           100°W                                        95°W                                90°W                                     85°W
                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                        Albuquerque
                                                                                                                                       To
                                                                      To                                                               Alamogordo
                                                                   Gila Bend
                 Tijuana
                            Mexicali                                                                                                                               UNIT ED STAT ES O F A MER I CA
                 Ensanada
                                                    Sonoita
                                     San                                                                                       Ciudad Juárez                              To
                                   Felipe                                                                                                                                 Midland
                                                                    Nogales                                                    Ri o




                                                                                                                                  Rio rav
                                                                                          Agua
                                BAJA




                                                                                                                                    oG
                                                                                          Prieta                                            ra n                                                                                                                            MEXICO                                           30°N




                                                                                                                                      Br
                                                                                                                                       o           d                             To




                                                                                                                                         a
                30°N         CALIFORNIA                                                                                                                                          San Antonio




                                                                                                                                                   e
                                                    Gu

                                                                         SONORA
                                                                                                            CHIHUAHUA




                                                                                          Yaqui
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To
                                                       lf


                                                                                                                                       Ojinaga                                                                            San Antonio
                                                               Hermosillo                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                          of




                                                                                 S
                                                                                 Si
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Houston


                                                                                   e
                                                                                   er
                                                                                                             Chihuahua                                                         Sal
                                                              C




                                                                                                                                                                                   a
                                                                                     ra
                                                                                     r




                                                                                                                                                                         Sie
                                                                           Guaymas
                                                                al




                                                                                                                                                                                   d
                                                                                                                                                                                   do
                                                         Santa




                                                                                                                                                                           e
                                                                   if




                                                        Rosalia




                                                                                                                                                                          rra
                                                                                          M                              Con
                                                                                                                             chos
                                                                     or




                                                                                            ad




                                                                                                                                                                            a
                                                                                                                                                                                             Laredo
                                                  BAJA                         Navojoa
                                                                                             d                                                                     COAHUILA
                                                                        ni




                                                                                                  re
                                                                                                  r
                                                                                                            Fue
                                               CALIFORNIA                                                       r   te                                                                 Frontera
                                                                           a




                                                                                                                                                                               Ma
                                                   SUR




                                                                                                                                                                                a
                                                                                                                                                                                          NUEVO
                                                                                                   O
                                                                                                   O
                                                               Loreto




                                                                                                                                                                                dre
                                                                                                       cc

                                                                                                                                                                                           LEON                                                   Gu l f of M e xi co




                                                                                                                                                                                 r
                                                                                                        c

                                                                                Los Mochis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   25°N
                                                                                                       id

                                                                                                                                                                                                  Monterrey                Matamoros
                                                                                                        d

                25°N                                                                                                                                   Torreón
                                                                                                        en
                                                                                                        e

                                                                                                                                                                           Saltíllo
                                                                                                             ta SI
                                                                                                              a ll N




                                                                                                                                                                                        Or
                                                                                                                                                                                        Or
                                                                                                  Culiacán
                                                                                                                               DURANGO
                           PAC IF IC                                           La Paz                                                                                                                   TAMAULIPAS




                                                                                                                                                                                         ie
                                                                                                                     A
                                                                                                                     A
                                                                                                                     A



                                                                                                                                  Durango




                                                                                                                                                                                           nt
                                                                                                                         LO
                                                                                                                         LO
                                                                                                                         LO




                           OC E AN                                                                                                                              ZACATECAS




                                                                                                                                                                                            t
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Ciudad




                                                                                                                                                                                             a ll
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Victória
                                                                                                                          A
                                                                                                                          A
                                                                                                                          A




                                                                                                            Mazatlán
                                                               Cabo San Lucas
                                                                                                                                                             Zacatecas             SAN LUIS
                                                                                      AGUASCALIENTES                                                                                POTOSI                               Tampico
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        QUERÉTARO
                                                                                                                                                                                          San Luis
                 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                               NAYARIT Aguascalientes                                     Potosí
                 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      YUCATAN             Cancun
                                                                                                                                                       Ler




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VERACRUZ
                                                                                                                                                        em




                 shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                        Tepic              a                                                                                                                           Merida
                 Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                   GUANAJUATO                                                                          Guanajuato                                        HIDALGO
                 endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                    110°W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Cozumel
                                                                                                                Puerto Vallarta                                    Guadalajara                    Querétaro                                  DISTRITO FEDERAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Pachuca                      TLAXCALA                  Campeche
                                                                                              20°N                                            JALISCO                                                                                                                                                   QUINTANA
                                                                                                                                                                                             MEXICO
                                MEXI C O                                                                MEXICO                                                            Morelia                                                   Jalapa          Bay of Campeche
                                                                                                                                                                                                CITY                                                                                                      ROO
                                                                                                                                                                                           Toluca                        Tlaxcala         Veracruz                                                             Chetumal
                                                                                                                                                   Colima                                                                      Citlaltépetl (5,747 m)
                                                                                                                                                                                          Cuernavaca
                                                                                                                                            COLIMA                 MICHOACAN                                        Puebla                                                      CAMPECHE
                                     SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                                      PUEBLA                                TABASCO
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Balsas                                                          Villahermosa                                       Gulf of
                                     STATE CAPITALS                                                                                                                                    GUERRERO              Chilpancingo                                                      Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BELIZE   Honduras
                                     NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                             um
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Sie                Oaxaca                                   CHIAPAS           ac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        in
                                     RIVERS                                                                                                                                             Acapulco              rra               OAXACA                           Tuxtla
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Mad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           re de                                 Gutierrez
                                     MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                  l S u r Tehuantepec
                                                                                                                                                                                        MORELOS                          Puerto
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             15°N
                                     RAILROADS                                                                      0      100          200             300 Kilometers                                               Escondido                       Gulf of                 GUATEMALA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HONDURAS
NOVEMBER 2008




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Tehuantepec




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD 33447R
                                                                                              15°N                                                                                                                                                              Tapachula
                                     STATE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              San Salvador
                                                                                                                    0     50          100     150        200 Miles
                                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EL
                                                                                                                                       105°W                                                   100°W                                               95°W                                                  SALVADOR
