 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14637

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group


1. Project Data:                                               Date Posted: 05/22/2015

                 Country: Mexico
                          Is this Review for a Programmatic Series ?                                      Yes      No
              Series ID:
        First Project ID : P120170                                                   Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Strengthening Social          Project Costs (US$M):                   300.75               300.75
                           Resilience To Climate
                           Change
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                     300.75               300.75
       Sector Board:       Social Development         Cofinancing (US$M):

             Cofinanciers: Agence Francaise de        Board Approval Date :                               03/01/2012
                           Developpement                      Closing Date:           03/30/2013          03/30/2013
          Sector(s):      Sub-national government administration (50%); Other social services (50%)
          Theme(s):       Participation and civic engagement (40%); Municipal governance and institution building
                          (30%); Other environment and natural resources management (15%); Climate change (15%)
Evaluator:                 Panel Reviewer:         ICR Review                Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
John R. Eriksson           Christopher David       Christopher David        IEGPS1
                           Nelson                  Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 To strengthen social resilience to climate change through policies that will directly and indirectly benefit the poor by
improving: (a) adaptation planning oriented to the state level; (b) disaster risk reduction and territorial development
actions oriented to the municipal level; and (c) sustainable community forest management at the community level
(Program Document (PD) p.42).

IEG adopts this formulation of the Program Objective for the purposes of the present review..

While this DPL was not designated as part of a formal series of operations, it was the seventh in a closely related
sequence of substantial environment and climate change DPLs to Mexico that spanned a 10-year period with a total
cost of almost US$4 billion.

 b. If this is a single DPL operation (not part of a series), were the project objectives/ key
associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

 c. Policy Areas:
 The PD (Annex 2, pp. 72-74) identifies three policy areas as delineated below. For each Policy Area the following are
summarized: Objective; Issues and Obstacles; Prior Actions; Outcomes to be achieved by the ICR date (March 2013);
and Medium-term Outcomes to be reached by December 2014.
Policy Area 1: Strengthen Social Resilience to Climate Change through Long-term Adaptation Planning Oriented to
the State Level.
Objective was Identical to the Policy Area except that the stated objective did not specify the State level.
Obstacles and Issues included lack of policy frameworks and instruments to promote adaptation to climate change at
local levels and to address effects on poor and vulnerable groups as well as lack of funding.
Prior Actions were to include approval of policies to reduce vulnerability among poor and vulnerable groups; creation
of a Technical Advisory Committee to formulate a national adaptation strategy; signing by 3 States of a coordination
agreement to develop a strategy on climate change adaptation for the Yucatán Peninsula; and Congressional
approval of a Pesos 300 million budget to finance climate change adaptation and natural disaster prevention
initiatives.
Outcomes by ICR Date were to include State Climate Change Action Programs involving participation of civil society
and measures to promote social resilience; measures implemented in the Yucatán Peninsula to address
unsustainable tourism growth in coastal areas and provide benefits for indigenous communities.
Medium-term Outcomes envisioned State government "capacity for flexible learning" and the development of “multiple
feedback loops.”
Policy Area 2: Strengthen Disaster Risk Reduction and Resilient Territorial Development Actions Oriented to the
Municipal Level
Objective was identical to the Policy Area except that the stated objective did not specify the municipal level.
Obstacles and Issues included a reactive approach to disaster risk management and insufficient incentives to promote
sustainable urban growth.
Prior Actions were to include creation of a risk prevention program for human settlements; issuance of rules for a local
disaster oriented temporary employment program; incorporation of sustainable development and social resilience
guidelines in selected housing institutions; and improved targeting for natural disaster risk management assistance for
low income farmers.
Outcomes by ICR Date were to include increased number (60) of municipalities implementing risk reduction
institutional strengthening and investment activities and an increased percentage of urban development projects
incorporating risk reduction criteria (74%).
Medium-term Outcomes were to include an increased number of municipalities incorporating risk management
actions with Federal Government support (25) and an increase in the percentage of eligible surface covered by
climate risk insurance (76%).
Policy Area 3: Foster the Involvement of Federal Agencies, Civil Society and Local Actors in Community Forest
Management and Climate Change Strategies in line with the National Forest Emissions Reduction (REDD+) Vision to
build resilient livelihoods in rural and forest areas.
Objective was identical to the Policy Area.
Obstacles included lack of harmonization among agencies with relevant data generation responsibilities; difficulty in
aligning policies and incentives affecting forestry territories; limited involvement of local civil society organizations; and
restricted capacity in sustainable forestry management of municipal entities.
Prior Actions were to include a signed cooperation agreement between the agricultural and natural resource ministries
and establishment of a national multi-stakeholder consultative technical committee and three corresponding State
level councils.
Outcomes by the ICR Date were to include a number of collaboration initiatives between the Forestry Commission or
Agriculture Ministry and subnational governments, active multi-stakeholder participation in policy making, and
increased number of participating communities receiving support from regional landscape agents (33%).
Medium-term Outcomes were to include an increase in the communities “building social organizations” that generate
income from sustainable production of forest goods and services (12% increase).

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
  The Loan became effective, as planned, on 11/29/2012 and was fully disbursed one day later in a single tranche at
the beginning of December 2012 (ICR. p.7, note 5). The operation was closed on 3/30/2013, as scheduled. The ICR
reports that the Agence Francaise de Developpement (AFD) provided co-financing in the form of 300 million euros for
the third policy area, Sustainable Community Forestry (and used the same policy matrix as that of the Bank to monitor
progress). In addition, the operation benefited from a Technical Assistance Grant of 2 million euros provided by AFD
to support, in collaboration with the Bank, municipal and inter-municipal initiatives under the second policy area (ICR,
p. 27). In addition to AFD, GTZ (Germany) and UNDP are said to have supported analytical and advisory work for
preparation of the DPL but the amounts provided are not given (ICR, p.8). The PD mentions coordination discussions
in the forestry sector with several other donors and agencies, including Germany, FAO, IDB, Spain, Norway, U.S.,
UNEP, and the EU, as well as AFD, GTZ, and UNDP (p.34). These various inputs were apparently not a “Technical
Assistance Program” as such, although the ICR refers at one point to “the TA Program” (p.8). However, under a 2010
Grant Agreement (GA) the Bank Administered a grant for US$250,000 from the Spanish Fund for Latin America and
the Caribbean (SFLAC), with the purpose of “Promoting a Multi-sectoral, Multi-stakeholder Approach to Sustainable
Local Development in Mexico’s Poorest Municipalities” (GA, October 28, 2010). Notwithstanding what would appear
to be the relevance of this grant to policy area 2 of the DPL, the grant and what was accomplished are not mentioned
in the ICR.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
Substantial.
Addressing the causes and effects of climate change has been a continuing priority for the Government and the Bank,
which has supported DPL operations with policy objectives of directly or indirectly mitigating or adapting to the effects
of climate change, totaling almost US$4 billion. A larger number of related investment operations, while individually
smaller than each of the DPLs, totaled over US$0.5 billion. The Bank’s Country Partnership Strategy for 2014-2019
gives priority to reduced deforestation as well as to the need for strategies and measures for adaptation to climate
change (pp.38,44,50). The ICR asserts that this DPL is the “first World Bank lending operation whose central, explicit
theme is the reduction of the impacts of climate change and variability on the poor.” (p.6) The ICR also documents
continuing high priority given to addressing climate change by the Government at the time of appraisal and at program
completion. Mexican Government policy and strategy evolved from environmental sustainability as one of four pillars
in the National Development Plan of 2007-2012, to the Special Program of Climate Change of 2009-2012, and to a
mid-term Climate Adaptation Policy Framework in 2011 (ICR, pp.1-2).

However, assessing the relevance of the DPL objective is not straightforward. The overall objective is “to strengthen
social resilience to climate change through policies that will directly and indirectly benefit the poor..." According to the
PD, strengthening social resilience to climate change is “best defined as the ability to withstand , recover from, and
reorganize in response to crises ” (p.6, emphasis in original). The ICR provides no definition of social resilience nor is
there any indication as to how this definition might be measured. The relationships between the overall objective and
the subsequent parts or policy areas of the objective -- "(a) adaptation planning oriented to the state level; (b) disaster
risk reduction and territorial development actions oriented to the municipal level; and (c) sustainable community forest
management at the community level" -- are not made explicit. A possible sequence is that the three specific objectives
are intended to contribute to, or constitute, policies that will “directly and indirectly benefit the poor.” In turn, benefit to
the poor would be expected to increase "ability to withstand, recover from, and reorganize" in response to climate
change crises, i.e., to strengthen resilience to climate change.

The lines and directions of cause and effect are not obvious. Moreover, the coverage of the policy areas is not
comprehensive. There are other populations vulnerable to climate change, such as those in rural non-forested areas
or those in under-served urban areas. While the ICR sets measurable targets for each of the three policy areas,
neither the PD nor the ICR provide any metrics to measure progress toward the overall objective. The PD provides
evidence of disproportionate vulnerability of the poor in Mexico to climate change, including lower capacity to adapt. It
cites a Poverty and Social Impact Analysis (PSIA) conducted for the DPL, which found that poverty correlates with a
higher susceptibility to suffer losses from hazard events and that disaster prone municipalities have been
predominantly rural and indigenous (p.6).

As noted in Section 15 below, one problem cannot be avoided, given the framing of this operation. The outcomes in
terms of direct and indirect impact on the poor are necessarily in the longer term. But this is a one-year operation.
Therefore the targets are stated in annual terms. This is inevitable. But even as one year targets, they and the
corresponding achievements could have been framed more clearly in terms that would indicate their consequences
for the poor (for example, what elements of the strategies and plans would be expected to have an impact on the
poor?; what did the municipal associations accomplish that would have an impact on the poor?, etc.).

The DPL was justified from a macroeconomic perspective. At the time of loan preparation and approval during the first
quarter of March 2012. Mexico was deemed to meet the DPL requirement of OP 8.60 for a sound macroeconomic
framework. The Program Document of January 27 stated that: "Notwithstanding the significant challenges posed by
the current global economic climate, Mexico’s macroeconomic policy framework is considered adequate for the
purposes of the proposed Development Policy Loan."

 b. Relevance of Design:
Modest.
The quality of the results framework is an important dimension of the relevance of design. The ICR Results
Framework Analysis (RFA) does not provide a coherent theory of change or chain of results from the policies and
activities being supported by the operation to outputs, intermediate outcomes, outcomes and impacts. Nine “Policy
Development Objectives” (PDOs) indicators are identified, three for each of the three policy areas, but these vary in
level from output to outcome. No “Intermediate Outcomes” are identified. The relevance of the PDO indicators to the
overall objective of “strengthening social resilience to climate change through policies that will directly and indirectly
benefit the poor” varies from four PDO indicators that are partly or indirectly linked to the poor to the other five
indicators that, as formulated, do not have a bearing on the poor.

Moreover, the emphases and activities supported under each of the three policy areas (PAs) do not show a consistent
pro-poor focus. The only suggestion of benefit to the poor under PA 1 is that there will be “livelihood co-benefits for
indigenous communities” in the Yucatán Region (PDO 2, RFA). No further pertinent information is provided under
PA1. There is greater explicit pro-poor concern under PA 2. The ICR reports that analysis undertaken for the DPL
found that municipalities with a high climate-related hazard tended to be “mostly poor and rural, with large indigenous
populations, more housing with dirt floors, and more female-headed households” (p.5). This information presumably
guided the selection of municipalities for programs under the PA but the methodology for doing so is not provided.

Two additional measures with a visible pro-poor focus are reported as Prior Actions under PA 2 (pp.5-6): (i) changes
to the temporary employment program (“PETi”), to allow beneficiaries to engage in public works to reduce disaster
risk and (ii) better targeting of the climate risk insurance program to low income farmers by lowering the eligibility
criterion to a maximum of 10 hectares, rather than the previous 20 has. (ICR, p.5) But PDO 6 as reported in the ICR
RFA implies that 20 hectares was still the cut-off; moreover, no indication is given of the significance of the 10 or 20
hectare demarcations, which, depending on soil and water conditions, could be considered a “small” or a “large” farm.
The ICR introduces an element of pro-poor concern in PA 3. It states that the “policy objective within this policy area
was to strengthen sustainable community forest management practices in order to enhance the resilience of poor rural
and indigenous communities that derive their livelihood from forests, while at the same time mitigating carbon
emissions from deforestation and forest degradation” (p.6).

Other questions expected to be addressed under relevance of design include (1) whether the resources provided
were sufficient to achieve Program objectives and (2) whether achievement of Program objectives could be attributed
to Program resources (financial, research, technical and policy) as opposed to other potentially contributing factors
(e.g. other donor financed programs, Government financed programs with own resources, and such exogenous
factors as changes in world prices). It could be reasonably expected that the resources provided by the Bank DPL to
the Program would be sufficient to achieve its objectives. Government policy does not permit loan resources to
augment the budgets of implementing agencies. Even so, it could be argued that the financing relieved budgetary
pressure on implementing agencies. Moreover, a technical assistance grant of Euros 200 million was provided by
France (AFD) (plus technical assistance from GTZ and UNDP). In addition Euros 300 million in co-financing was
provided by France (which the ICR implicitly indicates was a loan, p. 27). The ICR does not contain any analysis of
attribution. Some portion of the achievement of Program objectives may have been attributable to the French grant,
but in the absence of more information and analysis it is not possible to be more definitive.

The relevance of design of a DPL is also related to the Prior Actions to be taken by the Borrower before presentation
of a Development Policy Operation to the Bank's Board. According to the ICR, all Prior Actions were met by the
signing of the Loan (at or before the date of effectiveness, November 29, 2012; ICR Data Sheet and p. 7 of main text).
The Prior Actions established conditions for achieving the planned "Outcomes at ICR Date" as stated in the PD. Thus,
Prior Actions and intended Outcomes at the ICR Date should be linked. They are both part of the design of the
operation. The summary below shows the pertinent Prior Actions and intended Outcomes at ICR date for each of the
three policy areas (taken from PD, Annex 2, pp.72-74).

Policy Area 1: Strengthening Social Resilience through Long-term Climate Change Adaptation Planning oriented to
the State Level
Prior Actions: ● An Inter-Ministry Climate Change Adaptation Working Group (i) approved a Mid-Term Adaptation
Policies Framework requiring development of measures for reduction of differential vulnerability and strengthening
local adaptive planning; and (ii) created a Technical Advisory Committee to facilitate participation of experts and key
stakeholders in formulating a national adaptation strategy.
● The States of Yucatán, Campeche, and Quintana Roo signed a “General Coordination Agreement” to develop a
Regional Strategy for Climate Change Adaptation and a Climate Action Fund for the Yucatán Peninsula.
● Congress approved a “National Program for Climate Change Adaptation and Prevention of Natural Disasters,” with
Pesos 300 million to finance climate change adaptation initiatives.
Intended Outcomes to be achieved by the ICR date were to include State Climate Change Action Programs involving
participation of civil society and measures to promote social resilience and measures in the Yucatán Peninsula to
address unsustainable growth of tourism in coastal areas and provide benefits for indigenous communities. These
Prior Actions and intended Outcomes were logically linked.

Policy Area 2: Strengthen Disaster Risk Reduction and Resilient Territorial Development Actions Oriented to the
Municipal Level
Prior Actions: ● Ministry of Social Development (SEDESOL) strengthened delivery of risk reduction actions in
Municipalities through (i) creation of a new program and financing for risk prevention actions in Municipalities; and (ii)
issued operational rules for a temporary employment program for FY 2011 oriented to local disaster prevention
projects.
● SEDESOL’s guidelines for sustainable urban development and increased social resilience were incorporated in
selected programs of housing institutions of the Borrower focused on the poor.
● Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (SAGARPA) strengthened targeting of its natural disaster risk
management and prevention program for low income farmers by lowering the eligibility ceiling for insurance payouts.
Intended Outcomes by ICR Date were to include increased (60) municipalities implementing risk reduction institutional
strengthening and investment activities and an increased percentage of urban development projects incorporating risk
reduction criteria. The linkage between Prior Actions and intended Outcomes is partial. The projected Outcomes do
not mention reducing the insurance eligibility ceiling for low income farmers of specify results to be achieved.
Policy Area 3: Foster the Involvement of Federal Agencies, Civil Society and Local Actors in Community Forest
Management and Climate Change Strategies
Prior Actions: ● National Forestry Commission signed agreements with SAGARPA and SEMARNAT, fostering
information sharing and aligning procedures and incentive programs for agricultural, livestock and forestry issues.
● A national multi-stakeholder consultative technical council and three parallel state-level councils were created.
● The Environment Board of JIRA (Lower Basin of Ayuquila River) approved REDD+ as a strategic instrument for its
multi-annual work program. (REDD+ is the acronym for “Reduced Forest Emissions & Sustainable Forestry
Management”)
Intended Outcomes by the ICR Date include collaboration initiatives between the Forestry Commission and/or
Agriculture Ministry and subnational governments, active multi-stakeholder participation in policy making, and more
participating communities receiving support from regional landscape agents. There is broad linkage between Prior
Actions and intended Outcomes, but Outcomes do not mention state-level multi-stakeholder consultative technical
councils.

Owing to the weakness of the operation’s Results Framework, as well as some gaps in linkages between Prior
Actions and intended Outcomes to be achieved by the ICR date, relevance of design is rated Modest.


 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   This section assesses the achievement of the overall DPL objective and its three policy areas (PAs). The results
obtained under each of the PAs will be examined, including the extent to which they contributed to the achievement of
the overall objective of strengthening social resilience to climate change through “policies that will directly and
indirectly benefit the poor.”

The ICR makes a general claim that “all of the policy actions agreed as the part of the DPL are directly targeted to the
poorest and most vulnerable states, municipalities and communities in Mexico, as well as improving the sub-national
and community capacity for adaptation” (p.16). A problem with this formulation is that the “poorest and most
vulnerable” jurisdictions may mask significant maldistribution of income and wealth within them. Benefiting the poor
would require targeting within those jurisdictions. It is not clear from the ICR whether there was within-jurisdiction
targeting.
Policy Area 1: Strengthen Social Resilience to Climate Change through Long-term Adaptation Planning at State Level.
Efficacy rated: Substantial
Outputs
● A “road map” for a strategy to address unsustainable tourism in coastal areas and livelihood co-benefits of climate
policies for indigenous communities was prepared during consultative workshops with stakeholders from each of the
three Yucatán Peninsula States. The program task team indicates that the road map was a 53-page document
prepared by UNDP, including an analysis of the context and key actors involved, and recommendations for the
preparation of a Regional Strategy for Climate Change Adaptation in the Yucatán Peninsula. (Target: Inclusion in the
above-mentioned Regional Strategy of measures supported by the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources
(SEMARNAT) to address the problem of unsustainable tourism and indigenous community poverty against a baseline
of no strategy.) The ICR cites the challenge, reinforced by the task team, of trying to get the three States, chosen at
appraisal, to work together to produce a joint operational strategy, but claims that significant progress was being made
through “developing information and decision making instruments for subnational adaptation to climate change” and
that the “evidence points out to the completion of a strong and comprehensive strategy in the medium term” (i.e., by
December 2014). The task team reports SEMARNAT that the strategy has yet to be completed but that SEMARNAT
is still working with the Yucatan Regional Commission for Climate Change to complete and implement the strategy.
Resulting Outcomes by ICR Date
● Seventeen States completed Climate Change Action Programs or Plans with specific measures to promote social
resilience (Target: three additional States were to adopt Plans against a baseline of no Plans according to the ICR
Results Framework Analysis (RFA) and Table 1 of the main text (pp.3-4), but the ICR subsequently notes that two
States (Vera Cruz, and Nuevo Leon) and the Federal District had in fact completed their Plans by the time of DPL
preparation (p.11). At the date of the ICR, eight new States (Baja California, Baja California Sur, Chiapas,
Guanajuato, Hidalgo, Puebla, Tabasco and Zacatecas) completed Plans at the time of DPL preparation. Subsequent
to ICR completion, the task team reports that seven additional States completed Plans (equivalent to 53% of the 32
Mexican States, including the Federal District).
The ICR, provides selected examples for the eight additional States at the time of the ICR. The quality and
completeness of Plans varied from State to State, with some Plans thorough and innovative and others limited and
lacking specific targets (pp.11-12, and as might be expected according to the task team). The ICR identifies the plans
of five States as having innovative features, with the Chiapas and Baja California Sur plans being the strongest. The
Chiapas plan, which the ICR views as “a model for incorporating social resilience measures” (p.11) included the
following features:
● Established a Climate Change Commission to create mechanisms of dialogue and participation among state
agencies and social organizations, to ensure that the opinions and needs of civil society are taken into account.
● Actions planned to strengthen capacity of rural and indigenous communities through mechanisms that respect their
culture and organization, building on traditional knowledge for sustainable use of natural resources.
● Issued guidance for vulnerability reduction and disaster risk management.
● Identified vulnerable people in exposed areas and sought their consent for relocation.
The Baja California Sur plan included analyses of vulnerability of:
● Human settlements related to exposure to droughts, sea level rise, and proximity to coastal areas and floods caused
by hurricanes.
● Traditional farmer and fisher communities; as perceived by inhabitants of protected natural areas.
● Unique vulnerability of women to climate change impacts.
● Impacts of climate change on health.
This plan made policy recommendations regarding vulnerability and poverty; identifying risk areas; environmental
education; and adaptation measures.

The ICR notes that the plans of the other six States tended not to define specific targets and not to specify M&E
arrangements. Differences in quality are ascribed to “some extent by the complexity and diversity of each state” and
by the “nature of the consultants/academic institutions/NGOs that produced them.” The National Institute for
Environment and Climate Change (INECC) is said to have learned from the experience that they needed to
strengthen supervision of consultants to “make sure that adaptation measures and indicators are included” (p.12).

● According to the RFA, eight additional States included civil society in the design of social resilience initiatives as
part of their Climate Action Programs/Plans. It is apparent from Ch. 3 of the ICR main text that these were the same
states that completed State Climate Change Action Plans (Target: three new States were to involve civil society
against a baseline of no pre-existing involvement according to the RFA and Table 1 of the main text (p.3). But
according to Ch. 3 (p.11), there was a baseline of two States, and the Federal District). The ICR indicates that a
diverse range of civil society stakeholders participated in consultative workshops and in public consultations on the
final drafts of each of the Plans (pp. 11-15) The task team subsequently provided a table that briefly describes the
nature of civil society participation in the preparation and implementation of Climate Change Action Plans in each of
the additional eight States at the time of the ICR. The team also implies that civil society participation was intentionally
sought in preparation of Plans in each of the seven additional States completing Plans since the ICR.

A key question in an assessment of efficacy for policy area 1 is to what extent the reported outcomes strengthened
social resilience to climate change through long-term adaptation planning at the state level. Social resilience was
likely strengthened through consultative workshops and public consultations on final drafts of Climate Action
Programs that involved civil society in these processes. The ICR and the PD are silent on the definition of “long-term,”
with one exception: an ICR reference to analytical work by the Bank that estimated vulnerability to climate change by
each State to the year 2045 (p.4). But no definition is given of the long-term planning horizon of the plans and
strategies delineated under this policy area. Under policy area 1, almost all of the State Climate Change Action
Programs are said to have included measures to target adaptation efforts to the poorest communities and social
groups that also tended to be those most vulnerable to disaster risk. The ICR reports that the Chiapas Program
sought to engage with indigenous communities and to draw on indigenous knowledge for adaptation. Both Chiapas
and Baja California Sur were said to have had a strong commitment to targeting adaptation measures to women, who
were identified as being particularly vulnerable to climate change. (p.16)

In sum, the State Climate Change Action Plan targets were substantially exceeded, but with varying quality.
Involvement of civil society in the preparation of each plan was reported. However, the Yucatán Peninsula Strategy
was not completed. Poor and vulnerable jurisdictions were identified but little is known about targeting poor individuals
within these entities, except for references to vulnerable social groups and indigenous communities. In view of the
strong performance in completing Climate Change Action Plans at the State level, the efficacy of achieving policy area
1 is rated Substantial.

Policy Area 2: Strengthen Disaster Risk Reduction and Resilient Territorial Development Actions Oriented to the
Municipal Level: Efficacy rated: Modest
Outputs
● According to the task team, of a total of 2,438 municipalities in Mexico, 617 are in the natural disaster "high and very
high risk" category. The ICR reports that “risk atlases” were prepared for 105 municipalities in this category to inform
community decisions on land use and raise local awareness about potential natural hazards (where construction
should not be undertaken). The task team reports that by the end of 2013, 150 municipalities participated in the
Government disaster prevention in human settlements program (PRAH), which involved for the "most part,"
production of risk atlases but also studies on relocation of housing at risk, preparation of building codes, and a small
number of mitigation works. (Target: 60 municipalities with high vulnerability were to implement risk reduction
institutional strengthening and investment activities against a baseline of no municipalities (ICR RFA Indicator 4). The
ICR reports that while demand for the atlases was high, the actual quality of them was “mixed” (ICR, p.13). No
information is provided regarding what “risk reduction institutional strengthening or investment activities” took place. A
zero baseline is questionable since some municipalities undoubtedly had natural disaster prevention policies or
strategies in place before the DPL. No indication is given about the outputs or outcomes of the TA grant of $ 250,000
from the Spanish Fund for Latin America and the Caribbean for “Promoting a Multi-sectoral, Multi-stakeholder
Approach to Sustainable Local Development in Mexico’s Poorest Municipalities.”
Resulting Outcomes by ICR Date
● Ten large housing projects were approved at the time of the ICR, using three criteria: (i) location, (ii) connectivity
and accessibility, and (iii) natural disaster risk prevention. According to the task team, an additional 7 projects were
initiated subsequently, resulting in an achievement over three times the target. (Target: five projects meeting these
criteria against a baseline of no projects.) These projects were estimated to construct 388,000 units and benefit 1.5
million people over the next 15 to 20 years (ICR, p.13). But the number of persons implied per project seems
extraordinarily high at 150,000. On the other hand, the average number of persons per unit is 3.9, which would appear
realistic. The ICR provides no information about what design or risk prevention measures were implemented to insure
that these new housing projects would be less prone to natural disaster damage. The zero baseline may be correct
since the overall program under DUIS (Integrated Urban Sustainable Development) approves, according to the task
team, large affordable housing projects by private developers that have natural disaster risk prevention is a criterion
for approval. The ICR (p. 13) and task team also indicate that this criterion is used for federal backed loans and
subsidies (p.13), both of which had a pro-poor focus designed to benefit individuals earning less than 2.6 times the
minimum wage. Sustainability as well as affordability are criteria in these programs.
● 75.4% of eligible surface was covered by a climate risk insurance program concentrated, according to the task
team, on relatively poorer States. (Target: 74% of eligible surface against a baseline of 69%) The growth in coverage
was slow but did modestly exceed the target. According to the task team, “eligible surface” is based as on the number
of eligible farmers and the amount of land they possess. Prior to the DPL, eligibility had been reduced from 20
hectares per holding to a maximum of 10 hectares. According to the task team, federal subsidies to the program
range from 75% increasing to 90% in more marginalized areas

Since the completion of the ICR, there has been more progress at the input level, including the production of more
atlases and initiation of more large housing projects, but there is little or no any information on what was done by
municipalities with the atlases or what disaster prevention measures were implemented in the housing projects. The
efficacy of achieving policy area 2 is rated Modest.

Policy Area 3: Foster the Involvement of Federal Agencies, Civil Society and Local Actors in Community Forest
Management and Climate Change Strategies
Efficacy rated: Substantial
Outputs
● Three Consultative Technical Councils (CTCs) were established as part of a Prior Action, one each in the States of
Campeche, Chiapas and Quintana Roo, in order to increase the voice of civil society in forestry sector policies and
programs (PD, p.55). The Councils held six meetings, two in Campeche and four in Quintana Roo. The focus of these
meetings was on policies for “Reduced Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation, Conservation of Forest
Carbon Stocks, Sustainable Management of Forest and Enhancement of Forest Carbon Stocks in Developing
Countries” (known by the acronym “REDD+”). (Target: minimum of three such meetings per CTC per year to be held
against no such meetings.) The ICR does not explain why no meetings were held in Chiapas nor only two in
Campeche, when 3 meetings per State-level CTC per year were specified by the pertinent Prior Action (PD, p.74;
although a CTC is reported to have existed in Chiapas- ICR, p.12). The task team reports that subsequent to the ICR,
two more CTCs have been established (Oaxaca and an inter-state CTC for the Yucatán Peninsula), and that the
Chiapas CTC has become "the most active in the country," having convened in March 2014 a widely attended
Forestry Congress on Climate Change. Among the 400 participants, "at least 200" came from forest dependent
communities or Ejidos (collective peasant enterprises). The team gives the following examples of specific actions
undertaken by CTCs:
   coordination by Chiapas CTC of state projects and processes that address climate mitigation and deforestation
   use of Campeche CTC of eligibility criteria for demonstration projects and protocols for decision making
   participation of Yucatan Peninsula CTC in preparing regional strategy for climate change.
● 15.7% of participating communities in “Early Action Areas” for reduced forestry emissions received support from
regional landscape management agents. (Target: At least 33% of participating communities were to receive support
from regional landscape management agents against no communities having received such support.) The ICR does
not explain the nature of the support or the results.

Resulting Outcomes by ICR Date
● Seven operational agreements were established between the National Forest Commission (CONAFOR) and/or
Ministry of Agriculture & Rural Development (SAGARPA) and subnational Governments (state and municipal) in
“Early Action” areas for reduced forestry emissions (“REDD+“). (Target: two agreements against a baseline of no
agreements.) There are five other inter-municipal associations in place (4 in Jalisco and 1 in Quintana Roo), and it is
expected that more will be formed in the state of Oaxaca. The ICR argues that these inter-governmental governance
mechanisms were innovative for environmental management. An example is given of four inter-municipal associations
in the State of Jalisco that brought local governments together with representatives of federal and state-level agencies
to react to complex environmental agendas, meetings that continued despite a change in national level
administrations (p.14). Another such association was established in Quintana Roo and the task team reports that
several are to be formed in Oaxaca. The team also describes JIRA, an inter-municipal council supported under the
program for integrated management of the Auyquila River, which also acts as an inter-municipal association. Activities
by JIRA included (i) a study of climate and soil cover that estimated the amount of carbon lost or stored in ten
municipalities; (ii) a communication campaign that disseminated information on climate change; (iii) the design of an
early action area program for its constituent municipalities; and (iv) training for land owners and users.

These specific multi-stakeholder institutional steps initiated under policy area 3 have moved in a direction leading to
more effective community forest management and climate change strategies.
The efficacy of achieving Policy Area 3 is rated Substantial.


5. Efficiency (not applicable to DPLs):


 6. Outcome:
      Given the severity of climate change issues facing Mexico and the high priority given adaptation to them by the
Government and the Bank, as reflected in their respective strategy documents, the relevance of program objectives is
rated substantial. However, the relevance of design is rated modest owing to weak logic of the Results Framework
and inadequate linkages between Prior Actions and Outcomes to be achieved by the ICR date. The efficacy of
achieving the outcomes for policy areas 1 and 3, related to the State and Community (community forestry
management) levels, is rated substantial, but for policy area 2, outcome is rated modest owing to weak evidence of
linkages between reported results and impact on social resilience of the poor to climate change. Taken together,
these ratings result in Outcome being rated Moderately Satisfactory.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
     While there was evidence of continuing Government commitment at the national level to adapt to and mitigate
climate change, the adequacy of resources and capacities at the state, municipal and local levels were mixed. At the
national level, the new Government included commitments to strengthen social resilience to climate change in recent
policy documents (2012 and 2013) and aimed to complete a new Special Program on Climate Change (PECC) and a
new National Climate Change Strategy, as well as establish a dedicated climate change fund by the end of 2013 (ICR,
p.18).

The likelihood of continuing benefits into the future is different under each of the three DPL policy areas and their
corresponding levels of government:
(1)       At the State level, the three States of the Yucatán Peninsula were publicly committed to completing a
Regional Adaptation Strategy and to establishing a regional fund. Three additional states were preparing Climate
Change Action Programs, including funding.
(2)       At the Municipal level, budget allocations were reduced for disaster reduction and territorial development
actions and the capacity of municipal governments to continue to manage programs into the future was deemed
“mixed” (ICR, p.18).
(3)       Gains made in establishing institutions for more sustainable community forest management “appear
durable,” according to the ICR (p.19), and have “significant” institutional support from the federal, state and municipal
levels. There was also “successful” preparation of a forest emissions reduction (REDD+) strategy for the Yucatán
Peninsula. In the absence of greater specification of sustainability of the results for this policy area, it is difficult to
drawn any robust conclusions.

While there appeared to be continuing Government commitment at the national level, the budget allocation was
reduced to municipalities for the purpose of disaster prevention and management. At the national level, the new
Government included commitments to strengthen social resilience to climate change in recent policy documents
(2012 and 2013) and aimed to complete a new Special Program on Climate Change (PECC) and a new National
Climate Change Strategy, as well as establish a dedicated climate change fund by the end of 2013 (ICR, p.18). But
the capacities to a certain extent at state and especially at municipal levels to mitigate and adapt to climate change
ranged from mixed to limited..(ICR, pp. 15,18,30) Therefore, the overall risk to development outcome is assessed as
moderate.
   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:
    Moderately Unsatisfactory . The present operation embodies two relatively new departures for the work of
Government and the support of the Bank in this area: (1) an exclusive focus on adaptation to climate change
rather than the shared or primary emphasis on mitigation embodied in previous operations; and (2) strengthening
the social resilience of communities to adapt to climate change. The three policy areas of the DPL reflect these
two foci. The DPL also drew on Government experience in implementing its National Climate Change Strategy
(2007) and the Special Program for Climate Change (PECC, 2009). According to the ICR (p.19), a strength of
preparation was the engagement of multiple sectors from the Bank and Government, including environment and
natural resources, agriculture and rural development, urban development and disaster risk management, and
social development.

The ICR and the task team cite a substantial amount of analytical and advisory work undertaken in preparation of
the DPL that helped to identify the prior actions to be completed by approval.
    A key product was a Poverty and Social Impact Analysis (PSIA World Bank, 2011). The PSIA described the
vulnerability of the poorest municipalities and the absence of disaster prevention instruments, such as risk atlases.
According to the ICR (p.30), the PSIA focused on the impacts of climate change according to "distributional
impacts," which likely correspond to analysis by income groups. This empirical evidence reinforced the priority
given by the operation to addressing social vulnerability and to making resilience to climate change a policy
priority (p.30).
 Other related work included two reports on climate change and territorial development in Michoacan State and
support for a Technical Advisory Program on Climate Change Adaptation in cooperation with the Ministry of Social
Development (SEDESOL) and the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (SEMARNAT).
 A Climate Vulnerability Municipal Index and a guide to Sustainable Local Development were supported as well
as assistance to a municipality (Othon P. Blanco Municipality) in formulating a Sustainable Development and
Tourism Strategy.
 A Chilean think tank was engaged at no cost to conduct an analysis of the correlation between municipal levels
of poverty and risks to natural disasters, and advisory support was provided for an impact evaluation of the
Agricultural Ministry's (SAGARPA) natural disaster risk management and prevention program (CADENA),
intended to develop risk financing tools targeted to the poor.
 Training workshops on adaptation planning tools, were co-hosted by the World Bank and the German Agency
for International Cooperation (GiZ) in June and October 2011.

The ICR (p.19) reports that the Bank also drew on the lessons learned from similar environment and climate
change oriented DPLs to Mexico (at least six) as well as elsewhere via the Bank August 2009 Development Policy
Lending Retrospective. The 2012 Retrospective, echoing conclusions of the 2009 Retrospective and 2012 update,
called for further strengthening of results frameworks, including the need to focus prior actions on “critical policy
and institutional actions that drive measurable development results…and…to enhance the linkages between
policies and results,” noting that “there are still important questions about attribution, criticality, and causality that
would benefit from further examination” (p.xiii). In the reviewed Mexico operation, while logical linkages are
apparent between prior actions and intended outcomes, the results chain from these parameters and
corresponding policy areas to the higher level objective to "strengthen social resilience to climate change through
policies that will directly and indirectly benefit the poor” is weak, as already noted in Section 3b of this review. The
time to have addressed this issue would have been during program preparation.

While the amount of analytical and advisory work conducted in preparation of the DPL was considerable, In view
of the significant shortcomings in the Results Framework, Quality at Entry is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.


   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                         Moderately Unsatisfactory


b. Quality of supervision:

   Moderately Satisfactory . The ICR provides little information on supervision of the operation and virtually all of
that information is descriptive with little basis for an evaluative judgment (para 62, p.19). The multi-sector Bank
team is reported to have provided “ongoing implementation support, helping client counterparts progress towards
meeting the operation’s outcome indicators, and providing timely technical support.” A “technical support
program” (also identified as a “Technical Advisory Program” in Annex 8) is said to have been “particularly
valuable” and “included intensive technical support” to the National Institute of Environment and Climate Change
for development of an operational climate change knowledge portal and for stakeholder implementation and
dissemination workshops. However, the objectives, costs and outputs of this technical support program are not
comprehensively described in the ICR.

There is no information in the ICR that would permit a judgment regarding other aspects of supervision, such as
shortcomings in the proactive identification of opportunities and threats, a key function of Bank supervision of
operations. Nor is any indication of the program team’s focus on development impact during implementation; or of
the adequacy of supervision inputs and processes, such as number and composition of supervision missions; nor
of the candor and quality of performance reporting.

The task team explains that given the short time frame for implementation and the changes in institutional
alignment of implementing agencies (IAs) following Presidential elections, only one supervision mission took place
in April 2013, This was a 3-person multi-sectoral team that met with representatives of all the key IAs. In addition
to the supervision mission, two additional implementation support missions were conducted in May 2013 that
focused on disseminating analytical outputs of the technical assistance program, and in June 2013 that focused
on strengthening monitoring and information systems for climate change adaptation, as well as providing technical
assistance for the development of a climate change knowledge portal.

Support for analytical and advisory work from three other donor entities (AFD, GTZ and UNDP) is mentioned by
the ICR. This work is reported to have dealt with reducing the social impact of climate change (para 18, p.8) but no
explicit assessment is made of the extent or quality of coordination between the Bank and other donors.

While moderate shortcomings in the ICR treatment of Bank Supervision Quality remain, in view of the explanation
of the missions undertaken during implementation (Supervisory and Implementation Support), this factor is rated
Moderately Satisfactory.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   Moderately Unsatisfactory . The policy actions agreed under the DPL were part of the Government’s own
agenda regarding climate change adaptation and disaster risk management. According to the ICR, this helped to
ensure support at Government and political levels (pp.19-20). At the time of appraisal the national Government,
through its key agencies, was reported to have had a strong record of performance in the fields of environment
and climate change as well as significant relevant technical and institutional capacity (PD, p.iii).

The Government also played several specific roles with regard to the DPL. The Secretariat of Finance and Public
Credit (SHCP) signed the Loan Agreement on behalf of the Government (LA, p.5).. The National Banking
Institution (Nacional Financiera or NAFIN) and SHCP verified the quality of progress monitoring data collected by
the implementing agencies before being shared with the Bank team (ICR, p.9). No mention is made of other of
other types of interaction during implementation between central and relevant line entities, such as periodic
progress monitoring meetings.

Several line ministries and entities were involved in implementing different aspects of the program. While the ICR
was not clear about a lead line ministry, the task team is clear that the Ministry of Environment and Natural
Resources (SEMARNAT) was the "lead implementing agency." However, there is no evidence that the
Government ensured adequate coordination among the various levels of government involved, especially at the
State level, or among the implementing agencies in line ministries and other entities. On the contrary, the ICR
indicates that a main factor affecting the achievement of several DPL outcomes was the difficulties encountered in
coordinating or motivating coordination among multiple sub-national actors (cf. pp.4,8,12,20,31). According to the
ICR, these difficulties were responsible for the:
--delay in the preparation of the Yucatan Peninsula Adaptation Strategy, which required cooperation among three
different state governments; and
--mixed content of the State Climate Change Action Programs, which required cooperation between different state
and federal entities (p.8).
Notwithstanding the commitment of the Government to taking action on climate change at the policy level, in view
of apparent shortcomings of coordination and lack of related information, Government Performance is rated
Moderately Unsatisfactory .


   Government Performance Rating :                              Moderately Unsatisfactory


 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    Moderately Satisfactory . The ICR gives importance to inter-sectorial coordination as an “important determinant
of the operation’s success” (p.20). The leadership role of SEMARNAT followed from its responsibility for
overseeing the implementation of the Special Program for Climate Change (PECC), preparing Mexico’s
Communications to the UNFCCC, and its lead role in defining the climate change adaptation agenda. But the role
of this Ministry as compared to other implementing entities is not entirely clear. Other key entities with whom
SEMARNAT had to coordinate, included the Under-secretary of Urban Development (formerly under the Ministry
of Social Development, and at the time of the ICR under the Ministry of Urban and Agrarian Territorial
Development), which is said to have played a “crucial role in successfully implementing and monitoring priority
programs and initiatives” agreed under the Sustainable Urban Development Guidelines (PRAH) and the Ministry
of Agriculture and Rural Development (SAGARPA), which collaborated directly with the Bank on the evaluation of
its climate risk insurance program (ICR, p.20). Other key implementing entities included the National Forestry
Commission (CONAFOR) and the National Institute for Ecology and Climate Change (INECC). There is no
information on what mechanism(s) were employed by SEMARNAT in its lead coordinating role, or what sanctions
it might have been empowered to employ. As noted in the previous section, coordination among implementing
agencies was reported to be problematic.

Substantial implementation of this operation was carried out at the State and municipal levels. The performance of
eight States in completing Climate Change Action Plans was mixed, as reported above in Section 4 for policy area
1 (no pertinent information is available for the other 9 States with Plans). The technical and financial capacities of
Mexico’s 2,441 municipalities were, on average, extremely limited, with only 10 qualified to collaborate with
CONAFOR to customize and implement at the local level the national strategy to reduce emissions from
deforestation and forest degradation (“REDD+,” see Section 4 above, under policy area 3). The National Institute
for Ecology and Climate Change (INECC) apparently had a role in coordinating State and Municipal Climate
Change Action Programs and Plans. The only reference to, and implied assessment of, this role by the ICR is as a
“lesson” for INECC to “emphasize the importance of focusing on adaptation measures” (p.20). The task team
notes that in the Mexican system while implementing agencies at the Federal level play an "important role in
supporting and guiding the activities of sub-national entities," they have "limited authority in the coordination of the
activities of sub-national entities ....."

The ICR provides no description or assessment of other performance criteria for implementing agencies, including
adequacy of stakeholder consultations; readiness for implementation, including appointment of key staff; fiduciary
performance; and timely resolution of implementation issues. There is some reference to M&E functions of the
agencies, namely, that “SEMARNAT/INECC, SEDESOL/SEDATU, SAGARPA and CONAFOR conducted
effective overall M&E of the actions included in the Policy Matrix ….. the quality of the data collected was verified,
as it had to be formally delivered to SHCP and NAFIN ….” (p.9). However, evidence of the timeliness and quality of
M&E reporting by these agencies to the central entities is not provided. The only reference to timeliness is an ex
ante assessment that SAGARPA “was well placed to provide timely information on progress towards the agreed
outcome indicator” (italics added, p.20),

The ICR notes that the Agence Francaise de Development (AFD) concluded that the collaboration agreement
between the National Forestry Commission and the Ministry of Agriculture worked well, resulting in an improved
policy dialogue between the two institutions. AFD also is reported to have concluded that the initiative to foster a
landscape approach to forest management through inter-municipal coordination in Jalisco, followed by Yucatán,
was effective. This institutional collaboration included the joint administration of federal funds, which was viewed
as a significant development in Mexican governance. (Annex 5, p. 27)

While identification of the overall coordinating responsibility or powers in the Government is not clear, based on
the strength of the AFD observations, Implementing Agency performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory .


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                      Moderately Satisfactory
   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The ICR states that the M&E system of the DPL program was based on the operation’s Policy Matrix ( PD, Annex
2, pp.72-74), which in turn was aligned with selected indicators in the 2007-2012 National Development Plan. Those
indicators were drawn from the 2009-2012 Mexico Special Program for Climate Change and Government
communications to the UN Framework Convention for Climate Change. This Special Program specified certain
measures that were to be supported by the DPL and the related TA activities. However, the ICR is not clear as to
whether there was a separate “M&E system” for the DPL or whether M&E for the Government’s M&E system was
used by the DPL The ICR does not provide any assessment of the strengths and weaknesses of the Government
M&E system as embodied in the National Development Plan. Apart from a statement in the ICR M&E Design section
that “the impacts, vulnerability and climate change adaptation in different socio-economic sectors” are to be assessed,
there is no indication that impact on the poor was to be measured or an explanation as to how it would be done (p.8).

With one major exception, the M&E indicators reflect the overall DPL objective reasonably well. The main exception
is the lack of any indicator or indicators to measure direct and indirect benefit to the poor. Another issue is that while
the overall PDO implies a nationwide scope, the policy areas are “State Level,” “Municipal Level,” “communities” and
“Federal Agencies;” none of which are identified specifically, except that indicators for policy area 1 identify the three
Yucatán Peninsula States. In all cases indicators were measurable in quantitative terms and specified achievements,
targets and baselines. They are for the most part consistent with those shown in the PD. Targets and baseline
indicators for the medium-term outcomes, to be achieved by December 2014, are presented in the Program
Document (Annex 2) but not in the ICR. They tend to be framed in broad terms although consistent in substance with
the short-term (one-year) outcomes.

There is no discussion in the ICR of intended data collection methods or attribution of DPL resources or TA to the
achievement of policy area outcomes or to the overall DPL objective. The various ministries (Environment,
Agriculture, Social Development) and the National Forest Commission were to be responsible for data collection and
analysis at the national level, with validation undertaken by the Nacional Financiera and the Finance Ministry. The
National Institute of Ecology and Climate Change was to assist States and municipalities in data collection and
analysis.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   The Bank monitored progress under the DPL through regular supervision. The various lead sectorial institutions
conducted M&E of the actions specified in their sectorial areas of the Policy Matrix. These entities also monitored
technical assistance funded by other donors, such as AFD, and collected pertinent data from the various units within
the institutions and from other participating agencies. The quality of the data collected was verified by the Ministry of
Finance and the National Banking Institution (Nacional Financiera), before being subsequently shared with the Bank
team.

Evidence reported in the ICR indicates that the outcomes to be achieved by the date of the ICR were consistently
measured, although, as pointed out in Section 4 above, some of these “Outcomes” are more appropriately viewed as
“Outputs.” The ICR Results Framework Analysis (RFA) suggests that the collection of planned baseline data and
indicators of achievement was carried out. But there would appear to have been no one agency responsible for overall
M&E. The National Forestry Commission faced difficulties in collecting M&E data from decentralized agencies and
associations at the subnational levels of governments (ICR main text, p.9). As mentioned previously, the Ministry of
Finance and Nacional Financiera played a vetting role that presumably introduced some accountability to relevant line
ministries and other agencies for provision of M&E data in their respective areas of responsibility. The ICR provides
no separate assessment of the reliability and quality of M&E data.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   According to the ICR (p.9), the National Institute for Ecology and Climate Change (INECC), Ministry of Agriculture
and Rural Development (SAGARPA), and Ministry of Agricultural, Territorial and Urban Development (SEDATU) used
the M&E system to monitor the programs they supported (preparation of State Climate Change Action Programs,
Program for Prevention of Risks in Human Settlements (PRAH) and the component for Natural Disasters Response in
the Agriculture Sector CADENA). The ICR (p. 9) speculates that evaluation information is “likely”to be used to inform
decision-making but provides no evidence that it is actually being used for this purpose.

Given the role of the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit and the Nacional Financiera in validating monitoring
information, and assuming the credibility and quality of the Government M&E system, the quality of M&E is rated
Substantial, notwithstanding the weak treatment of M&E utilization by the ICR.
   M&E Quality Rating: Substantial


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
As a DPL operation, Safeguards were not triggered. The ICR did not assess fiduciary compliance.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:


 c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
Under this heading, the ICR contains an extensive discussion of actions that focus on adaptation to, rather than
mitigation of, climate change and on reducing the vulnerability of the poor to climate change (pp. 17-18). The ICR
focuses particularly on a new National Climate Change Strategy and Climate Change Law passed in 2012. The
following is a highly condensed summary of the ICR discussion.
Climate Change Law of 2012 Contains a chapter on adaptation to climate change that commits the Government,
among other things, to: reducing societal vulnerability, strengthening resilience of human and natural systems, and
minimizing likely risks and damage; promotion of social participation and consultation in preparation of planning
instruments, including risk atlases for planning risk reduction measures; establishes a Climate Change Fund for
mobilizing domestic and international resources.
The National Climate Change Strategy of 2012 Called for increasing resilience of settlements, strengthening early
warning systems, disaster risk prevention, potable water provision, gender concerns, social participation and
preservation of indigenous adaptation knowledge.
Mexico Fifth National Communication to the UNFCC of 2013 Recommended vulnerability assessments to prepare
adaptation measures that consider unique geographical, demographic, and socio-economic conditions .
Municipal Climate Change Action Plans Twenty plans prepared in 2012 with assistance from the British Embassy for
municipalities with limited capacity. Initiative to continue for 2 years, but not clear if resources sufficient to support all
200 registered municipalities.

Each of these measures is consistent with the overall objective of the DPL to strengthen social resilience to climate
change through policies that will directly and indirectly benefit the poor. However, given the emphasis of the DPL on
policies, it is not clear that all of these measures were unintended impacts of the DPL or that they can be attributed to
the DPL. While it may have been on the drawing boards at the time the DPL was being prepared, the Climate Change
Law of 2012 is new in the sense that there apparently was no predecessor law (for example, no climate change law is
mentioned in the PD). But there is no specific evidence linking the new law to the DPL. The 2012 National Climate
Change Strategy gave new emphasis to adaption and vulnerability, but it may well have been anticipated since it
superseded a 2007 National Climate Change Strategy. The Municipal Climate Change Action Plans may have been
unanticipated since they were not mentioned in the PD, but the ICR does not explain how the DPL might have
influenced this initiative (or the British support).

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                                ICR                  IEG Review                      Reason for
                                                                                          Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Satisfactory                Moderately               The relevance of program objectives is
                                                           Satisfactory             rated Substantial but the relevance of
                                                                                    design is rated Modest. The efficacy of
                                                                                    achieving the outcomes for policy areas
                                                                                    1 and 3 is rated Substantial but for
                                                                                    policy area 2 efficacy is rated Modest.
                                                                                    Therefore, there are moderate
                                                                                    shortcomings in development outcome,
                                                                                    resulting in a Moderately Satisfactory
                                                                                    rating.
          Risk to Development Negligible to Low             Moderate           National level commitment appears firm
                     Outcome:                                                  for the most part, although the
                                                                               reduction in budget allocations for
                                                                               disaster reduction and territorial
                                                                               development at the municipal level is
                                                                               not explained. The nature of progress
                                                                               under the community forestry
                                                                               development area is not clear.
                                                                               Considerable variation in capacity at
                                                                               state and municipal levels is apparent.

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Moderately         While aspects of Quality at Entry and
                                                            Satisfactory       Supervision were positive, a weak
                                                                               Results Framework and reported poor
                                                                               coordination among implementing
                                                                               agencies resulted in moderate
                                                                               shortcomings in Bank Performance..
                                                                               Application of the Harmonized Criteria
                                                                               agreed between IEG and OPCS yielded
                                                                               a Moderately Satisfactory rating for
                                                                               overall Bank Performance.

       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Moderately         Although tempered by observations of
                                                            Satisfactory       another donor, indication of weak
                                                                               coordination among implementing
                                                                               agencies and lack of information about
                                                                               other aspects of performance resulted
                                                                               in moderate shortcomings in Borrower
                                                                               Performance. Application of the
                                                                               Harmonized Criteria agreed between
                                                                               IEG and OPCS yielded a Moderately
                                                                               Satisfactory rating for overall Bank
                                                                               Performance.

                Quality of ICR:                             Unsatisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

 13. Lessons:
  The ICR identified ten lessons, a number of which were framed in program-specific terms. IEG has selected five
lessons of applicability to similar future operations and modified language that was specific to this DPL.

(1) Sustained engagement on the part of the Bank is critical to effectively engage in reform processes over the
medium and long term , particularly in such areas as environment and climate change . This engagement often
requires the deployment by the Bank of a range of available financial instruments, including investment lending,
Development Policy Loans as well as Clean Technology Fund (CTF) concessional financing, GEF and other grants.
The Bank’s program of financial and knowledge services can also include credit enhancement, hedging swaps,
catastrophe risk management and advisory services.

(2) Since virtually every socio -economic sector is affected by climate change and can affect climate change
policies, the analytical framework will need to encompass a sufficiently wide range of sectors . For example, aside
from environment, agriculture, forestry, urban, territorial and social development, the role of education in creating
curricula that address climate change adaptation should be analyzed and appropriately modified.

(3) The creation of stakeholder forums at national and subnational levels presents an opportunity to share
information and generate feedback on adaptation measures . State, municipal and local community level
consultative forums, both general and sector-specific, with significant civil society participation, can serve as
mechanisms for generating feedback on the quality and sustainability of climate change adaptation tools and
measures, providing a participatory feedback mechanism.

(4) Prior actions should be limited to a few key policy and institutional reforms . Without such a focus,
implementation by the Borrower and supervision by the Bank risk losing sight of the operation’s priorities and its
intended outcomes.
(5) Given the innovative nature of the actions agreed , a Development Policy Loan may be an appropriate
financing instrument . An objective like enhancing social resilience is based to a significant degree on innovative
arrangements for policy actions and subsequent implementation. Because of this innovative characteristic, a
stand-alone DPL (as opposed to a programmatic series DPL) may be a more appropriate approach, allowing for a
greater degree of flexibility in policy experimentation.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No

Why? This is the seventh environmental DPL for Mexico. Taken together, these DPLs raise some important issues
about the nature and magnitude of the development results they have yielded as a group. They also raise serious
issues about the logic of their results frameworks and how Development Program Objectives and their corresponding
targets, baselines and achievements are defined and measured. An additional question is whether a different choice
of instrument would be more effective than a stand-alone DPL (e.g. a series DPL or an investment loan). Just the
sheer cost of these operations (at almost US$4 billion) would justify a PPAR. Therefore, a PPAR of these operations
as a group or cluster should have high priority.




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The analysis of the ICR adheres consistently to the three DPL policy areas (PAs). However, the ICR’s assessment of
evidence is restricted to those largely output level indicators for which targets and baselines are identified in the
Program Document. The ICR does not attempt to assess what the workshops, roadmaps, atlases, plans, strategies,
agreements, and municipal associations accomplished, even at an intermediate level, toward achievement of the
overall DPL objective of direct and indirect benefit to the poor. Such an assessment might have been included in the
section on p. 15, “Justification of .Overall Outcome Rating,” but was not.

One problem cannot be avoided, given the framing of this operation. The outcomes in terms of direct and indirect
impact on the poor are necessarily in the longer term. But this is a one-year operation. Therefore the targets are
stated in annual terms. This is inevitable. But even as one year targets, they and the corresponding achievements
could have been framed more clearly in terms that would indicate their consequences for the poor (for example, what
elements of the strategies and plans would have an impact on the poor?; what did the municipal associations
accomplish that would have an impact on the poor?, etc.).

The ICR treatment of Bank and Borrower Performance (ICR Section 5) is very brief and largely descriptive, providing
little basis for an assessment of quality by addressing the pertinent evaluation ranking criteria found in the OPCS ICR
Guideline. In particular, little is said about a main instrument of supervision: namely, supervision missions, except that
the Agence Francaise de Developpement (AFD) participated in “joint AFD-WB implementation support missions” (p.
27). There is no indication of the number of missions or their functions. Regarding Implementing Agency performance,
the relevant ICR section is not clear as to which Borrower entity had overall lead coordination responsibility for the
operation (p.20.). Section 5 of the ICR sheds little light on the quality of coordination among participating Government
entities. Annex 5 of the ICR (“Comments of Co-financiers”) provides useful information on the role of the AFD but
does not directly assess the extent and quality of coordination among donors, including the role of the Bank in the
coordination process.

The M&E section of the ICR is skimpy (pp.8-9). Furthermore, the ICR is not clear as to whether there was a "DPL
M&E system" or whether the DPL system was the Government's system. It could be inferred that the Bank relied on
the Government system and that there was no DPL M&E system as such. The ICR statement (p.9) that “evaluation
data is likely to be used to inform decision-making” is a hope and does not constitute evidence of M&E utilization.

For some achievements, it is impossible to get a sense of their significance because the nationwide magnitude in
absolute terms is not given. For example, on p. 5 it is noted that: “…only 21% of municipalities with high levels of
hydro-met exposure had a disaster response plan, 61% had a civil defense program, while little more than half
reported having hazard maps.” An indication of the total number of municipalities with high levels of exposure would
have added perspective to these percentages. Similarly, on p. 13 it is reported that since inception of the operation,
177 risk atlases were prepared in total, of which 105 were prepared for Municipalities facing high or very high levels of
exposure, surpassing the original target of 60. What is not indicated is the number of municipalities that could
potentially have benefited from these atlases.

The information about housing programs supported under policy area 2 is incomplete. Criteria for ensuring disaster-
resistant housing and standards to be met are not mentioned. How large a dent in the total need for sustainable,
natural disaster-proof housing would achievement of the DPL-related housing development targets have made? In
discussing the climate risk insurance program for low-income farmers (CADENA), the ICR (p.6) states that the
minimum hectares for a farmer to be eligible were lowered from 20 has. to 10 has. The correct interpretation must be
that the maximum was lowered to 10 has.

One inconsistency made it difficult to assess achievements. Under policy area 1, the Results Framework Analysis and
Table 1 in the main text indicated a baseline of no pre-existing State Climate Change Action Plans, but according to
the ICR (Ch.3, p.11), there was a baseline of two States, plus the Federal District (p.11). The same inconsistency is
apparent in the description of the participation of civil society in development of the plans. The discussion of the extent
and contribution of civil society would have been more convincing if concrete examples had been provided. A
weakness in civil society participation in the Chiapas Consultative Technical Council is apparent but not explained by
the ICR (p.14).

The ICR indicates that Government comments have been incorporated in the main text of the ICR (p.26). Apart from
two brief comments attributed to the Government (one general and the other dealing with process, p.26), there is no
independent Borrower ICR. It would have been useful to have the borrower’s perspective on the substantive issues
raised above.

Albeit with gaps, the ICR is well-organized and its structure is consistent with OPCS guidelines. The writing is
relatively concise although it tends toward hyperbole in its use of adjectives. It would have been helpful to have
indicated more frequently the full names (in English) of the several Government entities next to their abbreviations at
more than one juncture. In some places, clarity suffered. For example, the following passage is difficult to disentangle:
“Active social participation in REDD+ policy making at sub-national level trough [sic] the operation of local
CTC-REDD+” (ICR, pp. 4, 32).

The role and results of the TA elements are not clear. AFD provided a TA Grant of Euros 2 million to support, in
collaboration with the Bank, municipal and inter-municipal initiatives under the policy area 2 (ICR, p. 27). AFD, GTZ
(Germany) and UNDP are said to have supported analytical and advisory work for DPL preparation but amounts are
not given (p.8). The PD mentions coordination discussions in the forestry sector with a number of other donors and
agencies (p.34).These various inputs were apparently not officially known as a “Technical Assistance Program,”
although the ICR refers once to “the TA Program” (p.8). Under a 2010 Grant Agreement (GA) the Bank Administered
a grant for US$250,000 from the Spanish Fund for Latin America and the Caribbean (SFLAC), for “Promoting a
Multi-sectoral, Multi-stakeholder Approach to Sustainable Local Development in Mexico’s Poorest Municipalities.” In
spite of the grant’s apparent relevance to DPL policy area 2, the ICR does not mention the grant or what was
accomplished (above information from the GA).

Some information gaps might have been addressed had the Program TTL responded to an IEG request for a meeting
or phone call. IEG made three attempts to communicate with the TTL (two by email and one by phone) over a three
week period. There was no response. As noted at several points above, information provided by the task team in its
response to an earlier draft has been incorporated. Some of this information could have been provided by the TTL or
in the ICR. It addresses some but not all of the questions raised above.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Unsatisfactory
