Report No. PID8283
Project Name                     Zambia-Mine Township Services (+@)
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Urban Water Supply
Project ID                       ZMPE64064
Borrower(s)                      Government of Zambia
Implementing Agency              AHC-Mine Municipal Services Ltd.
Ministry of Local Government & Housing
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                February 9, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         February 22, 2000
Projected Board Date             May 25, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Support for the privatization of the mining sector.
The Govemment of Zambia is unable to undertake the large investments required
to make ZCCM more efficient, to enable it to compete internationally and
again be a significant employer and force for economic growth for the
country. Zambia's economic prospects are therefore tied to the
privatization of ZCCM and the sale of its mine assets. The successful
privatization of ZCCM's mining assets will be virtually complete within the
fist half of 2000. The delay however in finalizing transactions with Zambia
Copper Investments (ZC1), a subsidiary of Anglo American Corporation, among
others, has led to a decline in real
GDP by about 2t in 1999. ZCCM's operational and financial problems and the
delays in completing the privatization of remaining major mining assets have
cost the country dearly in terms of prolonged economic recession, severe
stress in businesses dependent upon ZCCM, and serious delays in the
revitalization of the copper sector. GRZ/ZCCM have made considerable progress
in the sale of the mining assets. A significant portion of ZCCM's assets
(including the Kansanshi, Chibuluma, Luanshya/Baluba, and Chambishi mines and
the power division) have been sold to different investors. Another large
proportion will be sold soon, following the signing in December 1999 of a
sales agreement between ZCCM/GRZ and a ZCI led consortium that includes IFC
and CDC, that covered two of the remaining four major mining assets and a
contract that provides for the management by Anglo American Corporation of
the metallurgical assets of Nkana. Finally, ZCCM/GRZ have entered into
negotiations with a consortium consisting of First Quantum of Canada and
Glencore Intemational for the sale ofthe remaining mining assets of Nkana and
the Mufitlira division.
(b) Lack of public sector institutional capacity to manage service delivery
efficiently
Infrastructure and service provision in urban Zambia achieved marked



improvement during the 1960s and 1970s, but since the early 1980s there has
been significant decline in public sector provision. As the overall
performance of the economy has declined, infrastructure maintenance in the
urban areas managed by municipal councils has been neglected. Many council-
township residents do have access to piped water, but the poor maintenance
and insufficient water treatment has rendered supplies generally unsafe to
drink, particularly during the rainy season. The poor performance of the
municipal councils is well known and all agree that they are not in a
position to assume additional responsibilities for mine townships, which are
self-contained and have been fully supported by ZCCM, and sheltered from the
maintenance decline of the majority of the country's infrastructure.
The Government has recognized the deterioration in the provision of urban
services, particularly water and sanitation, and has embarked on a policy
reform in the water sector whose main objectives are: (i) the provision of a
sustainable level of service, and (ii) the recovery of full cost wherever
possible. These were clearly enunciated in the National Water Reform Policy
Statement in 1994 and enacted in the Water and Sanitation Act of 1997.
These reforms include the establishment of the National Water Supply and
Sanitation Council (NWASCO) as a sector regulator.
Duality of the Local Systems and the need for Integration of the provision of
urban services in municipalities.
The privatization of ZCCM and the associated sale of ZCCM housing to the
miners will have a profound impact upon economic activity and urban
development in the Copperbelt. The expected injection of large amounts of
capital into the mines as a result of the privatization will stimulate growth
in the Copperbelt and this will have a direct effect on the quantity and
quality of urban services in demand. The need to put in place a transitional
arrangement to oversee the urban/municipal services and reassure the new mine
owners of the continuation of these services, cannot be overemphasized. Any
transitional arrangements that need to be put in place should also set the
stage for transferring at least the ownership of the water and sewer service
assets to the municipal authorities taking into account that currently, there
are two separate systems operating in the area with unequal levels of
service. It therefore, implies that, there is a need for an integration
strategy that will become the cornerstone of future urban development
strategy in the Copperbelt.
In this regard, the Government's reform policy relies heavily on market
forces to bring about significant institutional and organizational changes in
the way urban services are provided to the mine and council townships. These
developments are transitional in nature, but are expected to have effect very
rapidly. Market forces will also dictate the level of services that will
prevail for the various income groups. While physical integration of these
services is not necessarily appropriate, the unified management of the water
and sewer systems (over the medium term), in a resource constrained
environment, would be an expected and desirable outcome.
2. Objectives
The main objective of the Mine Township Services Project (MTSP) is to
facilitate the competition of the Privatization of ZCCM (Zambia Consolidated
Copper Mines) by supporting the provision of efficient and reliable water
- 2-



supply services, wastewater services and solid waste management in 5 mine
townships during a transitional period following the privatization. This
objective will be accomplished by: (a) introducing a performance based
management contract that promotes private sector participation
and commercialization in the sector; (b) rehabilitating selected existing
assets, undertaking necessary improvements, and introducing new maintenance
systems; (c) introducing cost reduction measures, a policy of cost recovery
and demand management mechanisms; and (d) developing a longer term strategy
to integrate the management of water, wastewater and solid waste in the mine
townships with those of the corresponding municipal township in preparing
options for enhanced sustainability. The project also has a component to
support the joint GRZ and World Bank initiative on AIDS/HIV.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The value added of Bank support for this project comes through the following
contributions:
The Bank had a good understanding and relationship with both ZCCM and the
responsible Municipalities on basic urban services since early 1990s (one
water/urban support project in operation and two under preparation).
The Bank has been active in introducing private sector participation (PSP)
options in the Water and Sanitation sector internationally and has thus,
gained recognition and experience in issues pertaining to these types of
operations.
The successful implementation of the Bank supported water projects, using
private sector provison of services, have attracted other donors to
participate and invest in the sector. The proposed MTSP will promote further
donor participation in the sector.
IDA has provided assistance towards GRZ's strategy to strengthen urban
institutions through the on-going Urban Restructuring and Water Supply
Project (URWSP). The proposed MTSP will support these efforts in
demonstrating a model of municipal service delivery based on commercial
principles with significant private sector involvement.
4. Description:
The project is divided into three (3) components. The first component
comprises of the following: (a) the performance based management contract;
(b) working capital support and start-up costs; (c) rehabilitation of water
mains, installation of meters, rehabilitation of water and wastewater
treatment plants, renovation of house connections, and environmental
mitigation activities; and (d) TA support to Asset Holding Company (AHC-MMS).
The second component is HIV/AIDS. This component is designed to increase
awareness of HIV/AIDS throughout the community and will provide specific
support to employees of the private operator and their families. The first
two components will be implemented through the AHC-MMS. The third and last
component is designed to support the preparation of permanent arrangements
for urban services. The MTSP is intended to act as a bridge to support the
definition and begin the implementation of a permanent system for the
delivery of urban development in the selected Copperbelt towns and cities by
acting as a demonstration project for the use of private sector contracting
to achieve sustainable results. This component will be implemented through
-3 -



the Ministry of Local Government and Housing (MLGH).
Financing:
Source of Fund                                   Total ( US$m)
Government                                                00.30
IDA                                                       37.70
Total Project Cost                                        38.00
Implementation:
The organizational arrangements and the key players within the project's
institutional framework are as follows:
(a) Asset Holding Company (AHC): Mining Municipal Company: AHC was
incorporated under the Zambia Companies Act on March 29, 1999, and the urban
service assets, presently owned by ZCCM in the five mine townships Nchanga,
Nkana, Konkola, Mufulira and Luanshya, have transferred to AHC. The AHC will
have a chief executive officer (CEO) responsible for daily management of the
company. The CEO will be assisted by a full-time group of professional
staff, including the following competencies: environment, legal, technical,
financial and administration/consumer affairs. The AHC is the MTSP's
executing agency and will be responsible for the implementation of four out
of the five project components. The fifth project component will be executed
by the Ministry of Local Government and Housing (MLGH). AHC will be the
signatory to the contracts with the Private Operator (PO). AHC will take
over duties and obligations for delivery of urban services to the five mine
townships and enter into a Management Contract with the PO.
(b) Private Operator (PO): The PO will enter into a four-year "Management
Contract" for the five mine townships. Under the Management Contract, the
PO will be responsible for operating and maintaining AHC facilities, billing
customers and collecting on behalf of AHC. AHC will pay the PO a management
fee and incentive fees for reaching specified performance targets. The PO
will be provided with an Operations, Maintenance and Repair Fund as well as a
Rehabilitation Fund in order to finance essential operation and maintenance
costs for the mine townships.
(c) NWASCO, is the regulatory body for the water supply and wastewater
sector in Zambia. It was created under the Water Supply and Sanitation Act,
No 28 of 1997, however, it has yet to commence operations. Tariffs proposed
by AHC will be effective only after approval by NWASCO. AHC will be
licensed by NWASCO.
(d) The third project component (Support to Municipal Institutions/Project
Development) will be executed by the Ministry of Local Government and Housing
(MLGH).
7. Sustainability:
The sustainability of the project in the short term or over the four year
life of the project is not a concern. However, the medium and long term
sustainability of the delivery of water services, waste water services and
solid waste management systems within the Copperbelt is more problematic.
- 4 -



The longer term strategy is to make these services self-sufficient in a
sustainable manner. The project takes an immediate step toward this goal by
adopting a clear policy of cost reduction and demand management for the
mine township areas through piloting a performance based management contract.
During the project period, billing and collection regimes will be set in
place to further prepare the communities for financially self-sufficient
systems. The performance targets for the Private Operator have been
specifically designed to enable the project to deliver an operation that
covers all operating costs and debt service by the end of the 4-year contract
period. At the end of the project the AHC-MMS will be in a strong position to
contribute to water utility solutions for the wider community that have been
mandated by GITZ to provide services on commercial principles. The
operational costs of the AFIC-MMS, however, do not include the cost of
the management contract over this 4-year period. This cost will be provided
as a grant to the AHC-MMS. An allowance has been included from year 5 onward
to provide for management expertise to continue once the initial management
contract has completed its contract. If this allowance proves inadequate,
for example, if another management contract is required, costs of this
contract will be funded from the cash flow of the AHC-MMS or its successor).
This will be arranged, if necessary, through a rescheduling of the debt
service payments. Debt service payments represent on-lending from the GRZ to
the AHC-MMS for rehabilitation works. The decision on this rescheduling, as
necessary, will take place during the mid-term review of the project,
scheduled for year three of the management contract.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
those outlined in Zambia's National Water Policy, can underpin infrastructure
investment strategies; for example, the link between cost recovery and a
rational tariff policy
A realistic approach to using private sector participation in the sector. PSP
in the urban water sector in Africa has already shown some positive track
record.
A simple and focused project is the key to successful implementation. The
MTSP focuses only on the improvement of the water supply, waste water
treatment system and solid waste.
A local, capable and adequately staffed and financed project executing
agency. Special attention has been given during project preparation to the
following to ensure that the project is internalized and capable staff exist
in the AHC. A core group of experienced Zambians, as AHC staff, will be fully
involved from the early stages of the project and will be assisted by
qualified technical experts.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
The Environmental Impact Assessment study is complete and has been cleared.
It is available at the InfoShop.
11. Contact Points:
The InfoShop
- 5 -



The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
N. Jane Walker
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-2703
Note: This is information on an involving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending March 24, 2000.
- 6-



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it
is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01,
Environmental Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public
Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-7-



