Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20032-ZM
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR28.2 MILLION
(US$37.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR A
MINE TOWNSHIP SERVICES PROJECT
APRIL 28, 2000
AFTUl
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September, 1999)
Currency Unit = Kwacha
Kw 2435 = US$ 1
US$ 1.64 = SDR 1
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  to    December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AHC-MMS                       AHC Mining Municipal Services
CAS                           Country Assistance Strategy
CDC                           Commonwealth Development Corporation
CU                            Commercially Viable Water and Sanitation Utilities
DCA                           Development Credit Agreement
DISS                          Departmnent of Infrastructure and Support Services
ESAC                          Economic and Social Adjustment Credit
EU                            European Union
GDP                           Gross Domestic Product
GRZ                           Government of the Republic of Zambia
GTZ                           German International Development Agency
IDA                           International Development Association
IFC                           International Finance Corporation
LG                            Local Government
MLGH                          Ministry of Local Government and Housing
MEWD                          Ministry of Energy and Water Development
M&E                           Monitoring and Evaluation
MOFED                         Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
NWASCO                        National Water and Sanitation Council
O&M                           Operational and Maintenance
PO                            Private Operator
PPF                           Project Preparation Facility
PSP                           Private Sector Participation
RAMCZ                         Roan Antelope Mining Corporation Zambia
SDR                           Special Drawing Rights
SOE                           Statement of Expenditure
TA                            Technical Assistance
TOR                           Terms of Reference
UDP                           Urban Development Project
URWSP                         Urban Restructuring and Water Supply Project
WSS                           Water Supply and Sanitation
ZCCM                          Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines
ZCI                           Zambian Copper Investments
Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:    Michael N. Sarris
Sector Manager:    Jeffrey S. Racki
Task Team Leader:    N. Jane Walker



ZAMBIA
MINE TOWNSHIP SERVICES PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                    2
2. Key performance indicators                                                       2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project   2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                       3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices               5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                               6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     7
3. Benefits and target population                                                   7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     8
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies      11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                         13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      14
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                        15
2. Financial                                                                        16
3. Technical                                                                        18
4. Institutional                                                                    19
5. Social                                                                          20
6. Environment                                                                     20
7. Participatory Approach                                                           21
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                  23
2. Critical risks                                                                   23
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   25



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                         25
2. Other                                                                           25
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       26
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      26
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                       27
Annex 2: Project Description                                                          31
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                      37
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                38
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities                       41
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                    49
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                  54
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                55
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                               57
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                         59
Annex 11: Environmental Impact Assessment Study - Summary Report                      61
Annex 12: Social Impact Assessment Study                                              66
Annex 13: Financial Management Arrangements                                           77
MAP(S)
IBRD 30673



ZAMBIA
Mine Township Services Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTUI
Date: April 28, 2000                              Team Leader: N. Jane Walker
Country Manager/Director: Michael N. Sarris       Sector Manager/Director: Jeffrey S. Racki
Project ID: P064064                               Sector(s): WU - Urban Water Supply
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Urban
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
El Loan         N Credit       E Grant         0I Guarantee    El Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 37.7
Proposed Terms: Currency Pool Loan (CPL)
Grace period (years): 10                              Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: Not exceeding 0.5%                     Service charge: 0.75%
Fi_aning Plan       murce                                    Local        Foreign         Total
GOVERNMENT                                                     0.30            0.00          0.30
IDA                                                            7.10           30.60         37.70
Total:                                                         7.40           30.60         38.00
Borrower: GOV OF ZAMBIA
Responsible agency: AHC MINING MUNICIPAL SERVICES LIMITED
AHC-MMS (AHC Mining Municipal Services Limited)
Address: AFD Building, P.O. Box 22494, Kitwe, Zambia
Contact Person: Mr. T.C. Chanda, Manager
Tel: 260 2 245005/015                Fax: 260 2 245199               Email: chandatc@coppemet.zm
Other Agency(ies):
Ministry of Local Government and Housing
Address: P.O. Box 50027, 15101 Ridgeway, Lusaka, Zambia
Contact Person: Mr. Peter Lubambo, Director, DISS
Tel: 260 1 253643              Fax: 260 1 252503                Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
:Fy          2001        2002         2003      M200
Annual    10.0          13.0         11.7        3.0
Cumulative    10.0         23.0         34.7        37.7
Project implementation period: 4.5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 08/31/2000  Expected closing date:  12/31/2004
XS PAD Fo-m: Re. M.-b M



A. Project Development Objective
-1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The main objective of the Mine Township Services Project (MTSP) is to facilitate the completion of the
privatization of ZCCM (Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines) by supporting the provision of efficient and
reliable water supply services, wastewater services and solid waste management in five mine townships
during a transitional period following the privatization. This objective will be accomplished by: (a)
introducing a performance based management contract that promotes private sector participation and
commercialization in the sector; (b) rehabilitating selected existing assets, undertaking necessary
improvements, and introducing new maintenance systems; (c) introducing cost reduction measures, a policy
of cost recovery and demand management mechanisms; and (d) developing a longer term strategy to
integrate the management of water, wastewater and solid waste in the mine townships with those of the
corresponding municipal township in preparing options for enhanced sustainability. The project also has a
component to support the joint GRZ/World Bank initiative on HI-V/AIDS.
The proposed project is crucial for the successful implementation of the ZCCM privatization transaction
with the private investors. The new mine investors are looking to the GRZ to provide mechanisms that
will assure the continuation of an adequate and reliable range of vital urban services for their employees.
Without a reasonable level of confidence that these services can be fully provided, the successful
implementation of the privatization of the mines may be jeopardized, with negative economic consequences.
Thus, MTSP will not expand the existing urban services in the five mine townships, but will rather ensure
that reliable services in the mine townships continue during the transition period through a management
contract. The management contract is seen as an initial step, a pilot endeavor, in a longer term program of
options that have been mandated by the GRZ to provide services on a commercial basis to achieve
sustainability.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Outcome/Impact Indicators - (over the 4-year period of the Management Contract).
-      Reliability of at least 12 hours per day on average across the mine townships
e      30% increase in the number of days with uninterrupted service
*      95% of waste water treated
*      Collection and disposal of at least 95% of total domestic solid waste generated
Output Indicators - (over the 4-year period of the Management Contract).
*      Consumer losses ( household losses in compounds) reduced by 60%
*      UFW reduced to 30%
*      Energy Saving 25%
*      Chemical Saving 25%
*      Maintenance & Labor Cost Saving 25%
*      AHC-MMS Overhead Saving 60%
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 19582                   Date of latest CAS discussion: 10/07/99
The MTSP supports several of the Govemment's priorities and links to the Comprehensive Development
- 2 -



Framework and the Bank's CAS. These include the strategic priority areas of removing constraints to
sustainable, diversified growth; improving governance; and increasing access to basic services and direct
poverty interventions. Specifically, MTSP supports the CAS objectives of increased private sector
efficiency and competitiveness, by assisting with the privatization of the mining sector; improved
infrastructure, by demonstrating, on a pilot basis, that key urban services -- water supply, sanitation and
solid waste management -- can be properly managed and maintained in the post-ZCCM period; improved
locally based government and decentralization of the responsibility of providing urban services to local
institutions by including the demonstration of private sector provision; and finally HIV/AIDS prevention,
by raising awareness, especially among workers in these urban services and their families, for prevention
and mitigation.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
* Support for the privatization of the mining sector.
The Government of Zambia is unable to undertake the large investments required to make ZCCM more
efficient, to enable it to compete internationally and again be a significant employer and force for economic
growth for the country. Zambia's economic prospects are therefore tied to the privatization of ZCCM and
the sale of its mine assets. The successful privatization of ZCCM's mining assets will be virtually
complete within the first half of 2000. The delay however in finalizing transactions with Zambia Copper
Investments (ZCI), a subsidiary of Anglo American Corporation, among others, has led to a decline in real
GDP by about 2% in 1999. ZCCM's operational and financial problems and the delays in completing the
privatization of remaining major mining assets have cost the country dearly in terms of prolonged economic
recession, severe stress in businesses dependent upon ZCCM, and serious delays in the revitalization of the
copper sector. GRZ/ZCCM have made considerable progress in the sale of the mining assets. A
significant portion of ZCCM's assets (including the Kansanshi, Chibuluma, Luanshya/Baluba, and
Chambishi mines and the power division) have been sold to different investors. Another large proportion
will be sold soon, following the signing in December 1999 of a sales agreement between ZCCM/GRZ and a
ZCI led consortium that includes IFC and CDC, that covered two of the remaining four major mining
assets and a contract that provides for the management by Anglo American Corporation of the
metallurgical assets of Nkana. Finally, ZCCM/GRZ have entered into negotiations with a consortium
consisting of First Quantum of Canada and Glencore International for the sale of the remaining mining
assets of Nkana and the Mufulira division.
Within the context of current negotiations and the sale of the remaining ZCCM assets, private investors
have been unwilling to take responsibility for assets that are not directly linked to copper mining. These
non core assets include those needed for the provision of township services: water and sewage, sanitation,
solid waste, drainage, street lighting, maintenance of township roads and electricity distribution. Since the
mid 70's, ZCCM managed to expand and maintain core urban infrastructure which provided a relatively
high level of service for the mine townships. However, during the past decade, the mining sector's
economic performance deteriorated, and the capital investment in these systems slowed. While most of the
plant and equipment is old and worn, maintenance of the infrastructure has been sufficient to sustain the
provision of potable water and adequate wastewater treatment. Coverage for both water and sewage is
100%. Solid waste management is currently contracted out to private sector operators. The operational
management of these services has been adequate. Furthermore, the private investors, Metorex and Binani,
that have bought ZCCM assets agreed to continue to provide urban services for a limited two year period,
which ended on October 1, 1999. The responsibility for the provision of these services has been transferred
back to ZCCM. Investors have an understanding that GRZ will provide mechanisms that will assure the
continuation of an adequate and reliable range of vital urban services for their employees. The transfer of
the Konkola and Nchanga assets to the ZCI consortium are conditional upon GRZ arranging satisfactory
-3 -



support for the implementation of the plan for municipal infrastructure services. Without a reasonable
level of confidence that these services can be fully provided, the smooth implementation of the privatization
of ZCCM may be jeopardized, with negative economic consequences.
* Lack of public sector institutional capacity to manage service delivery efficiently.
Infrastructure and service provision in urban Zambia achieved marked improvement during the 1960's and
1970's, but since the early 1980's there has been significant decline in public sector provision. As the
overall performance of the economy has declined, infrastructure maintenance in the urban areas, managed
by municipal councils, has been neglected. Many council-township residents do have access to piped
water, but the poor maintenance and insufficient water treatment has rendered supplies generally unsafe to
drink, particularly during the rainy season. The lack of maintenance and the poor service provision
similarly affect the sewerage systems. The poor performance of the municipal councils is well known and
all agree that they are not in a position to assume additional responsibilities, e.g., for mine townships,
which are self-contained and have been fully supported by ZCCM.
The Government has recognized the deterioration in the provision of urban services, particularly water and
sanitation, and has embarked on a policy reform in the water sector whose main objectives are: (i) the
provision of a sustainable level of service, and (ii) the recovery of full cost wherever possible. These were
clearly enunciated in the National Water Reform Policy Statement in 1994 and enacted in the Water and
Sanitation Act of 1997. These reforms include the establishment of the National Water Supply and
Sanitation Council (NWASCO), which was effected in October, 1999. Delays in the establishment of this
regulatory body have curtailed its ability to operate effectively as a regulator and to issue licenses to the
domestic water providers; hampered a key reform in the sector which is the establishment of the
commercialized utilities, which are intended to take over the provision of urban water services on a full cost
recovery basis; and hindered the realization of a range of private sector options and other institutional
arrangements that are intended to promote efficiency, investment and growth in the sector.
*   Duality of the local systems and the needfor integration of the provision of urban services in
municipalities.
The privatization of ZCCM and the associated sale of ZCCM housing to the miners will have a profound
impact upon economic activity and urban development in the Copperbelt. The expected injection of large
amounts of capital into the mines as a result of the privatization will stimulate growth in the Copperbelt
and this will have a direct effect on the quantity and quality of urban services in demand. The need to put in
place a transitional arrangement to oversee the urban/municipal services and reassure the new mine owners
of the continuation of these services, cannot be overemphasized. In this case, any transitional arrangements
that need to be put in place should also set the stage for transferring at least the ownership of the water and
sewer service assets to the municipal authorities, taking into account that currently there are two separate
systems operating in the area with unequal levels of service. It therefore implies that there is a need for an
integration strategy that will become the cornerstone of a future urban development strategy in the
Copperbelt.
In this regard, the Government's reform policy relies heavily on market forces to bring about significant
institutional and organizational changes in the way urban services are provided to the mine and council
townships. These developments are transitional in nature, but are expected to have effect very rapidly.
Market forces will also dictate the level of services that will prevail for the various income groups.
Through house sales and rental, the make-up and homogeneity of the current mine townships will change
and their identities will merge with the surrounding areas. For water and sewer services, the Water and
Sanitation Act of 1997 (No. 28) has mandated that assets associated with the provision of these services to
the public will be government owned and regulated, though their operation, management, and delivery may
-4 -



be fully provided by the private sector. While physical integration of these services within the Copperbelt
is not necessarily appropriate, a unified policy applicable to the management of the water and sewer
systems (over the medium term), in a resource constrained environment, would be an expected and
- desirable outcome.
*     HIV/AIDS Prevention and Mitigation
With the incidence of HIV/AIDS at 19% in Zambia, the Government has recognized it as a multi-sectoral
development issue in need of urgent attention and has instituted basic education and health sector programs.
Planning is underway for a multi-sectoral, multi-partner HIV/AIDS program.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Key Sector Issues to be Addressed
Staged Initiatives:    The proposed project comprises one link in a broader IDA program to bring better
managed, more efficient and sustainable urban services to all consumers. Given the limited institutional
and implementation capacity of the public sector, a strategic choice was made to support the provision of
urban services in three initiatives, as follows: (i) rehabilitating water supply and sewerage services systems
in nine Zambian towns, six of which are in the Copperbelt (Mufulira, Chingola, Kalulushi, Kitwe,
Luanshya, and Ndola) through direct investments, plus assisting the government's effort to strengthen urban
institutions through the on-going Urban Restructuring and Water Supply Project (URWSP - FYI 996); (ii)
maintaining the provision of urban services in the mine townships through the support of a private sector
contract mechanism that could demonstrate a model of municipal service delivery based on commercial
principles and allow an orderly and successfutl transition from mine-owned to public sector owned assets
through the Mine Township Services Project (MTSP- FY2000); and (iii) continuing to build institutional
capacity at the municipal level to fully support Zambia's policy of decentralization and devolution of
responsibility for service delivery to the municipalities through the forthcoming Urban Development Project
(URD - FY2002). The URWSP and the MTSP focus on different target groups of clientele, but are
complementary and aim to help the integration objective by narrowing the differences in service levels by
the end of the transition period. The URD project will support the implementation of a permanent system
for the delivery of urban/municipal services in Zambia's towns and cities.
Use of Private Sector Management:  One of the main sector issues that has been identified is the lack
of institutional and management capacity in the public sector, i.e., the capacity to operate and maintain
successfully water supply, wastewater treatment and solid waste management systems. Hence, there is an
urgent need to demonstrate to the new mine investors the ability to provide reliable services in these critical
areas of urban services. This will be achieved through the introduction of a pilot initiative that will be
based on the engagement of a private operator with a proven track record in the provision of basic services
such as water supply, wastewater and solid waste systems. Performance based private sector management
contracts have been used successfully in other developing countries, to maintain quality services and
introduce innovative management practices, with a particular emphasis on cost containment. These will
include demand management, leak detection, cost management and cost control programs, and cost
recovery in each of the five mine townships. ZCCM's water and sanitation assets have been transferred to
an asset holding company (AHC-MMS), which will hire an experienced private operator to operate and
manage them. At the end of the transition period, the ownership of the assets will be transferred from
AHC-MMS to the municipalities. It is expected that the experience with the private operator in the mine
townships would be positive enough to induce the municipalities to extend the approach to the council
townships, by enabling the private operator to become a "commercialized utility" (CU) or to merge with
one. This will promote a private sector-based approach to the management of municipal assets that is
-5-



consistent with GRZ's policy of public sector ownership of these assets. Further, the recent Government
initiative (e.g. the proposed Office for the Promotion of Public Private Investments in Infrastructure)
promises a more proactive approach in the promotion of direct private sector-based solutions for urban
water utilities. This should be a big step forward in defining a growing role of private-public partnerships,
specifically with regard to the CU program. While the private sector approach to CU management is
considered as one of three possible options (the two others are more public management based), this new
Private Sector Participation (PSP) initiative is likely to heighten the opportunity for private sector
investment given limited public resources.
Strategy for Integration:   The MTSP is a transitional project that is essential for closing the sales
transactions and completing the ZCCM privatization. It is also essential for ensuring continued proper
operation of these assets and for setting in motion a strategy that will integrate these assets with those
already in the public sector in a manner that is consistent with GRZ's policies in this area. For example, the
project will (i) demonstrate on a pilot basis an effective model for a private sector management option, and
(ii) develop alternative management and investment options to assist with the integration of the
mine-township basic service delivery with those of the surrounding municipalities. This will require the
project to introduce different organizational and institutional arrangements with a new mechanism of
delivering basic urban services to its residents and it will require the introduction of cost containment and
recovery approaches that balance the level and cost of basic services with affordability. The design of the
project also anticipates that the demonstration effect of the improvement of private sector management
performance and economic efficiency in water, sanitation and solid waste disposal services in the targeted
mine townships will act as a catalyst for the surrounding municipalities and encourage the use of private
sector management systems in the wider urban context.
AIDS Awareness:    The proposed project is designed to establish links between the Government's
HIV/AIDS program and the private operator, creating a model for development of partnerships for
HIV/AIDS prevention and mitigation. Through assessment of attitudes and behavior, and with data
collection and analysis, the impact on the lives and health of residents in the communities as well as on the
business cost, can be clearly illustrated. Thus the private operator becomes a willing partner in
implementing a strategy for prevention and mitigation aimed at the utility workers, their families and
residents in the townships.
-6 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Indicative            Bank-      % o
Component                   Sector        costs %.° of    financing   Bank-
:_______________________    .____:___           __  A    ISSM)  Total    A3$   LM   ftm ackr
1. Management Contract and         Urban Water                     0.0                 0.0
Support to AHC-MMS:                Supply
a. Management Contract fee (including                  6.40       16.8      6.40       17.0
provision for performnance bonuses)
b. Production Costs Support and                        7.55       19.9      7.45       19.8
Start-up Funds
c. Rehabilitation and Repair Fund*                    19.25       50.7     19.05      50.5
d. TA Support to Asset Holding                         2.00        5.3      2.00       5.3
Company (AHC-MMS)
2. HIV/AIDS.                       Targeted Health     0.20        0.5      0.20        0.5
3. Support to Municipal            Institutional       2.60        6.8      2.60        6.9
Institutions/Project Development   Development
Total Project Costs                   38.00      100.0     37.70      100.0
Total Financing Required                    38.00      100.0     37.70     100.0
* The estimated base costs of the Rehabilitation and Repair Fund (i.e. excluding contingencies) is estimated at $15.6 million.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project supports the stated objectives of GRZ within the Urban Water Supply and Sanitation sector as
set out in the National Water Policy (1994) and as further articulated in the Water and Sanitation Act of
1997. Specifically it will:
* introduce and stimulate innovative approaches to private sector participation in management and
investment in urban water supply, wastewater and other services;
*   foster autonomy and financial viability of urban services through the application of cost recovery
principles by piloting a range of methods by which consumers will actively participate in deciding
levels of service, based on affordability and willingness to pay;
*   empower consumer choice and market based principles through competition between CUs and
private-operator-managed schemes;
*   promote confidence in and examples of implementation of the regulatory practices under NWASCO;
and
*   encourage consumer participation with key institutions (AHC-MMS, CUs and NWASCO) in decision
making on major issues, e.g., providing permanent solutions for the integration of the mine and
municipal township services.
- 7-



3. Benefits and target population:
The main benefits of the project would be: (a) improved reliability in the provision of basic water,
sanitation and solid waste services through a new institutional arrangement that would oversee the
operation, maintenance and rehabilitation facilities; (b) cost reduction and cost recovery arrangements
leading to the release of GRZ from the heavy financial burden of the systems; (c) improved financial
management to provide an improved sustainability of the system; (d) environmental benefits from more
efficient water usage and reduction in environmental degradation; (e) increased awareness of the impact of
HIV/AIDS on the AHC-MMS and mitigation strategies; and (f) increased awareness of HIV/AIDS
throughout the townships and improved treatment and care for workers and their families.
The target population and immediate beneficiaries of this project are the residents of the five mine
townships, estimated at around 320,000 people. Of those already served whether through house
connections, yard connections or communal standpipes, services have been irregular for most due to low
pressure and leakage in the pipelines. The project will ensure reliability, better quality of services and
increased sustainability by repairing and rehabilitating the parts of the systems which require it, and
introducing cost recovery and cost containment mechanisms. Through various metering options, consumers
will be able to monitor their water usage and make informed choices with regards to quantity consumed and
price. Improvements in management of services, both operational and financial, will allow increased
reliability and sustainability of the systems. The project will also act as a pilot to demonstrate the
effectiveness and efficiency of private managed services; and will test the regulatory authorities' skills and
provide experience to ensure capacity building within NWASCO.
The project will increase awareness of IWV/AIDS throughout the townships and provide support to
workers and those of their families afflicted with AIDS. This will be achieved by (a) making an assessment
of the situation using surveys and focus groups and gathering data on the impact of HIV/AIDS on the
target population and on the cost of doing business, (b) developing a strategy, in consultation with the
stakeholders, designed to draw heavily from materials and methodologies already tested and implemented
by other agencies active in townships and throughout the region, and (c) providing the required resources to
implement the strategy. The strategy is expected to include workplace interventions and information
dissemination to workers and the broader community. This component of the project is expected to serve
as a model for other municipal service enterprises and private companies to follow in partnering with the
Government and NGOs, Community Based Organizations and international donors working on HIV/AIDS
prevention and mitigation.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The organizational arrangements and the key players within the project's institutional framework are as
follows: AHC Mining Municipal Services Limited (AHC-MMS), Private Operator (PO), and National
Water and Sanitation Council of Zambia (NWASCO). Their operational arrangements are set out below:
Proiect Coordination: Major Institutions and their Roles:
(a) AHC Mining Municipal Services (AHC-MMS) was incorporated under the Zambia Companies Act on
March 29, 1999, and the urban service assets presently owned by ZCCM in the five mine townships of
Nchanga, Nkana, Konkola, Mufulira and Luanshya, have been transferred to AHC-MMS. On October 1,
1999, the AHC-MMS took over responsibility for these assets. At present, the AHC-MMS has a manager
responsible for daily activities and 328 staff, who are either on secondment from ZCCM or on short-term
contracts to ZCCM. During the first phase, which could last up to 9 months, the AHC-MMS will manage
the assets using existing staff to ensure the continuity of municipal service delivery until a management
-8 -



contractor/private operator has been selected and is ready to take over operations. AHC-MMS would enter
into a four-year management contract with a private operator to take over responsibility for the
management and operation of the municipal services systems in the mine townships, including the
management responsibility for the staff. Once this is accomplished, the role of the AHC-MMS will be
limited to that of monitoring the performance of the operator as specified in the management contract.
ZCCM will continue to second the required operational staff to AHC-MMS until the management
contractor has prepared and submitted to the AHC-MMS proposals for organization and staffing (including
new conditions of services more in line with those of a utility). Once the AHC-MMS Board has acted on
these proposals, AHC-MMS will directly hire the staff it needs, but the management contractor will have
the direct responsibility for the management of the AHC-MMS staff during the period of the contract.
Operational staff that will not be needed by the PO will be retrenched and will be paid their terminal
benefits by ZCCM.
The AHC-MMS will have a Manager with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA, assisted by a
group of professional experts, including the following competencies: environment, legal, technical,
financial and administration/consumer affairs. The AHC-MMS's Manager and management team will be
supported by a technical assistance budget from the MTSP. Critical management staff acceptable to IDA
will be recruited and in place by the time of Credit effectiveness. The AHC-MMS is the MTSP's
executing agency and will be responsible for two major components of the project. The third project
component will be executed by the Ministry of Local Govemment and Housing (MLGH).
MTSP is a transitional project which will support the development of a long term, permanent strategy for
the provision of water, wastewater and solid waste services in the mine townships in particular, and the
Copperbelt in general. The post-MTSP strategy may involve the creation of new institutions to assume the
role of providing these services by AHC-MMS during the project. In this event, all obligations of
AHC-MMS outstanding at the time it relinquishes this role (such as its obligations under the project and
subsidiary loan agreements) shall be assumed by the new institution.
(b) Private Operator (PO): Prior to credit effectiveness, the PO will enter into a four-year Management
Contract for the five mine townships. The PO is expected to be a company or consortium incorporated in
Zambia led by a reputable water supply/operator with a good track record. Under the Management
Contract, the PO will be responsible for operating and maintaining AHC-MMS facilities, billing customers
and collecting on behalf of AHC-MMS. AHC-MMS will pay the PO a management fee and incentive fees
for reaching specified performance targets. The PO will be provided with working capital, through the
AHC-MMS, and in addition will be able to budget resources provided under a Repair and Rehabilitation
Fund in order to carry out its responsibilities under the contract. The PO will also be delegated
procurement responsibilities.
(c) NWASCO is the regulatory body for the water supply and wastewater sector in Zambia. It was created
under the Water Supply and Sanitation Act, No 28 of 1997, and was officially established in October
1999. It has yet to commence formal operation, but is expected to do so in mid 2000. Some of its
regulatory functions include defining the services area for a utility, determining allowable increases in
water supply and wastewater tariffs (but not setting tariffs), monitoring service standards, customer
-9-



feedback and imposing sanctions for failure to meet agreed standards. New tariffs proposed by
AHC-MMS will be effective only after approval by NWASCO. NWASCO is supported by TA from
GTZ and NORAD.
Accountina, financial reporting and auditing arrangements:
AHC-MMS to IDA: As the project executing agency, AHC-MMS's main tasks will be: (a) to monitor the
performance of the Management Contract under the PO in the five mine townships; and (b) to approve the
plans to oversee the implementation of the rehabilitation program. AHC-MMS will establish project
accounts, install appropriate accounting/budgetary and management information systems and prepare
annual budgets for the project. AHC-MMS will be organized and staffed to provide efficient procurement,
financial management, reporting and administration. Financial procedures will be developed to cover
internal financial controls and compatibility with all reporting requirements. AHC-MMS has already
commenced operations, and skilled accounting and financial management are in place.
As AHC-MMS establishes its financial management system, the PMR-based disbursements should be
taken into consideration following the World Bank's Loan Administration Change Initiative Handbook
(LACI, September '98). The handbook has been made available to the AHC-MMS.
As a project executing agency, AHC-MMS will be required to prepare by credit effectiveness a Project
Implementation Manual (PIM) which will include the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) and the
Procurement and Financial Manuals that will be followed throughout project implementation. AHC-MMS
will be required to produce financial statements on a quarterly and annual basis for the AHC-MMS Board
and IDA. AHC-MMS will be required to undertake an annual audit by qualified external auditors
acceptable to the IDA.
Private Operator (PO) to AHC-MMSS: The management contract requires the PO to provide personnel in
key areas of expertise including accounting/finance, cost accounting/budgeting, customer management
(contracts, billings, collections, etc.), and computer and database management. These functions are to be
provided subject to the satisfaction of AHC-MMS and IDA. The PO is obliged to maintain accurate and
systematic accounts in respect of the management contract services in accordance with internationally
accepted accounting principles. Both AHC-MMS and IDA shall have unrestricted access to these records
and data. Provisions have been made to provide for both AHC-MMS and IDA, or their authorized
representative(s), to inspect and/or audit the PO's accounts, financial information, financial statements and
technical information. This may be done independently by AHC-MMS or IDA at their sole discretion, at
any reasonable time and without notice to the PO. As part of the management contract, the PO shall
develop and implement a computerized administrative system that will include a system for billing and a
system to track collections and receivables. The PO will also develop and implement a computerized
accessing system based on international accounting standards. The PO will also implement an Inventory
Management Program to monitor equipment, materials and supplies. The PO shall also be responsible for
an Asset Management System which will be interfaced with AHC-MMS's general accounting.
The PO will maintain contract records, audit records, financial information, financial statements and
accounting records. The PO will provide regular reports to the AHC-MMS as proposed in the management
contract. It has been proposed that monthly meetings be held to discuss progress made and
- 10-



the future programs of the PO. Details of the types of reports from the PO to AHC-MMS is covered in the
management contract. These may include, but are not limited to:
* Monthly financial and technical reports;
* Quarterly collection and cost summary tables;
* Quarterly unaudited accounts;
* Annual technical and financial reports;
* Annual strategic business plans;
* Annual budget;
* Annual audited accounts.
MLGH to IDA: MLGH will oversee component 3 of the project which includes TA and studies to support
a permanent solution for the provision of essential urban services - water, wastewater and solid waste
management. Within MLGH, DISS (the Department of Infrastructure Support Services) will be the project
management unit. DISS is currently the project management unit for several Bank funded projects, of
which the most relevant for the MTSP is the Urban Rehabilitation and Water Supply Project (URWSP).
This US$33 million IDA project is in its fourth year of implementation. Most recent supervision reports
indicate that the financial management performed by DISS has been satisfactory. Audit reports were
submitted on time and the project financial statements were unqualified. MLGH/DISS will provide audited
annual financial statements and annual reports to IDA on the performance of this component. Specific
procedures satisfactory to IDA will be set up by DISS to account for component 3 and this will be a
condition of credit effectiveness.
Procurement: The procurement under the project will be delegated to the PO by the AHC-MMS for the
majority of its own project components. MLGH will undertake procurement for its own project
components.
Procurement of Consultant Services. Consultant contracts will be awarded in accordance with the
Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997;
Revised September, 1997; Addendum Effective January 1, 1999). Most consultant contracts will be
awarded using the Quality-and-Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) procedures by evaluating the quality of the
proposal before comparing the cost of the services to be provided. Short lists of consulting firms for
contracts valued at less than US$ 100,000 may be comprised entirely of national firms if at least three
qualified national firms are available at competitive costs. Consultant contracts valued at less than
US$100,000 each for firms and $50,000 each for individuals may be awarded on a sole source basis
subject to adequate justification and prior review by IDA. Training, as required, will comprise
participation in seminars, workshops, study tours or attachments. The performance based management
contract of approximately US$6.4 million will be awarded on the basis of International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) preceded by a prequalification of potential bidders.
Procurement of Goods and Works. All contracts will be awarded in accordance with Guidelines for
Procurement of Goods and Services by World Bank Borrowers (January 1995; Revised January 1996,
August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999). Civil works worth approximately US$16 million
(excluding contingencies) would mostly comprise the rehabilitation and replacement of water mains,
purchase and installation of meters, rehabilitation of water and wastewater treatment plants, and renovation
of house connections. Contracts for goods and civil works may be awarded on the basis of ICB for
contracts that are valued US$250,000 or above, or National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures for
lesser sized contracts. NCB procedures used by AHC-MMS will be consistent with IBRD Guidelines on
NCB. Contracts for goods valued at under US$50,000 may be awarded on the basis of National Shopping
using approved procedures. (See Annex 6 for details)
- 1 1 -



MonizorinM and Evaluation (M&E): The responsibility for meeting the performance standards specified
for the urban services for the five mine townships rests with the AHC-MMS Board. For the overall
implementation of the MTSP,AHC-MMS as the executing agency, will be held responsible for monitoring
overall project progress against agreed performance indicators specified in the Project's Design Summary
Matrix (Annex 1), the Project Implementation Manual, and the Project Implementation Plan. In addition,
AHC-MMS will be required to submit quarterly reports for IDA review summarizing the utilization of
project funds and progress made by the PO. They could incorporate: implementation status, deviations, if
any, from implementation plan, problems and constraints and corrective measures being taken, and
updated disbursement tables.
In implementing Monitoring and Evaluation, the AHC-MMS will utilize a variety of activities to get
feedback on progress and impact made. These will include: (1) monitoring by the regulator; (2) meetings
with representatives of consumer groups and beneficiaries; (3) IDA supervision missions; (4) quarterly and
annual financial reports, and the annual audit reports; (5) mid-term review (MTR) of project
implementation; and (6) key performance indicators at dated implementation milestones as provided in the
implementation plan.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Using the Copperbelt CUs as the executing agency for the project: Three CUs were established in the
Copperbelt during 1999. These are Nkana, Mulonga and Kafubu. The CUs are intended to be responsible
for the delivery of water and sanitation services to all council township consumers in the Copperbelt. The
CUs are, however, as yet untried and not fully operational and do not have a track record for service
delivery. Institutional problems with regard to their establishment include lack of working capital, lack of
funds for the retrenchment of staff, and existing high liabilities for water and sanitation services. These
issues will need to be addressed before the CUs can be made fully functional. It was felt that given the
urgency of the establishment of full service water, sewer and solid waste systems required by the
intemational mining investors and the steep management and operational learning curve the CUs would
need to achieve to provide these services, the CUs would not be in a position to take on their provision for
several years. Over time, however, the private sector management option for the mine townships will serve
as a pilot or model that the CUs themselves may want to emulate.
Supporting the full range of urban services through the project Initially, it was thought that the
project, through various types of contracting out, would support a wide range of infrastructure services
rather than the selected services of water, wastewater and solid waste management. The Municipal
councils, however, have agreed to take over market stalls, cemeteries, street lighting and road maintenance
with its associated services such as storm water drainage. The National Roads project (ZM-3236) will be
complementary to this effort. Options for electricity distribution have been discussed with ZESCO; for
example, the cost of domestic meters and metering will likely be assisted through the Power Rehabilitation
Project. For health and education, agreement was reached with the prospective owners to transfer to the
latter the majority of these facilities and assets. The main assets whose fate has not been determined as yet
are three hospitals (Nchanga North, Nkana and Ronald Ross), which the Ministry of Health would like to
take over if it can agree with the Ministry of Finance on a sustainable financing plan. Finally, the majority
of sporting and community clubs will be by and large, taken over by the prospective mine owners.
- 12 -



Management contract vs. other private sector options: To achieve the rapid hand-over to maintain
service performance and to obtain a high degree of comfort in that performance, the possible options
ranged from direct technical assistance to various forms of private sector management. The preferred PSP
option appeared to be a performance based management contract. It was concluded that given the unknown
and untested financial strength of the mine township systems, trying to transfer the commercial risk to the
private sector in a lease type arrangement would not be feasible until the market for water supply and
wastewater services within the mine townships could be better assessed, and there was greater opportunity
to assemble more complete information on the expected financial and service performance.
-13 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(completed, ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects
only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Provide immediate solutions to severe Urban Restructuring and      S             S
urban water and sewerage deficiencies Water Supply Project
in 9 largest towns in Zambia; test out
community-generated and managed
water and sanitation projects to meet
client needs at an affordable price,
while strengthening local councils'
capacities to support community-
based initiatives; and initiate broader
institutional and financial reforms
required for providing and maintaining
infrastructure.
The project provides technical    Economic Recovery and            S             S
assistance and other support to the  Investment Promotion
government of Zambia to implement  Technical Assistance Project
policy, institutional and regulatory    (ERIPTA Credit # 28750)
reforms that will support the economic
reform program.
Build institutional capacity at the  Urban Development Project
municipal level to fully support  (under preparation)
Zambia's policy of decentralization
and devolution of responsibility for
service delivery to the municipalities
through the forthcoming Urban
Development Project
Support public service capacity   Public Service Capacity
building initiatives.             Project (under preparation)
Other development agencies
NORAD - Institutional and Capacity   Capacity Building for CUs
Building for CUs                  particularly in financial
management and technical
skills
-14-



Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects
only)
African Development Bank - Kitwe    Capital Investment for Kitwe
Municipal Water Supply Project    Municipal Water Supply
System
African Development Bank - Capital
support to Lusaka Water &         Capital Investment for the city
Development Company               of Lusaka
GTZ - Support for water and sanitation Support and institutional
regulation                        strengthen with resident
advisors for NWASCO
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Sustainability as the key:
Across the sector, a critical lesson learned is that water and sanitation projects must strive for cost recovery
and sustainability. Given regional and international examples, private sector managed approaches have been
shown to provide more reliability in achieving efficiencies and leading to better financial results. The
project therefore relies heavily on a performance based management contract with performance standards
that result in cost reduction. Cognizant of the ultimate goal of the project -- the continued reliability of
services -- care has been taken to develop a financial scenario that delivers sustainability of operation and
maintenance of rehabilitated assets based on a careful cost management approach that will match costs to a
secure yet limited revenue base.
A realistic approach to using private sector participation in the sector. PSP in the urban water sector in
Africa has already shown some positive track record. Cote d'Ivoire, Guinea, Senegal, Ghana and South
Africa currently have privately operated water and wastewater schemes. SODECI, a privately operated
water company, has been in business for over 40 years in Cote d'Ivoire, and has successfully provided
water for over 325,000 customers in the country. Cameroon, Congo, Tanzania and Mozambique are also
developing private sector arrangements. Regional experience shows that: (i) an independent "regulator"
and the private sector operator should be allowed to take as much "commercial" risk in the transition period
as possible; (ii) the following hierarchy of preferred options should be adopted: (a) a lease contract; (b) a
performance based management contract; and (c) a fee for service management contract; and that (iii)
proper pricing is the most important tool in demand management.
A simple and focused project is the key to successful implementation. Complex projects that have too
many components and several implementing agencies have often experienced major implementation
difficulties and occasionally failed to achieve their objectives. The MTSP focuses mainly on the continued
provision of water supply, waste-water treatment systems and solid waste management of the five
Copperbelt townships, and has thus been designed to ensure reliability of service delivery and
financial/economic viability.
A local, capable and adequately staffed and financed project executing agency. Special attention has
been given during project preparation to the following to ensure that the project is internalized and capable
staff exist in the AHC-MMS: (i) project scope and cost are based on the realistic assessment and
projections developed by AHC-MMS/ZCCM staff; and (ii) a strong monitoring capacity is being built in
AHC-MMS using a core group of experienced Zambians as staff to be fully involved from the early stages
of the project, in particular developing the management contract. They will be assisted by qualified
- 15 -



technical experts in specific fields, such as environment, and independent technical and financial audits for
assessments of project outcomes.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
1. The GRZ has done a considerable amount of work to introduce fully commercialized urban water
supply systems. Specifically:
*   A National Water Policy was adopted in 1994 setting the stage for comprehensive sector reforms.
*   The Water and Sanitation Act of 1997 (No.28) was enacted and it mandated the establishment of
the National Water and Sanitation Council (NWASCO). NWASCO commenced operations on
October 8th ,1999. GRZ has secured donor financing for NWASCO's establishment and
operations from NORAD and GTZ.
*   The Water and Sanitation Act of 1997 (No.28) also allows the creation of commercially viable
water utilities (CUs). The CUs are intended to operate on a commercial basis adopting full cost
recovery principles for water and sanitation services, with a Board of Directors. The Copperbelt
province Local Authorities established three CUs grouped as follows: (i) Kafubu (Ndola and
Luanshya); (ii) Nkana (Kitwe and Kalulushi); and (iii) Mulonga (Chingola, Chililabombwe &
Mufulira).
2.    ZCCM has already established the AHC-Mining Municipal Services Limited (AHC-MMS) which
is the key player in project implementation. To develop ownership and internalize the management contract
process, a document review team has been established and has begun an intensive review of the
management contract.
3.    ZCCM has advanced AHC-MMS Kw100 million as start-up funds and is crediting to the account
of the AHC-MMS the deductions from miners' pay for water, wastewater and solid waste services, an
amount equal to 25% of the housing allowance, which is 30% of the basic pay of general payroll and 25%
of the basic pay of senior staff. These funds will be used to offset the cost of seconded staff. AHC-MMS
is also offsetting the cost of the staff seconded from Roan Antelope Mining Corporation Zambia against the
deductions from its employees for municipal services. However, more recent analysis indicates that the
AHC-MMS should be receiving about 32% of the total housing allowances at ZCCM instead of the current
25%, which should improve the starting out financial position of AHC-MMS.
4.    GRZ has requested and has been granted a PPF advance.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The value added of Bank support for this project comes through the following contributions:
*   The Bank has a good understanding and relationship with both ZCCM and the responsible
Municipalities on basic urban services since early 1990s (one water/urban support project in operation
and two under preparation). As a result, the Bank is familiar with issues facing ZCCM's non core
business activities following privatization, and also the constraints of the municipalities as institutions
entrusted to take over the responsibility of delivering these services.
*   The Bank has been active in introducing PSP options in the Water and Sanitation sector internationally
and has thus gained recognition and experience in issues pertaining to these types of operations. The
Bank has far more experience with PSP than other donors and lenders in the sector and region.
- 16 -



*   The successful implementation of Bank projects have attracted other donors to participate and invest in
the sector, financing specifically institutional strengthening activities.
*   IDA has provided assistance for GRZ's strategy to strengthen urban institutions through. the on-going
Urban Restructuring and Water Supply Project. The project is rehabilitating water supply and
sewerage infrastructure in nine Zambian towns, six of which are in the Copperbelt region - Mufulira,
Chingola, Kalulushi, Kitwe, Luanshya and Ndola. The project supports the establishment of billing and
collection systems with modem accounting practices to strengthen the municipal financial systems and
management through TA, training and computers. In addition, the project supports GRZ's
commercialization policy of urban services. IDA is also preparing another project, Urban Development
Project, which will focus on coordination of municipal issues by supporting decentralization and
devolution of responsibilities for service delivery to municipalities. The proposed MTSP will
complement these efforts by demonstrating a model of municipal service delivery based on commercial
principles with significant private sector involvement
* The Bank is committed to HIV/AIDS mitigation and prevention and has been active in coordinating
with other donors to provide support to governments throughout the region. This support is included as
a component in all types of projects in Zambia. The proposed MTSP will promote further coordination
and development of partnerships with the private sector in fighting HIV/AIDS.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
3 Cost benefit    NPV=US$2.6 million; ERR = 12.3 % (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The economic analysis examines the management contract, water and sewer network rehabilitation, and
AHC-MMS assistance components of the Project. It employs a cost benefit analysis using a with and
without Project methodology, over a 15 year operations period and a 10 percent discount rate (IDA's
normal hurdle rate for water and wastewater projects). The Base Case for the Project is the "with project"
scenario. Several main assumptions were identified as Project benefits: (i) all the Private Operator's (PO'
s) expected perfornance targets are met (attaining a 30% overall reduction in unaccounted for water, and a
25 percent reduction in energy, chemicals, labor and maintenance costs); (ii) domestic accounts receivable
go down 5 percent per year over the analysis period (decreasing to 24 or 32 percent); and (iii) the
AHC-MMS overhead costs decrease by 60 percent while the PO is in place (the AHC-MMS - or as the
case may be, its successor after the MTSP - is assumed to incur a cost of US$250,000 per year to manage
the system after the Management Contract period). This cost is assumed to be funded through internal
cash/fund generation.
The Project would provide continuance and improvements to the water, wastewater and solid waste
services to the five mine townships through private sector participation (management contract) of the
services, and investments in the rehabilitation of water and sewer networks. The services would be
provided to the inhabitants of the mine townships, estimated at 320,000 people (1999). The AHC-MMS
would also provide water to the non-mine township in Nkana, through bulk water supply to the Nkana local
council. Furthermore, the Project would also strengthen the capacity of the AHC-MMS through training
and the procurement of specialized services to assist in the supervision of the PO. Finally, the Project also
supports the formulation of a permanent arrangement for these services in the Copperbelt region as a
whole, as well as AIDS/EIIV initiatives in the mining townships. These last two benefits were not explicitly
- 17 -



considered in the economic analysis.
Important assumptions in the "without project" case cover the same items, but assume that there is no PO
to achieve improvements, and reflect a slow deterioration in the AHC-MMS's water delivery levels and
financial health. Without the project, the service is expected to continue to deteriorate physically and
financially. The lack of a rational cost containment mind-set coupled with the lack of investment funds to
rehabilitate run down plant and equipment and replace pipes will lead to significant service decline. At
present, operation costs are double operational revenues which forestall adequate maintenance and any
capital improvements.
Summary of Financial and Economic Returns
Financial                                   Economic
NPV                   IRR                   NPV                    IRR
(US$)                 (%)                   (US$)                  (%)
2.7 million           12.4                  2.6 million           12.3
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 2.7 million; FRR = 12.4 % (see Annex 4)
To evaluate the financial viability of the Project, AHC-MMS's (and as the case may be, its successor after
the MTSP) operations and financial statements over a 15 year horizon have been projected and analyzed.
The main assumptions used and the conditions which apply in the Base Case financial model are as
follows:
Base Case Assumptions are estimated on the most recent financial information obtained from AHC-MMS.
The financial model is expressed in current terms, using 1999/2000 as the base year, with costs calculated
early in the 1999/2000 financial year. Projections of system growth are very conservative, adopting a
"no-growth" scenario because of the current economic situation in the Copperbelt. Coverage of water and
sewer services as well as the removal of solid waste is assumed to be 100%.
The general scenario is that of downsizing the existing capacity to meet the demand of a more economically
sensitive and conservation aware population while tariff systems, awareness campaigns and privatization
of the mines are implemented. Further, the absence of billing and tariff systems has resulted in very large
water consumption for all connection categories. The almost total lack of metering equipment for both
electricity and water consumption has made it necessary to estimate consumer consumption, losses on
compounds due to faulty pipes and plumbing, etc.
Cost Savings Benefits. The cost and savings benefit identified in the economic analysis section above are
similarly assumed in the financial projections.
On-lending. Part of the proceeds from the IDA credit earmarked for capital expenditure (rehabilitation and
repair) is assumed to be on-lent to AHC-MMS at 4.5% interest rate on a 20 year term, with a 5 year grace
period. The GRZ will apply the remainder of the IDA credit proceeds to the project as a grant. This will
cover the cost of a second portion of capital expenditure (rehabilitation and repair), the Management
Contract, TA support for the preparation of the follow on-project, TA Support for the AHC-MMS, and
for the AIDS/fIIV component.
- 18 -



Cost Recovery. The analysis shows that AHC-MMS will incur operating cash deficits in the initial years
of the management contract. This situation will improve as cost reduction is progressively gained and by
the end of the management contract, AHC-MMS is projected to be able to cover its O&M cost on a cash
basis. A part of the proceeds from the IDA credit will be used on a declining grant basis to assist
AHC-MMS in meeting some of its production costs of chemicals and electricity in the first 4 years of the
management contract, thus ensuring positive operational liquidity in the initial years. Prior to Credit
effectiveness, some funds will be available through a PPF facility. This will help ensure the viability of
AHC-MMS until the PO can be mobilized.
Revenue Streams. AHC-MMS inherits an existing system paid for by direct deduction by ZCCM from
miners salaries. Current payments through these deductions will continue with subsequent transfers to
AHC-MMS of the relevant amounts. It is estimated that $4.5 million will be generated each year by this
approach. In addition, AHC-MMS delivers bulk water supplies to mine operators and councils.
AHC-MMS is negotiating with these large customers and will quickly be able to establish a revenue stream
to supplement the miners' payroll deductions.
AHC-MMS's Income and Funds Flow. Tariff levels used in the financial model are modest and dictated
by fairly low income levels. Even so, there is significant cross-subsidy across customer categories to
support low income customers. At the same time, the growth in the customer base in the 5 mine townships
is expected to remain stagnant. Under these conditions, revenue growth is expected to be low, and the
AHC-MMS could be expected to incur operating cash deficits in the initial years of operation. However,
the Project is expected to yield significant benefits in cost reduction through improved efficiency and
demand management, resulting in a projected sustained reduction in net losses. AHC-MMS is expected to
produce operating cash surplus by 2004/2005. Operating costs support, in the form of a grant (on a
declining basis) to help pay for some of AHC-MMS's chemicals and electricity costs, is expected to be
provided using a part of the proceeds from the IDA credit in the initial years. Given this support, the
AHC-MMS will be able to meet all operating and debt service requirements. However, throughout the
projected 15 year period, only a small part of depreciation can be recovered.
AHC-MMS's Balance Sheet. The AHC-MMS will not take over any debt at its establishment, when the
current production and supply assets are transferred to it. Preliminary analysis puts the assets at US$44
million book value, with an annual depreciation averaging about US$3 million. Following the
establishment of AHC-MMS, an audit of the current book valuation is expected.
Fiscal Impact:
The GRZ will on-lend a portion of the Credit's proceeds that is earmarked to fund the Rehabilitation and
Repair fund to the AHC-MMS at a 4.5 percent interest rate on the disbursed balance, over 20 years with a
5-year grace period. Grant funding under the credit to the AHC-MMS will include funds for the second
portion of the Rehabilitation and Repair fund, start-up and production costs support to AHC-MMS, the
Management Contract, TA support to the AHC-MMS, and support for the WHV/AIDS initiative. Thus,
there will be fiscal impact from: (i) the project's counterpart requirement; (ii) debt service, including the
repayment of principal, interest for the amounts not on-lent to the AHC-MMS, and the commitment fee
(which may be waived by IDA); (iii) the effects of the shadow exchange rate on the local portion of civil
works; and (iv) VAT on water sales. See Annex 4 for further details.
- 19-



3. Technical:
Water and wastewater systems: Two types of water and sewage utility systems exist in the Copperbelt, the
mine operated systems (Mine Systems) and the Council Systems. They are nestled together in the
municipal areas and are sometimes interconnected but still constitute separate distinct systems. The Mine
Systems use basic, conventional technologies designed and installed originally some forty to sixty years
ago, probably in accordance with the then current British standards. Source water is pumped from the
mines or surface streams to water treatment plants and then pumped to storage and distribution. All
systems are manual, and there are no extras or frills. Water treatment is strictly limited to basic processes,
filtration and chlorination, and in some cases pretreatment with chemicals and sedimentation. Except for
Nchanga, sewage treatment is via stabilization ponds with no mechanical appurtenances. With few
exceptions, the level of service is via individual'house connections. Delivery pressures are very low, and
service, although daily, may only include deliveries for part of the day in some areas.
The systems are old and very much worn. Facilities receive continued maintenance, but recently, especially
since the decision to privatize ZCCM, maintenance and capital investment have been reduced. Equipment is
jerry-rigged to achieve the last measure of performance. In some systems the piping is very old, dating as
far back as the 1930s. Pipe breakage is quite common, requiring full-time daily repair crews. Nevertheless,
the systems are fully operational and represent a considerable investment and valuable assets. They are
invaluable for the well being of the communities, both mine and council. The project rehabilitation
investments will consist of pumping, piping and treatment improvements to provide for continued and
sustainable operations of the systems at service levels appropriate for the residential, commercial and
industrial use. Overall technical assessment concluded that the existing water system facilities can
consistently be made to deliver safe drinking water to users at acceptable pressures and constancy of
service, and that wastewater systems can be made to discharge treated effluent to receiVing waters in
conformance with Zambian law provided: (1) they are rehabilitated, (2) overall water usage is substantially
reduced through programs of leak detection and correction, control of wastage and other measures of
demand management; and (3) if appropriate procedures are introduced to insure that the water supply and
wastewater systems are properly operated and maintained. Work was also undertaken with regard to solid
waste management and expected cost savings that could be gained through better supervision of the solid
waste contracting. However, no significant capital investment is envisaged for solid waste management.
In detailed discussions with ZCCM at the Division level, the works to be rehabilitated and the types of
urgent renovations were discussed and reviewed. A baseline rehabilitation and repair program is set out as
follows:
*   Nkana: Replace 7,600 meters of water mains, install 24 bulk meters, renovate 3,300 sewage collection
pipes and renovate 990 sewage house connections.
*   Konkola: Replace 3,200 meters of water mains, install 16 bulk water meters, renovate 3,400 water
house connections and renovate Chililabombwe and Konkola water treatment plants. Replace 2,400
meters of sewage collection pipes, renovate 700 sewage house connections and renovate three sets of
sewage treatment ponds.
*   Nchanga: Replace 23,000 meters of water mains, install 21 bulk meters, renovate 2,300 water house
connections and renovate Nchanga water treatment plant. Replace 9,000 meters of sewage collection
pipes, renovate 700 sewage house connections and renovate two mechanical sewage treatment plants.
*   Mufulira: Replace 15,000 meters of water mains, install 17 bulk water meters, renovate 4,500 water
house connections and renovate Mufulira water treatment plant. Replace 18,000 meters of sewage
-20 -



collection pipes, renovate 1,400 sewage house connections and renovate three sets of sewage treatment
ponds.
*  RAMCZ: Replace 27,000 meters of water mains, install 19 bulk meters, renovate 4,500 water house
connections and renovate Makoma water treatment plant. Replace 15,000 meters of sewage collection
pipes, renovate 1350 sewage house connections and renovate three sets of sewage treatment ponds.
Solid Waste Management: Solid waste management is currently contracted out to private sector operators.
It is envisioned that cleaning and collection of solid waste will continue to be contracted out under the
project. However, there will be enhanced supervision by the PO, which is expected to result in significant
cost savings. This would reduce the current costs for solid waste management by at least 50%. The waste
stream from the mine townships is primarily made up of domestic household waste (food scraps, vegetable
peelings, etc. soil, garden waste and fines). Disposal of solid waste is mainly in quarries that were left
from road construction in Konkola, Nchanga, and Luanshya. In Mufulira, solid waste is dumped in tailings
dam sites. Disposal sites appear to be unmanned and there is no monitoring of tipping. The majority of the
dumping sites have been licensed by the Environmental Council of Zambia (ECZ), but it is not clear if they
meet the standards set by the ECZ for improved dump sites. ZCCM have been providing the ECZ with
bi-annual reports. It has been concluded however that there are no significant environmental concerns from
the transport and dumping of solid waste. While it is unlikely that the dump sites meet full environmental
standards, no significant capital improvements are envisioned at these sites over the course of the project.
Studies, however, are to be undertaken within a wider municipal township context in keeping with a major
theme of the project which is integration of the mine and council townships. It is programmed that
investments in solid waste management will be part of the follow-on Urban Development Project.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
The AHC-MMS is the MTSP's executing agency through its Board of Directors and on behalf of GRZ.
The long-term contract personnel in AHC-MMS will be selected based on their operational experience and
project implementation capacity. The AHC-MMS will be responsible for the implementation of two out of
the three project components. The third project component will be executed by the Ministry of Local
Government and Housing (MLGH).
b. Project management:
Project Management: AHC-MMS will be the executing agency for the project. It will have a manager
responsible for daily management of the company. The manager should have qualifications and experience
acceptable to IDA. The manager will be assisted by a group of professional experts, including the
following competencies: environment, legaL technical, financial and administration/consumer affairs. The
AHC-MMS core team will be supported by short-term technical experts financed with funds allocated for
this purpose under the MTSP. The AHC-MMS will be responsible for the implementation of two out of
the three project components namely, the first is management contract and other support to the
AHC-MMS, and the second is the HIV/AIDS component. The third project component will be executed by
MLGH. AHC-MMS will take over duties and obligations for delivery of urban services to the five mine
townships and enter into a management contract with a PO.
5. Social:
5.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
- 21 -



The project is expected to provide improvements to water supply, wastewater, and solid waste services,
which will benefit approximately 320,000 people with increased water pressure and clean water.
Consumers have identified these services as a priority according to a social survey conducted during project
pre-appraisal. Based on a survey of over 400 households, 59% of households ranked water as a first
priority and 24% ranked it as a second priority; 18% ranked sewage as a first priority and 30% ranked it as
a second priority. These two services were more often ranked as more important than other municipal
services, all of which had lower percentages. The group which will benefit directly from leakage control
efforts and improved management of water quality are the 48 - 55% of consumers who ranked current
water pressure and quality as inadequate. Other consumers who are currently satisfied with service will
benefit from a continuation of current service levels.
A key social issue being faced under the project is the reconciliation of the demand for a high level of water
services with a limited ability to pay among medium- and low-income consumers. Moreover, within the
current context of economic uncertainty, residents are anxious about their future ability to pay for services
when they are being increasingly required to pay for a wide variety of services which were previously free
or subsidized. Nonetheless, miners currently do pay for water services through salary deduction, and this
provides a core customer group for cost recovery. Of particular concem are the growing numbers of
non-miners (22% of the customer base of which about 2% are teachers) and retrenched miners (14% or
more of the customer base) who tend to have low incomes and do not have a history of bill paying. One
specific group which will also be affected are the lower income miners who are living in high income type
of house. The financial structure of the project and expected cost recovery has been designed in such a
manner as to expect lower revenues from these more vulnerable groups initially. The project will address
the need for more flexible service levels to accommodate those with lower incomes by asking the private
operator either to provide a phased-in metered system, which would allow residents to reduce consumption
to a level which they could afford, or to provide an option whereby a specific household's consumption
could be reduced to minimal levels (such as installation of a drip valve) where metering was not available.
Based on discussions with a wide cross-section of consumers, other options such as neighborhood level
safety nets may have limited applicability over the short-term because of a very weak level of non-mine
related social and community organizations. Over the medium-term, the project should provide
institutional support to organizations which serve as neighborhood committees to monitor or improve
municipal services (through support to Councils).
In addition, social benefits will accrue to residents of the townships and to workers employed by
AHC-MMS and the private operator and their families as a result of the HIV/AIDS prevention and
mitigation component of the project. Increased awareness of HIV/AIDS will result in behavior changes
that will reduce the incidence of AIDS throughout the community. Workplace interventions will provide
direct support to workers and their families.
5.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The primary stakeholders are miners (about 60% of the customers) followed by a growing number of
non-miners (teachers, policemen, other government workers and private sector workers - 22% of the
customer base), and retrenched miner (at least 14% of the customer base). Labor unions, play a key role in
negotiating salary, benefits, and municipal charges (essentially tariffs) for miners, and take an interest in
any changes which affect miners' take-home income. The second largest group of consumers, the non- and
ex-miners, will grow as a proportion of customers as miners continue to be retrenched, to retire and to rent
out their houses. non miners such as teachers, policemen, firemen and other government officials
-22 -



traditionally had their services paid for by their respective Ministries, a benefit that is being phased out.
Other stakeholders include those who represent these groups, such as town councils, and nascent
neighborhood committee, ZCCM and the privatized mine companies, PO and NWASCO.
Project preparation included a series of repeated consultations with a wide spectrum of consumer groups.
This consultation included about 15 focus group discussions with rouglhly 175 stakeholders during project
preparation to gather views on their priorities for improvement, ability and willingness to pay for services,
and to provide information on the project. Consultations were held with separate groups of women, and
with low, medium, and high income groups, in order to provide a comfortable setting for people to express
their opinions. Union, council and neighborhood committee representatives participated in many of these
discussions, and separate meetings were held with union officials and Councils as well. In addition, a rapid
survey of roughly 400 households was completed during appraisal.
Some of the principal results of these consultations which have affected project design include the
expressed need for involvement of stakeholder groups prior to implementation of changed tariffs, billing
procedures, or service levels. The private operator will devise a strategy for consulting consumers early on
in project implementation. Such a strategy would include input on technological choices (the organization
and options for metering and billing) and on how to best conserve water, and improve cost recovery with
community participation. Such a strategy will not be limited to an information campaign, but would extend
to in-person regular meetings with groups of stakeholders in each Division. Key areas for consultation and
experimentation will include the installation of effective yet sustainable metering systems, conservation of
water, household level containment of water costs, leak detection and innovative billing mechanisms for
non-miners. The operator would also put in place a strategy for the dissemination of information to
consumers, local leaders, union officials and others with influence within the community such as the clergy.
In addition, a strong demand for metered service, the weakness of social organizations, the diversity of
economic levels within neighborhoods because of a growing number of retrenchees and the demand among
women in particular to continue the system of deduction for services from their husbands' payroll were all
highlighted during focus group discussions. In response, the project has increased the funds which could be
allocated by the operator to metering. Finally, the AHC-MMS will continue to inform stakeholders of
progress of the project through regular briefings.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Other key stakeholders: Other key stakeholders include ZCCM, PO, NWASCO, municipalities and the
private mine owners. Far-reaching consultations and collaboration on water issues with the stakeholders
have already taken place and is expected to continue for a long time. The outcome from these consultations
will be reflected in the design of the project and the implementation plan.
6. Environmental assessment:             Environment Category: B (Partial Assessment)
No major environmental issues have been identified.
Since the project was classified as Category B for the purpose of the EA, an Environmental Impact
Assessment study was completed in September, 1999. Since the MTSP's main focus is to provide
financing for the rehabilitation and introduction of new management of water supply, sanitation and solid
waste services, environmental aspects of the Project become directly linked to the investment plan and
operation and maintenance of the installations. Therefore, the EA Study focuses on the investment and
training required to bring the management, operations and maintenance up to an appropriate level to meet
-23 -



the environmental and other requirements set down by the Authorities of Zambia and the WB's OPs and
ODs. This includes the Private Operator who will be required to arrange adequate training of the
operational and maintenance staff to meet environmental standards to be laid down by the Zambian
Authorities. The EA report contains (i) a review of each mine township and proposed ways of improving
management of the services after presenting a brief overview of the national and regional environmental and
social setting for the MTSP; (ii) discussions of the water supply and sanitation proposals for the
Copperbelt, including a section on the hydrology of upper Kafue River basin; (iii) the present solid waste
management services and a proposed new solid waste management; and (iv) an Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) for the MTSP with institutional responsibilities and a budget for resettlement,
training and technical assistance. The following recommendations made are included in the EMP:
Nkana: A raw water reservoir should be constructed at Kafue River intake and flood levels should be
established in relation to any risk of flooding of the intake pumps. Nchanga: A water storage tank is
required at the intake. Backwash water and sludge should be discharge to a tailings leach settling tank
across the road from the WTP (water treatment plant). Mufulira: The tailings dam adjacent to Mufulira
Stream intake should be protected to prevent ingress of pollutant matter, the raw water storage reservoir
should be repaired and rehabilitated, the 17th Street pump station should be separated from the sewage
pump station, Kankoyo North and South sewage ponds should be replaced with new combined sewage
ponds, and the remaining three sewage pond systems all require upgrading to accept 2005 flows. Konkola:
In case a clarifier is installed, a tank should be installed to receive all backwash water and pump this back
for re-processing, the proper ground investigations should be made at the Kamwenza reservoir and the old
one should be cleared away, maturation ponds should be added to the Golf Course pond system and the
Kamwenza ponds should be closed. Luanshya: Maturation ponds to be added to the Roan sewage ponds,
Mpatamatu sewage ponds need urgent reconstruction and rehabilitation of three sewage pump stations is
urgently needed.
Resettlement: No need for involuntary resettlement has been identified as a direct consequence of the
Project.
Management and Monitoring: The AHC-MMS will establish a full time Environmental Advisor, with the
role of advising the PO on the implementation and monitoring of the EMP, and establishing an ongoing
reporting program and database. The project will provide support for the provision, as technical
assistance, of an Environmental Advisor for AHC-MMS for the duration of the project. This arrangement
will ensure supervision and compliance with the EMP. The environment assessment report is available in
the Country Office's Public Information Center (PIC), Luanshya, Zambia.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Some of the principal results of the participatory consultations which have affected project design include
the expressed need for involvement of stakeholders groups prior to implementation of changed tariffs,
billing procedures and service levels. This is very important for the approach of the private sector to be
successful. The private sector is expected to devise a strategy that would involve consumers early on in the
project implementation. Such a strategy would include input on technological choices, including options
for billing and metering, and how to best conserve water, and improve cost recovery with community
participation. Such a strategy will not be limited to an information campaign but would extend to in-person
meetings with groups of stakeholders from the various mine townships.
- 24 -



b. Other key stakeholders:
Other stakeholders in the project include the private operator, the regional commercial utilities, NWASCO,
ZCCM and the municipal governments. These groups attending many of the focus groups that were
undertaken during the social assessment analysis. The main influence has been on the discussions on the
pro and con of the private sector management approach and leaning about different forms of contraction
out to achieve better service. Labor unions were particularly interested.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of the project in the short term or over the four year life of the project is not a concern.
However, the medium and long tern sustainability of the delivery of water services, waste water services
and solid waste management systems within the Copperbelt is more problematic. The longer term strategy
is to make these services self-sufficient in a sustainable manner. The project takes an immediate step
toward this goal by adopting a clear policy of cost reduction and demand management for the mine
township areas through piloting a performance based management contract. During the project period,
billing and collection regimes will be set in place to further prepare the communities for financially self
sufficient systems. The performance targets for the Private Operator have been specifically designed to
enable the project to deliver an operation that covers all operating costs and debt service by the end of the
four year contract period. At the end of the project the AHC-MMS will be in a strong position to
contribute to water utility solutions for the wider community that have been mandated by GRZ to provide
services on commercial principles. The operational costs of the AHC-MMS, however, do not include the
cost of the management contract over this four year period. This cost will be provided as a grant to the
AHC-MMS. An allowance has been included from year 5 onward to provide for management expertise to
continue once the initial management contract has completed its contract. If this allowance proves
inadequate, for exarnple, if another management contract is required, costs of this contract will be funded
from the cash flow of the AHC-MMS (or its successor). This will be arranged, if necessary, through a
rescheduling of the debt service payments. Debt service payments represent on-lending from the GRZ to
the AHC-MMS for rehabilitation works. The decision on this rescheduling, as necessary, will take place
during the mid-term review of the project, scheduled for year three of the management contract.
It is recognized that the implementation of the far-reaching reforms in the sector has yet to establish a firm
base, although the legal framework and many of the institutions that will permit implementation of the
strategy are in place. Within Component 3, the project has devoted resources to the development of the
municipal institutions that will be responsible for urban services. These resources, in association with
those of other donors currently supporting urban water reforms, namely NORAD and GTZ, are earmarked
to address specific issues in the Copperbelt utilities and to help reformulate and recast current programs,
such as the commercialized utility program, to make them more effective. The project also has devoted
resources to prepare for the more extensive follow-on Urban Development Project (UDP) (CAS- 2004).
This project is specifically aimed at strengthening the municipalities to support GRZ's overarching policy
on decentralization.
-25 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Ris                     Risk Rating    E      Risk Minimization. Measure
From Outputs to Objective
The URWSP and the follow-on Urban           S         Good project implementation progress and
Development Project are not successful                information sharing among projects exists.
Private Sector is unwilling to participate,  N        The regulatory framework and role of
i.e. bid failure                                      NWASCO are established. Impartial technical
and financial audits are used to quantify
performance bonus.
Municipalities are not able to adopt the    H         Technical assistance will be provided to develop
integration strategy for the provision of             the integration strategy and ensure its utilization,
services                                              adoption and sustainability. Also the large
discrepancies in quality and quantity of services
between mine & council townships will decline
over the project.
Beneficiaries are not paying tariffs to     H         Project costs, subsidy levels and revenue
cover the cost of services provided                   streams will take into account the affordability
issue. Acceptable cost recovery mechanism will
be developed with a clear tariff structure;
considerable social assessment work has already
been undertaken in this regard.
AHC-MMS lacks capacity to implement         M         TA will be provided to assist AHC-MMS staff
the Management Contract                               to monitor and manage the management contract
and the private operator. Satisfactory draft of
management contract was ready at Appraisal.
From Components to Outputs
M         Acceptable institutional arrangements are in
National Water Supply and Sanitation                  hand as NWASCO is staffed and operational;
Council is not fully operational                      Gernan and Norwegian donors are currently
providing TA.
Long-term strategy for sustainable          H         Project will provide TA to assist GRZ and
provision of services is not identified or            MLGH develop a strategy for sustainable
implemented                                           provision of services.
-26 -



Lack of private sector capacity to          N         A number of private sector operators have the
rehabilitate network and other assets.                capacity to undertake the operation.
Political interference with the bidding     M         Strong bidding documents and a clear bidding
process                                               process overseen by Bank procurement rules
Overall Risk Rating
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
There are no major controversial aspects concerning the project. A possible cause for implementation
concern in the introduction of fee/tariffs for water and urban services at the same time as a policy of
conservation and cost reduction is introduced.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition(Standard legal conditions for effectiveness)
Conditions of Effectiveness
1.    The Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and AHC-MMS;
2.     The Borrower and AHC-MMS have each prepared and furnished to the Association of Project
Implementation Manual;
3.     AHC-MMS has completed and furnished to the Association a procurement plan, satisfactory to the
Association;
4.     The Borrower has installed a Project accounting and financial management system satisfactory to
the Association;
5.     Key management personnel of AHC-MMS, acceptable to IDA, have been recruited and are in
place.
6.     The Management Contract has been executed on behalf of AHC-MMS and the Private Operator.
7.     A legal opinion satisfactory to IDA, confirming that: (i) The Development Credit Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by the Republic of Zambia and is legally binding upon the GRZ in
accordance with its terms; (ii) The Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by AHC-MMS,
and is legally binding upon AHC-MMS in accordance with its terms; and (iii) The Subsidiary Loan
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by AHC-MMS, and is legally binding upon AHC-MMS
and the GRZ in accordance with its terms.
-27-



2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Conditions for Board
I .    Evidence of pre-qualified bids for the Management Contract.
2.     Approval of the negotiated text of the Development Credit Agreement by the Minister of Finance
and Economic Development of Zambia.
3.     Approval of the negotiated text of the Project Agreement by the Board of AHC-MMS.
4.     Appropriate resolution of the funding arrangements for retrenched staff related to the issue of the
retrenchment of ZCCM staff and two year moratorium on rehiring retrenched workers (agreed upon in the
context of the Public Sector Reform Export Promotion Credit - Credit No. 3667-ZM).
H. Readiness for Implementation
E lI. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
X 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
l 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
M 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
'. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
CI 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
N. Jane Walker                         y  . Racki                   Michael N. Sarris
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director           Country Manager/Director
-28 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ZAMBIA: Mine Township Services Project
Sector-related CAS     Sector Indicators:       Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank
Goal:                                                                  Mission)
Copper mining sector   Increased contribution to   Annual National Statistics Continued economic
revitalized to underpin    GDP growth from copper  reports              growth and GRZ adherence
existing urban         mining sector (10%                               to its macroeconomic
development program    increase in production per                      reform
year, over a period of 5
years).
Enhanced urban and
environmental conditions
in the Copperbelt region.
Project Development    Outcome / Impact         Project reports:        (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:             Indicators:
Efficient, reliable and  1.1 Reliability of provision  Quarterly and annual  Continued GRZ
sustainable provision of   of water supply within  Project Progress reports   commitment to sector
water supply services,    year 4 of the Management from AHC-MMS         reform and promotion of
water waste services and   Contract:                                    private sector participation
solid waste management  * the reliability of at least  Supervision Mission  in the sector.
in 5 mining townships of  12 hours per day, on  Reports
Zambia.                average in each town.
* 30% increase-in the   Mid-term Review Report
number of days with
uninterrupted services, on  Implementation
average in each town.   Completion Report
1.2 Reliability in provision
of wastewater services
within year 4 of the
Management Contract:
95% of wastewater
treated.
1.3 Reliability in provision
of solid waste services
within year 4 of the
Management Contract:
..collection and disposal
of at least 95% of total
solid waste generated
1.4 Efficiency: within year
4 of the Management
Contract
- 29 -



^           ~~~~reduction in'volume' of 
Unaccounted for Water
(UfW) to an average of
30%.
Output from each       Output Indicators:       Project reports:       (from Outputs to
component:                                                              Objective)
1. Performance Based   1.1 Management Contract  Project Monitoring     NWASCO establishes and
Management Contract as  for provision of water and  Reports via PO to AHC-   maintains adequate
a new management       waste water services and    MMS plus reporting  regulatory role to secure
mechanism introduced.   solid waste management is requirements for      best performance from
in place and operational by NWASCO.             Private Sector/ AHC-
year 1 of the project:                          MMS.
Supervision Mission
water quality guaranteed  Reports
at all 5 towns
(measurement of quality to  Mid-term review reports
meet national standards)
2. Cost containment and   2.1                                          Introduction of cost
demand management        Consumer losses reduced                        containment policies plus
mechanism introduced.   by 60% (over 4-year                            the introduction of paying
period)                                         for the services system
* Energy Saving 25% (4                          does not depress
year period)                                    beneficiaries willingness to
* Chemical Saving 25%                           pay for the services.
(over 4 year period)
* Maintenance & Labor
Cost Saving 25% (over 4
year period)
* AHC-MMS Overhead
Saving 60% (over 4 year
period)
3. Integration strategy  3.1 Preparation and                            CU's/municipalities and
developed and sensitized  discussion of integration                    AHC-MMS are committed
among the              strategy of service delivery                    to new functions in an
CU's/municipalities.   with the responsible                            integrated manner to
CU/municipality by 3 Year                       deliver the social services.
of the project:
* Financial integration
through compatible billing
& collection systems by
year 4 of the project.
- 30 -



gof
4. Selected existing    4.1 Measure rehabilitation                  Private sector capacity exists
assets rehabilitated    of existing assets e.g. 60%                 to implement construction/
and maintenance     of rehabilitation program                       rehabilitation program.
systems introduced.   completed by end of year
2, 30%year3 and 10%
year 4.
5. AHC-MMS          5.1 AHC-MMS selects and  AHC-MMS develops a    No political influence on
established and     employs a private operator  monitoring system and    AHC-MMS.
operating as the    by I September 2000.    produce quarterly &
implementation unit                         annual progress report,
for the project.                            midterm and project
completion reports.
6. HIV/AIDS         6.1 AHC-MMS selects and
prevention and      hires contractor to conduct
mitigation strategy    assessment, gather data and
developed and       develop strategy
implemented         6.2 Strategy developed by
31 December 2000.
Project Components  Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:      (from Components to
/ Sub-components:   component)                                      Outputs)
1. Management                               Periodic reports by PO,   Draft Management Contract
Contract and Support                        and AHC-MMS.            has been prepared.
to AHC-MMS          $6.4 million
a) Performance Based  ($7.45 million - IDA; $0.10                   Rehabilitation program has
Management Contract million - GRZ)                                  been identified
b) Production Costs  ($19.05 million - IDA;
Support and Start-up   $0.20 million GRZ)                           AHC-MMS is staffed with
Funds               $ 2.0 million                                   capable staff to implement the
c) Rehabilitation and                                               project and monitor the PO
Repair Fund                                                         under the management
d) TA Support to the                                                contract monitoring plan
Holding Company
(AHC-MMS)
2. HIV/AIDS         $0.2 million            Reports by AHC-MMS
Component
3. Support for the  $2.6 million            Reports by MLGH         TORS for initial CU study to
Preparation of                                                      be prepared by October 2000.
Permanent
Arrangement for
Urban Services
- 31 -



Annex 2: Project Description
ZAMBIA: Mine Township Services Project
Project Components and Costs: The project is divided into 3 components. Components 1 and 2 will be
implemented through the AHC-MMS and Component 3 through the Ministry of Local Govemment and
Housing (MLGH).
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$34.90 million
A.     Performance Based Management Contract (MC): US$ 6.4 million - The MC will be between the
AHC-MMS and the private operator (PO). The contract will be at least 4 years in duration. The PO will
be responsible for full operation and maintenance, with specific perfonnance requirements, but the PO will
not be responsible for any financial risk (operations and maintenance costs or revenues) on the operations.
The PO is expected to undertake the operation and maintenance and repairs works for the systems on
behalf of the AHC-MMS through a fund set up for this purpose (see below). The PO will plan a
rehabilitation program within general guidelines for the approval of the AHC-MMS. These works and all
budget planning are presented in annual budgets and plans that are prepared by the PO and approved by
the AHC-MMS. The PO will manage the rehabilitation works, but will not execute them. The AHC-MMS
will contract these out and the PO will supervise the execution on behalf of the AHC-MMS. Water,
wastewater and solid waste bills will be issued and moneys collected by the PO. Revenues, however, are
returned to the AHC-MMS, as the AHC-MMS is responsible for all operations and maintenance costs, as
well as the operator's management fee. The compensation of the operator will consist of a competitively
bid fixed fee, with time bound performance targets that increase over the duration of the contract, and an
incentive payment based on performance targets.
B.     Production Costs Support and Start -up Costs: US$ 7.55 million (GRZ Counterpartfinancing
US $0.1 million) - Monies to finance the start-up costs of the AHC-MMS's operations as well as
operation and maintenance support are estimated at US$1.3 million and US$6.25 million, respectively.
Start-up funds before the Credit or grant financing becomes available could possibly be sourced through
retroactive financing or an increase in the PPF. Start-up costs include computer equipment for finance and
engineering activities, vehicles, and office equipment. During the start-up of the operations, the fund will
provide operation and maintenance support through assistance with AHC-MMS's production costs on
chemicals and electricity, given the lack of a secure cash flow to pay for full operation and maintenance
costs, and the need for the development of billing and collection systems. To facilitate the financing of
operations and maintenance, the fund will be managed directly by the PO. The expenditures to be
undertaken by the PO would be included in the annual budgets that will be approved by the AHC-MMS.
C.    Rehabilitation Works: US $19.25 million (IDA Credit On-lent to AHC-MMvIS at 5% interest rates
US$15.6 million; IDA Credit passed on as grant to AHC-MMS US$3.45 million; GRZ Counterpart
financing US$0.2 million) - This component will include rehabilitation of water mains, installation of
meters, rehabilitation of water and wastewater treatment plants, renovation of house connections, and
environmental mitigation activities. The base cost of the total works (i.e. excluding contingencies) is
estimated at $15.6 million, of which GRZ counterpart financing is about $150,000.
These works would be specified in the annual plans prepared by the PO that would be approved by the
AHC-MMS. The PO would act as AHC-MMS's agent for the procurement of these works. The PO's fee
for carrying out the implementation of the rehabilitation program as well as supervision of the works
program would be included in the fixed fee. Procurement of goods and services and operating costs
- 32 -



supported under the fund will be undertaken in accordance with World Bank procedures and guidelines.
The specific rehabilitation works to be carried out are as follows:
Nkana: Replace 7,600 meters of water mains, install 24 bulk meters, renovate 3,000 sewage collection
pipes, renovate 990 sewage house connections, renovate 3 sets of sewage treatment ponds, and constructing
raw water storage tanks at inlet for environmental mitigation. Estimated costs - US$ 2.70 million.
Konkola: Replace 3,200 meters of water mains, install 16 bulk water meters, renovate 2,300 water house
connections, renovate Chililabombwe and Konkola water treatment plants. Replace 2,400 meters of
sewage collection pipes, renovate 700 sewage house connections and renovate 3 sets of sewage treatment
ponds. For environmental mitigation, the old Kamwanza reservoir will be cleared away and maturation
ponds will be added to the golf course and Konkola ponds. Estimated costs - US$ 3.08 million.
Nchanga: Replace 23,000 meters of water mains, install 21 bulk meters, renovate 2,700 water house
connections, renovate Nchanga water treatment plant. Replace 9,000 meters of sewage collection pipes,
renovate 700 sewage house connections, renovate 2 mechanical sewage treatment plants. For
environmental mitigation, construct backwash water discharge line. Estimated costs - US$ 5.02 million.
Mufulira: Replace 15,000 meters of water mains, install 17 bulk water meters, renovate 4,500 water house
connections, renovate Mufulira water treatment plant. Replace 18,000 meters of sewage collection pipes,
renovate 1,400 sewage house connections, renovate 3 sets of sewage treatment ponds. For environmental
mitigation, separate water and sewage units at 17th street, construct new Kankoyo sewage ponds and
upgrade 3 sewage ponds. Estimated costs - US$ 3.61 million.
RAMCZ: Replace 27,000 meters of water mains, install 19 bulk meters, renovate 4,500 water house
connections, renovate Makoma water treatment plant. Replace 15,000 meters of sewage collection pipes,
renovate 1,350 sewage house connections, renovate 3 sets of sewage treatment ponds. For environmental
mitigation, reconstruct Mpatamatu sewage ponds and rehabilitate 3 sewage pump stations. Estimated costs
- US$ 4.84 million.
D.     Support to the asset holding company, AHC-MMIIS: US$ 2.00 million - TA support to the
AHC-MMS would be provided (i) for capacity building, (ii) to enable the AHC-MMS to secure on a
contract basis specialized services needed to prepare the project, and (iii) to support AHC-MMS in its
supervision of the PO. It also includes funds for a study of Water Resource Management Study (in
coordination with the Water Resources Action Plan- WRAP) to evaluate potable water sources within the
Copperbelt Region. It is expected that some funds required for project preparation and capacity building
activities prior to Credit availability could be sourced through the PPF facility. The subcomponent
includes:
*   Intemational technical and fmancial audits to adjudicate performance of the PO to ensure
AHC-MMS's determination of bonus/penalties - US$ 400,000
*   Environmental Adviser and environmental training and capacity building for AHC- MMS staff: US$
400,000 (as identified in the EMP)
*   Procurement of training for AHC management (including procurement training), project preparation
support to AHC and preparation of the management contract: US$400,000.
- 33 -



* Procurement of solid waste disposal and security services contracts: US$100,000.
* Funds for legal and other specialist technical assistance and funds for training and capacity building for
AHC-MMS staff - US$ 250,000
* Water Resources Management Study: US$ 450,000
Project Component 2 - US$0.20 million
HIV/AIDS component: US$ 200, 000 - This component is designed to provide specific support to
employees of AHC-MMS and their families, and in generalincrease awareness of HIV/AIDS throughout
the community. The MSTP is not anticipated to significantly increase the risk of HIV infection in the
mining townships - it is not a typical infrastructure and mine project that draws workers away from their
families and increases commercial sex work in the area. Including the HIV/AIDS component in the project
supports the Government's multi-sectoral, multi-partner program for the prevention and mitigation of
WHV/AIDS. It is not expected that this component will be "stand-alone", but will draw on and complement
other existing programs.
Based on an assessment to determine attitudes about WV/AIDS among workers and residents of the
townships and data collected about the social and economic impacts, a strategy will be devised to increase
awareness and effect behavioral changes resulting in prevention of WV/AIDS throughout the community at
large and to provide workplace interventions for workers and their families. The project will provide funds
for assessment, data gathering, development of the strategy (all to be accomplished with broad stakeholder
participation) and some initial steps in strategy implementation, likely to include information dissemination
and workplace interventions. For example, the strategy may call for including a WHV/AIDS module in
training programs for workers and the project could fund development of the module or adaptation of
existing modules to fit within the broader training program of the commercialized utilities. The following
component activities will be undertaken: (1) Assessment, data gathering and evaluation, including a needs
assessment of stakeholders to determine attitudes and behaviors and data gathering to social and economic
impacts: Estimated time: three months, estimated cost $20,000; (2) Strategy development - Develop
HI V/AIDS prevention and mitigation strategy through a participatory process:  Estimated time: three
months; estimated cost $20,000; (3) Support to implementation of strategy: It is anticipated that the
strategy will call for the two types of activities: (a) Workplace interventions (training of workers designed
to help identify and change risky behaviors, referral for voluntary counseling and testing, distribution of
condoms, providing health care for treatment of STI and care for infected workers and their families, with
emphasis on maintaining confidentiality) & (b) Information dissemination to customers (perhaps as bill
stuffers; using AIDS awareness materials developed by NGOs) -Estimated time: two years; estimated cost
$100,000; (4) AHC-MMS implementation, coordination, monitoring and evaluation -AHC-MMS will be
responsible for implementing the project, including contracting with NGOs, CBOs or others to carry out
the activities described above. Strategy implementation activities will be undertaken in Phase IH of MTSP,
when the private operator takes over operation of the Commercialized Utilities. AHC-MMS will assume a
monitoring and evaluation role at that point, which may be carried out by a staff member or may be
contracted out to an independent NGO, CBO or contractor. Estimated time: two man years over four
years; estimated cost $20,000.
Coordination with other HIV/AIDS prevention and mitigation activities. It is anticipated that AHC-MMS
will contract with NGOs or CBOs already active WHV/AIDS prevention and mitigation activities in the
communities to accomplish the first two steps so that coordination of this component of the project with
other WHV/AIDS activities in the community is designed in. In addition, this component will be closely
- 34 -



coordinated with the Government's multi-sectoral, multi-partner programs. To the extent possible,
informational and educational materials will be drawn from information already developed by NGOs (e.g.,
Soul City). During the implementation phase an advertising/PR firm may be hired to survey existing
materials, conduct focus groups to determine their effectiveness in MTSP townships, to adapt materials to
fit local needs, if necessary, and to print and distribute materials.
Coordination with the private operator
It will be necessary to make reference to the HI-V/AIDS prevention and mitigation strategy in the
management agreement between the private operator and AHC-MMS. The private operator would not be
required to carry out the HIV/AIDS project activities, but would be required to coordinate with them. Data
gathered and analyzed in the early stages of the project should be presented to the private operator so that
the benefits of coordination are clear. The private operator may, for example, adopt policies and
procedures for referral to voluntary counseling and testing, treatment of STI and care for infected workers
and their families, respecting the privacy of workers with regards to HIV/AIDS, and integrating prevention
and mitigation modules into worker training.
Project Component 3 - US$ 2.60 million
Support for the Preparation of Permanent Arrangements for Urban Services: US $2.6 million -The
MTSP is intended to act as a bridge to support the definition and begin the implementation of a permanent
system for the delivery of urban development in the selected Copperbelt towns and cities by acting as a
demonstration project for the use of private sector contracting to achieve sustainable results. Further, the
project would provide funds for specific studies and technical assistance (including capacity building) that
will assist the Government's commercialized utility program, and the identification of regionally based
solutions, such as the integration of the mine and council townships' water and sanitation systems as well
as a regionally based (Copperbelt) solid waste management study. It is expected that a small amount of
funds for training is required prior to Credit availability, and could possibly be funaed through the PPF
facility. Funds will also be provided specifically for the preparation of the proposed Urban Development
Project (UDP). This component will be implemented through the MLGH Sub-component activities which
include:
* Procurement of training (including procurement training), workshops and study toursfor MLGH staff:
US$200,000.
* Assistance to commercialization and private sector approaches to provision of urban services in the
Copperbelt - Studies and consultants: US$750,000. The delay in the establishment and
implementation of Copperbelt Commercialized Utilities (CUs) has seriously affected the ability of
these bodies to provide services and as a consequence local governments remain the principal
providers. Though the three CUs have been established, they remain unable to take control of the
operation of the water and sanitation systems for a number of reasons. The most important includes:
(1) the lack of working capital for the initial operation of the CUs; (2) funds for retrenchment of
surplus workers currently assigned to the council's water and wastewater works that will be taken over
by the CUs; and (3) the assignment of the cash flow from water sales and services to the CUs. The
lack of control over cash flows is especially problematic due to the extremely constrained financial
position of the Councils who are reluctant to hand over a revenue flow without including its inherent
liabilities. The component will provide for a rapid diagnostic study (US$ 250,000), particularly with
regard to the current liabilities of the proposed CUs and set out a plan for rational operation of the
utility sector exploring all options with renewed emphasis on private sector options. Funds will be also
be available for the preparation of a PSP options study (US$ 500,000) to include bidding documents
- 35 -



And for the award of tenders, as required.
Solid Waste Master Planning Study- for the Copperbelt region: Studies and Consultants
US$450,000. In reviewing the part of the integration of the mine townships with the municipal
areas, it became clear that dual systems had been established. One particular example was solid
waste management. In the mine townships cleaning and collection is done through private sector
contractors, while the majority of the council areas use municipal workers. The siting of disposal
sites was also segregated as ZCCM had made its own arrangements at certain sites. An integrated
plan is required before any new investment or rehabilitation is undertaken. The studies to prepare
this plan will also include capital for improvements to disposal sites, environmental studies and
management systems. Investments not required, particularly with regard to environment
mitigation, will be funded under the proposed Urban Development Project.
Project preparation for Urban Development Project. Studies and Consultants: US$1.2 million.
The Urban Development Project is programmed in the CAS for FY 2003. This project is designed
to support Zambia's policy of decentralization and devolution of responsibility for service
delivery to municipalities. Initial focus will be on the maximum use of market based mechanisms.
The project preparation component will build on studies undertaken under the Urban
Rehabilitation and Water Supply Project (URWSP). Studies underway or completed include those
aimed at planning, management and capital program for major cities in Zambia. Lusaka and
NdolalLuanshya will be completed within the next 6 months. The component will also review
current capacity in the municipalities to manage their new mandate under a program of
decentralization and more aggressive private sector participation.
Summary of Project Components and Estimated Costs:
Project Component              [ Base Costs     IIDA      When
(US$'000)    Funded
.                           ~~~~~~~~~(US$'000)
1  COMPONENT 1
I.  Performance based Management Contract: 4 years     6,400             2000/01 -
A   contract for the operation and maintenance of the                     2003/04
water and wastewater operations, management of a
solid waste contractor, and management and
supervision of rehabilitation works, in the 5 mining  6,400    6,400
townships
Subtotal
1. Production and Start-up Costs:
B   Start-up costs
- computer equipment                                 250              1999/00
- vehicles                                           950
- office equipment                                   100
Production Costs Support                           6,250
Subtotal                                           7,550       7,450
- 36 -



Project Component               Base Costs   IDA Funded    When
I (US$'000)     (US$'000)
1. Rehabilitation Works:
C   Replacement, installation and/or rehabilitation of                      1999/00 -
water mains, bulk meters, sewage collection pipes,                      2002/03
house connections, water treatment plants and
sewage treatment ponds, and environmental
mitigation works for:                               1,810
350
Nkana: Water and Sewerage Works                       540
Environmental Mitigation                     2,700
Contingencies
2,438
80
Konkola: Water and Sewerage Works                     562
Environmental Mitigation                    3,080
Contingencies
4,008
15
Nchanga: Water and Sewerage Works                    1,000
Environmental Mitigation                   5,023
Contingencies
2,112
775
Mufulira: Water and Sewerage Works                    720
Environmental Mitigation                    3,607
Contingencies
3,196
675
RAMCZ/Luanshya: Water and Sewerage Works              969
Environmental Mitigation          4,840
Contingencies
19,250       19,050
Subtotal
1.  Support for AHC-MMS:
D   - International technical & financial audit           400               1999/00 -
- Environmental advisor                               250               2002/03
- Environmental consulting services                    50
- Environmental training                              100
- Procurement Training                                 50
- Training for AHC-MMS's management                    50
- Water Resources Management Study                    450
- Preparation of Management Contract                  100
- Project preparation support to AHC-MMS              200
- Legal and other specialized technical assistance    250
- Solid Waste Disposal and Security Contracts         100
Subtotal                                            2,000         2,000
Total Component 1                                  35,200        34,900
- 37 -



Project Component               Base Costs   IDA Funded    When
I (US$'000)     (US$'000)
2.  COMPONENT 2
2.  HIV/AIDS Component:
A   Provide specific support to employees of AHC-                           1999/00 -
MMS and their families, and in general increase the                     2002/03
awareness of HIV/AIDS in the community.               100
- Program Development                                 100
- Program Implementation
200          200
Total Component 2
2.  COMPONENT 3
Support for the preparation of Permanent
Arrangements for Urban Services:
1999/00-
- Diagnostic Studies                                                    2002/03
- PSP Options Study                                   250
- Solid Waste Master Planning Study                   500
- Project Preparation for Urban Development           450
Project                                              1,200
- Training, Workshops, Study Tours                    150
- Procurement Training                                 50
Total Component 3                                   2,600
TOTAL COSTS                                        38,000        37,700
-38 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ZAMBIA: Mine Township Services Project
TK                        ~~~~~~~.ocM.   FoeigToa
Component 1 - Management Contract and Assistance to                                 0.00
AHC-MMS
1. A Management Contract                                 0.00          6.40         6.40
1. B Working Capital and Start-Up Costs                   2.55         5.00         7.55
1.C Rehabilitation Fund                                  3.10         12.35        15.45
L.D TA Support to AHC-MMS                                0.35          1.65         2.00
Component 2 - HIV/AIDS                                    0.10         0.10         0.20
Component 3 - Support for the Preparation of Permanent    0.55         2.05         2.60
Arnangements for Urban Services
Total Baseline Cost                                       6.65        27.55        34.20
Physical Contingencies                                   0.45         1.85         2.30
Price Contingencies                                      0.30         1.20         1.50
Total Project Costs              7.40        30.60        38.00
Total Financing Required              7.40         30.60        38.00
Civil Works                                                3.85          15.40        19.25
Goods (Equipment)                                          0.35       -  5.00          5.35
Consulting Services                                        0.95          9.85         10.80
Training                                                   0.05          0.35          0.40
Incremental Operating Costs                                2.20          0.00          2.20
Total Project Costs     7.40         30.60        38.00
Total Financing Required     7.40          30.60        38.00
- 39 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
ZAMBIA: Mine Township Services Project
Overview. Methodology. This economic analysis examines the management contract, repair and
rehabilitation works and assistance to the AHC-MMS components. It employs a cost benefit analysis, using
a 15 year analysis period and a 10 percent discount rate (IDA's normal hurdle rate for water and
wastewater and solid waste projects). The analysis, using a with and without project methodology,
estimates financial and economic net present values, as well as financial and economic intemal rates of
return. Sensitivity and Switching Values. Where feasible, the analysis models "high" and "moderate"
risks identified in Section F of the PAD to judge their effect on the EIRR. There is also a sensitivity
analysis of the effect of cost overruns, as well as items considered by the Task Team to have a large effect
on the Base Case ERR. The analysis calculates switching values for critical items and assumptions.
Taxes. VAT taxes are added to sales for the financial calculations but then removed in the conversion to
economic flows. Contractors working on IDA contracts in Zambia are normally exempt from income
taxes. Local taxes and duties are included in the price of inputs purchased locally (e.g., cement, plastic or
fiberglass pipes, etc.). However, given that most of these items are not available locally in the quantities
required, contractors will likely import these materials. Imported items will be duty free. Taxes on items
procured locally for the project will amount to very small amounts and, therefore, are not separately
estimated.
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Results of the Base Case analysis is shown below in Table A4. 1. The project's estimated economic return
is acceptable at about 12 percent. Financial results are also acceptable, acknowledging that a significant
cross-subsidy is taking place within the utility to support low income customers. In all analyses, financial
flows are converted to economic flows by estimating the effects of the VAT and shadow exchange rate. The
Base Case economic analysis scenario is based on the Base Case financial model described in Annex 5.
Table A4.1: Summary of Financial and Economic Returns
Financial                  Economic
NPV           IRR           NPV           IRR
(US$)         (%)           (US$)         (%)
2.7 million      12.4       2.6 million      12.3
Project benefits result from the reduction in UFW, decreases in selected operating costs as a result of the
management contract, and introduction of billing and collections from customers. The analysis includes
the cost of the private operator (PO) to operate the water and sewer network for five years ($6.40 million),
production costs support ($7.55 million), the rehabilitation or replacement of segments of the water and
sewer network in the mine townships ($15.6 million), and relevant portions of the TA component ($0.85
millon) to strengthen and support the AHC-MMS. Financial flows are converted to economic flows by
estimating the effect of VAT on sales, plus the shadow exchange rate applied to locally acquired inputs for
the relevant civil works.
Details for benefits and costs included in the Base Case are available in the Project file.
Main Assumptions:
- 40 -



In the Base Case economic analysis, there are three main assumptionsFirst, the "with project" case
assumes that all the PO's expected performance targets are met. These involve reducing unaccounted for
water to 30 percent, and achieving a 25 percent reduction in energy, chemicals, labor and maintenance
costs. Next, it assumes that the percentage of domestic bills uncollected decreases by 2% per year
throughout the analysis period. Finally, the "with project" case assumes that the AHC-MMS overhead
costs decreases by 60 percent while the PO is in place . The AHC-MMS - or its successor, if any - is
assumed to incur a cost of US$250,000 per year beginning in year 5 to manage the system in place of the
PO after the Management Contract period. This cost is assumed to be funded through internal cash
generation.
Important assumptions in the "without project" case cover the same items, but also reflect a slow
deterioration of service and the AHC-MMS's financial health in the absence of the PO. Thus, in the
without project case, the cost of production rises 2 or 3 percent per year (depending on the specific item),
domestic, institutional and commercial accounts receivables increase at 2 percent per year (capped at 60
percent of sales), and AHC-MMS overheads increase.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
In the sensitivity analysis, four scenarios are modeled, including three risks identified in Section F.2. of the
PAD. These critical assumptions are also modeled for their switching values. Results are shown in Table
A4.3 and A4.4.
Table A4.3 Sensitivity Analysis Results
Scenario             PAD Risk                     Description of Change       | Resulting
No.                 Modeled                         to Base Case               Revised
FIRR  EIRR
1     Municipalities do not adopt integration Accounts receivable increase by 2%  10.6   10.8
strategy.                         annually after the PO departs
2     Beneficiaries are not paying tariffs to  Water sales to mines down 20%  9.0%   9.1%
cover the cost of services
3                   Ditto               Lower Domestic Tariffs by 20%       7.8%   8.1%
4                                       Cost of Civil Works up 5%           12.2%  11.5%
5     AHC-MMS lacks capacity to         P.O. Performance Criteria Not       6.7%   6.4%
implement the Management Contract  Achieved
Table A4.4 Switching Values
Scenario                             Description                              Result
1    Water sales to mines would have to decrease by what percentage in order to  14%
result in NPV=O?
2     Un-collected Accounts Receivable would have to average what percent of  24%
sales to have NPV=0? (Base Case average=19%)
3     Civil Works cost would have to increase by what percent to have NPV=0?  11%
The sensitivity and switching analysis highlight several important considerations. First, commercial
considerations are critical to sustainability. As illustrated, variances from Base Case assumptions about
tariffs and collections quickly have an impact of the EIRR Just a 20 percent decrease in bulk water sales
- 41 -



to the mines (which represent about 40 percent of collected revenues), or a 20 percent decrease in domestic
tariffs (domestic sales account for about 55% of realized revenues) will reduce the Project's overall retum
below 10 percent. Thus, the setting of the bulk tariff to mines and residential tariffs to households should
be carefully considered and precisely negotiated. The EIRR is also quite sensitive to the PO achieving its
performance objectives. Thus, the GRZ should grant it a high degree of operational autonomy, at the same
time balancing its activities by prudent and appropriate regulatory control. Finally, the base case is highly
sensitive to the cost of civil works. An increase in the cost of civil works by only 11 percent decreases the
project's NPV to zero. Thus, the procurement of contracts, and subsequent supervision, should be
implemented with care.
Implications for IDA Supervision Missions. Several items highlighted in the discussion above are key in
achieving the Base Case EIRRs. Some of these will be monitored via compliance with covenants in the
Development Credit Agreement (e.g., the financial targets), but others will need to be monitored during
supervision. Therefore, IDA's supervision missions for the MTSP should monitor at least the following:
1.    The collection rate from bulk water supply and large customers (e.g., mines, councils, high income,
irrigation lines, clubs);
2.    The way that bulk contracts are constructed, especially the way offsetting financial obligations are
structured;
3.    The degree to which the P.O. achieves its performance criteria;
4.    Changes in revenues brought about by a change in consumption patterns, especially for high cost
housing and commercial customers; and
5 .    The cost of the civil works.
Fiscal Impact. Repayment of the IDA Credit will be the responsibility of the GRZ. The AHC-MMS will
contribute US$15.6 million which represents its on-lent portion of the Credit. This amount is considered to
be well within the ability of the AHC-MMS to repay using self-generated funds, and is on-lent at a 4.5
percent annual interest rate on the disbursed balance, over 20 years with a 5-year grace period. Grant
funding under the Credit to the AHC-MMS will include funds for the second portion of the Rehabilitation
and Repair fund, start-up and production costs support to AHC-MMS, the Management Contract, TA
support to the AHC-MMS, and support for the HTV/AIDS initiative.
The project is not expected to impose any significant fiscal burden on the GRZ, especially when considered
in the context of a re-structuring of the copper industry. The Credit will be repaid in 40 years with a
ten-year grace period. The annual interest rate is 0.75 percent on the disbursed balance, and a 0.5 percent
commitment fee may be charged on the un-disbursed balance. There will be fiscal impact from: (i) the
project's counterpart requirement; (ii) debt service for the amounts not on-lent to the AHC-MMS, including
repayment of principal, interest and the commitment fee (which may be waived by IDA); (iii) the impact of
the shadow exchange rate on the local portion of civil works; and (iv) the VAT on sales. These are shown
table A4.2 below, and calculation details are in the Project File.
Table A4.2 Summary of Fiscal Impact (nominal 1999 US$)
Description                                   Amount
Counterpart requirement                                    300,000
Commitment Fee* and Interest                              4,468,300
Principal Repayment                                         22,100,000
Effect of Shadow Exchange Rate                              313,754
VAT                                                        (996,615)
- 42 -



Total                                                     26,185,439
Commitment fee may be waived by IDA's Board of Directors
The Project's total fiscal impact represents less than one percent of the country's estimated GNP. It adds
about 0.3 percent to Zambia's outstanding and undisbursed debt. Annual debt service after the grace
period is about US$600,000, which adds less than one percent to the country's annual debt service
payments (1998 figures). Helping to offset these obligations is an estimated US$1.0 million in VAT
revenues.
Included in the Projectfile are hard and electronic copies of the economic analysis Excel
worksheets, as well as supporting documents.
- 43 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ZAMBIA: Mine Township Services Project
Overview
AHC-MMS took over operations in all five mine township areas for water, sewage and solid waste on
October 1, 1999. During the transition period from October 1999 until the Private Operator (PO) can
be mobilized, ZCCM will provide the necessary cash support, second operational staff as needed, help
in asset transfers and establishing the legal framework, and provide logistical and other support as
needed. When the PO is on site, the finn will present all necessary operational staffing, budget, tariff,
and other plans for management approval of AHC-MMS, after which, more permanent arrangements
can be instituted. All tables presented in the text include water, sewer and solid waste revenue and costs
and are for the initial 7 years including the expected first year of operations, followed by 4 years with a
PO in place, and two subsequent post-PO years.
Summary of Results:
Profit & loss
A summary of the base case profit & loss projection is shown below. AHC-MMS is expected to incur
operating cash deficits in the initial years of operatidns. The Project is expected to yield significant benefits
in cost reduction through improved efficiency and demand management, resulting in a projected sustained
reduction in net losses in an environment of stagnant revenue and customer base growth. Through these
cost reductions, AHC-MMS is expected to produce annual operating cash surplus (net profit plus
depreciation) by 2004/2005.
The cost of the 4 year management contract is not included in the projections, although a cost of
US$250,000 per year has been included for the period following the initial management contract. This
amount is available to be utilized for a subsequent management regime which is to be determined.
Base case tariff levels are modest and dictated by low family income levels, and there is a significant
cross-subsidy across customer categories to support low income customers. Under such a scenario, the
projections also show that AHC-MMS will be able to cover only a small, albeit increasing, part of
depreciation. However, the current situation in the system envisages downsizing towards a lower asset
base, projecting a lower capacity requirements in line with lower demand and system losses. The current
depreciation charges may therefore be overestimating the replacement costs of the final required system.
- 44 -



Profit & Loss Projections
1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
('000 US$)             2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006
Total Sales                         9,767    9,924   9,870    9,842    9,788    9,814    9,898
Total 0 & M Costs                   8,461    8,205   7,554   7,135   7,020   7,024   7,039
Profit before Provisions and
Depreciation                        1,306    1,720   2,317   2,708    2,767    2,790   2,860
Provision for Bad Debts            -2,879   -2,487  -2,211   -2,113   -2,015   -1,956   -1,921
Depreciation                        -3,418   -3,822  -4,056   -4,134   -4,134   -3,872   -3,872
Profit Before Interests            -4,991   -4,589  -3,950   -3,539   -3,382   -3,037   -2,933
Interests                            -140    -421    -632    -702    -702    -702    -702
Net Profit                         -5,131   -5,010  -4,581   -4,241   -4,084   -3,739   -3,635
Net Profit + Depreciation           -1,713   -1.189    -526    -107      50      132     237
* Interest is calculated at 5 % of IDA disbursed loan to the amount of $15.6 million for the Rehabilitation Fund.
Cash Flow
The projected operating deficits in the initial years of operations is expected to be covered through a grant
from the proceeds of IDA credit, to the amount of $6.25 million during the first 5 years of the project This
grant will be mainly used to assist AHC-MMS pay for some of its chemicals and electricity costs. Taking
this grant into account, AHC-MMS (or its successor) will be able to meet all operating (excluding the
management contract) and debt service requirements, and maintain a positive cash flow throughout the
projected 15 years.
A summary of AHC-MMS's cash flow projection is given below:
Cash Flow Projections
1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
('000 US$)             2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006
Net Cash Flow before Production Cost
Support                            -2,555   -1,340    -646    -181       -9      111     209
IDA & GRZ Grant for Production Costs
Support                             3,415    1,745     830      346       0        0        0
NetCash Flow                          860      405     184      165       -9     111     209
Accumulated Cash Flow                 860    1,265    1,449    1,613    1,604    1,716    1,925
- 45 -



Balance Sheet
Existing assets are assumed to be transferred from ZCCM at an estimated value based on an auditors
opinion. The evaluation is not yet ready and preliminary calculations based on current book values,
estimated remaining lifetimes and a recalculation from the US$ exchange rate in 1993 (US$1 :Kw600)
to today's rate reveals a total of $44 million with a depreciation level of $3 million per year.Inventories
and spare parts are currently part of ZCCM divisions' assets and generally scarce in supply.
Recognizing the need to build up additional capacity in this area, some costs have been included in the
operational budgets to allow for this. However, these costs have not been separated in the Balance Sheet
projections.
Balance Sheet Projections
1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
('000 US$)            2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006
Assets
Fixed Asset                       48,430   56,502  63,013  64,573  64,573  64,573  64,573
less Accumulated Depreciation     -3,418   -7,240  -11,295  -15,429  -19,562  -23,434  -27,305
Current Assets
Accounts Receivables               1,722    1,859   1,915   1,932   1,943   1,964   1,994
Cash                                860    1,265   1,449   1,613   1,604   1,716   1,925
Total Assets                      47,594   52,386  55,082  52,690  48,558  44,819  41,187
Equity
Share Capital                     44,000   44,000  44,000  44,000  44,000  44,000  44,000
IDA&GRZGrantFinancing              4,725    8,302  10,963  11,309  11,309  11,309  11,309
Retained Profits                  -5,131  -10,142  -14,723  -18,964  -23,048  -26,787  -30,422
Total equity                      43,594  42,160  40,240  36,345  32,261  28,522  24,887
Liabilities
IDA Credit                         3,120    9,360  14,040  15,600  15,600  15,600  15,600
Accounts Payable                    880      866     802     745     697      697     700
Total Liabilities                  4,000   10,226  14,842  16,345  16,297  16,297  16,300
Total Liabilities & Equity        47,594   52.386  55,082  52,690  48,558  44,819  41,187
Main Assumptions:
The main assumptions discussed in the economic analyses sections apply to the financial analysis as well.
First, the Base Case assumes that all the Private Operator's (PO's) expected performance targets are met.
These involve an overall reduction in unaccounted for water to 30%, achieving a 25 percent reduction in
energy, chemicals, labor and maintenance costs. Next, the Base Case assumes that the cost of the PO and
other amounts not on-lent to AHC-MMS are borne by GRZ and constitute a grant contribution to
AHC-MMS. Third, it assumes that the percentage of domestic bills uncollected decreases by 2% per year
throughout the analysis period. Finally, the Base Case assumes that the AHC-MMS overhead costs
decreases by 60 percent while the PO is in place. The AHC-MMS - or as the case may be, its successor
after the MTSP - is assumed to incur a cost of US$250,000 per year beginning in year 5 to manage the
system in place of the PO after the Management Contract period. This cost is assumed to be funded
- 46 -



through internal cash generation. Other base case assumptions are estimated from the most recent financial
information obtained from AHC-MMS. The financial model is expressed in current terms, using
1999/2000 as the base year, with costs calculated in early 1999/2000.
Evolution of Connections
New water connections are assumed to be very moderate (and none in some areas), reflecting the current
economic situation in the Copperbelt. The present system already cover almost all domestic consumers.
The general scenario is that of downsizing the existing capacity to meet amore economically sensitive and
conservation aware population while tariff systems, awareness campaigns and privatization of the mines
are implemented.
Consumption and Production Pattern
The absence of billing and tariff systems has resulted in very large water consumption for all connection
categories. The almost total lack of metering equipment for both electricity and water consumption has
made it necessary to estimate consumer consumption, losses on compounds due to faulty pipes and
plumbing, etc. Domestic water consumption is projected to decline sharply, from 421, 111 and 86 lI/c/d to
337, 91 and 60 I/c/d for high, medium and low cost houses respectively, as tariff and demand management
is implemented by the PO. Consumption by mine operations, larger customers, industry and institutions
are assumed fixed at current levels.
It was estimated that domestic water losses in consumer's compound are 5, 10 and 30 % in high, medium
and low cost housing areas, respectively. These losses are expected to drop cumulatively by 0, 15, 40 and
60 percent during the 4 year period of the management contract, as leakages are attended to during the
period of the management contract.
Although the consumption volumes are projected to remain largely stagnant, production level is
projected to decrease by over 20% during the projection period. This is due to a projected improvement
in Unaccounted for water (UFW). The reduction of UFW is a key target of the PO and it is expected
that the PO will reduce UFW by 5%, 10%, 5% and 5% during the years 2-5 (bringing overall UFW
from the present 52% to 30%).
Billings and Collections
AHC-MMS inherits an existing system paid for by subsidized, direct deductions in miners' salary payments
from ZCCM. Current payments through these deductions will continue with subsequent transfers to
AHC-MMS of the relevant amounts. It is estimated that $4.5 million will be generated each year through
these deductions. Even so, domestic collection efficiencies are assumed to be low at the start, to take into
account the increasing proportion of non-miners in the mining townships.
AHC-MMS delivers bulk water supplies for mine operators and councils. In some cases councils take
on wastewater treatment for AHC-MMS. These bulk supplies have been calculated for each customer
and included in the revenue stream if either a) the mine is projected to become viable, or b) the council
will be able to pay for supplies through direct deductions in treatment costs. Billings for other bulk
supplies are assumed uncollected. AHC-MMS is negotiating with these large customers and will
quickly be able to establish a revenue stream to supplement the miner deductions.
Based on available information for council areas in the same region, the ability to collect on billings is
expected to be very low. In some council areas only some 20% of billings are actually paid. Collection
efficiency is assumed to improve by 2% each year when the PO implements a new billing and collection
system. Due to current the problems with the privatized mine in Luanshya (RAMCZ) it is assumed that
it will not be possible to collect billings there before a final solution to this problem is found, which is
- 47 -



assumed to occur not later than 2001/2002. Collection from public institutions is assumed not to
improve. In total, billings are estimated at $9.7 million, non-payment at $2.9 million (or 30 /O) in
1999/2000 and at $9.8 million and $1.9 million (or 20 %) in 2004/2005.
Collection efficiency assumptions are summarized below:
1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006
Billing Loss Factors
Non Payment High Tariff%             30%     29%     27%     26%      24%     23%      22%
Non Payment Medium Tariff %          50%    48%      45%     43%      41%     39%      37%
Non Payment Low Tariff %             50%     48%     45%     43%      41%     39%      37%
Non Payment Mines (ZCCM)              0%      0%      0%      0%       0%      0%       0%
Non Payment Mines (RAMCZ)           100%     50%      0%      0%       0%      0%       0%
Non Payment Councils (Others)        20%     20%     20%     20%      20%     20%      20%
Non Payment Institutions             50%     50%     50%     50%      50%     50%      50%
Non Payment Commercial               50%     20%     20%     20%      20%     20%      20%
Tariff
Initial tariffs are expected to be effective as soon as they can be calculated precisely. The tenrs of
reference for a local consultant to establish the first set of tariffs are under approval for immediate
execution. The regulating authority NWASCO is expected to approve tariffs based on proper cost
calculations immediately after a fonnal request is presented. It is imperative that tariffs keep up with
inflation and currency exchange rate fluctuations. Similarly, the process of implementing new tariffs is
expected to become efficient and speedy when the new regulator NWASCO becomes fully operational.
Tariffs have been estimated to achieve affordable, domestic household bills and economic sustainability
for AHC-MMS. It is suggested that a uniform tariff be used for each consumer group. Tariffs and
monthly bills include water, sewer and solid waste charges.
Tariff assumptions are summarized below:
1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006
Calculated monthly bill
High Income US$ per month          23.38   22.66   22.98   23.50   23.50   23.50   23.50
Medium Income US$ per month         8.23    7.91    7.77    7.40    7.20    7.20    7.20
Low Income US$ per month            5.80    5.68    5.16    4.81    4.41    4.21      4.21
Water & Sewage Tariff
High Income tariff US$ / m3         0.31    0.32    0.36    0.39    0.39    0.39      0.39
Medium Income tariff US$ / m3       0.31    0.32    0.33    0.33    0.33    0.33      0.33
Low Income tariff US$ / m3          0.28    0.29    0.29    0.29    0.29    0.29      0.29
Stand Pipes tariff US$ / m3         0.11    0.11    0.11    0.11     0.11    0.11     0.11
Institutions tariff US$ / m3        0.29    0.41    0.41    0.41     0.41    0.41     0.41
industries/Commercial tariff US$ I m3  0.29    0.29    0.29    0.29    0.29   0.29    0.29
Mines Raw Water tariff US$/ m3      0.12    0.12    0.12    0.12    0.12    0.12    0.12
Production Costs
Raw water is provided from rivers and underground mining operations. Water extraction costs depends on
- 48 -



obtaining a license to extract water from natural sources. This only applies to river and dam intakes. For
the first year of operation the cost will be Kw2 per cu. m. and the following years Kw3 per cu. m. This
amounts to $88,000 and $108,000 in year 1 and 5 respectively. These amounts take into account the
expected decline in water production as water consumption is expected to drop over the years. Electricity
is the highest cost in water production in the Copperbelt. Prices are assumed to increase by 30 % in year 1
and another 15 % in year 2 to cover for expected electricity tariff increases. Chemical use, electricity
costs, staff and maintenance costs are assumed to drop by an accumulated amount of 25% during the
period of the Management Contract.
AHC-MMS inherits the current production equipment and supply systems, andno debts at its
establishment. Based on preliminary analysis assets are valued at $ 44 million with an annual
depreciation averaging $3 million. The value was calculated using existing purchase prices in ZCCM,
last revalued in 1993 and 1994, and adjusted for the prevailing US$ value of Kw600 to the present
exchange rate of Kw2400. Following the establishment of AHC-MMS an audit of the current
evaluation (book value) is foreseen.
Current staff from 5 divisions in ZCCM is to be seconded followed by additional staff - either recruited or
seconded from ZCCM. No staff will be employed on a pernanent basis before the Private Operator (PO)
can plan and suggest a future organization for AHC-MMS approval. It is expected that the PO can reduce
staffing and overhead costs by 25 % during the first 5 years.
In the financial analysis, a portion of the proceeds (about US$15.6 million) from the IDA credit for capital
expenditure (rehabilitation and repair) is assumed to be on-lent to AHC-MMS at 4.5% interest rate on a 20
year term, with a 5 year grace period. The GRZ will apply the remainder of the IDA credit proceeds to the
project as a non-repayable grant. This will cover the cost of the second portion of the Rehabilitation and
Repair fund, start-up and production costs support to AHC-MMS, the Management Contract, TA support
for the preparation of the follow-on project, TA Support for the AHC-MMS, and for the AIDS/HIV
component.
Production cost assumptions are summarized below:
1999    2000   2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
('000 US$)            2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006
Production Costs
WaterRightCosts                      88    125       115     111     108     108      108
Electricity                        2,750   3,232   3,076   2,825   2,609   2,614   2,626
Chemicals                          1,292   1,141    910      820     745     745     747
Staff                               410    389      351      333     316     316     316
Maintenance                        1,336   1,269   1,143   1,085   1,031   1,031   1,031
Other                                69      69      69       69      69      69      69
Sewage disposal                     726    726      726      726     726     726     726
Solid waste contractors            1,237    825     825      825     825     825     825
Environmental Management Program      0       0       0        0       0       0       0
Depreciation                       3,418   3,822   4,056   4,134   4,134   3,872   3,872
Total Production Costs            11.327  11.599  11.270  10,929  10.564  10.306  10.321
Project File. Included in the Project File are: (i) hard and electronic copies of the Base Case financial
model; and (ii) the Final Report of the Task Team's financial analyst.
- 49 -



Financial Summary for Revenue Earning Project Entities
Years Ending: 2000 through 20051
(In Millions of Current USD)
Year2 2000     2001      2002       2003      2004       2005      Average
Annual
Forecast  Forecast  Forecast  Forecast  Forecast  Forecast   Growth
Income Statement Items (Q00's)
Revenues                        6888      7437       7660      7729       7772      7858     0.026
Operating Expenses               8461      8205      7554       7135      7020       7024    -0.036
Cost of Production             7909      7777       7214      6795       6431      6434    -0.04
Administration & Office         552       427       340        340       590        590     0.013
Overheads
Operating Income                -1573     -768        106       595       752        834
Net Income                     -1713     -1189      -526       -107       50        132
Funds Statement Items
Sources of Funds:
Internal Sources                -1573     -768       106        595       752        834
IBRD Loans                        0         0         0          0         0          0
IDA Credits                     7845      9817       7342      1906        0          0
Sources
Equity Investments
Total Sources                     6272      9049      7447       2501       752       834
Applications:
Capital Expenditures           4430       8072      6512       1560        0         0
Recurring Costs                  140       421       632        702       702        702
Working Capital Increase        1702       556       304        239        50        132
(Decrease)
Total Applications                6272      9049      7447       2501       752       834
Balance Sheet Items
Assets
Current Assets                  2582      3124       3364      3546       3547      3680
Less Current Liabilities        -880      -866       -802      -745       -697      -697
Net Current Assets or Working    1702     2258       2562      2801      2851       2983
Capital
Net Fixed&OtherLong Term       45012      49262     51718     49144      45011     41139
Assets
Total NetAssets                  46714     51520      54280     51945      47861     44122
Debt and Equity
Long Term Debt                  3120      9360      14040      15600     15600      15600
- 50 -



Equity                           43594      42160      40240      36345      32261      28522
Total L/T Debt and Equity          46714      51520     54280      51945      47861      44122
Financial Ratios
Operating Income asa%of            -0.23      -0.1       0.01       0.08        0.1       0.11
Revenue
Net Income as a % of Revenue       -0.25      -0.16      -0.07      -0.01      0.01       0.02
Return on Average Invested Capital            -0.07      -0.03      -0.01        0        0.01
Debt Service Coverage              -11.2      -1.82      0.17       0.85       1.07       1.19
Percent of Total Capital
Expenditures financed by Internal  -0.36      -0.1       0.02       0.38
Sources
Current Ratio                       2.9        3.6        4.2        4.8        5.1        5.3
Debt as % of Total Capitallization  0.07      0.18       0.26        0.3       0.33       0.35
Main assumptions:
1. The main financial objective of the project is to achieve positive operating cash flow by the end of the project. As
such, the figures above (items operating expenses, operating income and net income) do not take into consideration
depreciation charges. See Profit & Loss Projections in para. 2 of this Annex for details.
'Data for each year should be defined as Actual or Forecast.
Select key years after the start of normal operation of the project (e.g. when debt servicing burden is highest).
When feasible, comparative data on other enterprises in the same industry should be shown.
Guidance on financial ratios for financial intermediaries is given in OD8.30 Annex A and in an FSD note on
performance indicators ("The Use of Sectoral and Project Performance Indicators in Bank-Financed Sector Operations,"
March 1995).
- 51 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ZAMBIA: Mine Township Services Project
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
Project Preparation and Operational Costs Support. Utilizing a PPF advance ($0.6 million), some
project preparation work has been undertaken. Mainly this involved office equipment and consultancy
work, including preparation of the bid documents for the management contract to be let under the project.
The international legal consultant for this task was contracted on sole source basis. Other studies are
contracted on the basis of consultant qualifications. An additional $1 .4m of PPF advance will be used
mainly to support the operational costs of AHC-MMS and critical rehabilitation works, prior to the
availability of funds from the Credit and the arrival of the PO on site
Procurement of Consulting Services. The total cost of IDA-supported consultant contracts will be about
US$10.8 million. This will include (a) performance based management contract (Private Operator) of
about US$6.4 million, (b) support to AHC-MMS including international audits, technical assistance,
environmental support, specific assistance with HIV/AIDS, and feasibility studies and, (c) support to
MLGH for TA for facilities studies for solid waste and for consultants and Technical Assistance for
preparation of the follow-on Urban Development Project. The performance-based management contract
which involves consultancy and civil works will be awarded, after pre-qualification, on a competitive basis.
The successful Management Contractor would not be excluded from participating in the follow on contract,
if any. Additional consultant contracts will be awarded in accordance with theGuidelines for Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997; Revised September, 1997;
Addendum Effective January 1, 1999). Most consultant contracts will be awarded using the
Quality-and-Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) procedures, following requests for expressions of interest
advertised internationally, preparation of a short list by the implementing agency, and technical and
financial evaluation of proposals. Short lists of consulting firms for contracts valued at less than
US$ 100,000 may be comprised entirely of national firms if at least three qualified firms are available at
competitive costs; if however, foreign firms also express interest, they will not be excluded from
consideration. Some consultant contracts valued at less than US$100,000 each for firms and $50,000
each for individuals may be awarded by sole source selection, but only on an exceptional basis and for
special circumstances, and subject to adequate justification and prior review by IDA.
Training. The total cost of IDA-supported training activities will be about US$400,000. It will comprise
participation in seminars, workshops, study tours and courses. Expenses will be financed on the basis of
supporting documentation. Training in procurement for enhancement of procurement capacity is included
in this amount.
Procurement of Goods and Works. All contracts will be awarded in accordance withGuidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995; Revised January 1996, August 1996,
September 1997, and January 1999).
The total cost of IDA-supported construction contracts will be about US$15.6 million (excluding
contingencies estimated at US$3.65 million). These would mostly comprise the rehabilitation and
- 52 -



replacement of water mains, purchase and installation of meters, rehabilitation of water and wastewater
treatment plants, and renovation of house connections. Larger works contracts (individual contract value
US$0.25 million and above) will be awarded on the basis of ICB for an aggregate value equivalent of
US$17.55 million approx. This comprises contracts for water pumping stations, water piping systems,
water storage systems, sewage pumping stations and sewage treatment systems. Smaller-value works
contracts (individual value less thanUS$0.25 million equivalent) will be awarded on the basis of NCB for
an aggregate value of US$1.7 million equivalent. It has been agreed that procedures for NCB to be used
by AHC-MMS and the tender documents to be used will be based on the Bank Standard Tender Documents
for ICB, suitably modified.
Goods component is estimated at US$5.35 million. The contracts for the procurement of oods (individual
value US$250,000 equivalent and above) will be awarded on the basis of ICB for an aggregate value of
US$4.2 million Smaller value goods procurement contracts (individual value less than US$250,000
equivalent) will be awarded on the basis of NCB, for an aggregate value of US$1.0 million. Contracts less
than $50,000 each may be awarded through National Shopping using approved procedures, for an
aggregate value of US$0.15 million equivalent.
General Procurement Notice (GPN) The GPN has been published in the Development Business for
January 31, 2000. This date will be at least 60 days prior to the issue of bid documents. In accordance
with the guidelines, Specific Procurement Notices (SPNs) will be issued for Civil Works exceeding $1
million and before preparation of short-lists in respect of consulting contracts above US$200,000.
Procurement Planning The procurement planning schedules for works, goods and consultancies are
included in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) in draft final form. These plans will be finalized by the
project's effectiveness date. However, in regard to the plans to be implemented by the Private Operator
(PO), these will be reviewed and amended by the PO, as needed, consistent with its Business Plans.
Implementation Arrangements. The Private Operator will be responsible to procure all the items financed
by IDA on the basis of Bank Guidelines. The PO will process the procurement documentation, while the
procurement decisions will be the responsibility of AHC-MMS. The selection criteria for PO requires
expertise in Bank procurement. However, after the PO is selected, the concerned procurement staff will be
provided exposure and training in Bank procurement and procedures.
For the component pertaining to Preparation of Permanent Arrangements (US$2.6
million), the Ministry of Local Government and Housing (MLGH) will be responsible for
procurement. The MLGH has the support of the Department of Infrastructure Services
(DISS) in the Ministry whose capacity for procurement is being enhanced under the
ongoing Bank funded Roads Project. The procurement officer currently being recruited in
DISS will also support the procurement load for this component. DISS has good
experience in Bank procurement, including for the Urban Sector Project. A recent
procurement audit of the project was complimentary of the capacity of DISS to conduct
Bank procurement.
For all the other components, the procurement will be the direct responsibility of
AHC-MMS. At present the company has a Procurement Officer who has experience of
procurement under ZCCM. Given the procurement workload and oversight function for
the procurement conducted by the P.O., another procurement officer has been recruited.
Training on procurement will be provided to both of them.
- 53 -



About US$ 100,000 is also available under the project for training in procurement and
project management.
Procurement monitoring will be the responsibility of AHC-MMS except for the work of MLGH for which
MLGH will be directly responsible. Quarterly progress reports will be furnished inter alia to IDA directly
by MLGH and by AHC-MMS.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                            17.55           1.70           0.00           0.00          19.25
(17.40)        (1.65)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (19.05)
2. Goods                            4.20            1.00           0.15           0.00           5.35
(4.20)         (1.00)         (0.15)         (0.00)         (5.35)
3. Services                         6.40            0.00           4.40           0.00          10.80
(6.40)         (0.00)         (4.40)         (0.00)        (10.80)
4. Training                         0.00            0.00           0.40           0.00           0.40
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.40)         (0.00)         (0.40)
5. Incremental Operating            0.00            0.00           2.20           0.00           2.20
Costs                               (0.00)         (0.00)         (2.10)         (0.00)         (2.10)
Total                            28.15           2.70           7.15           0.00          38.00
X_________________________ t       (28.00)         (2.65)         (7.05)         (0.00)         (37.70)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
XIncludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local governmend
uniits.
- 54 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Prior Review. All contracts for goods and works valued atUS$250,000 or more will require prior review
by IDA. However, the first three contracts belowUS$250,000 will also be subject to prior review by IDA.
IDA will also review the selection of consultants. Consultant contracts with finns, valued aIJS$100,000
or more will be subject to IDA prior review, as will contracts with individual consultants valued aXS$
50,000 or more. However, the first three consultant contracts belowUS$100,000 will also be subject to
prior review by IDA. IDA will however review terms of reference of all consultant contracts, regardless of
their value. IDA will also review all consultant contracts awarded on a single-source basis, or assignments
of a critical nature, as determined by IDA, as well as amendments to contracts raising the contact value
above the prior review thresholds. All contracts awarded during the first year of the project will be subject
to post-review; after the first year, post-reviews will be carried on a random basis.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Ex~~sr~~dItur. C*e..MtuQc.... ... .. . 
1. Works                    250,000 or more               ICB                $250,000 or more,
plus the first three contracts
Less than 250,000            NCB               below the thresholds
2. Goods                    250,000 or more               ICB                $250,000 or more,
plus the first three contracts
Less than 250,000            NCB                below the thresholds
Less than 50,000        National Shopping
3. Services                                              QCBS,            $100,000 or more (firms);
QBS                   $50,000 or more
CQ and Single Source         (individual);
plus the first three contracts
oelow $100,000
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
1Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 55 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
The proposed IDA credit of US$37.7 million would be disbursed over four and a half years with an
expected Project Completion Date of June 30, 2004 and a closing date of December 31, 2004. The
proposed allocation of credit proceeds is shown in Table C.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. .............
Civil Works                                  19.05                       100% foreign
95% local
Goods                                         5.35                       100% foreign
95% local
Consultant Services                          10.80                          100%
Training                                      0.40                          100%
Incremental Operating Costs                   2.10                       100% foreign
95% local
Total Project Costs                          37.70     _       =
Total                                        37.70           _
Use of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) and Project Monitoring Reports (PMRs): Disbursement
would be made on the basis of Statement of Expenditure (SOE) for contracts and purchase orders with an
individual value less than those requiring IDA's prior review. The project is expected to be compliant with
LACI requirements by December 31, 2001 after which date disbursement will be made quarterly on the
basis of Project Monitoring Reports (PMRs).
All applications to withdraw proceeds from the Credit will be fully documented, except for: (a)
expenditures of contracts with an estimated value of US$150,000 each or less for goods and works and (b)
US$ 100,000 or less for consultants' services provided by finns; and (c) US$50,000 or less for individual
consultants; and (d) all training, which may be claimed on the basis of certified statements of expenditure
(SOEs). Documentation supporting expenditures claimed against SOEs will be retained by AHC-MMS and
will be made available for review when requested by IDA supervision missions and project auditors. All
disbursements are subject to the conditions of the Development Credit Agreement and the procedures
defined in the disbursement letter.
- 56 -



Special accoLint:
Special Account: To facilitate disbursements of eligible expenditures for works, goods and services, GRZ
will open two Special Accounts in a commercial bank to cover part of IDA's share of eligible expenditures
to be managed and administered by the executing agencies. One Special Account shall be in the name of
AHC-MMS (the AHC-MMS Special Account), and a second Special Account shall be in the name of
MLGH (the MLGH Special Account). The Authorized Allocation of the AHC-MMS Special Account and
the MLGH Special Accountwould be US$1.5 million and $400,000 respectively, covering an estimated
four months of eligible expenditures financed by IDA. In view of the fast track nature of the project and the
expected early utilization of funds to ensure the operational cost reductions required to achieve project
success, the Authorized Allocations shall not be limited to below the specified amounts at any time during
the project. AHC-MMS and MLGH will be responsible for submitting monthly replenishment applications
for their respective accounts with appropriate supporting documents for expenditures. To the extent
possible, all of IDA's share of expenditures should be paid through the special accounts.
Project Account: In order to ensure the timely provision of counterpart funds, GRZ will establish at the
time the Credit becomes effective a Project Account at a commercial bank acceptable to IDA, with an
initial balance sufficient to finance expenditures forecast for the first quarter of operations. GRZ will
replenish the Project Account every quarter, with sufficient funds to meet its share ofxpenditure under
this project for the coming quarter. Funds under the Project Account would be applied only for the purpose
of the Project. During negotiations, agreement was reached regarding the arrangements for establishing
and operating the Project Account.
- 57 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ZAMBIA: Mine Township Services Project
..~
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)             11/01198                    11/24/98
Appraisal mission departure                     02/14/2000                  02/14/2000
Negotiations                                   03/02/2000                   03/02/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  08/31/2000                _       _      _
Prepared by:
Preparation assistance:
PPF-Q184-0-ZA: US$600,000
PPF-Q184-1-ZA: US$1,400,000
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Jane Walker                       Senior Private Infrastructure Specialist, Team Leader (AFTU1)
Emile Sawaya                      Principal Private Sector Development Specialist (AFTPS)
Fook Chuan Eng                    Financial Analyst (AFTU1)
Alex McPhail                      Senior Economist (MNSID)
Subhash Dhingra                  Sr. Procurement Specialist (AFTU1)
Ame Dalfelt                       Environmental Specialist (AFTEI)
Judy Wilson                       Legal Advisor, Consultant
Sarah Keener                     Beneficiary Assessment and Participation Specialist, Consultant
Jan Franck                       Private Sector Specialist, Consultant
Per Fossum                       Water Quality Engineer, Consultant
Fredrick Mattson                 Water Supply Engineer, Consultant
Lu Kang                          Program Assistant (AFTU1)
Brighton Musungwa                Financial Specialist (AFMZM)
Bwalya Mumba                     Procurement Analyst (AFMZM)
Ame Dahlen                        Environnmental, Consultant
Rey Castro                        Operations Analyst (AFTU1)
- 58 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ZAMBIA: Mine Township Services Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
The Project Implementation Manual will include the following contents:
1.    Abbreviations and acronyms
2.    Introduction, objectives and content of the Manual
3.    The Mine Township Services Project
4.    Institutional arrangements for implementation of the project
5.    Project Implementation Plan (PIP)
6.    Management information, monitoring and evaluation
7.    Annexes:
Annex 1    Bibliography
Annex 2    Principal contacts
Annex 3    Manual of financial procedures
Annex 4    Manual of procurement procedures
Annex 5    Standard reporting formats
Annex 6    Project Implementation Plan (PIP)
Annex 7    Tables of expenditures and sources of finance
Annex 8    Detailed annual plan for the next year
Annex 9    Detailed annual budget for the next year
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. World Bank Fact Finding Mission to Zambia Copperbelt Mining Water and Sewage Systems
2. Environmental Reconnaissance Report for Copperbelt Mining Townships (April, 1999).
3. Financial Analysis report:
(i) hard and electronic copies of the Base Case financial model; and
(ii) the Final Report of the Task Team's financial analyst.
4. Social Assessment report.
5. Environmental Assessment Report November, 1999
6. Economic Analysis:
(i) hard and electronic copies of the Base Case economic model; and
(ii) supporting documents
59 -



C. Other
1. Government of Republic of Zambia: Ministry of Energy and Water Development - National
Water Policy. 1994
2. Water Supply and Sanitation Act, 1997 No.28 of 1997
3. Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines Limited - Social Services at ZCCM
Report#CS.ZCCM/1 123/98 dated December 11, 1998.
4. Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines Ltd. Transformation of Municipal Services- Post ZCCM
Privatization. November 1998.
*Including electronic files
- 60 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ZAMBIA: Mine Township Services Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions         disbursements'
Project ID    FY   Borrower                      Purpose                                     IBRD      IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
P003218       1995 Zambia                    AGRICULTURE SECTOR I                              0.00      60.00       0.00     22.51      26.13      1.34
P003249       1999 Zambia                    BASIC EDSEC INV PRG                               0.00      40.00      0.00      34.91      1132       0.36
P044324       1997 Zambia                    ENTERPRISE DEVELPMNT                              0.00      45.00      0.00      37.74      30.27      0.00
P040642       1996 Zambia                    ERIPTA                                            0.00      23.00      0.00       4.83       4.75      0.00
P003253       1997 Zambia                    EnAlronmental Support Program                     0.00      12.80      0.00      10.58       4.22      0.00
P003258       1994 Zambia                    FINANCIAL &LEGAL MATTERS                          0.00      18.00      0.00       1.68       1.74      0.85
P003239       1995 Zambia                    HEALTH SECTOR                                     0.00      56.00      0.00      27.89      29.30      0.00
P003236       1998 Zambia                    NATIONAL ROAD                                     0.00      70.00      0.00      52.15       0.60      0.00
P003252       1994 Zambia                    PETROLEUM REHAB                                   0.00      30.00      0.00      23.58      24.46      0.00
P035076       1998 Zambia                    POWER REHAB                                       0.00      75.00      0.00      70.46      53.61      0.00
P050400       2000 Zambia                    PUB SVC CAP (PSCAP)                               0.00      28,00      0.00      27.42       0.00      0.00
P003210       1995 Zambia                    SOCIAL RECOVERY II                                0.00      30.00      0.00       1.01       4.64      0.00
P003241       1995 Zambia                    URBAN RESTRCT &VATER                              0.00      33.00       0.00      7.42       1.63     -0.21
Total:       0.00      520.80        0.00     322.18    192.67       2.34
- 61 -



ZAMBIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
25-Apr-2000
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1998               AEFAmaka Cotton                1.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.30    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               AEF Big Five Car               0.52    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.52    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               AEFDrilltech                   0.20    0.00    0.15    0.00    0.20    0.00    0.15    0.00
1999               AEF Esquire                    0.43    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.43    0.00     0.00    0.00
1997               AEF JY Estates                 0.89    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.89    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995               AEF Kaila Lodge                0.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.10    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               AEF Pentire                    0.57    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.57    0.00    0.00    0.00
1972/73            Bata Shoe ZA                   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               Finance Bank                   4.01    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.51    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               IMDHZ                          0.00    0.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.50    0.00    0.00
1998               Nicozam                        0.00    0.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.30     0.00    0.00
1999               Zamcell                        4.50    0.60    0.00    0.00    4.50    0.60     0.00    0.00
Total Porffolio:        12.52    1.40    0.15    0.00   10.02    1.40    0.15    0.00
Approvals Pending Comnitment
PY Approval       Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
1999              AEF Kembe Estate               1300.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1999              AEF Mpelembe                    700.00    300.00      0.00      0.00
2000              KCM                               0.00  22800.00   7200.00      0.00
2000              Lusaka InterCon                4600.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
i997              Safari Intl.                   2000.00      0.00    750.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:     8600.00  23100.00   7950.00      0.00
- 62 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ZAMBIA: Mine Township Services Preoject
Zambia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987       1997     1998      Inflation (%)
Domesdtc pikes
(X change)                                                                        200
Consumer prices                              19.8    43.0       24.8      28.7     50-
Implicit GDP deftator                         8.2    62.0       25.9      23.2    100
Government finance                                                                 s0
(6 of GDP, includes current grants)                                                 o
Current revenue                                ..    19.8       19.8      18.1             93   94   90   gr   97   98
Current budget balance                         ..    -7.3        1.4       1.4             -G OP deRator  4-OCPI
Overall surplus/defIit /a                      ..    -5.8       -6.2      -9.5
Overali swplusldeficitb                        ..    -2.6       -1.9      -4.3
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1977    1987        1997     1998      Export and Import levels (USS nmiilons)
Total exports (fob)                          897      867      1,119      874      r
Copper                                        ..    736        623      442
ZInc                                          ..      51       185       143     1200_
Manufactures                                  ..      42       180       186
Total Imports (clf)                          683      669      1056      1,022      so
Food                                         ..       11        12        11      _o_ii     _0   97 __
Fuel and energy                                       67        87        59
Capitalgoods                                  ..    250        665       687        o
Export price Index (1995=100)                  ..      75         84       70            92  93  94  9s  as  97  go
Import price index (1995=100)                 42       74         91       84              U Exports     U Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..    101          93       83
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1977    1987        1997     1998      Current account balance to GOP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                970      918      1,230      984       0
Imports of goods and services                971      892      1432      1,286
Resource balance                              -1       27       -202      -302                         *
Net income                                   -134     344       -219     -190      10
Net current transfers                          ..  -30  -16  -17    " IN"
Current account balance                      -217    -347       -438      -509
Financing items (net)                        179      611        470      348
Changes in net reserves                       38    -264         -32      161    -25 [
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        94      111        238       69
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUSS)              0.8      9.5   1,314.5   1,862.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987       1997     1998
(US$ millions)                                                                     Composition of total debt 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        2,341    6,626     6,758    6,862
IBRD                                       293      555        62        42                   G: 374  A: 42
IDA                                          0      260      1,493     1,544             F: 122    -    _   s: 1,544
Total debt service                           259      171        282      244
IBRD                                        26       28        40        25
IDA                                          0        1         14       16
Composition of net resource flows
Ofticial grants                              ..    105        378       240       E: 2,971
Offl/al credItors                           70       99         87       74                                     C: 1,138
Private creditors                           42      -38         9        -32
Foreign direct investment                     .       0         70      219
Portfolio equlty                             0        0          0                                     D: 671
World Bank program Ic
Commitments                                 60       43        156      145      A- IBRD                      E- Bilateral
DIsbursements                               46       98        118      157      B-IDA     D- Other mu00ateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                         6       26        49        31      C - IMF                      G - Short-termn
Net flows                                   40       72        69       126
Interest payments                           20       34         18       16
Netransfers                                 20       38         51      110
Development Economics                                                                                               9/21199
- 63 -



ADDITIONAL ANNEXES
- 64 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
Environmental Assessment Study: Executive Summary
ZAMBIA: Mine Township Services (MTSP)
Republic of Zambia: Environmental Assessment Study
Introduction
1. The Bank classified the MTS Project as Category B for the purpose of this EA. The EA
reflects the ToR - first drafted in an Environmental Reconnaissance Report, the relevant
WB operational directives, and the outline of the project in the Pre-Appraisal Aide
Memoire. The main focus of the proposed Project is rehabilitation and new management of
water supply, sanitation and solid waste services. Environmental aspects of the Project are
by default directly linked to the investment plan and operation and maintenance of the
installations. With sufficient investment in rehabilitation and some new instailations, and
proper management, operation and maintenance procedures being followed by well trained
staff, the Project would impose only minor environmental impacts. Consequently the focus
of the EA Study is on the investment and training required to bring the management,
operations and maintenance up on an appropriate level to meet the environmental and other
requirements set down by the Authorities of Zambia and the WB's OPs and ODs.
2. Policy, Legal and Institutional Framework In 1994 GRZ adopted a water policy
document. The national water policy is based on seven key principles: i) Separation of
water resources management from water supply and sanitation, ii) Separation of regulatory
and executive functions, iii) Devolution of authority to local authorities and private
enterprises, iv) Full cost recovery in the long run, v) Human resources development leading
to more effective institutions, vi) Technology appropriate to local conditions, and vii)
Increased GRZ priority and budget spending to the sector. A new regulatory body, the
National Water and Sanitation Council (NWASCO) has recently been put in place under
the Ministry of Energy and Water Development (MEWD) in compliance with the new
Water and Sanitation Act of 1997.
3. Water resources management is the responsibility of MEWD and a Water Development
Board (WDB). WDB is presently in the process of preparing a Water Resources Action
Program (WRAP) and an inception report is being prepared as basis for donor support for
WRAP. It is assumed that Kafue River basin will be used as a pilot project in developing a
new model for water resources managernent in Zambia. Most of the raw water drawn for
the schemes of the Project is from Kafue River or its tributaries in the upper Kafue. A
work group under the Water Sector Reforms Support Unit (RSU) in 1997 presented a
proposal for national environmental sanitation strategy for rural and peri-urban areas in
Zambia, including solid waste disposal. This initiative was in line with the GRZ Health
Reform's priority on preventive health measures.
4. Legislation relevant for the Project and its operation under AHC-MMS and a PO includes
the following laws and regulations briefly described in the Report: Water Pollution Control
(Effluent and Waste Water) Regulations, Statutory Instrument No 72/1993; Water Act
1949 (Chapter 198 of the Laws of Zambia); Water and Sanitation Act No 28/1997; Waste
Management (Licensing of Transporters of Wastes and Waste Disposal Sites
(Regulations). Statutory Instrument No 71/1993; Environmental Protection and Pollution
Control Act No 12/1990; Environmental Protection and Pollution Control (Environmental
- 65 -



Impact Assessment) Regulations. Statutory Instrument No 28/1997; Land Acquisition Act
No 2/1970 and Public Health Act with regulations.
5. The institutional framework is described with an outline of roles and responsibilities of the
main stakeholders of the Project. These include the ZCCM (owner of AHC-MMS with its
Group Environmental Services, AHC-MMS Municipal Services Ltd. and the future Private
Operator (PO). Other institutions with roles and responsibilities related to the Project are:
Ministry of Local Government and Housing (MLGH) with municipal councils and three
commercial utility companies on the Copperbelt, NWASCO and RSU, WDB, Ministry of
Health (MOH), ix Environmental Council of Zambia (ECZ) and Ministry of Mines and
Mineral Development (MMMD).
6. National and Regional Environmental Setting The Project area is situated in the
Copperbelt Province in the upper Kafue River basin. Copperbelt, as most of Zambia lies
on the central African plateau with an altitude of around 1300 m asl. In upper Kafue basin
the rain season normally starts in October and last till April with 1200 - 1300 mm rainfall.
The flow regime of upper Kafue River basin is influenced by human interventions in
addition to geophysical characteristics of the basin and a number of water use and
management activities are taking place. Kafue River and its tributaries are the main source
of water for a majority of the population of Zambia, with demands of agriculture, domestic
and industrial activities including mining attached to it. Wastewater is in addition generated
by the various water use activities with return flows into Kafue River. The high population
densities on the Copperbelt, together with high levels of industrial, mining and commercial
activities have had an adverse impact on the environment, in particular effects related to
water and air pollution, solid waste generation, deforestation and overcrowding in shanty
townships and illegal settlements. Most of the land surrounding the mine towns is owned by
ZCCM and its successors. Forest plantations comprise a significant land use besides
commercial farming on state land around the towns.
7. Assessment of Water SUPPlY and Sewaae Systems The Report offers an analysis offlow
data of the upper Kafue River basin, e.g. upstream of Mpatamatu 70 km south of
Luanshya (to be confirmed). Upper Kafue constitutes 11,520 km2 drainage area of a total
of 156,995 km2. However, the water resources of the Copperbelt are estimated at some
150 m3/s of a total of 342 m3/s for the whole of Kafue River basin. It is estimated that 21
% of the rainfall is converted to run-off. The are 126 water rights on the Copperbelt with
about 0.97 million m3/d against the potential of 12.9 million m3/d. A general trend is that
more water is added to the Kafue River in the upper basin than is extracted from it, as
there is a clear and distinctive influence of human activities on the water regime. The
general conclusion drawn from the flow data analysis is that there are abundant surface
water resources to meet current and projected water demands in the mining townships. On
a national basis there is no regular sampling of water to record water quality since the
resources of the DWA are not sufficient. However, ZCCM has maintained water quality
monitoring related to mining activities (Cu, Co, TDS and TSS) at about 30 locations on the
Copperbelt. The test data are only of limited value as baseline data for envirommental
monitoring of the Project. It is assumed that the impacts on aquatic life in the Kafue River
basin will be minimal from the Project compared to impacts from mining operations. The
Report recommends investments and mitigating measures, which considerably will reduce
the level of impacts from the present operations, in particular sewage effluent. Sewage
from present operations contributes less than 1.5 % of TSS in the Kafue River, and this
does not exceed 4 % under maximum conditions. However, with regard to Luanshya it is
assumed that effluent from sewage ponds has permanently changed the ecological system
of in particular the Nkulumashiba stream, and to some degree the Luanshya stream, which
- 66 -



both flow into Kafubu River and further downstream into Kafue River. Kafubu River is
also polluted from discharge of sewage from Ndola City.
8. Resettlement: No needfor involuntary resettlement has been identified as a direct
consequence of the Project.
9. The EA Study disclosed that there is a profound lack of operator skills and knowledge, in
particular related to knowledge of how processes function and why certain actions should
be carried out. This will in many instances have a bearing on the quality of treatment
processes and thus on the degree of environmental impacts. The EA Report argues that a
training component should be included in the Project and refers to the Competence Based
Modular Training (CBMT) system for operators of water supply and sanitation schemes
that will soon start at Nortec in Ndola. The study also disclosed that there is a risk of cross
contamination of water supplies by workers assigned to duties both on sewage treatment
and water treatment, and recommends separation of operational staff into clean and dirty
water workers. Medical checks every six months is recommended for water workers. With
regard to laboratory facilities for regular quality assurance and environmental monitoring,
the Report recommends that an assessment should be made of the need, and an appraisal
done on how this can be best met under the Project.
10. The issue of national statutes conceming environmental control and monitoring is not part
of the EA Study as such. However, statutes and license conditions will have a bearing on
compliance with the conditions and how environmental monitoring is carried out. The study
disclosed two important aspects related to this. The statutory instrument for, for example
sewage effluent has standards (number of determinants) that are not possible for a service
provider in Zambia to meet in practice. On the other hand, monitoring and control by the
statutory authority, in this case and also regarding solid waste management, the ECZ is at
best rudimentary, if at all carried out. The EA Report recommends that NWASCO should
set up a working party to carry out a joint review of standards, licenses and enforcement
procedures for water supply and sewage.
11. With regard to construction work under the Project close supervision is recommended to
minimize the risks attached to construction work for workers and nearby residents. Of
issues related specifically to water supply, WTP sludge and backwash water should be
disposed of in an environmentally sound way. It should in this regard be considered to
install alum recovery plant(s), which may be economically feasible. It has previously been
mentioned that Kafue River basin represent an abundant surface source of water for the
schemes under the Project. However, in certain cases abandoned mine shafts may be used
as bore holes for the provision of raw water. The presence of water hyacinth on sewage
ponds is dealt with under issues specifically related to sewage and sewerage. It was found
that the water weed, subject to certain provisions, may actually assist in cleaning up the
sewage. The provisions are that there is an adequate area of aerobic ponds following from
any pond covered by hyacinth and that the weed is harvested in the full growth stage.
12. Observations made with regard to the fauna in most of the sewage pond systems indicated
that treatment is taking place and that oxygen is being absorbed into the water (the
presences of frogs and fish). The presences of crocodiles is a further indication of the
presences of food. However, crocodiles represent an apparent danger to the workers and
may prevent necessary operational and maintenance work to be carried out. It is therefor
recommended that the crocodiles are killed by the Crocodiles Farmers Association of
Zambia who is authorized to deal with the animals. The population of crocodiles is on the
increase in Zambia.
13. Sewage effluent standards are to a certain degree monitored by the ZCCM divisions and
RAMCZ. At face value the available analysis would suggest that the present effluent
-67 -



discharges in general meet the standards set down by ECZ (for the parameters being
measured), but it is believed that the values are false indicators. This is based on
observations of blocked and leaking sewer pipes, sewage diverted to irrigation and non
functional pumps, which would indicate that the amount of sewer reaching the ponds is
lower that estimated. The ECZ standard for coliform is too high for irrigation use of
effluent water, as quoted by WHO. The Report offers a set of parameters and values on a
limited sample basis that may be effectively applied in test regimes for environmental
monitoring. It is also recommended that sufficient funds is set aside in the rehabilitation
budget for expansion of sewage treatment systems where required to meet the
recommended standards. The recommendations are incorporated as actions in the EMP.
14. Each of the five divisions is dealt with separately and the existing water and sanitation
systems are described in the full EIA. The following recommendations made are included
in the EMP: Nkana: A raw water reservoir should be constructed at Kafue River intake
and flood levels should be established in relation to any risk of flooding of the intake
pumps. Nchanga: A water storage tank is required at the intake. Backwash water and
sludge should be discharge to a tailings leach settling tank across the road for the waste
water treatment plant. Mufulira: The tailings dam adjacent to Mufulira Stream intake
should be protected to prevent ingress of pollutant matter, the raw water storage reservoir
should be repaired and rehabilitated, the 17th Street pump station should be separated from
the sewage pump station, Kankoyo North and South sewage ponds should be replaced with
new combined sewage ponds, and the remaining three sewage pond systems all require
upgrading to accept 2005 flows. Konkola: in case a clarifier is installed, a tank should be
installed to receive all backwash water and pump this back for re-processing, the proper
ground investigations should be made at the Kamwenza reservoir and the old one should be
cleared away, maturation ponds should be added to the Golf Course pond system and the
Kamwenza ponds should be closed. RAMCZ (Luanshya): Maturation ponds to be added to
the Roan sewage ponds, Mpatamatu sewage ponds need urgent reconstruction and
rehabilitation of three sewage pump stations is urgently needed. Provided that the
recommendations offered in the Report are followed up in the Project, the Project should
represent only minor environmental effects with regard to the water supply and sanitation
components.
15. Assessment of Solid Waste Most issues observed and assessed related to solid waste
management are common to all divisions. These include waste contents and production,
collection and transport, waste disposal and the socio-economic dimensions related to solid
waste. A number of observations were made. The most significant ones concern
discrepancies in available data on production and costs and the general low standard of
operation, control and environmental protection of the dumpsites. Most of the standards
laid down in ECZ licenses are not complied with, apparently resulting in no actions from
ECZ. Significant environmental effects would be likely from operations of the Uchi
dumpsite under Nkana division in Kitwe. This dumpsite also receives waste collected by
the City Council, as well as industrial and commercial waste, without any monitoring or
control.
16. Other recommendations offered, and included in the EMP are: Amendment of contracts'
specifications for collection and transport (if required); Establishment of bore holes or
wells in the vicinity of the dumpsites for Nkana, Nchanga, Konkola and Luanshya;
Development of a regular monitoring program with parameters, sample procedures,
schedules and test regime for ground water samples (and surface water downstream of
Uchi); Proper management and monitoring procedures to be worked out for Uchi as a
matter of urgency, and a fee imposed on waste being dumped by the council and others, not
- 68 -



allowing hazardous waste on the site; Disposal of waste for Mufulira should be
concentrated on one of the three tailings dams now in use; Access to be opened to the
chosen quarry at Luanshya and the dumping in the bush should be stopped immediately.
17. On analysis of alternatives it is not recommended to change the structure of collection,
transport and disposal of solid waste from the mine townships for the duration of the five
years Project period. However, the Report recommends a feasibility study on solid waste
management alternatives on the Copperbelt to be carried out as a component of the
proposed Urban Development Project.
18. Environmental Management Plan Physical aspects of the Project involve operation and
maintenance, rehabilitation and upgrading of existing facilities for water supply, sanitation
and solid waste services, and possibly increased discharge of effluents. The EA Study
focuses both on existing environmental problems that should be mitigated through
implementation of the Project and problems being caused by implementation of the Project
itself. These are classified as issues common to all divisions regarding water supply and
sewage (environmental management and monitoring and mitigating measures), water
supply and sanitation operational procedures, division specific water and sewage issues
(mitigating measures) and EMP for solid waste management.
19. Three distinctive aspects or roles ofinstitutional responsibilities with regard to the EMP
are outlined. Implementation of the action plan component of the EMP, monitoring of the
implementation of the EMP and mitigating measures and independent enviromnental review
and control of the planned and approved actions and the monitoring data and results.
Primary responsibility for the two first aspects will rest with the AHC-MMS and PO with
assistance of the ZCCM Group Environmental Services, while a number of statutory
authorities will be responsible for the third aspect. These are NWASCO, ECZ, MOH,
WDB/DWA and Municipal Councils.
20. Institutional capacity building and training is discussed in a separate section to underline
the importance of this issue in relation to environmental monitoring, and a recommendation
is made for engagement of an Environmental Assessment Advisor. The EA Advisor should
be in an independent position as advisor to the AHC-MMS Managing Director, outside the
line functions of the company. The cost for implementation of the EMP is estimated at US$
400,00 and includes capacity building and training, TA/consultants and studies as well as
the funding for the Environmental Advisor. The costs for the capital works for
environmental mitigation are estimated at US$2.4 million and have been included in the
Rehabilitation and Repair Fund.
- 69 -



Additional
Annex No.: 12
Social Impact Assessment Summary
ZAMBIA: MINING Township Services-Urban
I. Background
As part of project preparation, the World Bank and the AHC-MMS undertook both research and
consultations to gather more complete information on the socioeconomic background and service priorities
of water consumers in mine townships. Three principle activities took place with report to a social
assessment.
First, a process of obtaining feedback from consumers on project design was initiated, and continued
throughout project preparation. The discussion groups included a cross section of the different types of
consumers (miners, retrenched miners and non-miners) with separate groups for low, medium and high cost
housing residents and for women and men (150-200 participants total). Union official (MUZ) participated
in several of the discussion groups meetings. Second, a rapid social survey covering roughly 430
households in Luanshya, Nkana and Chililabombwe mining townships was carried out in conjunction with
students and professors from the Copperbelt University. The proportional sample was stratified according
to income groupings and covered areas with relatively good water service (Chililabombwe), as well as those
with poor water service (Luanshya, Nkana). Third, socio-economic information was gathered and meetings
were held with each of the mines' personnel and community services departments. Fielc*work for these
activities took place over 2.5 weeks in the Copperbelt in May and November, 1999 and was organized and
supervised by both the AHC and the World Bank.
While the quantitative survey sought to attain basic information on water and sanitation use, satisfaction 
with current services, income sources, vulnerability and to a very limited degree, expenditures and income,
the focus group discussions concentrated on perception of current service, priorities for service
improvements, assessing what tradeoffs different groups of consumers were willing to make between
maintaining/ improving service levels and keeping costs within affordable limits (fewer hours with lower
costs versus more hours with higher costs), and exploring the most acceptable forms of cost recovery
including the likely reaction to different options for metering.
The issue of how to best introduce a successful system of billing and cost recovery is one which is
important for both mining and Council townships. Moreover, cost recovery policies in adjacent Council
and mining township areas influence each other, and many focus group participants made comments on the
cost recovery systems and service standards in place in adjacent Council areas. Thus, although the
research area was within mine townships, the lessons and suggestions from consumers in mining areas can
also be of use to policymakers for Council areas.
Because of time constraints, the focus of the socio-economic research has been on the mine areas where the
majority of project beneficiaries reside. However, in addition to providing water to mining townships,
ZCCM provides water directly - formally or informally - to close to 6,000 residents of informal settlements
which are adjacent to or on top of mine water pipes. These settlements are largest in Nkana/Kitwe (1,150
- 70 -



residents) and KonkolalChilabombwe (about 4,600 residents). Since these settlements are likely to grow,
the operator would presumably hold responsibility for establishing proper maintenance and cost-recovery
schemes which would require active community participation as has been pursued in Ndola Council areas
with the assistance of CARE.
II. Profile of the Mine Townships
I.    Occupation
Mine townships historically provided free housing, municipal services, and other benefits (education, health
care) to mine employees as part of their employee package. Although many of these benefits have been or
are being discontinued, the majority of residents are still miners.
Table 1: Composition of Mine Townships
% Miner Occupied   % Ex-Miner      % Non-Miner      Total Housing
Occupied        Occupied         Units
Nchanga      81%                18%             2%                5,786
Konkola      72%                23%             5%                4,767
Mufulira     46%                19%             35%               9,596
Nkana        83%                13%             4%                6,768
Luanshya     62%                3%              35%               9,519
TOTAL        66%                14%             20%               36,436
Source: AHC/ZCCM/Roan Antelope Mining Corp.
In recent years, the mining companies have regularized the housing market, and sold houses to mine
workers at discounted prices. Over time, as these employees leave, either selling or renting their house, and
others have moved in, the mine areas have had an increasing number of non-miner residents. In the
divisions of Luanshya and Mufulira this is especially noticeable. In addition, mines have traditionally
leased housing to non-mine employees working for the community (teachers, health care workers, police,
etc.). This is the case for about 600 teachers for whom the Ministry of Education leased housing and paid
all municipal charges. The Ministry of Education, like the mines, is in the process of changing the system
so that residents pay rent directly to owners.
An additional factor in the changing nature of mine township are plans for retrenching additional miners. If
all new retrenchees came from mine townships, and stayed in the townships, then only 54% of the residents
would be active miners compared to the current 66%. In Luanshya and Mufulira, the percentage of miners
would drop to between 41% and 43% of the total residents if all planned retrenchments are carried out. In
Nchanga and Luanshya planned additional retrenchments are the equivalent of 12% and 21% of the
households.
- 71 -



2.    Residence
According to the quantitative survey, 77% of retrenched miners interviewed said they planned on staying at
their residence while 23% planned to rent their house out and move elsewhere. ZCCM offered to sell some
of its leased housing to miners in areas where there was a shortage of housing for sale. This has resulted in
a dispute over whether the non-miner residents (mostly teachers) had the right to purchase the houses
themselves, or were instead obliged to start paying rent directly to the new owners. This was the case, for
example, in Luanshya which had excess housing stock; 547 miners from Nchanga, which did not have
sufficient housing, were offered an opportunity to purchase houses from ZCCM which were occupied by
teachers and other non-miners. In spite of this uncertainty, seventy four percent of non-miners said they
planned on staying in their house. On average, township residents have lived in the township for 6.5 years,
with non-miners living there on average for over 4 years, and disabled and retired miners averaging over 10
years.
3.    Social Context
Because of the large role mines traditionally played in townships in providing for all services, and
responding to community problems, most communities do not have alternative community organizations to
turn to resolve local problems. Church organizations perhaps play the most prominent role in mine
townships, but have not traditionally been involved in organization around municipal services issues.
Some neighborhoods have started forming neighborhood committees, although these are still in the
relatively early stages. In discussion groups, most participants noted that they were not used to resolving
public issues with their neighbors, and the general tendency was more individualistic.
Literacy rates among miners are relatively high (over 90%), and over 90% of miners are married. Almost
all miners are Zambian, with the overwhelming majority coming from urban areas (often from mining
families). Thus, mining families often have not developed skills in informal trading or agriculture to the
same degree as non-mining families simply because they have not needed to since historically the mine
provided steady income. hi discussion groups, and in the quantitative survey, most households (77%) had
only one income earner. In the low cost areas wives reported taking on other petty trading activities to
supplement their income.
Overall, between 50% and 60% of miners reported having a bank account (close to 100% in high cost
areas, and between 30 - 67% among non-managerial staff). Among residents in general, the quantitative
survey reveals a similar pattern with 73% of residents with access to a bank account, but with lower rates
(40 - 65%) among low cost housing residents. In discussion groups, low cost housing residents noted that
although they had bank accounts, they did not have any deposits but maintained the account in order to
receive their salaries. About 41% of high cost housing residents and about 10% of medium cost housing
residents have or have had a telephone.
According to the survey, a majority of residents in mine areas own their homes (79%). Ownership rates
decline with income as only 25% of very low cost housing residents owned their homes compared with 91%
of medium and high cost housing residents. According to ZCCM, some of the residents in low-cost
housing areas are eligible to purchase their houses, but have been unable to come up with the modest
payment ($100 in some cases).
- 72 -



4.    Income
As presented in Table 3, at present, the majority of miners have relatively modest incomes and earn from
$120 to $156 per month in take-home pay (net of taxes and mandatory payments, including overtime,
bonuses for municipal services, but prior to any deductions for purchases at mine stores or for municipal
services). Data on miners incomes focused on ZCCM townships because updated information was readily
available. Similar data was collected from Luanshya in May, 1999, and the pattern is similar to that in the
ZCCM townships. Analysis of income levels confirms that without supplemental income, the workers on
the very bottom of the salary scale are not far from the poverty line. The average take home salary of those
at the lowest-end of the salary scale, who most likely live in very low cost housing, is 299,297 Kw and thus
a 13% drop in income would place this family at the poverty threshold. This was calculated using data
from preliminary analysis of the 1998 Living Conditions Monitoring Survey; the approximate poverty line
(in terms of expenditures) would equal 260,471 Kw for someone with the household size typical of
someone in very low cost housing, 310,301 Kw for someone with a household size typical of someone in
low cost housing and so forth. Anecdotal evidence from the focus group discussions suggested that in the
lowest income areas, spouses will often try to supplement income by selling charcoal, gardening, or raising
poultry.
Table 2: Monthly Take Home Income ZCCM Employees
% of Total Employees    Monthly Take Home   Weighted Average by
(ZCCM Only)            Salary Range        Income Group
Higher Income            5%                     $483 - $1,233        $637
Junior Managers, Low to    15%                  $167- $177           $173
Medium Income
Lower Income             81%                    $120 - $156          $114
On average non-miners (teachers, public employees, retrenchees, retirees) earn less than miners. In focus
group discussions, and a small sub-sample from the quantitative work, the typical monthly household
income of non-mine workers generally ranged between 100,000 Kw to 270,000 Kw (US$40 - US$108) per
month.
Residents of all income levels expressed anxiety about retrenchments and about their future income. It is
difficult to forecast what the longer-term income of retrenched miners will be, but those involved in focus
group discussions were most often involved in marketing (informal trading), seasonal fish mongering, or
carpentry ,and were earning less than they had earned as miners. Only 5% had found another job with
regular income. Others will move to rural areas and rent out their homes for income. Retrenchees in
higher income areas complained that they could not find people who could afford to rent their large houses.
- 73 -



Table 3: Current Income Source Retrenched Miners
Current Income Source                                   N    %
Still on retrenchment package                           6        15.8
No income                                               6        15.8
Retired with pension                                    7        18.4
Otier job with regular income                           2        5.3
Own business (often refers to informal                  13       34.2
sector activity/marketing)
Agriculture                                             4        10.5
Total                                                   38       100.0
At present, miners and retrenched miners feel they are facing a financial squeeze because they are being
required to pay for the cost of services which were previously free or subsidized (health care, education,
etc.) and have not had a concurrent increase in salaries. Twenty four percent of respondents living in low
cost housing noted that they had sent relatives to live elsewhere in the past 12 months because they could
no longer afford to care for them. Although some residents are cutting down on their support to others,
miners continue to play a key role in providing financial support to an extended family; in each household
in the mine township an average of 1.22 income eamers over 18 supports an average of 10 persons (of
which 2.3 live outside the household).
Table 4: Household Characteristics
Housing     Average    Of which i    # Income   Dependency                      # of People    Average   Total        % Saying     # Sent
Category    Househo    Persons       Earners    Ratio (#          Households    Supported    Amount      Number      they had      Away
Id Size    Under 18 in    Over 18    dependents in   Sending       Outside HH    Monthly    Dependent   sent
Household               HHaTotal HH       Regular                    Support     s In and     dependents
members):        Support to                 to Those    Outside      to live
1 = all dependent,   Those                   Outside    House        elsewhere
0 = no dependents   OutsideHH                HH (Kw)                 inlastl2
monthis
Very Low        6.44          3.54       1.22             0.807          48%           2.4      36,319           8           8%         2
Cost
Low Cost        7.68          4.57       1.01             0.857          62%          2.63      58,784         9.5          23%       1.62
Medium          8.45           4.5       1.29             0.835          58%          2.72      77,624         10.1         17%/a     1.76
cost
High Cost       9.06          4.74       1.41             0.823          65%          3.41     112,149         11.8          6%         3
TOTAL           8.04          4.41       1.22             0.837          59%/.        2.27      70,719         9.9          17%       *75
- 74 -



II.    Consumer Perspective
1.    Current Water Supply, Solid Waste & Sewerage Services
Based on feedback from both the quantitative survey and the focus group discussions, residents of low
income mine areas receive a lower level of service than their counterparts in high income areas. Thus, if
the project succeeds in improving water pressure (as should occur if leaks are repaired in low cost areas), it
should bring a substantial benefit to these underserved groups.
Table 5: Hours Water Service By Housing Type
n       Mean       Standard Deviation
Low Cost           34       18.85                 8.14
Medium Cost       210       20.53                 8.38
High Cost          97        20.6                    6
Total                       18.54                 8.52
A majority of residents ranked water as the most important municipal service to maintain or to improve,
followed by sewage services. High rates of dissatisfaction were expressed with water quality and pressure.
This reflects, however, large differences among divisions; in Luanshya 80% of respondents were not
satisfied with water quality and 48% - 60% were dissatisfied with pressure. This compares to only 18%
having problems with water quality in Chililabombwe. In focus group discussions with low income
residents in Luanshya, women complained that they were unable to maintain vegetable gardens, an
important source of supplementing income, when there was insufficient water pressure to water their
gardens. The lack of pressure also resulted in a situation where several residents in Luanshya reported that
people were breaking into the pipe where it comes into the neighborhood to try to leapfrog ahead of
neighbors to get water before pressure deteriorates at end of line.
Table 6: % Respondents Ranking Service as 1st, 2nd or 3rd Priority to
Maintain/Improve
1st             2nd              3rd
Water            59%              23%               8%
Sewage            18%              29%              26%
Solid Waste         13%              20%              33%
Electricity         5%              21%              16%
Roads             4%               4%              10%
- 75 -



Table 7: Level of Satisfaction with Services
Satisfied with...         Yes                       No
Hours of Water Services                      60%                   40%
Quality of Water                             52%                   48%
Pressure of Water                            44%                   56%
Sewerage Services                            48%                   52%
Rubbish Collection                           28%                   70%
One of the contributing factors to low pressure can be leaks inside households which would not normally
fall into the purview of a water operator. According to respondents, this appears to pose more of a
problem in low cost areas.
Table 8: State of Internal Plumbing
Does all                      Total
plumbin
g work?
House                                    no         yes      Do not
Category                                                     know
very low cost   Count                          49        2                  51
% within House Category       96.1       3.9               100.0
low cost       Count                           82       27         1       110
% within House Category       74.5      24.5       0.9    100.0
medium cost    Count                          131       85         1       217
% within House Category       60.4      39.2       0.5    100.0
high cost      Count                           18       16                  34
% within House Category       52.9      47.1               100.0
Total  Count                          280       130         2      412
% within House Category       68.0      31.6       0.5    100.0
In focus group discussions, participants' most frequent complaint about sewage service was of stopped
toilets. For solid waste, some residents reported that service had deteriorated in terms of the frequency of
collection. Forty seven percent of respondents claimed that refuse was not collected at all and many stated
- 76 -



that they either bumed the refuse or buried it in pits in their yard.
Table 9: Frequency of Refuse Collection by Housing Category According to Consumers
House            Daily   Weekly   Monthly  Other   Do not   Internittent  Do not    Total
Category                                            collect              know
very low    %              26.9%    17.3%             50.0%        1.9%     3.8%   100.0%
cost
N                 14        9                26           1        2       52
low cost   %     1.8%     45.5%      5.5%             43.6%       3.6%             100.0%
N        2        50        6                48           4               110
medium     %      2.3%    28.7%     11.1%    3.2%     48.6%        1.9%     3.7%    100.0%
costII
N        5       62        24       7       105          4         8      216
high cost    %            35.3%      8.8%    5.9%     38.2%       2.9%     8.8%   100.0%
N                 12        3       2        13           1        3       34
Total      %      1.7%    33.5%     10.2%    2.2%     46.6%       2.4%     3.2%    100.0%
N        7      '138       42       9       192          10       13      412
2.     Consumer Feedback on Priorities for Service Improvement Preferred Payment
Methods and Cost Recovery
In focus group discussions, residents expressed a strong desire to improve or maintain service levels for 24
hours with good pressure. It was more common in Luanshya, where service is already restricted, that when
pressed to pay significantly more, residents noted that they would settle for at least 12 - 18 hours of water
service. Miners were generally more willing to pay an increment over current costs if thonode of payment
continued to be the payroll deduction system Since the ZCCM mines have been providing a 30% housing
bonus which more than covers the current deduction for municipal charges, miners may associate the
payroll system with non-payment. and if they were only paying for what they were consuming through
some form of metering. Women were particularly concerned that if their husbands actually had take the
cash they receive from their paycheck and go to a separate office to pay the bill, that the bill would not be
paid but spent on entertaintent or alcohol. Indeed, seventy three percent of those interviewed stated that
they had never paid a bill of any type, and the time required to go to a central billing office and wait in line,
would both discourage miners from paying. The issue of learning to budget and pay bills will immediately
affect all non-miners who do not have the salary deduction scheme.
The willingness to pay more money for individual meters was mixed, although a majority were willing to
pay at least 1000 Kw more per month for a metered service. This reflects the presence of non-miners and
retrenched miners - who tended to have much lower incomes than miners. At higher prices for metered
service (5000 Kw + extra just for the meter), some low cost housing and a portion of medium cost housing
residents said they would settle for communal metering system. Only one low income group of women in
- 77 -



Chililabombwe did not want a metered system because of the fear that someone would use the taps in their
yard when they were away.
Although residents expressed a strong demand for individual meters, such a system is expensive to install
and maintain. Altemative options were explored with residents such as community metering whereby
groups of households are metered and within a group the bill is evenly divided by the number of
households. However, in the majority of areas, residents resisted the concept of being dependent on the
actions of their neighbors, or having to pay the financial burden of their neighbors inability to pay their
bills given the growing number of unemployed retrenched workers. According to participants, alternative
social safety nets do not exist, and in only one discussion group did participants agree that they could
contribute a small amount to help a neighbor in the first month or two of not being able to pay for services.
Many participants were willing to pay a premium just to have a meter. In order to address this issue, the
project incorporated funds for purchasing meters, and requested the private operator to work with
communities to develop innovative metering schemes with communities' participation. However, it would
still be costly to install individual meters in all households and thus if the operator must continue a scheme
of flat payments or grouped metering, individual households which cannot pay their bill should be offered
an option to reduce consumption to the most minimal level (such as a drip valve). This would serve to
protect those households which are unemployed or retrenched from facing a flat monthly fee reflecting the
water usage of their wealthier neighbors or face being cut off, while also protecting the neighbors from
bearing the indirect expense of full water service for households which could not afford to pay their water
bills. Finally, because current consumption levels are very high, providing consumers with an option to
reduce their bill by reducing consumption will allow people to tailor consumption to their ability to pay for
services.
Many participants noted that the change in mindset from receiving a free service to paying for a metered
service would be facilitated by giving advance warning of changes, and involving communities in the
process of change. Thus, the private operator will be requested to develop a communications campaign for
how such changes will be implemented. This campaign should include regular, organized consultations of
consumers and other stakeholders. One of the most influential stakeholders, the unions, will thus also need
to be incorporated early on.
3.    Ability and Willingness to Pay for Services
In order to assess the affordability of changes in tariffs, it is necessary to understand the current
contribution that households are making towards water supply, sewerage and refuse collection costs.
Non-miners, or those no longer receiving a salary or payment from the mines, are currently paying nothing
as they have not received any bills. Initially when the cost recovery was phased in for miners, the miners
were to pay according to their grade level through a deduction directly from their salary. Table 12 shows
the weighted average amounts which were to be deducted by grade level. However, because of the
mismatch between grades and the types of housing, different mines implemented the policy in different
ways. In Chililabombwe (Konkola mine) miners pay a set fee according to the type of house they inhabit,
regardless of their grade or salary. In Nchanga, some people pay according to their grade (for example
junior staff in high cost housing) and others pay according to their house (for example, a senior staff who is
underhoused in low-cost housing would pay less for the house). In Mufullira, miners pay according to their
grade, unless they are underhoused. One issue is that those in Luanshya are currently charged for a level of
service according to the township they live in rather than according to the housing type; thus Roan and
Mpatamatu have a mix of housing types yet all residents pay the same flat rate within each township. This
penalizes the lower income residents in this area.
Thus, for those townships where many junior staff are living in high cost houses but not paying the
- 78 -



corresponding higher cost for municipal services, they will experience a sharper jump when costs rise to
reflect the amount of water consumed and the level of service received.
Based on the calculations estimating the cost for providing services, there will need to be significant
increases in the amount currently withheld for water supply and sanitation for high cost groups.
Table 10: Ability to Pay for Water
Approximate   %     Weighted    Current      Proposed    %        %New
Number     Total  Salary by    Weighted    Average     Change   Water Tariff
Staff/I           Group: $US  Average     Monthly              of Weighted
Monthly     Fee (Kw)             Average
Deduction    for Water           Take Home
for (Kw)                         Pay
Water***
Senior (GI 1-           1,120    5%         637       23,202      50,000    116%          3%
G15)
Junior                 3,487   15%          173       14,299      17,500    22%-    4%- 12%
Management                                                                  250%
Track (G1-G2)
General Staff (G3      19,325   81%         114       12,049      12,500      4%          4%
-G8)
As the table shows, even with substantial increases in high cost areas, the average cost will still be within
generally affordable levels with the possible exception of some of the junior manageriaL track staff (grades
I and 2 representing about 15% of ZCCM staff in the four townships or 3,487 workers compared to 1,120
senior staff) who are housed in high cost houses. In one township which was able to track such data,
Mufulira, 62% of the residents in high cost areas were junior staff (grade 1 and 2). In some other
townships, such as Chililabombwe (Konkola mine), there may be less of a mismatch between salaries and
housing as there are some smaller houses within the "high cost" housing areas which are allocated to the
junior staff. In addition, though a smaller problem, when there were shortages of housing or excesses of
housing in some areas, staff were allowed to "upgrade" to a larger house beyond their grade or,
alternatively, were underhoused in a house smaller than they were entitled to. Thus, there is some slight
variation in income within housing areas, particularly within the high cost areas.. If most junior staff are
living in medium cost households, or are in smaller houses in high cost areas, then the change in their
payment will be closer to 22% above and the total payment will be closer to 4% of their income. However,
in cases where they have been housed in larger high cost houses, but paid a relatively low deduction
because of their salary level, they will likely need some means to reduce their monthly bill (such as
metering).
All of these groups wanted metered consumption, and in Luanshya numerous participants in discussions in
high cost areas noted that if the price of water were to go to 50,000 to 60,000 Kw per month, they would
build wells as an alternative non-drinking water source as the cost of a simple well construction is between
50,000 Kw and 80,000 Kw. Thus, the project has factored this into the average acceptable water tariff for
this group.
Feedback from discussion groups revealed that residents in low income areas were hesitant to pay much
-79 -



more for water (0 - 7000 Kw per month) because they were already living very close to their income limits.
Most did not know what proportion of the monthly deduction went to water supply and so it is assumed
that their expressed willingness to pay is in excess of their current deduction. This was taken into account
in the project by limiting the potential tariff increases on poorer groups.
One of the potential issues which would affect the ability of consumers to pay for services are increases in
the monthly cost of other services such as electricity. Preliminary estimates by ZCCM of the flat rate for
electricity would represent significant increases from what is currently withheld, and thus could crowd out
income available for water. It is recommended that the AHC and the World Bank share information on the
income profile of mine township residents, and discuss a strategy which would protect the most vulnerable
groups in these areas.
- 80 -



Additional
Annex No.: 13
Financial Management Arrangements:
1.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
1.1   Institutional and Management
AHC Mining Municipal Services Limited (AHC-MMS) will be the executing agency for the project and
will also be responsible for the implementation of a number of the project's components. This is a private
company incorporated under the Zambian Companies Act. A separate Project Agreement will therefore be
entered into between IDA and AHC-MMS. The company has a Board of Directors. Below the Board is a
full-time Chief Executive Officer (Manager) of the company assisted by a full-time group of professional
staff, including a Chief Accountant/Company Secretary.
1.2   Financial Management Structure
1.2.1   Finance Committee
A Finance Committee is not proposed in the management structure of the project. This
responsibility will therefore fall on the Board of Directors of the company. Alternatively, the
Directors may delegate any of their powers to a committee as they deem fit.
1.2.2   Chief Accountant
A professionally qualified accountant (ACA, ACCA, CIMA or CPA) with relevant practical
experience (including proficiency in the use of computer applications) is already in place to direct
and guide the financial management operations of MTSP. To assist the Finance Manager in
discharging responsibilities, additional qualified and experienced accounting (including two
professionally qualified accountants), administrative and support staff are also in place.
Investment in staff training will be required in Financial management and accounting, including
internal controls; information systems and computer applications; procedures relating to the
utilization of funds from both the Bank (Special accounts, Statements of Expenditures, etc.) and
other cooperating partners.
1.2.3   Financial Procedures Manual
AHC-MMS management is currently documenting the internal processing procedures and controls in
a Financial Procedures Manual.
1.2.4   Information Technology
The availability of information technology within the company is very limited at the moment.
Management needs to agree with the PO on a computerized accounting package to be used in both
the company's accounting system and that for the project to facilitate timely and reliable reporting. In
the meantime, and as part of these arrangements, additional resources in the form of computers etc.
- 81 -



are being procured through the Project Preparation Facility (PPF).
1.2.5   Planning and Budgeting
Government counterpart funding will be approved in line with the government budgetary process.
Budget preparation and approval should be one of the responsibilities of the Board/Finance
Committee in consultation with other cooperating partners.
1.2.6    Government Accounting
MTSP is a government project and must therefore meet the Ministry of Finance requirements for
cash accounting. This means therefore that IDA and related counterpart funds will be accounted for
on a cash basis.
However, AHC-MMS as a separate legal entity will be required to submit annualfinancial
statements using generally accepted accounting principles.
1.2.7 Procurement of Goods, Works and Services
As a govermment Program, MTSP will be required to comply with the provisions and regulations of
the Zambia Government Central Tender Board. MTSP will also be expected to observe World Bank
procurement procedures, which are available in the Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits", and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers ".
The Chief Accountant and his senior members of staff should be conversant with the World Bank's
procurement procedures, as intemal control issues and the incurring of liabilities on behalf of MTSP
are matters of particular concem to the financial management function.
1.3 Financial Arrangements
The principal objective of the AHC-MMS's financial management system will be to support management in
their deployment of limited resources with the purpose of ensuring economy, efficiency and effectiveness in
the management of the PO in its delivery of outputs required to achieve desired outcomes. AHC-MMS's
financial management system will rely to a great extend on that of the PO to produce timely,
understandable, relevant and reliable financial infornation that will enable the Board to agree to plans,
implement those plans, monitor and appraise the program's progress towards achievement of its stated
goals. AHC-MMS's financial management will include daily cash management for the company itself and
will need to monitor the business plans of the PO which will encompass planning and control of capital
expenditure; working capital management; and funding and performance decisions by management.
1.4 Flow of Funds
Regarding IDA and Government of Zambia funding, AHC-MMS should maintain 3 bank accounts.
Additional bank accounts, if deemed appropriate, would be opened as and when cooperating partners join
MTSP and once the bases for participation by cooperating partners have been fully determined:
*   Special Account with a commercial bank acceptable to IDA in US Dollars which should show:
Dollar cost of transfers to Part 1 Account,
- 82 -



Dollar cost of direct payments to suppliers;
Dollar advances from the IDA Credit Account;
Opening and Closing Balances in US Dollars.
*   A local account in Zambian Kwacha with a commercial bank (Part 1 Account) to which drawdowns
from the Special Account should be credited for Project financing and administrative expenses.
*  A local account in Zambian Kwacha with a commercial bank (Part 2 Account) to which counterpart
funding by the Government should be deposited in respect of any expenditure of Mine Township
Services Project (MTSP) that may be provided for in the loan agreement.
It is imperative that all 3 bank accounts are reconciled with bank statements on a monthly basis.
Furthermore, these reconciliations should be verified/approved by the Chief Accountant on a timely basis.
In addition, detailed internal control procedures over all bank transactions, including AHC-MMS's control
procedures ( e.g. cheque signatories etc.), should be fully documented in the Financial Procedures Manual.
Similar arrangements of three bank accounts will be requiredfor the component to be implemented by
the Ministry of Local Government and Housing (MLGII) should the needfor a separate Special
Account arise (which is a possibility owing to the separate locations of the two implementing
agencies). MLGH is currently responsible for the implementation of another Bank-funded project, Urban
Restructuring and Water Supply.
1.5 IDA Withdrawal/Disbursement Arrangements
AHC-MMS is not yet ready for PMR-based disbursements as provided in the World Bank's Loan
Administration Change Initiative Handbook (LACI, September 1998). This means therefore that in the
short term, the existing disbursement procedures as outlined in the World Bank's Disbursement Handbook
will prevail. The upgrading of the AHC-MMS financial management system should facilitate the
introduction of PMR-based disbursements.
1.6 Financial reporting
The Management of AHC-MMS, having considered the recommendations of the Chief Accountant, should
determine:
*  AHC-MMS's Chalt of Accounts as well as the format and content of Quarterly Reports and Annual
Financial Statements;
* The selection and adoption of accounting policies and accounting standards; and
* The need to include any supplementary notes to the Project Financial Statements in order to enhance the
presentation of a "true andfair view".
Subject to a decision being made by AHC-MMS Management, these reports include financial statements
(e.g. sources and application of funds; expenditure classified by project components, disbursement
categories, expenditure types and implementing agencies, and comparison with budgets; short-term
forecasts of expenditure; unit costs for key items and comparison with budgets; etc.). The reports should
closely follow sample formats that are given in the World Bank's Loan Administration Change hnitiative
- 83 -



(LACI) Handbook.
Reports produced on a quarterly basis to support requests for replenishment of the Special Account should
include the following:
*    Financial Statements: These are to provide information on the sources and uses of funds by loan
category and by project activity, forecasts of expenditure, amount of disbursement requested and a
reconciliation of the Special Account.
*   Project Progress Reports: These are to provide information on project implementation progress in
physical and financial terms using monitoring indicators, including identifying deviations from plan and
explaining reasons for such variations.
*    Procurement Management Reports: These are to indicate the status of procurement and contract
commitrnents and expenditure including source of supply data for contracts subject to the Bank's prior
review, as well as post-review contracts above a certain threshold.
Annual Financial Statements and Annexes for the project will include:
*    A Summary of Funds Received, showing World Bank, funds from other donors if any, and
counterpart funds separately. Other income such as bank interest should also be disclosed separately;
A Summary of Expenditures shown under the main headings and by main category of expenditures,
both for the current fiscal year and accumulated to date; and
A Balance Sheet showing accumulated funds of the project, bank balances, other assets of the
project, and liabilities, if any.
*   Notes in respect of significant accounting policies and accounting standards adopted by management
when preparing the accounts, and any supplementary information or explanations that may be deemed
appropriate by management in order to enhance the presentation of a"true andfair view".
Annexed to the financial statements should be:
*   A schedule listing individual Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) withdrawal applications by
specific reference number, date and amount;
*   A reconciliation between the amounts shown as"Received by the project from the World Bank"
and that shown as disbursed by the Bank.
*   A Special Account Statement showing deposits and replenishments received from the World Bank,
payments substantiated by withdrawal applications, interest that may be eamed on the account, and the
remaining balance at the end of the fiscal year.
As stated above, as an operating Project within the government, the onus will be on the management of
AHC-MMS to operate within the legal framework of Zambia i.e. all Government accounting procedures,
regulations and instructions must be fully observed by AHC-MMS.
-84 -



1.7 Internal Controls
AHC-MMS's internal control system will comprise of policies and procedures adopted by management to
assist it in achieving its objectives of ensuring, as far as possible, the orderly and efficient conduct of its
operations, and are being documented in the Financial Procedures Manual.
1.8 Fixed Assets
A Fixed Assets Register will be prepared, regularly updated and checked for capital expenditures. With
regard to construction/capital work in progress, a Contracts Ledger will be prepared. Controls will be
established over the awarding of contracts to ensure that payments are made only for certified work.
Contracts Status Reports will be prepared as part of the Procurement. Management has acquired an
accounting software for the maintenance of a Fixed Assets Register, and is in the process of data
loading.
1.9 Internal audit
An intemal auditor has been provided for in AHC-MMS's organization structure. It is expected that this
expertise will be sourced through the use of the TA funds available to AHC-MMS from the Credit.
1.10   External Audit
In Zambia, the Office of the Auditor General is responsible for auditing all Government Funds i.e.
including Govenmment programs/projects. In practice, because of resource constraints, the Auditor General
often delegates some of this work to private sector auditing finns.
In due course, AHC-MMS in consultation with the Office of the Auditor General and the World Bank -
will appoint independent auditors in compliance with the financial covenants that are expected to be
contained in the IDA Credit Agreement. Terms of reference for the external auditor are expected to be
modeled on Annex XIX, FinancialAccounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook (FARAH) of the World
Bank, which contains "Sample Terms of Reference for the Audit of Project Financial Statements (and
accompanying SOE and SA where applicable)", and are included in Appendix 4.
Besides a primary opinion on the Project Financial Statements, the annual audit report should include a
separate paragraph commenting on the accuracy and use of expenditures withdrawn undeiStatements Of
Expenditures (SOEs) and the extent to which these can be relied upon as a basis for loan disbursements.
In conjunction with the above, the auditor is also required to audit the activities of theSpecial Account
associated with the program. The auditor must form an opinion as to the degree of compliance with World
Bank procedures, and the balance at the year-end.
Samples of audit reports (unqualified opinion, qualified opinion, adverse opinion, disclaimer of opinion),
which the Bank expects to receive in satisfaction of its audit requirements, are included in Annex XXI,
Financial Accounting reporting and Auditing Handbook (FARAH) of the World Bank.
In addition to the audit reports, the auditor will also prepare aManagement Letter giving comments and
observations, and give recommendations for improvements on accounting records, systems, controls, and
compliance with financial covenants in the relevant Development Credit Agreement. The MTSP Credit
Agreement is likely to require AHC-MMS to submit all audited financial statements to the Bank within six
- 85 -



months following its fiscal year-end.
The Project Agreement will also require AHC-MMS to submit audited annualfinancial statements for
AHC-MMS as the implementing agency.
2. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW
2.1   Summary Assessment
The financial management requirements for progressing this project fiuther can be split into two: the
immediate minimum requirements to comply with the Bank's OP/BP 10.02, and thoserelating to eligibility
for PMR-based disbursements.
The details below are the actions that are required to be taken into account to attain the minimum
requirements to comply with the Bank's OP/BP 10.02 on financial management.
Assuming that the actions highlighted below are properly addressed prior to Credit effectiveness, the Bank's
minimium financial management requirements would have been made.
ACTION                                            TARGET DATE             STATUS
1. Integrated Accounting System
1.    Installation                                                        Done
2.    Loading of data                                                     Done
3.    Purchase of Fixed Assets Module                                     Done
4.    Installation                                                        Done
5.     Loading of fixed assets data               31 March 2000           In progress
2. Reporting
1.    Formats, including all financial,                                   Done
procurement, physical monitoring.
2.    Agreement on schedule of reporting to       By Effectiveness        In progress
NWASCO, Government, IDA etc.
3. Financial Procedures Manual
1.   Initial draft submitted to the Bank          By Effectiveness
2.    Bank comments
3.    Revised incorporating Bank comments
4.    Final version acceptable to Bank
4. External Audit                                                         Brought to the
Agreement on audit requirements on terms and                           attention of the Office
conditions acceptable to the Bank.                                        of the Auditor
General.
- 86 -



2.2 Loan Administration Change Initiative
At this stage, the financial management systems in place are not adequate enough to provide
reasonably accurate and timely information as required by the Bank for PMR-based
disbursements. However, the successful implementation of the proposed integrated accounting
software, coupled with the production of PMR statements and other additional arrangements
proposed under both AHC-MMS and the Private Operator (PO) should facilitate the future
introduction of PMR-based disbursements. Meanwhile, for at least 18 months after Credit
effectiveness, it is recommended that the existing disbursement procedures should be followed.
- 87 -






MAP SECTION



I



27-45'                                 28°00'                                  28'1            ZAMB'A                  28-30'                                                       IBRD 30673
,1 2                                                             MINE TOWNSHIP SERVICES PROJECT                                   IS '
Roon  EX-MINE TOWNSHIPS               MAIN RAILROADS                                   -
Kon. ola                                                                 DISTRICT HEADQUARTERS            MAIN GRAVEL ROADS                                  A f R I cA
\Konkol .0                                                     0  ''~ i)PROVINCE HEADQUARTERS       MAIN TARMAC ROADS _
-                                          R I ,, BUILT-UP AREAS           DISTRICT BOUNDAR ES
U Ch~iliabOmbWefn: *                                              .            CHiL         I          LABt;:)RIVERS  --INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
mb~,ariuza
~~    ~~HILILABOMB WE :
DISTRICT               r           
12-305                      NchciNa9  North                            3Buondo   K                                                                    -
TANSAN A
changa Sout~o-   CIingold,                                   KOrnt3Jnsh      ufliaME RFP
OFCONGO
CH.NGOLA L  T                                                                                                                                                  - ,  DISTRI\r
( E Xw.,,>.i,_   -,   \   /   ty   .,   \  ._'_.:   -15    W WESTERN   _4L5sSAK   MOZAMBEQtJ;
| ,,et- k4_ > \ -t - / >; *,, s ciV4> \, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SODTHET1j8
2-1245'1                                                                                                                                               NAMIRA\ N.2.-            TI SwF
Misesh      ~w              IVEIBTWN 
KALULUSHI                          Chachicc                     DISTRICT                                --                       '        45
,   ^  Skena U t-- F DISRiC       ,      :          ," T _,6.   t          _    nge\| 
Kalulushi        ahk            owne'                                                            
;8 5,   ,,>,,,,,,, ,i , j , W u sa kili °  \ $_  -  4               ;   I                               /   '   > # ~< D E M .    R E P .
Di sITCT   L2 0                      A   5A
NDOLA-
I1300'            RURAL                                                                                                                                                    -
DISTRICT                                                                                                                                                                       13LUA01-J-
DISTRICT             /
0,Mpatamatu  cf    T sHip
o      5      1         o0 15  20ISiles K, -,,7
I       I      I~~~~~~ I                                                                                 UJQQLuSnsyaI                                                      J
5          5           15          1 Mil,                                                                                                                           N OL
CHrnmsrp "'Y'"C"'te ;*2lTEo6 fMo.y,,y    nvy                                        /s                 - <,= g.s
245'T 28 00                                                                    28T1 5'        ,,283 0                                                          23845
APR L 20C0



