                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 35722

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                 (PPFI-Q1840 PPFI-Q1841 IDA-33860)

                                                  ON A

                                        LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 28.2 MILLION
                                  (US$ 37.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                        REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA

                                                 FOR A

                               MINE TOWNSHIP SERVICES PROJECT




                                              June 19, 2006




Water and Urban 1
Zambia Country Department
Africa Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective April 11, 2006)

                  Currency Unit = Zambian Kwacha (ZMK)
                       3,240.00 = US$ 1.00
                      US$ 1.00 = 3,240.00

                        FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1      December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

     AHC           Asset Holding Company
     AHC-MMS       Asset Holding Company ­ Mining and Municipal Services
     CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
     CU            Commercialized Utilities
     DCA           Development Credit Agreement
     DISS          Department of Infrastructure and Support Services
     DO            Development Objective
     EI            Extractive Industries
     EMP           Environmental Management Plan
     GRZ           Government of the Republic of Zambia
     HIV-AIDS      Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immuno Deficiency Syndrome
     ICB           International Competitive Bidding
     ICR           Implementation Completion Report
     IEG           Independent Evaluation Group
     IDA           International Development Bank
     IP            Implementation Progress
     MC            Management Contract
     MEWD          Ministry of Energy and Water Resources
     MLGH          Ministry of Local Government and Housing
     MTR           Mid-Term Review
     NBF           Not Bank Finance
     NCB           National Competitive Bidding
     NGO           Non-Government Organization
     NWASCO        National Water Supply and Sanitation Council
     NWSC          Nkana Water and Sewerage Company
     O&M           Operation and Maintenance
     PAD           Project Appraisal Document
     PO            Private Operator
     PPF           Project Preparation Facility
     PPIAF         Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
     PSP           Pivate Sector Participation
     PSRP          Public Service Reform Program
     QAG           Quality Assurance Group
     RAMCZ         Roan Antelope Mining Corporation Zambia
     TA            Technical Assistance
     UfW           Unaccounted for Water
     ZCCM          Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines


                 Vice President:       Gobind K. Nankani
              Country Director         Michael Baxter
               Sector Manager          Jaime M. Biderman
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Fook Chuan Eng

                                           ZAMBIA
                               Mine Township Services Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
6. Sustainability
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
8. Lessons Learned
9. Partner Comments
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to Implementation Completion Report

IBRD Map # 30673

Project ID: P064064                                                  Project Name: Mine Township Services Project
Team Leader: Fook Chuan Eng                                          TL Unit: AFTU1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 19, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Mine Township Services Project                           L/C/TF Number: PPFI-Q1840;
                                                                                                     PPFI-Q1841; IDA-33860
   Country/Department: ZAMBIA                                                              Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Water supply (46%); Sewerage (39%); Solid waste management (14%); Health (1%)
                  Theme: State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Other urban development (P);
                            Pollution management and environmental health (P); HIV/AIDS (S); Environmental policies
                            and institutions (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/08/1999                                     Effective: 11/01/2000                11/01/2000
     Appraisal: 01/28/2000                                         MTR: 12/31/2003                  09/29/2003
      Approval: 06/20/2000                                      Closing: 12/31/2004                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOV OF ZAMBIA/AHC MINING MUNICIPAL SERVICES LIMITED
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Michael Baxter                                 Michael N. Sarris
Sector Manager:                 Jaime M. Biderman                              Jeffrey S. Racki
Team Leader at ICR:             Fook Chuan Eng                                 N. Jane Walker
ICR Primary Author:             Stephan K.L. von Klaudy;
                                Devendra Bajgain


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

3.1.1 The main objective of the project was to facilitate the completion of the privatization of Zambia
Consolidated Copper Mines (ZCCM) by supporting the provision of efficient and reliable water supply
services, wastewater services and solid waste management in five mine townships (Nkana, Konkola,
Nchanga, Mufulira, and Luanshya). This objective was to be accomplished by: (a) introducing a
performance based management contract that promotes private sector participation and commercialization
in the sector; (b) rehabilitating selected existing assets, undertaking necessary improvements, and
introducing new maintenance systems; (c) introducing cost reduction measures, a policy of cost recovery
and demand management mechanisms; and (d) developing a longer term strategy to integrate the
management of water, wastewater and solid waste in the mine townships with those of the corresponding
municipal township in preparing options for enhanced sustainability. The project also had a component
supporting the joint Government of the Republic of Zambia (GRZ) / World Bank initiative on HIV/AIDS.

3.1.2 The main objective of the project was logical and clear, complementing an immediate support to the
privatization of Zambia's copper mining industry with the GRZ's water sector reform effort of integrating
basic services delivery into a municipal based framework. It supported the development priorities of the
GRZ and the Bank's CAS to promote (a) increased private sector efficiency and competitiveness through
privatization of the mining sector; (b) improved infrastructure service delivery through project investments,
institutional strengthening and private management; and (c) decentralization of public service
responsibilities to local institutions, including the demonstration of private sector provision through a
management contract, as well as implementation of water sector reforms in accordance with the Water and
Sanitation Act (1997).

3.1.3    The project was a prerequisite for the privatization of the mining sector, as private investors were
unwilling to take over ZCCM's responsibility for water supply and sanitation. GRZ thus adopted a solution
that ensured in the short term the continuation of urban services, previously provided by ZCCM, as local
authorities lacked the institutional capacity to do so. In the medium term GRZ also wanted to pursue sector
principles consistent with a local authorities' owned commercialized utility solution, as provided for in
Water and Sanitation Act (1997). The Project design was based on addressing these multiple issues and led
to a project built on an existing structure (i.e. ZCCM's municipal services), but intended only for a
transition period. The goal was to develop during that period a longer term management approach to water
and sewerage activities in the Copperbelt by building up the lacking public sector management capacity.
While infrastructure investments constituted the largest subcomponent of the project (see section 3.3.1), the
involvement of a private operator under a management contract addressed the public sector capacity gaps
and provided the operational breathing space for designing the longer-term local authorities-based solution.

3.1.4 The project was challenging in various ways, but should not be regarded as too complex or risky.
The project was able to draw on existing staff with relevant technical skills, a developed albeit deteriorated
physical supply network, an established customer base with some history of indirect payment for services,
defined service areas, and a private operator (PO) to ensure improvements in operational efficiency,
effective management of the required investment program, and the introduction of commercial methods.

3.2 Revised Objective:

3.2.1 The objective of the Project was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

3.3.1 The project, estimated at a total cost of US$ 38 million, consisted of three components summarized
as follows (details in Annex 9):.



                                                       - 2 -

Component 1: Management Contract, Support to the implementing agency Asset Holding Company ­
Mining and Municipal Services (AHC-MMS),, and Rehabilitation Works (US$35.2 million; 92.7%) with
the following sub-components:
   l Subcomponent A. Performance Based Management Contract (US$ 6.4 million) with a private
        operator (PO).
   l Subcomponent B. Production Cost Support and Start up Costs (US$ 7.55 million) for some of
        AHC-MMS's operating cost, working capital and start-up costs.
   l Subcomponent C. Rehabilitation and Repair Works (US$ 19.25 million) of the water supply and
        sanitation network.
   l Subcomponent D. Support to AHC-MMS (US$ 2.00 million) for managerial, technical,
        operational and environmental assistance.

Component 2: HIV/AIDS (US$0.2 million; 0.5%): To provide support to employees of AHC-MMS and
their families, and increase awareness of HIV/AIDS throughout the community.

Component 3: Support for Preparation of Permanent Arrangements for Urban Services (US$2.6 million;
6.8%): Technical Assistance to the Ministry of Local Government and Housing (MLGH) through its
Department of Infrastructure and Support Services (DISS).

3.3.2 The project components were clearly linked to the project's objectives and took into account
implementation experiences of Bank projects in Zambia, and water and sanitation projects elsewhere. A
performance-based management contract with a PO was considered critical under the circumstances to
ensure continued service delivery, effective management of operations and finances, implementation of the
required investment program, and building of commercial and technical capacity of AHC-MMS.
Rehabilitation and repair of the network was urgently needed to improve efficiency, reduce water losses,
and achieve cost savings towards meeting operating and maintenance (O&M) costs. Production cost
support for AHC-MMS was necessary and justified since the company could not initially be expected to
cover its O&M costs given the dilapidated network, low revenues and high costs. Start-up support, and
various consultancies, technical assistance and training were also needed in this situation. The HIV/AIDS
component, while small, linked the project to GRZ's multi-sectoral, multi-partner HIV/AIDS program.

3.3.3   Component 3, the support for preparation of permanent arrangements for urban services, had the
important function to prepare the eventual integration of the project and the municipal services of the local
authorities in the Copperbelt, in line with GRZ's National Water Reform Policy Statement (1994) and the
Water and Sanitation Act (1997). This component aimed specifically at the design of an "Exit Strategy" to
mitigate the sustainability risk of a transitional project, for which the future operational arrangements were
uncertain and could not be addressed within the project's operational context itself.

3.3.4 All operational-type project outcome indicators (e.g. constancy of supply, unaccounted-for-water,
operational cost savings, etc.) were chosen from and linked to the performance standards specified in the
Management Contract with the PO. Others related to AHC-MMS or MLGH specific performances were
agreed with the implementing agencies.

3.4 Revised Components:

3.4.1 The project components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:



                                                       - 3 -

3.5.1    Quality at entry-Satisfactory. The project's overall quality at entry is rated satisfactory, based on
the consistency of objectives with the GRZ's priorities and the Bank's CAS, the quality of design, and the
assumptions about relevant external factors. At project preparation, the GRZ was well aware that (i) the
municipal councils were not ready to take over service provisions, and (ii) the risk of inadequate service
levels as the mines were privatized was high. The key project concept was built on the established model to
utilize a professional private operator's (PO) experience and expertise to assist with continued service
provision, system improvements and simultaneously build operational capability within a public asset
holding company (AHC-MMS). Given the importance of the PO its procurement was done prior to project
start. Under the project concept, an initial procurement plan was established during appraisal but
confirmation and finalization of the detailed plan was designed as a part of the PO's task, to advise on the
optimal rehabilitation and maintenance of the poorly maintained schemes.

3.5.2    Though a formal assessment of quality at entry was not undertaken, a project preparation "safe
place clinic" involving experienced water sector specialists from various Regions in the Bank identified the
high risk issues to be the project "exit strategy" and financial sustainability. The project design specifically
provided a longer period for the strategy to be developed including delaying the planned mid-term review.
Financial sustainability was made a covenant and a key performance indicator to be reviewed during
implementation.

3.5.3    Assessments made at completion regarding several project implementation issues related to
preparation adequacy and implementation readiness concluded that these could not have been foreseen at
project design:

(a) Delays in developing an agreed exit strategy. While mitigating factors were built in, the extent of
consultation that was eventually required could not have been anticipated and was partly due to (i) changes
in direction of the consensus building process, and (ii) lack of knowledge of the political economy of water
sector reforms and private participation with which only limited experience existed in the region at the time
of project appraisal. Nevertheless, an agreed exit strategy was developed after a one year extension.

(b) The PO mobilization and its decisions on what was best for the system took longer than anticipated.
This was not due to insufficient project preparation, but to higher than anticipated time requirements for
concluding the contract, establishing a joint PO/AHC-MMS operation, and for determining suitable
technical solutions for a badly documented and poorly maintained network. Reliable timetable benchmarks
from experience with private operation of water and sewerage networks in the region were limited.
Nevertheless, after initial delays, rehabilitation ramped up quickly, lost time was recovered and the contract
successfully completed. Moreover, even during the initial period operational changes introduced resulted in
significant operational improvements despite the delayed start of capital investments.

(c) Delays in a nascent regulatory framework, e.g., delays in the timely appointment of regulatory council
members and capacity building issues. Regulatory capacity was assessed at project design and long-term
technical assistance and operationalization support from other development partners were confirmed.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

4.1.1 Overall Outcome-Satisfactory. The original project objectives remain consistent with current
country and sectoral assistance strategies. Measured against these objectives, the overall outcome of the



                                                      - 4 -

project has been largely satisfactory. Privatization of the mining industry was completed and the project
undoubtedly helped facilitate this process. The project also achieved its core sectoral objectives, i.e. an
improvement in the provision of efficient and reliable water supply, wastewater and solid waste
management services in the project townships. Leakage reduction decreased water production by 44%
while water deliveries remained approximately constant. Unaccounted for water (UfW) was substantially
reduced from an estimated level of 58% to 26%. Constancy of supply increased from an average of 13.5
hours/day to about 17 hours/day. Energy usage per unit production declined by 27% and chemical usage
per unit production remained unchanged, but total cost of electricity and chemicals declined by 44% and
13% in Kwacha terms despite annual local inflation. On the commercial side, billings rose by 54% since
2001 and the collection ratio increased from about 55% to 82% and, coupled with reduced costs, resulted
in a substantial improvement of AHC-MMS operating income. Despite unanticipated factors (see Section
5), coverage of operations and maintenance (O&M) cost increased from 55% to 91% which is very close to
the ultimate target of 100%. Previously dilapidated and bypassed waste water treatment plants were
rehabilitated to full operation and over 95% of solid waste is being collected and disposed of (per target),
contributing to environmental mitigation by ending direct discharge of sewerage into the rivers. The
HIV/AIDS component was successfully implemented and an acceptable exit strategy, albeit delayed, was
developed.

4.2 Outputs by components:

4.2.1 Component 1.A: Performance Based Management Contract (US$ 6.4 million PAD, US$ 6.49
million actual) - Satisfactory. The management contract with a private operator (PO) ­ Saur International
- commenced on January 23, 2001, several months later than anticipated at the time of negotiations and
Board approval due to the complexities of the procurement process. The responsibility of the PO included
full operation and maintenance, with specific performance requirements, but no assumption of financial
risks. In addition, the PO would recommend and implement jointly with AHC-MMS a priority
rehabilitation plan (based on initial facilities and baseline surveys to be done by the PO) in line with the
targets of the management contract The compensation of the PO consisted of a competitively bid fixed fee,
and a capped incentive payment based on the degree of achievement of pre-defined annual performance
targets.

4.2.2 The targets set in the management contract assumed that major repair and rehabilitation works
would be started quickly. The delays described in 3.5.3 (b) contributed to the repair and rehabilitation
program commencing between 12 to 18 months later than initially forecast. However, once stabilized
contract execution ramped up quickly and smoothly. Both AHC-MMS and the PO displayed considerable
flexibility and goodwill in respecting the spirit of the management contract and were able to amicably
resolve most contractual conflicts or potential conflicts, particularly in the difficult start-up phase. The
contract was extended by eight months in conjunction with project extension and was successfully and fully
completed in August 2005.

4.2.3 Component 1.B: Production Cost Support and Start up Costs (US$ 7.55 million PAD, US$ 9.09
million actual) ­ Satisfactory. This was intended to provide approximately US$ 1.3 million for start-up
costs of AHC-MMS and US$ 6.25 million to support operations and maintenance (O&M). O&M support
helped financed part of the production costs, given the lack of cash flow to cover the full costs of operation
and maintenance, and the time needed to develop an effective billing and collection system. While
disbursements for start-up costs corresponded approximately to initial forecasts, higher support than
planned was required for production cost, sourced from project savings (see Section 5).

4.2.4 Component 1.C: Rehabilitation and Repair Works (US$ 19.25 million PAD, US$ 22.61 million



                                                       - 5 -

actual) - Satisfactory. This forms the bulk of the project and included rehabilitation of water mains,
installation of meters and pumping facilities, rehabilitation of water and wastewater treatment plants,
renovation of house connections, and environmental mitigation activities. The PAD provided a breakdown
of these investments by township areas based on an initial technical survey during the appraisal process to
determine an approximate value for the likely investment costs. However, the project design, reflected in
the management contract, relied on the PO's expertise to carry out its own due diligence, define and
prioritize, in coordination with AHC-MMS, a suitable investment program, and establish a definitive
procurement plan and time schedule. The first supervision mission of May 2001 clearly confirmed this
concept and stated that the procurement plan devised at appraisal should be updated accordingly.

4.2.5 Following the delay described in Section 4.2.2, procurement and implementation of the works
program gained speed during 2002. With increasing understanding of the networks over time, the PO
adapted the technical design and procurement packaging and shifted the emphasis from works to goods.
This was closely monitored through monthly reports. The procurement plans were reviewed during each
supervision. A total of 69 goods and 52 civil works contracts were financed and completed, and the
rehabilitation and repair program attained its major goal of substantially renewing and improving the
essential parts of the networks.

4.2.6 Component 1.D: Support to the asset holding company, AHC-MMS (US$ 2.00 million PAD,
US$ 1.97 million actual - Satisfactory. The sub-component was largely implemented as originally
planned, although with some delays due to initial project start-up delays. Key technical assistance (TA)
provided included (i) technical and financial audits of AHC-MMS and the management contract with the
PO, (ii) environmental advisory services, (iii) a water resources management study, and (iv) training for
AHC-MMS staff. In addition, AHC-MMS used some TA funding flexibly for priority requirements not
explicitly envisioned in the PAD, but justified under the specific project implementation circumstances.
Both the design and the implementation of the sub-component corresponded to the TA needs of
AHC-MMS, even though the water resource management went beyond the immediate requirements of the
company.

4.2.7 Component 2: HIV/AIDS (US$ 0.20 million PAD, US$ 0.15 million actual) ­ Highly
Satisfactory. This component was designed to provide specific support to employees of AHC-MMS and
their families, and in general increase awareness of HIV/AIDS throughout the communities. A specialist
consultant was retained, who assisted AHC-MMS in developing its HIV/AIDS awareness program and
HIV/AIDS policy. The program was officially launched on December 2, 2002. A baseline survey first
assessed the knowledge, attitudes and behavior among the target groups. Since August 2003, various
workshops and training programs were carried out, including (a) HIV/AIDS Awareness; (b) Home Based
Care; (c) Leadership and Partnership; (d) Popular Theatre; (e) Counseling; (f) Voluntary Counseling and
Testing; and (g) Peer Education. At the time of the mid-term review (October 2003), the awareness
program had been completed and was entering its monitoring and evaluation phase. Although originally
designed for about 1,995 participants, a total of 9,284 people attended the program, generating further
overwhelming demand from the community at large, with a waiting list of 4,300 at project closing.
AHC-MMS has since then assisted communities to obtain funding to carry out further HIV/AIDS program.
While this component was also subject to initial project delays, the momentum built up from the activity
clearly went beyond the original scope and achieved more that the original target.

4.2.8 As a further development from the successful outcome of the program, AHC-MMS today: (i) holds
an annual HIV / AIDS Open Day, (ii) participates actively in the World AIDS Day; and (iii) continues to
play an active role in the community even after the program is completed.




                                                     - 6 -

4.2.9 Component 3: Support for Preparation of Permanent Arrangements for Urban Services (US$
2.6 million PAD, US$0.64 million actual) - Satisfactory. This supported the development of a long term
strategy to integrate the management of water, wastewater and solid waste in the mine townships with those
of the corresponding municipal towns. It was thus meant to cover the post-project period given the
transitional nature of the project arrangements, and included a series of studies and technical assistance
activities to help the GRZ develop that strategy. Key elements were a rapid diagnostic study of the
Copperbelt commercialized utilities, an options study for private sector participation (PSP), and a Solid
Waste Master Planning Study for the Copperbelt. The largest item, however, was a US$ 1.2 million
allocation for preparation of a future Urban Development Project (UDP), equivalent to about 46% of the
total Component.

4.2.10 A large part of the original Component ­ excluding project preparation - was implemented despite
the apparent low funds utilization. A diagnostics study on the Copperbelt utilities had been carried out
under different funding before the project became effective. Procurement for the PSP Options Study and
the Solid Waste Master Planning Study even though delayed was completed in 2003. The PSP Options
Study was satisfactorily implemented. However, the winning consortium for the solid waste study broke
apart during negotiations and there was inadequate time for retendering. Even so, MLGH obtained PPIAF
trust fund resources in late 2004 for consultants to review solid waste management practices in Zambia and
recommend an appropriate policy framework for efficient service delivery that makes optimal use of the
community, local authorities, and the private sector. The Project in late 2005 supported an extension of
this consultancy to develop the institutional framework and business plan for the new solid waste
management arrangements in the Copperbelt based on AHC-MMS's actual operational experience (see
Section 5.3.1) and consultation with the local stakeholders. The future Urban Development Project was
eventually dropped from the Bank's project pipeline. A follow-on water and sanitation project was created
in its place the preparation of which was funded from a different source. Finally, a balance of US $1.8
million was re-allocated to AHC-MMS to support exit strategy-related activities once the exit strategy had
been decided upon.

4.2.11 Development of the exit strategy, the main goal of this component, faced substantial difficulties
and delays but was eventually completed. The slow implementation of the main contributory studies was
compounded by the slow and difficult stakeholder consultation and consensus building exercise.
Uncertainties in the design of the exit strategy prompted the downgrading of the implementation progress
rating to "unsatisfactory" twice during the supervision process. In the assessment of the Component's
overall outcome it should be recognized that the dropping of the follow-on project was beyond the control
of MLGH, most other activities were eventually completed,, in some cases with other funding sources, and
the main objective of the Component i.e., development of an acceptable exit strategy, was finally achieved.
Therefore, the Component is rated satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

4.3.1 An ex-post economic analysis, using a similar methodology and assumptions as at project
preparation (except as outlined in 4.4.1 below), determined an economic rate of return (EIRR) of 12%
(PAD: 12.3%) and an NPV of US$1.25 million (PAD: US$2.6 million) (in 1999 terms). The project
benefits were originally identified as higher efficiency targets, reduction in domestic accounts receivable,
decline in AHC-MMS's overhead costs. The updated analysis found that the major benefits of this project
arose from cost savings.

4.4 Financial rate of return:




                                                      - 7 -

4.4.1 The 15 year horizon financial analysis carried out during project preparation was updated with
actual figures for the five year Project period. All assumptions were retained except the following: (i)
with-project cashflows are assumed to remain static without growth after the Project period instead of
continued growth assumed earlier, (ii) without-project cashflows are assumed to remain static from the
start instead of steady decline assumed earlier, (iii) the base year cash flow is revised based on the first
available audited statements of AHC-MMS at the end of FY00/01, roughly at the time of the mobilization
of the private operator (the actual starting cashflow was confirmed to be significantly worse than original
assumptions based on unaudited operational estimates), and (iv) actual costs of project expenditure were
used for AHC-MMS's implemented components. The new assumptions (i) and (ii) above are both more
conservative than the original assumptions. The post-project financial analysis shows an NPV of about
US$1 million (PAD: US$ 2.7 million) and a financial rate of return (FRR) of 11.6% (PAD: 12.4%).

4.5 Institutional development impact:

4.5.1 The overall institutional development impact is rated modest. The project had two implementing
agencies. About 95% of the project was implemented by AHC-MMS, an entity constituted from the
relevant services department of ZCCM. This entity was transformed into a commercially operating utility
company with appropriate systems and procedures, an effective organizational and management structure,
and clear decision processes. Initially much of the operating responsibility was entrusted to the PO whose
personnel trained and integrated AHC-MMS staff into the daily operations. Over time, AHC-MMS staff
increasingly assumed management and decision making functions and ran the company without outside
assistance for the last few months of project implementation. From that perspective the institutional
development impact for AHC-MMS might be rated substantial. With the exception of the General Manager
of AHC-MMS, all management staff assumed managerial positions within, and all other employees were
absorbed by, Nkana Water and Sewerage Company (NWSC) as part of the project's exit strategy. Hence
almost all the skills built by the project were retained. Institutional development and capacity building was
substantial and the demonstration effect of the project to show that commercialized water utility institutions
in Zambia could be operated in a sustainable manner was significant. But continued positive institutional
impact will to some degree be linked to the success of the ongoing post-project implementation of the
agreed exit strategy of integrating NWSC and AHC-MMS. Hence the institutional development impact
for AHC-MMS is rated modest at project completion.

4.5.2 The other implementing agency was MLGH through the Department of Infrastructure and Support
Services, DISS. At appraisal the procurement experience and financial management capabilities of DISS,
previously supported under two other Bank projects, were assessed to be satisfactory. But DISS
encountered substantial difficulties in fulfilling its implementing agency role throughout the project
implementation, and despite training and technical assistance consultancies the capacity of DISS remained
weak. For this reason, the institutional development impact for DISS/MLGH is rated negligible.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

5.1.1 Delayed Start-up. As laid out in paragraphs 3.5.3 and 4.2.2-4.2.5 above, the PO needed a much
longer than expected start-up period to familiarize itself with the networks and to draw up a detailed repair
and rehabilitation program (and the associated procurement plan). The effects were both operational and
financial since efficiency and service improvements, cost reductions, revenue increases and cost recovery
could not be achieved as quickly as originally anticipated.




                                                        - 8 -

5.1.2 Bankruptcy of RAMCZ Mines. At the time of appraisal, the RAMCZ mines in Luanshya (an
AHC-MMS customer and principal employer in Luanshya), had gone bankrupt. The project design
provided for an 18-month window for the GRZ to find a new private buyer to put the mines back in
operation. In reality a buyer was only found in April 2004 (42 months after Effectiveness). In March
2003 (a full financial year after the original 18-month window) poor collections from Luanshya accounted
for 41% of the total ZMK9bn operational loss of AHC-MMS. This substantially slowed down
improvements in operational cost recovery.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

5.2.1 Late Payment of GRZ Direct Counterpart Funding. Direct GRZ counterpart funding was very
small ($300,000) and was agreed as a token direct GRZ support towards project expenditure not met by
the IDA Credit and AHC-MMS' own cashflow. Even then, GRZ failed to remit the direct counterpart
funding on time. After repeated and strong requests (including from the Bank), full direct counterpart
funding was transferred in 2004. Although project implementation was not delayed due to AHC-MMS
providing the required non-IDA funding, the delayed GRZ payments added to AHC-MMS's cashflow
problems caused by other factors described in this section.

5.2.2 Non-Appointment of NWASCO Council. The term of the 16-member governing council of the
sector regulator (NWASCO) expired in September 2002 and a new council was not appointed by the
responsible Ministry of Energy and Water Resources (MEWD) until September 2003. During this period,
critical functions of NWASCO were curtailed including tariff approvals. This adversely affected sector
reform and AHC-MMS (through a one year delay in tariff review). The Bank's supervision team estimated
the negative cashflow impact of this issue at about ZMK1.7 billion per year, equivalent to about 6% of
AHC-MMS' annual operating costs.

5.2.3 Unpredictable Regulatory Decisions. Especially in the initial years of the project, regulatory
review and approval of tariff adjustment applications appeared unpredictable. The formal guidelines for
tariff review were issued only from around late 2001 through 2002. Throughout project implementation,
tariff adjustments were subjected to annual timeframes which prevented utilities from being able to reliably
develop longer term business plans. Unilateral actions increased this uncertainty, such as NWASCO's
decision to impose drastic tariff reductions on AHC-MMS due to the unexpected contamination of raw
water source (by the copper mines) in Mufulira and Chingola in September 2003. Communication and
feedback between utilities and NWASCO has improved with time. But substantial time was required to
strengthen and stabilize NWASCO operations. During this period, the project (and utilities in general) may
have benefited from a more active GRZ participation in encouraging NWASCO and utilities to engage in
longer term agreements that would have given both NWASCO and utilities longer periods for capacity
building and designing long term business plans..

5.2.4 Non-Payment by Nkana Water and Sewerage Company (NWSC). Against appraisal expectations,
Nkana Water and Sewerage Company (NWSC), the utility serving Kitwe and Kalulushi, emerged as a
large defaulter even before the Bank's supervision process began. A partial resolution was only found and
agreed by the GRZ and the Regulator in November 2002 (25 months into Effectiveness) whereby
AHC-MMS took over direct operations in the NWSC areas affected. While this decision improved the
situation dramatically, a total of ZMK4.6 billion (US$ 1.1 million equivalent) arrears had built up by the
time of the resolution. In addition, it was found that the state of water and sewerage reticulation in these
areas is very poor and in dire need of rehabilitation. No funding was available under the project to improve
this situation.




                                                      - 9 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

5.3.1 High Cost of Solid Waste Contracting. The AHC-MMS mandate to provide solid waste services
was a legacy from the ZCCM privatization that was transitional in nature. No other commercialized water
utilities in Zambia had this mandate. Maintaining this service reliably through the use of outsourced
contractors (while a long term post-project solution was developed) proved far too expensive to be
sustainable - in contrast the original expectations were that contracting would reduce costs by almost half.
The deficits of about ZMK1bn annually from this operation contributed to about 11% of AHC-MMS'
operational losses by 2003. The negative effects were significantly alleviated by AHC-MMS' decision to
assume directly the responsibility for solid waste collection through purchase of equipment with project
funds and establishment of a ring-fenced operation that could eventually be spun off to operate
independently.

5.4 Costs and financing:

5.4.1     The final cost of the project was US$40.95 million as opposed to the initial US$38.0 projected at
appraisal (see details in Annex 2). The main variances from appraisal were:

l Final production cost support (US$9.09 million) which was an increase of US$1.54 million resulting
     from the delayed start of the rehabilitation program and other unanticipated factors negatively affecting
     AHC-MMS's cashflow;
l Final cost of the repair and rehabilitation program (US$22.61) which was an increase of US$3.36
     million. Towards the second half of the project, as much remaining funds as possible were utilized for
     priority rehabilitation and improvements of the network and other productive infrastructure
     investments;
l Technically, only US$0.64 million was utilized under Component 3 by MLGH. However, it should be
     noted that from the original US$2.6 million allocated to this component, about US$1.8 million was
     transferred to AHC-MMS to implement the exit strategy which is itself a Component 3 activity (see
     section 4.2.10).

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

6.1.1 The sustainability of project activities is rated likely, albeit with some degree of uncertainty. The
Bank consistently advocated the financial and economic advantages of an exit strategy merging all the four
utilities in the Copperbelt. The technical optimality of this solution was confirmed by the PSP Options
study commissioned by MLGH. The final consensus exit strategy while consistent with an integration
approach, merged only the two largest Copperbelt utilities (AHC-MMS's 47,000 and Nkana Water and
Sewerage Company's ­ NWSC's ­ 24,000 connections), leaving two smaller utilities (about 57,000
connections combined) unchanged.

6.1.2 The combined NWSC/AHC-MMS should have better economies of scale and thus a firmer basis for
sustainability than AHC-MMS alone. But AHC-MMS had just begun to start functioning fully as an entity
without outside assistance after the conclusion of the management contract, using rehabilitated and fully
operational assets and under a management team that had gained skills and experience under the project.
The preservation of operational coherence, effectiveness, skills and motivation of AHC-MMS will be a
challenge and will determine the impact on operations and service provision. While service delivery in the
mining townships was made largely viable and the institutional development and capacity building impact



                                                     - 10 -

of the project was substantial, continued long term sustainability is necessarily linked to the ongoing
post-project implementation of the exit strategy. The merger of AHC-MMS and NWSC, combining
networks and operations and creating a new corporate culture is ongoing but will take time to complete. It
should, however, be noted that this uncertainty of post-project integration activities was a design feature of
this transitional project from its inception.

6.1.3 The long term stability of the exit strategy also bears some risks. The decision process towards the
final exit strategy was not smooth. The initial steering committee (composed of various stakeholders)
carried out a broad consultation process and held at least one workshop and several stakeholder meetings.
Based on the PSP Option Study, it recommended the integration of all Copperbelt utilities, but ceased its
activities in early 2004 resulting from the utilities' protests. The Copperbelt utilities then failed to develop
a joint proposal, whence MLGH led a subsequent process that arrived at the final decision at political
levels.

6.1.4 Despite these risks, the exit strategy is likely to be sustainable for several reasons. Notwithstanding
the late timing, reallocated Credit funds were used to support preparation of the merger (consultancies,
equipment and goods, see paragraph 4.2.10). The staffing plan and organization chart for the new
expanded NWSC was completed prior to project close. With the exception of the General Manager, all
other management staff of AHC-MMS has been absorbed into NWSC's management structure with the
agreement of the labor unions. Moreover, NWSC is implementing a new business plan framework, based
on decentralized business areas, which is helping to develop a new integrated culture. Except in Kitwe
(where system integration between AHC-MMS and NWSC is required) all other former AHC-MMS
business areas are maintained.

6.1.5 Financial Sustainability of AHC-MMS operations is rated likely, but with a similar degree of
uncertainty as overall sustainability. Although operational sustainability was nearly achieved (see 4.1.1),
it is untested over the post-project period. This could be made more robust through (i) increasing real
average tariffs by a small amount, and (ii) further efficiency gains from the final parts of the repair and
rehabilitation program. Under the permanent arrangements now being implemented, financial sustainability
will require careful management of the risks inherent in the merger (see paragraph 6.1.2 and 6.1.4).

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The transition arrangement is outlined in Chapter 6.1 above.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

7.1.1 The Bank's performance in the lending cycle is rated satisfactory. The Bank responded
effectively to the requirements of support for the privatization process of ZCCM as well as for GRZ's
water sector reform. After a one-year period from identification, substantial Bank input (see Annex 4) was
put in over the course of another year for project preparation. Sufficient attention was given to technical,
financial and economic, fiduciary and safeguards issues. Project investment cost estimates did not go into
detailed design issues, as these were to be managed by an experienced private operator (see paragraphs
3.5.1, 4.2.1-4.2.5 and 5.1.1).

7.2 Supervision:

7.2.1 The Bank's performance in the supervision of the project is rated satisfactory. The Bank fielded



                                                       - 11 -

11 missions during the project's five years of implementation, with typical two-week missions taking place
at least twice per year. Missions - typically comprised 2 to 9 members - reviewed, assessed and monitored
operational, management, technical, financial, fiduciary and safeguard issues, and compliance with legal
covenants. Close relationships were built with implementing agencies, problems were discussed in a
cooperative manner and the project was used flexibly to address problems, Supervision reporting was of
high quality and detail, and flagged important issues early and persistently (e.g. non-payment of important
customers and delays in the preparation of the exit strategy). Deviations from Bank policies and procedures
did not occur. Bank managers and the country office were kept informed and involved.

7.2.2 There was a high degree of continuity in the Bank team ­ with only two task managers throughout.
The task manager at closing was a team member from appraisal and took over the task management from
the first supervision. The Bank's financial management specialist and engineer came onboard from the first
and second supervisions respectively and remained throughout implementation. The supporting function of
procurement specialist did suffer from the fact that for most of the implementation period there was no
procurement specialist in the Bank's country office. Reliance on different procurement specialists at
headquarters at different times caused delays, although individuals assigned undoubtedly did their best.

7.2.3 Throughout implementation, the project's performance in meeting its development objective (DO)
was rated satisfactory, but its implementation progress (IP) was rated unsatisfactory twice (out of eleven
ratings) during the second quarter of 2005 due to the continuing delays in the preparation of the exit
strategy. The IP rating was upgraded to satisfactory in June 2005 (see Annex 4) after a decision on the exit
strategy was reached.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

7.3.1 Based on the evaluation of lending and supervision activities, overall Bank performance is
rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

7.4.1 The borrower's performance in the preparation of the project is rated satisfactory. The
government worked closely with the Bank team on all important aspects of the project. Project preparation
(assisted by a $1.5 million project preparation advance) addressed satisfactorily organizational,
management, operational and commercial aspects, as well as technical assistance and training requirements
of AHC-MMS and, to the extent necessary, of MLGH. The management contract was prepared in great
detail with specialized technical assistance, thorough financial and economic analyses were undertaken,
environmental and social impact assessments were carried out and fiduciary aspects were well defined.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

7.5.1 Government implementation performance is rated unsatisfactory. The principal reasons are the
major delays and issues faced in the development of the exit strategy (see 4.2.11), the substantial delay in
remitting the agreed direct counterpart funding (see 5.2.1), and the one-year delay in the re-appointment of
the council members of NWASCO (see 5.2.2). The last two factors were clearly in the direct control of the
GRZ.

7.6 Implementing Agency:




                                                     - 12 -

7.6.1 Performance of the implementing agency is rated satisfactory. AHC-MMS implemented
components 1 and 2 satisfactorily and largely in line with initial expectations. It cooperated well and built
a close working relationship with the PO substantially making up for initial delays (see paragraphs 3.5.3,
4.2.2 and 4.2.4). An adequate organizational structure was put in place, local management and technical
personnel was successfully trained, effective operational and financial systems were introduced, results
indicators agreed at appraisal were by and large well monitored, covenants were complied with and
reporting was kept up to date. While AHC-MMS did not fully meet operational cost coverage (achieving
91% by project end), the major reasons for this were outside the implementing agency's control (see
Section 5).

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

7.7.1 Based on the considerations in Sections 7.4-7.6 above and given the achievement of the
development objectives, the Borrower's overall performance is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

8.1.1 Clear and predictable tariff setting mechanisms and regulatory approvals are a key support
element for the implementation of a utility commercialization strategy. Particularly in a new regulatory
environment, tariff adjustment mechanisms and rules for regulatory interventions and approvals should be
as clearly determined, and as predictable as possible for the utilities concerned and for their customers. A
long-term tariff adjustment formula should be considered, using clear and automatic adjustment criteria
that in normal circumstances could be reviewed on a three to five year cycle. This would enable utilities to
plan their businesses and investments on a longer term and more sustainable basis.

8.1.2 Time requirements for reconnaissance of a deteriorated network need to be realistically
assessed to ensure suitable project design. The MTSP experience with the challenges of network
reconnaissance confirmed similar experiences with the rehabilitation of water and sanitation systems
elsewhere. The principal lesson is that one should not underestimate the time needed for (i) new public
organizations and private operators to familiarize themselves with existing operations, (ii) facilities survey
to be done and reliable baseline data to be gathered especially in a situation of a dearth of data, insufficient
data measuring capabilities, and deteriorated networks; and (iii) contractual relationships to be built up and
mutual trust and common purpose to be created. A review of targets and performance indicators after a
suitable initial period could also be built into the project and PO contract.

8.1.3 For a project that is set up as a transitional solution, the process / roadmap for determining the
"exit strategy" should be clearly defined, key stakeholders should be involved throughout that process,
the implementing agency should be given an appropriately strong mandate, and the Bank should
ensure that it is closely associated with it. The project design should from the beginning be more specific
in laying out the mechanism by which the consensus building exercise would be conducted. This would
increase the likelihood of major stakeholder buy-in and acceptance of key recommendations at the political
level. To ensure a successful outcome, the government should assign a clear and strong mandate to one of
its institutions for managing the process. Such a mandate would also have considerably increased the
effectiveness of the capacity building provided to DISS. Moreover, the Bank should proactively liaise with
stakeholders and civil society (via GRZ). The Bank should increase its understanding of the political
economy for reforms in basic services provisions in the client country.

8.1.4 Communication should include decision makers and political leaders, be continuous and
should if required be supported under the project. AHC-MMS communicated very effectively the



                                                      - 13 -

project's objectives, targets and achievements to the consumers and users. This should have been extended
to include decision makers and political leaders. Given that these stakeholders can change over time, a more
systematic, continuous and focused effort is needed to ensure that main project messages are maintained at
the level of decision makers and leaders.

8.1.5 It is unrealistic to anticipate large labor/staff cost savings in a situation where a utility is
changing from an inefficient non-commercial public sector setting to a commercial focus. The
experience of similar utilities in Zambia and other countries shows that reform from a non-commercial
setting towards commercialization often results in higher staff costs, as lowly paid employees (sometimes
with benefits not categorized as staff costs) are replaced by competitively recruited skilled personnel with
higher performance-based remuneration.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Counterpart funding. Whilst it is acknowledged that there were some difficulties regarding disbursement
of the counterpart funding, this provision was met in full with some extras, albeit belatedly. The lessons
learnt are that such future programs will be advanced their annual counterpart values at the beginning of
the fiscal year to avoid the above problems.

Procurement. The issue of procurement and financial management have been identified and discussed on
several occassions. Government has distilled lesson learnt and employed a permanent Procurement and
Supplies Unit of 6 officers as compared to three seconded staff at the beginning of the project. Clearly, the
new and bigger unit will perform better as they are permanent members of staff.

Financial Management. Equally, Government is now implementing a new financial management system
(IFMIS) intended to improve public sector expenditure and accountability. This will put the Ministry of
Local Government and Housing in a better position to deal with project financial management.

(b) Cofinanciers:
The project did not have any cofinanciers.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                      - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
1.1 Reliability of provision of water supply    Reliable water supply of at least 12 hours per Average supply of 17 hours per day.
within year 4 of the Management Contract: town, on average.
- the reliability of at least 12 hours per day,
  on average in each town.
- 30% increase in the number of days with
  uninterrupted services, on average in         30% increases in the number of days with       9% increase in residential customers with
  each town.                                    uninterrupted services.                        daily 24 hours supply; and 82% increase in
                                                                                               residential customers with daily 18 hour or
                                                                                               more supply.

1.2 Reliability in provision of wastewater      95% of wastewater treated.                     All collected sewerage being treated by
services within year 4 of the Management                                                       rehabilitated plants.
Contract :
- 95% of wastewater treated.
1.3 Reliability in provision of solid waste     Collection and disposal of at least 95% of     Nearly 100% of solid waste collected and
services within year 4 of the Management        total domestic solid waste generated.          disposed.
Contract:
- collection and disposal of at least 95% of
  total solid waste generated.
1.4 Efficiency: within year 4 of the            UfW reduced to 30%.                            UfW reduced to 26.4%.
Management Contract:
- reduction in volume of Unaccounted for
Water (UfW) to an average of 30% .


Output Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Management Contract for provision of         Management Contract for provision of water
water and waste water services and solid        and waste water services and solid waste
waste management is in place and                management is in place and operational by
operational by year 1 of the project:           year 1 of the project:
- water quality guaranteed at all 5 towns       - water quality guaranteed at all 5 towns.     - Water quality generally good.
  (measurement of quality to meet national
  standards)


2.
- Consumer losses reduced by 60% (over          - Consumer losses reduced by 60% .             - 40%
  4-year period)
- Energy Saving 25% (4 year period)             - Energy Saving 25%.                           - Electricity consumption per unit
                                                                                                 production decreased in financial terms
                                                                                               29%, in
- Chemical Saving 25% (over 4 year              - Chemical Saving 25%.                           physical terms 27%.
  period).                                                                                     - Total electricity costs in operations reduced
- Maintenance & Labor Cost Saving 25%           - Maintenance & Labor Cost saving 25%.         by 44% (in Kwacha terms)
  (over 4 year period)                                                                         - Chemicals consumption per unit production
- AHC-MMS Overhead Saving 60% (over 4           - AHC-MMS Overhead Saving 60%.                 remained approximately unchanged in
  year period)                                                                                 financial terms.
                                                                                               - Total chemicals costs in operations
                                                                                               reduced by 13% (in Kwacha terms)
                                                                                               - Maintenance & Labor Cost saving
                                                                                                 indicator was deleted after MTR.
                                                                                               - AHC-MMS Overhead Saving indicator
                                                                                                 was deleted after MTR, and confirmed
                                                                                                 via DCA amendment of April 7, 2004.


3. Preparation and discussion of integration    Long term strategy for Copperbelt developed.   - An Exit strategy for project was developed
strategy of service delivery with the                                                          during 2005. It only envisages the integration
responsible CU/municipality by 3 Year of the                                                   of the two largest CU in the Copperbelt
project:                                                                                       (AHC-MMS and NWSC) and not a long-term
- Financial integration through compatible                                                     full integration for all service delivery in the




                                                                   - 15 -

  billing & collection systems by year 4 of                                               Copperbelt.
  the project.


4. Measure rehabilitation of existing assets 50% in year 2, 30% in year 3 and 10% in year - 4% year 1
e.g. 60% of rehabilitation program completed 4.                                           - 12% year 2
by end of year 2, 30 % year 3 and 10% year                                                - 21% year 3
4.                                                                                        - 30% year 4
                                                                                          - 33% year 5
5. AHC-MMS selects and employs a private Mobilization of private operator.                - Contract with private operator was signed
operator by 1 September 2000.                                                             on 23 October 2000. Start date was 23
                                                                                          January 2001. Contract completed in August
                                                                                          2005.
6. HIV/AIDS Prevention & Mitigation:
6.1 AHC-MMS selects and hires contractor     HIV/AIDS program implemented.                - HIV/AIDS contractor was hired in August
to conduct assessment, gather data and                                                      2002.
develop strategy.

6.2 Strategy developed by 31 December                                                     - HIV/AIDS program was launched in
2000.                                                                                     December 2002 and implemented over the
                                                                                          two consecutive years with positive spillovers
                                                                                          into 2005.

1End of project




                                                              - 16 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                  Appraisal       Actual/Latest     Percentage of
                                                                  Estimate           Estimate          Appraisal
                        Component                                US$ million        US$ million
1. Management Contract, Support to AHC-MMS and
Rehabilitation Works
    (a) Management Contract                                           6.40               6.49                 101
    (b) Production Cost Support and Start up Funds                    7.55               9.09                 120
    (c) Rehabilitation and Repair Funds                             15.45               22.61                 146
    (d) TA Support to AHC-MMS                                         2.00               1.97                  99
2. HIV/AIDS                                                           0.20               0.15                  75
3. Support for Preparation of Permanent Arrangements for              2.60               0.64                  25
Urban Services


Total Baseline Cost                                                 34.20               40.95
 Physical Contingencies                                               1.90
 Price Contingencies                                                  1.90
                           Total Project Costs                      38.00               40.95
                    Total Financing Required                        38.00               40.95
A reallocation of $1.8 million from item 3 (Support for preparation of permanent arrangements for urban
services) has been included in part 1(c) ($1.6million) and part 1(d) ($0.2million) respectively. This
reallocated amount was still utilized for exit strategy implementation although the execution of this portion
was transferred from MLGH to AHC-MMS. The $0.2 million was specifically for consultancies to assist
in the implementation of the exit strategy, while the $1.6 million was utilized for goods and works
consistent with the operations of the integrated AHC-MMS and NWSC.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                             1
                                                     Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category              ICB               NCB                   2          N.B.F.       Total Cost
                                                                        Other
1. Works                              17.55              1.70             0.00             0.00            19.25
                                     (17.40)             (1.65)         (0.00)            (0.00)          (19.05)
2. Goods                               4.20              1.00             0.15             0.00            5.35
                                      (4.20)             (1.00)         (0.15)            (0.00)           (5.35)
3. Services                            6.40              0.00             4.40             0.00            10.80
                                      (6.40)             (0.00)         (4.40)            (0.00)          (10.80)
4. Training                            0.00              0.00             0.40             0.00            0.40
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)         (0.40)            (0.00)           (0.40)
5. Incremental Operating               0.00              0.00             2.20             0.00            2.20
Costs                                 (0.00)             (0.00)         (2.10)            (0.00)           (2.10)
6. Miscellaneous                       0.00              0.00             0.00             0.00            0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)         (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    Total                             28.15              2.70             7.15             0.00            38.00
                                     (28.00)             (2.65)         (7.05)            (0.00)          (37.70)



                                                      - 17 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                                9.22               2.85              0.11             0.00             12.18
                                          (8.88)             (2.75)            (0.10)            (0.00)           (11.73)
   2. Goods                                12.04              2.86              1.74             0.00             16.64
                                          (11.82)            (2.84)            (1.72)            (0.00)           (16.38)
   3. Services                             6.67               0.00              2.21             0.00              8.88
                                          (6.67)             (0.00)            (2.21)            (0.00)           (8.88)
   4. Training                             0.00               0.00              0.57             0.00              0.57
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.57)            (0.00)           (0.57)
   5. Incremental Operating                0.00               0.00              2.68             0.00              2.68
   Costs                                  (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.68)            (0.00)           (2.68)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               27.93              5.71              7.31             0.00             40.95
                                          (27.37)            (5.59)            (7.28)            (0.00)           (40.24)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. Management Contract,
Support to AHC-MMS and
Rehabilitation Works
   (a) Management              6.40                                  6.49                               101.4
Contract
   (b) Production Cost         7.45         0.10                     9.09                               122.0     0.0
Support and Start up
Funds
   (c) Rehabilitation and     19.05         0.20                    21.90         0.37       0.34       115.0    185.0
Repair Funds
   (d) TA Support to           2.00                                  1.97                               98.5
AHC-MMS
2. HIV/AIDS                    0.20                                  0.15                               75.0
3. Support for Preparation     2.60                                  0.64                               24.6
of Permanent
Arrangements for Urban
Services
Total Project Costs           37.70         0.30                    40.24         0.37       0.34       106.7    123.3
Total Financing Required      37.70         0.30                    40.24         0.37       0.34       106.7    123.3



                                                          - 18 -

Note: CoF represents counterpart funding provided directly by AHC-MMS.




                                                - 19 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


             Description                Estimated at Appraisal   Estimated at Completion
Economic:
Cost-Benefit Analysis:
·      Net Present Value (NPV)        NPV=US$ 2.6 million at 10% NPV=US$ 1.25
·      Economic Rate of Return (ERR)  ERR=12.3%                  ERR= 12.0%
Financial:
·      Net Present Value (NPV)        NPV=US$ 2.7 million        NPV=US$ 1.0 million
·      Financial Rate of Return (FRR) FRR=12.4%                  FRR=11.6%




                                           - 20 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year   Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              June, 1998                 2    Team Leader (1), Financial
              (Identification)                Analyst/Consultant (1)
              June, 1999               10     Team Leader (1), Task Manager
              (Pre-Appraisal)                 (1), Economist (1), Private Sector
                                              Specialist (1), Legal
                                              Advisor/Consultant (1), Social
                                              Assessment Specialist/Consultant
                                              (1), Water Engineer/Consultant
                                              (1), Environmental Specialist (1),
                                              Water Quality Engineer (1),
                                              Financial Analyst (1).

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              November, 1999             9    Team Leader (1), Task
              (Appraisal)                     Manager (1), Economist (1),
                                              Legal Advisors /Consultants
                                              (2), Social Assessment
                                              Specialist/Consultant (1),
                                              Environmental Specialist (1),
                                              Financial Analyst (1),
                                              Financial Analyst/Consultant
                                              (1).
              March, 2000                9    Team Leader (1), Private Sector
              (Negotiations)                  Specialist (1), Financial Analyst
                                              (1), Legal Counsel (1),
                                              Disbursement Officer (1),
                                              Financial Management
                                              Specialists (2), Procurement
                                              Analyst (1), Operations Analyst
                                              (1).

 Supervision
              May 2001                   7    Team Leader (1),                       S               S
              (Supervision 1)                 Procurement Specialist (1),
                                              Financial Management
                                              Specialist (1), Financial
                                              Analyst (1), Financial
                                              Analyst/Consultant (1)
                                              Institutional Specialist (1),
                                              Legal Advisor Consultant
                                              (1).
              November 2001              6    Team Leader (1), Task Manager          S               S
              (Supervision 2)                 (1), Water Engineer/Consultant
                                              (1), Procurement Specialist (1),
                                              Procurement Officer (1)
                                              Financial Management Specialist
                                              (1).



                                               - 21 -

               May 2002                  3    Team Leader (1), Water               S    S
               (Supervision 3)                Engineer/Consultant (1), Water
                                              and Sanitation Specialist (1).
               October 2002              2    Team Leader (1), Water               S    S
               (Supervision 4)                Engineer/Consultant (1).
               June 2003                 2    Team Leader (1), Water               S    S
               (Supervision 5)                Engineer/Consultant (1).
               October 2003              7    Team Leader (1), Water               S    S
               (Supervision 6/                Engineer/Consultant (1),
               MTR)                           Procurement Specialist (1),
                                              Procurement Assistant (1),
                                              Financial Management Specialist
                                              (1), Communications Officer
                                              (1), Water and Sanitation
                                              Specialist (1).
               June 2004                 4    Team Leader (1), Water               S    S
               (Supervision 7)                Engineer/Consultant (1),
                                              Financial Management Specialist
                                              (1), Water and Sanitation
                                              Specialist (1).
               October 2004              3    Team Leader (1), Water               S    S
               (Supervision 8)                Engineer/Consultant (1),
                                              Financial Management Specialist
                                              (1).
               May 2005                  2    Team Leader (1), Water and           U    S
               (Supervision 9)                Sanitation Specialist (1).
               June 2005                 4    Team Leader (1), Water               U    S
               (Supervision 10)               Engineer (1), Water and
                                              Sanitation Specialist (1),
                                              Operations Analyst (1).

 ICR
               October 2005             5     Team Leader (1), Engineer            S    S
               (ICR/Last                      (1), Water and Sanitation
               Supervision                    Specialist (1), Infrastructure
               Mission                        Specialist (1), Operations
                                              Analyst (1).



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                   No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                 90                            272.2
  Appraisal/Negotiation                      15                             40.2
  Supervision                              138                             430.6
  ICR                                       6.7                             30.1
  Total                                  249.7                             773.1




                                              - 22 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

·    Project Appraisal Document, Zambia-Mine Township Services Project (MTSP), April 28, 2000
·    Development Credit Agreement, MTSP, July 27, 2000
·    Project Agreement, MTSP, July 27, 2000
·    Environmental Impact Assessment Report, MTSP, January 2000
·    AHC-MMS Environmental Management Plan, June 2003
·    Mid-Term Review Report, Zambia-Mine Township Services Project, October 15, 2003.
·    Aide Memoires:
     o Identification Mission, June 1998
     o Pre-appraisal Mission, June 1999
     o Technical Mission, October 1999
     o Appraisal and Negotiations Minutes, March 2000
     o Supervision Mission -1, May 2001
     o Supervision Mission -2, November 2001
     o Supervision Mission -3, May 2002
     o Supervision Mission -4, October, 2002
     o Supervision Mission -5, June 2003
     o Mid-Term Review Supervision Mission (Supervision Mission -6), October 15, 2003
     o Supervision Mission -7, June 2004
     o Supervision Mission -8, October 2004
     o Supervision Mission -9, May 2005
     o Supervision Mission -10, June 2005
     o Supervision Mission -11, October 2005
·    HIV/AIDS Awareness Consultancy Report, AHC-MMS/Professor Nkandu Luo, May, 2003.
·    Contract Agreement for HIV/AIDS Awareness Consultancy (Contract No. 0030/2002);
     December 2, 2002
·    AHC-MMS Monthly Progress Report (May 2001 to September 2005)
·    AHC-MMS Report on Environmental Mitigation Measures ­ MTSP; June 2005.
·    Final Management Contract Report (Saur International), August 2005
·    Studies prepared under the project




                                            - 25 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution to Implementation Completion Report

1        Introduction

1.1      This report presents findings of the Implementation Final Evaluation of the Mine Township
Services Project (MTSP) implemented in five mining townships in the Copperbelt Province of Zambia with
financing from the World Bank credit amounting to SDR28.2 million (equivalent US$38 million at project
appraisal). The overall objective of MTSP is to facilitate the completion of the privatization of ZCCM by
supporting the provision of reliable water supply services, waste water services and solid waste
management in five townships during a transitional period following the privatization of the Government
owned mining conglomerate. In addition to core activities in mining, ZCCM provided municipal services to
all its employees. However, unlike ZCCM, private investors were not going to be involved in provision of
municipal services; hence these services reverted to Government following the privatization of ZCCM.

1.2      The Implementation Final Evaluation was carried out by the project implementing agencies,
AHC-Mining Municipal Services Limited (AHC-MMS) and Ministry of Local Government and Housing
(MLGH), facilitated by a consultant engaged for the purpose, over the period October to November 2005.
The objectives of the evaluation were:
(i)      Assessment of the project objective, design, implementation and operation experience;
(ii)     Evaluation of the implementing agencies' and Government's own performance during the evolution
and implementation of the project, with special emphasis on lessons learned that may be relevant in the
future; and
(iii)    Evaluation of the performance by the World Bank and/or other partners during the evolution and
implementation of the project, including the effectiveness of their relationships, with special emphasis on
lessons learned.

1.3      The evaluation involved review of project documents including the Development Credit Agreement,
Project Appraisal Document, Project Agreement, Subsidiary Loan Agreement, mid-term review report,
Special Performance Audit Reports, Management Contract between AHC-MMS and the private operator
(Saur International), Management Contract Reports, AHC-MMS monthly and annual reports. In addition
World Bank supervision reports and related correspondence were also reviewed. Furthermore, interviews
and discussions were held with key personnel in AHC-MMS, Ministry of Local Government and Housing,
Ministry of Finance and National Planning, other commercial utilities on the Copperbelt, selected local
authorities, mining companies, and the water supply and sanitation sector regulator, NWASCO.

2.       Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

2.1      Original Project Development Objective


2.1.1    The Project Development Objective of MTSP is stated as: Efficient, reliable and sustainable
provision of water supply services, waste water services and solid waste management in five mining
townships of Zambia. Performance indicators involve reliability and efficiency of provision of the stated
municipal services.

2.1.2    The project objective is clear and realistic. It is in line with the national water sector policy and the
water supply and sanitation sector objectives which involve (i) improved coverage of water supply and
sanitation services; (ii) efficiency, equity and sustainability of service provision; and (iii) community
participation in service provision. The project development objective is also consistent with the overall



                                                       - 26 -

Public Service Reforms Programme (PSRP) aimed at public service delivery more efficient and
sustainable. Therefore the project objective was important for Zambia, and it was also consistent with the
World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The 1999-2003 CAS was based on three strategic
areas, one of which was "increasing access to basic services and direct poverty interventions".

2.1.3    The MTSP, by providing reliable access to safe water supply and sanitation services in the mining
townships has allowed the private investors in the mining sector concentrate on core mining activities and
increasing copper production, the largest foreign exchange earner, and thus contribute to economic growth
in the country. Thus the project was relevant to the country's development priorities.

2.2      Revised Project Objective


2.2.1    There was no revision of the MTSP project objective throughout the implementation period.
However, due to some delays in project implementation, the implementation period was extended from June
2004 to December 2005.

2.3      Project Components


2.3.1    The project had three main components with several sub-components as outlined in Table 1.
AHC-MMS was responsible for implementing two of the components, while the Ministry of Local
Government and Housing was responsible for the third component concerned with the development of a
permanent institutional arrangement for the provision of municipal services in the Copperbelt Province

2.3.2    All the project components are relevant and related to achieving the stated objective of the project.
The introduction of an experienced international operator was aimed at improving the management of
service provision, having been observed that local authorities and the newly established commercial utilities
lacked capacity for efficient management of water supply and sanitation services. In particular, they lacked
commercial practices since most of the staff was drawn from local authorities where commercial
orientation and customer care were lacking. Even the staff in AHC-MMS were coming from ZCCM,
which, though it had a comprehensive human resource development programme, did not operate on
commercial basis. Furthermore, recognizing the potential institutional capacity problems in AHC-MMS,
the project provided technical assistance to enhance the administrative, technical and financial management
capacity of the company at all levels.

2.3.3    One of the factors that has constrained the financial viability of the commercial utilities operating
in the water and sanitation sector has been lack of start-up capital; they started their operations without
working capital. Recognizing this fact, AHC-MMS was provided with working capital to finance
establishment costs and operation and maintenance support. In addition, a significant amount of resources
were made available for rehabilitation of water supply, wastewater and solid waste management systems to
restore their operating capacities.

2.3.4    Components 2 and 3 are equally relevant and useful for achieving the project objectives. The
HIV/AIDS component supports prevention and mitigation activities thus contributing to Government
efforts addressing the HIV/AIDS pandemic in the country. Component 3 is very useful as well; it is aimed
at development of a long term institutional arrangement for municipal service throughout the Copperbelt.
AHC-MMS was designed a transitional institutional arrangement; there a long term solution had to be
developed before the end of MTSP.




                                                     - 27 -

2.3.5      The allocation of funds among categories was poorly designed; some Works were procured under
Goods. This affected procurement processing (change of bidding documents) as well as disbursement.
Some of the delays in procurements and disbursements may be partly attributed to the poor allocation of
resources. There was also poor phasing of Goods (procured by AHC-MMS) needed in the execution of the
Works (by private contractors); this was particularly the case with respect to installation of water meters.

                                      Table 1. Project Components and Estimated Costs
                                                      t

                                                       en
                       M T S P                                        No.
                                                         m                                        R E S O U R C E S                         C O M M I T M E N T S

                                                                         ry
                                                          ser                       A s O r i g i n a l l y       A s p e r t h e            A s p e r C u r r e n t
                                                                                    A l l o c a t e d i n      C u r r e n t V a l u e          P r o c u r m e n t
                                                                           egot            D C A                  o f C r e d i t   2                 P l a n  3

                                                             sbui              a

                                                                 D              C

   G o o d s T o t a l                                                           3           4 , 5 4 5 , 3 9 0      1 5 , 8 9 3 , 3 9 1                   1 5 , 8 5 8 , 0 2 2
      - c h e m i c a l s                                                                                                                                   2 , 2 2 9 , 3 4 4
      - v e h i c l e s & o t h e r s                                                                                                                       3 , 5 9 4 , 1 4 7
      - R & R F u n d                                                                                                                                     1 0 , 0 3 4 , 5 3 1

   W o r k s                                                                     2         1 4 , 7 7 2 , 5 1 8      1 1 , 1 6 8 , 0 6 0                   1 1 , 3 9 3 , 1 7 9

   S u b - T o t a l W o r k s a n d
   G o o d s                                                                               1 9 , 3 1 7 , 9 0 8      2 7 , 0 6 1 , 4 5 1                   2 7 , 2 5 1 , 2 0 1

   C o n s u l t a n t s - A H C - M M S                          4 - A                      1 , 3 3 6 , 8 7 9         1 , 7 9 6 , 2 5 3                    1 , 8 6 8 , 5 4 7

   C o n s u l t a n t s - H I V / A I D S                        4 - B                          2 0 0 , 5 3 2            1 5 4 , 8 7 8                         1 5 4 , 8 7 8

   T r a i n i n g - A H C - M M S                                5 - A                          2 0 0 , 5 3 2            3 6 6 , 5 6 1                         3 6 6 , 5 6 1

   M a n a g e m e n t C o n t r a c t                                           1           6 , 4 1 7 , 0 2 1         6 , 6 9 4 , 2 2 5                    6 , 6 9 4 , 2 2 5

   O p e r a t i n g C o s t s                                                   6           1 , 8 7 1 , 6 3 1         2 , 3 3 5 , 1 8 8                    2 , 3 3 5 , 1 8 8
   - - - A H C                                                     6 A                                                    5 9 1 , 5 7 3                         2 8 6 , 5 9 4
   - - - M L G H                                                   6 B                                                      1 3 , 7 2 4                            1 3 , 7 2 4



   C o n s u l t a n t s - A u d i t / M L G H                    4 - C                      2 , 5 4 0 , 0 7 1            3 9 0 , 1 7 9                         3 9 0 , 1 7 9


   T r a i n i n g - M L G H                                      5 - B                          1 3 3 , 6 8 8            2 4 6 , 0 4 0                         2 4 6 , 0 4 0



   T O T A L ( N e t )                                                                     3 2 , 0 1 8 , 2 6 2      3 9 , 6 5 0 , 0 7 1                   3 9 , 6 0 7 , 1 3 5



   U n a l l o c a t e d                                                         8           3 , 6 7 6 , 4 1 8                         0
   P P F                                                                         7           2 , 0 0 5 , 3 2 0            5 2 9 , 0 0 7                         5 2 9 , 0 0 7



   T O T A L ( w i t h U n a l l o c a t e d & P P F )                                     3 7 , 7 0 0 , 0 0 0      4 0 , 1 7 9 , 0 7 8                   4 0 , 1 3 6 , 1 4 3


   N E T S A V I N G S        / O V E R R U N        3                                     3 9 , 6 5 0 , 0 7 1   R e s o u r c e s o f C r e d i t
                                                                                         - 3 9 , 6 0 7 , 1 3 5   C o m m i t m e n t s
                                                                                 =                 4 2 , 9 3 5   S a v i n g s ( + ) / O v e r r u n ( - )

 1    A s o f M a r c h 1 5 , 2 0 0 5
 2    A s o f D e c e m b e r , 2 0 0 5
 3    S a v i n g s / O v e r r u n = N e t v a l u e o f t h e c r e d i t l e s s t o t a l o f a c t u a l a n d p l a n n e d e x p e n d i t u r e s ,
      w i t h o u t t h e U n a l l o c a t e d f u n d s f a c t o r e d i n .



                                                                                        U S D 4 2 , 9 3 5      F L O A T w i t h U n a l l o c a t e d f a c t o r e d i n .




2.4        Quality at Entry


2.4.1      The objectives of the project are consistent with Government's water and sanitation sector
objectives as well as the World Bank's CAS. The components of the project were designed to address



                                                                                            - 28 -

sector issues already observed in the operation of the commercial utilities established on the Copperbelt and
elsewhere in the country. Overall, the design of the project has been judged by many of key personnel
interviewed as satisfactory.

3.       Achievement of Objective and Outputs

3.1      Outcome/achievement of Objective


3.1.1    The Outcome / Impact Indicators representing successful project implementation consisted of:
reliability of 12 hours water supply per service area, and 30% increase in number of days with
uninterrupted service; 95% of wastewater treated; 95% of solid waste collected; and reduction in
un-accounted-for water (UFW) to an average of 30%.

3.1.2    It is worth pointing out that these performance indicators were not included in the management
contract with the private operator. Therefore the indicators have to be assessed from the management
information system instituted by the private operator. With respect to UFW, no figure was available for
base year; however UFW has reduced from 58% in 2003 to present figure of about 23%. Water supply
has increased from about 13.5 hours per day to 18 hours. While there is an undeniable reduction in UFW
and hours of supply, the validity of these figures is being questioned by other agencies as not being
commensurate with the relatively low investment in metering and leakage detection. With respect to
wastewater, AHC-MMS reports indicate that all wastewater is being treated in the treatment facilities
refurbished through the project. In terms of solid waste, the project continues to achieve collection and
disposal of more than 95% of the refuse generated in the service areas. Local authorities in Chingola and
Kitwe confirmed that AHC-MMS refuse collection is being done efficiently, and constitutes best practice in
the sector.

3.1 3    The overall assessment is that the outcome / impact has been satisfactorily achieved.

3.2      Outputs by Components


3.2.1    The output indicators by project component were summarized in Project Design Summary (PAD
Annex 1); in all there were six outputs and a number of indicators attached to each output. These
indicators were meant to measure efficiency in operations. The assessment of the project performance is
summarized below.

Performance Based Management Contract

3.2.2    The Performance-based Management Contract was the first of its kind in the water and sanitation
sector in Zambia. How it operated was of interest to other CUs, NWASCO and Government. The private
operator was engaged from 23 January 2001 to 23 August 2005. There is unanimity among AHC-MMS
senior management that the private operator significantly improved the commercial operations of the
company. There were also improvements in customer care, cost containment, technical monitoring and
quality control. On the other hand it was also acknowledged that in the technical operations the private
operator was less effective. AHC-MMS staff and consultants locally recruited by the private operator were
judged to have been better qualified and experienced than the Saur "experts" and were responsible for
much of technical support provided to AHC. It was emphasized that AHC-MMS local staff in the
technical department could have performed as well without a private operator had they been given similar
incentive based conditions. AHC-MMS management is of the opinion that the efficiency gains achieved by


                                                      - 29 -

the project were more the result of large investments in system rehabilitation (network repairs, metering,
refurbishment of plants, resources for operation and maintenance), which could have been done by local
staff, than due to the input by the private operator.

3.2.3    There is a common view among AHC-MMS senior staff that in the contract between the private
operator and AHC-MMS the risk allocation was skewed in favour of the private operator. This needs to be
looked into in future. From the point of view of NWASCO, the regulator, the private operator did not
deliver "value for money"; the performance of AHC-MMS, measured against performance benchmarks in
the license, was not significantly better than that of the other CUs in the country. Based on the above
findings, the achievement of this output may be deemed less than satisfactory.

Cost Containment and Demand Management Mechanisms

3.2.4    Water quality has been a challenge in all towns, particularly in Mufulira and Chingola due to poor
quality of raw water sources; raw water is pumped from the mines. Due to poor quality of water supplied,
in 2004 AHC-MMS were directed by NWASCO, to reduce tariff to 60% of fixed charge in the affected
areas. With respect to expenditures, there were significant improvements in cost containment and demand
management, with electricity costs reducing by an average 14% a year over the last four years; the cost of
chemicals continued to decrease over the first three years of project period, but significantly jumped up in
2004, probably reflecting increased usage as well as higher prices of chemicals. With respect to labour
costs, instead of target decrease of 25% in four years, costs actually increased by an average 43% a year as
a result of salary increases, monetization of staff benefits and slight increase in number of employees. The
target for savings in AHC-MMS overheads was 60% over 4 year period. However, this indictor was
eliminated following the MTR.. Overall, the achievement of this output has been satisfactory.

Exit Strategy

3.2.5    Component output 3 involved the development and implementation of a strategy to integrate the
operations of AHC-MMS into the local authority / commercial utilities operations by the end of the project
period. A study was carried out in 2003, and the outcome subjected to a consultative workshop of
stakeholders including MLGH, Ministry of Finance and National Planning, all CUs in the Copperbelt, local
authorities, AHC-MMS, NWASCO, and mining companies. The consultative workshop did not make a
decision regarding the preferred institutional arrangement. However, on balance, creation of one CU for
the whole province was considered a more viable option. In May 2005 MLGH made a decision that one of
the CUs in the Copperbelt, Nkana Water and Sewerage Company (NWSC) would take over the operations
of AHC-MMS. Following this decision a road map was agreed and put into effect. Key staff interviewed
in local authorities, in particular, were of the opinion that MLGH made a political decision that completely
ignored the objective analysis of the consultants' report and the views of stakeholders. It is feared that this
decision would negatively impact the commercial viability of the other CUs, whose financial performance
would have been greatly improved by inclusion of mining companies, the largest and most financially sound
customer in any CU service area, into the customer base of each CU. Instead, all the mining companies
will now pay their water charges to NWSC. While focus of the exit strategy has been on water and
sewerage operations, similar attention has not been paid to solid waste management. AHC-MMS was the
only CU in the country that had responsibility for solid waste management, a responsibility not legally
mandated by the Water Supply and Sanitation Act of 1997. It is not yet clear whether and how NWSC
will assume this responsibility as well. The local authorities are concerned that this matter is not being
dealt with expeditiously in the exit strategy. In conclusion, the achievement of this output has been
unsatisfactory.




                                                      - 30 -

Selected Assets Rehabilitated and Maintenance Systems Introduced

3.2.6    The rehabilitation and repair programme, involving 69 goods contracts and 52 civil works
contracts, is more than 95% complete; all but one of the remaining contracts are to be completed by end of
the year. This has resulted in some marked improvements in the operations of water and sewerage
facilities. Hours of supply have increased as a result of combination of factors including reduction in
UFW, high water production, metering and rehabilitation of water networks; and wastewater plants have
been rehabilitated resulting in improved quality of effluent discharged to the streams. Cost reduction of
electricity and chemicals are the result of improved efficiency of plant and equipment, and better
operational routines instituted by the private operator. In addition to the repair programme the private
operator has introduced maintenance systems (preventive, predictive, corrective and breakdown).
However, improvement in system performance are mainly due to investments provided through the project.

3.2.7    Some concern has been expressed with respect quality of workmanship on some of the civil works
contracts, especially with respect to rehabilitation of water treatment plants. The defects are being rectified
during the defects liability period. It has been noted that the civil works programme should have included
water sources development; and more metering, especially consumer metering. This matter was
appreciated during project the second half of implementation and the project did reallocate more funds to
metering to extend coverage to medium cost housing. In conclusion, this output is considered satisfactorily
done.

3.2.8    Procurement processing in the first two years (up to 2003) of the project experienced considerable
delay, 5-8 months, especially on ICB items,and to some extent even on NCB. Procurement progress
improved considerably in the last two years, probably reflecting accumulated experience and increased
capacity in AHC-MMS. The significant technical assistance and training provided to GRZ/AHC in project
preparation and implementation was extremely invaluable.

AHC-MMS Established and Operating as Implementation Unit for the Project

3.2.9    The establishment of AHC-MMS was a precondition for the project. A related performance
indicator was the selection and engagement of a private operator by 1 September 2000. This was not
achieved until January 2001. While AHC-MMS management are of the opinion that they were sufficiently
qualified to supervise the private operator, other stakeholders admit that no CU, or even the regulator,
NWASCO, were qualified to supervise an experienced international private operator. In effect this was a
learning phase for all concerned. Comments made earlier about the provisions in the management contract
point to the lack of sufficient experience on the part of AHC-MMS to design and supervise a management
contract for water services provision. Overall, the achievement of this output was satisfactory.

HIV/AIDS Prevention and Mitigation Strategy

3.2.10 The target date for developing the HIV/AIDS strategy was 31 December 2000. Instead this was
accomplished in mid 2003. Following this, company policy on HIV/AIDS was launched in November
2003. The strategy includes company policy, HIV/AIDS codes of practice, HIV/AIDS structure, code of
practice, guidelines for managers, information packages and workplace HIV/AIDS preventive and care
programme. In conclusion, the achievement of this output was satisfactory, though delayed by more than
18 months.




                                                     - 31 -

3.3       Institutional Development Impact


3.3.1     AHC-MMS had well qualified staff at all levels. Many of them had a background in the mining
sector, which had a very good human resources development programme. However most of them had very
little skills in commercial practices and customer care. The project financed an array of training courses in
all areas of the company's operations including management training, industrial relations, safety,
commercial practice, customer relations, procurement, water and wastewater treatment, billing,
maintenance, and human resources development. All cadres of staff were covered from top management to
skilled workers. Consequently the various skills and backgrounds were now shaped into a team dedicated
to service delivery. The project has therefore been responsible for enhancing the institutional capacity of
AHC-MMS, and the water and sanitation sector as a whole. Even in the implementation of the exit
strategy, NWSC has taken over all AHC-MMS staff, not necessarily out of obligation, but because the
staff is well qualified and experienced. The institutional development impact of the project was highly
satisfactory.

4.        Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

4.1       Factors Outside the Control of Government or Implementing Agency


4.1.1     Zambia's water and sanitation sector is still reforming and is not yet attractive enough for private
investors. It is also a relatively small market (small number of customers). Consequently the bidding for
the management contract did not attract a high number of bidders (though 7 bidders bought biding
documents, only three submitted bids) to provide for adequate competition. The perceived risks also may
have influenced the design of the management contract in order to ensure that the private sector is willing to
bid for the project..

4.1.2     Most of the goods required for the rehabilitation and repair programme are not manufactured in the
country and had to be imported from outside. Pipes, water meters, tools, equipment, water treatment
chemicals and transport all were imported form outside Zambia. International procurement requires a long
time, which is even longer if based on World Bank procurement guidelines. The private operator found
these procedures took too long and seriously affected project implementation. When the private operator's
lack of experience with World Bank procurement procedures is superimposed on top of this, it meant for
long delays in procurement of requirements. An illustrative example, water meters necessary for
controlling unaccounted water were not imported until year 3, thus compromising the establishment of
baseline conditions for monitoring contract performance.

4.1.3     Even for locally available goods and services, local contractors and suppliers were not sufficiently
familiar with World Bank procurement rules, and there were often either delays in procurement or poor
competition leading to uneconomic prices or poor quality.

4.2       Factors Generally Subject to Government Control


4.2.1     AHC-MMS operates under license from NWASCO, the water and sanitation sector regulator.
Tariff increases are subject to NWASCO's approval. Both the regulator and the CUs are still in a learning
phase as they have recently been established. Delays in approving tariff adjustments (tariff approval in
2002 took more than one year, and the 2004 tariff approval took five months), or tariff embargo in July



                                                      - 32 -

2005 (AHC was directed to reduce tariffs to 60% because poor quality of water provide) have had an
impact on the financial viability of AHC-MMS.

4.2.2   The investment climate in the country is not yet perceived as sufficiently attractive for private
sector participation in the water and sanitation sector. CUs are burdened with huge arrears, Government
being among the chief defaulters, and domestic consumers can not afford to pay high tariffs due to high
levels of poverty.

4.2.3   The decision regarding long term strategy for provision of water and sanitation services in the
Copperbelt area was entirely within the control of Government; the delay, as well as the actual decision
reached will have long term impact in the CU operations after AHC-MMS.

4.3     Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control


4.3.1   The project implementing agency lacked experience to design and supervise a management contract
with a private operator. With hindsight, it is now evident that the management contract should have been
structured differently. The performance indicators for the contract should have put more emphasis on
revenue collection, and should have been the same as those in the Project Appraisals Document, and also
consistent with the reporting requirements to NWASCO. Such a situation would have assisted to lessen the
burden of reporting.

4.4     Costs and Financing


4.4.1   Table 1 presents the summary of project resources and expenditures or commitments projected to
end of December 2005 (project closure). At signing the Credit was equivalent to US$37.7 million, but due
to foreign exchange fluctuations, the Credit has increased to US$40.9 million, a gain of US$3.2 million
over the original budget. The original budget (Schedule 1 of the DCA) was revised three times to allocate
more resources for Goods and AHC operating costs; more funds were allocated towards water metering
and procurement of chemicals. Overall, there was excellent control of expenditure, the budget was adhered
to. The project will be completed within the Credit, and there is likely to be a net saving of the order of
US$53,000 equivalent at project closure.

5.      Sustainability

5.1     Key Requirement for Sustainability


5.1.1   The MTSP was designed as a transitional arrangement, to ensure continuation of reliable
municipal services to the five mine township previously serviced by ZCCM until Government finds a
permanent institutional arrangement. However provision of water and sanitation services is a Government
obligation to its citizens. While MTSP has a finite period, the provision of services should continue. Thus
the operations of MTSP need an institutional home. MTSP has piloted use of the private sector in
providing municipal services; it has also established operational systems, and developed the necessary
human resources to carry out these functions efficiently. These are the activities that need an institutional
base. Therefore the first condition for sustainability of services is an institutional home.

5.1.2   Government has made a decision that the operations undertaken through MTSP will now be taken
over by NWSC. Though there may be reservations with this decision, it is an important one in that it



                                                     - 33 -

guarantees the continuation of activities previously carried out by MTSP and thus sustain and achieve the
development objective of the project. Provided all the necessary support is given to NWSC, including
resolving its relationship with the other CUs and local authorities where it will operate, the achievements of
the project are highly likely to be sustained.



5.2       Transition Arrangements to Regular Operations.


5.2.1     The Exit strategy mandated by the Ministry of Local Government and Housing, has established a
road map aimed at institutionalizing the operations of AHC-MMS in NWSC. The time frame is seven
months, May to December 2005. In general this is a sound and realistic road map. A number of issues
need careful consideration in order to ensure smooth transition; they include: (i) legal process for the
transfer of AHC-MMS assets (actually ZCCM assets) to NWSC. Progress as of end of October was only
10%; (ii) acquisition of NWSC shares by other local authorities (Chingola, Chililabombwe, Mufulira and
Luanshya) where NWSC operations are extending; (iii) redeployment of AHC-MMS employees to NWSC,
including harmonization of conditions of service; (iv) Harmonization of tariffs (NWSC has to consider
tariffs from three service areas - AHC-MMS, Mulonga, and NWSC itself); (v) decision on solid waste
management involves all local authorities within the service area of the enlarged NWSC; (vi) promotion of
the Exit strategy among residents of the local authorities where NWSC will be operating (community
buy-in is essential for cooperation and willingness to pay); and (vii) provision of working capital for
NWSC.

6.        World Bank and Borrower Performance

World Bank

6.1       Lending


6.1.1     The Bank staff who prepared the project involved specialists in the following areas: private
infrastructure (team leader), private sector, financial analysis, economics, procurement, water engineering,
environment, beneficiary assessment and participation, operations and law. Sixteen specialists were
involved and it constituted a comprehensive mix of skills. It took 17 months from the first Bank mission to
negotiations, November 1998 to March 2000.

6.1.2     The project goal was to facilitate the privatization of the copper mining sector, by removing
non-core mining activities from ZCCM so that private investors would concentrate on core business. The
development objective was to ensure continued delivery of municipal services (especially water supply,
wastewater disposal, and solid waste management) to the mine townships. This goal and development
objective were consistent with the Government strategy. They were also consistent with the Bank's 1999
CAS. The project outputs were equally relevant and consistent with the development objective and fully
cognizant of socio-economic, technical, and institutional arrangements on the Copperbelt and in the water
and sanitation sector as well. The Bank performance during lending cycle may be judged as highly
satisfactory.

6.2       Supervision


6.2.1     The Bank mounted regular supervision missions, the last one before this assessment was in



                                                       - 34 -

October 2005, approximately three missions a year. There was generally a reasonable mix of skills
consisting, as a minimum, of financial specialist (task team leader), water/sanitary engineer, procurement
specialist, and operations specialist. The missions gave a lot of support and advice to the implementing
agency, as well as promoting and enforcing more effective implementation. Reasonable attention was given
to key staff of the implementing agency to discuss implementation challenges in sufficient detail.
Aide-memoires have been clear and served useful purpose as summary of progress and action plans in the
project implementation process.

6.3      Overall Bank Performance


6.3.1    Based on the above assessments, the Bank's performance during lending and supervision
operations has been rated as highly satisfactory.

Borrower (Ministry of Finance and National Planning)

6.4      Preparation


6.4.1    Following the Bank's identification mission in November 1998 where the project scope was agreed,
Government acted expeditiously to establish AHC-MMS, the prospective project implementing agency.
AHC-MMS was incorporated under the Companies Act on 29 March 1999 and key management personnel
were appointed during the year. NWASCO, the water supply and sanitation sector regulator was
established in October 1999. Thus Government put in place the key institutions to ensure effective
implementation of the project.

6.4.2    The National Water Policy (1994) and the Water Supply and Sanitation Act (1997) were already
in place during project preparation thus providing a policy and legal framework for the implementation of
the project. Thus the project objective, outputs and outcomes had a clear reference point in the existing
policy and legal framework. Project objective was clearly consistent with water supply and sanitation
sector goal, and the outputs were consistent with sector strategies.

6.4.3    Government gave full support to the project preparation activities, providing policy documents, and
relevant technical, financial and institutional information, and being available to the Bank for consultations.
Government's performance during this phase may be assessed as satisfactory.

6.5      Government (MLGH) Implementation Performance


6.5.1    Government's key responsibility in the MTSP involved development of the exit strategy, as well a
number of minor studies related to the exit strategy (PSP options study, willingness to pay, financial
management and reporting system, and socio-economic study). In addition, MLGH implemented training
activities, mainly for MLGH staff.

6.5.2    The minor studies as well as training activities were executed timely and satisfactorily. However
the decision on the exit strategy was delayed by almost two years. In the end the decision to transfer the
AHC-MMS operations to one of the CUs, Nkana Water and Sewerage Company, was less than
satisfactory, and may negatively hamper smooth implementation of follow-up operations.




                                                     - 35 -

6.6      Implementing Agency (AHC-MMS)


6.6.1    AHC-MMS was established for the purpose of implementing MTSP. Management and staff were
entirely committed to this purpose. Thus project resources were used for this purpose. To the extent
possible, AHC-MMS complied with all its obligations under the project including procurements, financial
management and reporting. Implementation delays did not result from lack of commitment, but from
practical realities of project implementation. The performance of AHC-MMS was judged to be
satisfactory.

6.7      Overall Borrower Performance


6.7.1    Overall Borrower performance is considered satisfactory.

7.       Lessons Learned

7.1      Management contract as PSP option for the water and sanitation sector has had mixed results. All
staff under the private operator, except for top management (heads of sections), were local staff
(AHC-MMS and locally recruited consultants). Thus the key issue is "incentives". Local staff, probably
with limited key inputs in running commercial principles and customer orientation, would have performed
as well had they been offered incentives to perform. Performance based management is viable, Zambia
presently has sufficient qualified personnel, provided they are given incentives to perform.

7.2      Performance indicators for the management contract should have been tied up more precisely to the
project objectives, and consistent with licensing requirements for NWASCO. This would have avoided
making two or more sets of reports.

7.3      CUs must have sufficient working capital, or else they face a slow build up to financial viability.
AHC-MMS was on target to break even by end of year 4 had there not been a tariff embargo imposed by
NWASCO. On the other hand NWSC, which started operations almost at the same time as AHC-MMS,
but had no or little working capital, still projects to break even three years later than AHC-MMS target
date.

7.4      Human resource development is cardinal to the success of any CU operation. AHC-MMS had well
qualified staff and this is the basis of any efficiency gains achieved under the project. Again this calls for
financial resources to start off operations of the CU.

7.5      Exit strategy was politicized. It ignored stakeholder consultations. The results of meaningful
consultations should guide decisions and be not easily passed over. There are still a number of issues still
to be resolved to make the exit smooth and orderly, least of which is the promotion of the exit strategy to
ensure buy-in from consumers in the respective service areas.




                                                       - 36 -

Additional Annex 9. Detailed Project Summary

The project, estimated at a total cost of US$ 38 million, consisted of three components. Components 1 and
2 were to be implemented by the Asset Holding Company ­ Mining and Municipal Services (AHC-MMS)
and Component 3 by the Ministry of Local Government and Housing (MLGH), through its Department of
Infrastructure and Support Services (DISS).

Component 1: Management Contract, Support to AHC-MMS, a company created from ZCCM's water,
sewerage and solid waste operations, and Rehabilitation Works (US$35.2 million; 92.7%) included the
following sub-components:

    Subcomponent A. Performance Based Management Contract (US$ 6.4 million)
            Support for a four-year Management Contract (MC) between the AHC-MMS and a private
            operator (PO) to undertake the operation and maintenance of the water and wastewater
            operations, management of solid waste contractors, and management and supervision of
            rehabilitation works, in the five mining townships of the five project towns.

    Subcomponent B. Production Cost Support and Start up Costs (US$ 7.55 million)
           l To provide transitory operations and maintenance support through financing some of
                 AHC-MMS's operating costs, in particular for chemicals and electricity.
           l To finance the working capital and start-up costs for the purchase of computer equipment,
                 vehicles and office equipment.

    Subcomponent C. Rehabilitation and Repair Works (US$ 19.25 million)
           l Replacement, installation and/or rehabilitation of water mains, bulk meters, pumping
                 facilities, sewage collection pipes, house connections and metering, water treatment plants
                 and sewage treatment ponds, and environmental mitigation works, in the five mining
                 townships of the five project towns..
           l The priority rehabilitation would be recommended by the PO after an initial survey period,
                 providing the linkage to optimize project support to achieve project and management
                 contract targets.

    Subcomponent D. Support to AHS-MMS (US$ 2.00 million)
           l International technical and financial audits to adjudicate performance of the PO to ensure
                 AHC-MMS's determination of bonus/penalties.
           l Environmental Advisor and environmental training and capacity building for AHC-MMS
                 staff (as identified in the Environmental Management Plan, EMP)
           l Training for AHC-MMS management (including procurement training), project
                 preparation support to AHC-MMS and preparation of the management contract
           l Solid waste disposal and security services contracts
           l Legal and other specialist technical assistance and capacity building for AHC-MMS staff
           l Water Resources Management Study


Component 2: HIV/AIDS (US$0.2 million; 0.5%):

    To provide specific support to employees of AHC-MMS and their families, and in general increase
    awareness of HIV/AIDS throughout the community.




                                                      - 37 -

Component 3: Support for Preparation of Permanent Arrangements for Urban Services (US$2.6 million;
6.8%):

        l Procurement training, workshops and study tours for MLGH staff
        l Assistance to commercialization and private sector approaches to provision of urban
             services in the Copperbelt ­ (diagnostic studies, PSP Options Study)
        l Solid Waste Master Planning Study- for the Copperbelt region
        l Project preparation for Urban Development Project (studies and consultants)




                                               - 38 -

- 39 -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IBRD 30673R

         27°45'                                                                  28°00'                                    28°15'         ZAMBIA                 28°30'


                                                                                                                  MINE TOWNSHIP SERVICES PROJECT
12°15'                                                                                                                                                                           12°15'
                                                                                                             Roan EX-MINE TOWNSHIPS                  MAIN RAILROADS

                                                                                                                      DISTRICT HEADQUARTERS          MAIN GRAVEL ROADS                                     A F R I C A
   Konkola                                                                                                            PROVINCE HEADQUARTERS          MAIN TARMAC ROADS

                                                                                                                      BUILT-UP AREAS                 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                      RIVERS                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
        Chililabombwe
                                          Kamenza
                                          Kambuza
                                                      CHILILABOMBWE
                                                                  DISTRICT                                                                                                                                            ZAMBIA



                                             Kafue
                                                              River


12°30'                                          Nchanga North                                          Butondo                                                                   12°30'
                                                                                                                    Kankaya
                                                                                                                    Kankoyo                                                                             25°               L.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Tanganyika
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       T A N Z A N I A
                                                Chingola
           Nchanga South                                                                                    Kantanshi          Mufulira
                                                                                                                                                                                                     DEM. REP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                     OF CONGO

                              Lulamba
                                                                                                                                                                                         10°                                        NORTHERN

                                                                                                                    MUFULIRA                                                                                               LUAPULA
                                                                                                                                                                                          A N G O L A
                      CHINGOLA                                                                                        DISTRICT                                                                                 COPPERBELT

                         DISTRICT                                                                                                                                                                 NORTHWESTERN                                       MALAWI

                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CENTRAL             EASTERN

                                                                                                                                                                                         15°                    Lusaka
                                                                                                                                                                                                 WESTERN               LUSAKA          MOZAMBIQUE

                                                                                                                                                                                                            SOUTHERN

                                                                                                                                                                                         NAMIBIA
12°45'                                                                                                                                                                           12°45'                               Z I M B A B W E
                                                                                                   Mindolo                                                                                     BOTSWANA
                                                                                                                   Kitwe             KITWE                                                               25°                       30°
                                                     KALULUSHI                                      Miseshi
                                                                                                    Misesh
                                                                                                  Chachacha                       DISTRICT
                                                         DISTRICT                                  Twibukishe
                                                                                                   Twashuka                                                                                              28°45'
                                                                                       Kalulushi                      Natwange
                                                                                                        Nkana
                                                                                                           West
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DEM. REP.
                                                                                                           Wusakili                                                                                             OF CONGO

                                                                                                                                                         NDOLA

                                                                                                                      River                               URBAN
                                                                                                                                                         DISTRICT                        NDOLA

                           NDOLA-
13°00'                       RURAL                                                                                                                                                                                                             13°00'

                           DISTRICT                                                                          Kafue                    LUANSHYA
                                                                                                                                       DISTRICT

                                                                                                                            Mpatamatu        Luanshya
        0           5             10            15              20 Kilometers                                                                Township
                                                                                                                                                      Luanshya
                                                                                                                                          Roan
        0                    5                     10                    15 Miles                                                                                                                             NDOLA

        This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                                                                                        RURAL
        The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
        shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                                       DISTRICT
        Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
        endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.


        27°45'                                                                 28°00'                                    28°15'                                 28°30'                                  28°45'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AUGUST 2000

