Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3386-ZA
Project Agreement
(Mine Township Services Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
AHC MINING MUNICIPAL SERVICES LIMITED
Dated July 27, 2000
CREDIT NUMBER 3386-ZA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 27, 2000, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and AHC MINING MUNICIPAL SERVICES LIMITED 
(AHC-MMS).
WHEREAS (A)
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date 
herewith between the Republic of Zambia (the Borrower) and the 
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-eight million two 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 28,200,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
conditions that AHC-MMS agrees to undertake such obligations toward the 
Association as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and AHC-MMS, part of the proceeds of the credit provided for 
under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to AHC-MMS 
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; 
and
WHEREAS AHC-MMS, in consideration of the Association’s entering 
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to 
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this 
Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the 
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms 
have the following meanings:
(a)
“fiscal year” means the fiscal year of AHC-MMS, commencing 
on April 1 and ending on March 31 of the next following year; and
(b)
“key management personnel” means (i) the General Manager; 
(ii) the Finance Manager/Company Secretary; (iii) the Manager (Human 
Resources); (iv) the Technical Manager; (v) the Management Accountant; 
and (vi) the Head of Supply/Head of Procurement Office.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Parts A and B of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) AHC-MMS declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit 
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A and B of the Project 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, sanitation and environmental 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services, and other resources required for 
Parts A and B of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and, except as the Association and AHC-MMS shall otherwise 
agree, AHC-MMS shall carry out Parts A and B of the Project in accordance 
with the Implementation Program set forth in the Schedule to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) AHC-MMS shall carry out the obligations set forth 
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, and 9.08 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and 
schedules, records and reports, maintenance, and land acquisition, 
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Parts A and B of 
the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions 
and without limitation thereto, AHC-MMS shall,  jointly with the 
Borrower:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association and furnish 
to the Association not later than 
six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Association and 
AHC-MMS, a plan for the future operation 
of Parts A and B of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to 
exchange views with AHC-MMS 
on said plan.
Page  3
Section 2.04. AHC-MMS shall duly perform all its obligations under 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, AHC-MMS shall not take or concur in any action which would have 
the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) AHC-MMS shall, at the request of the Association, 
exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of Parts 
A and B of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) 
AHC-MMS shall promptly inform the Association of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of 
Parts A and B of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Credit, or the performance by AHC-MMS of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of AHC-MMS
Section 3.01. AHC-MMS shall carry on its operations and conduct its 
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering, 
sanitation and environmental practices, under the supervision of 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. AHC-MMS shall at all times operate and maintain its 
buildings, office space, plant, equipment and other property, and from 
time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals 
thereof, all in accordance with sound administrative, financial, 
engineering, sanitation and environmental practices.
Section 3.03. AHC-MMS shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, 
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent 
with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) AHC-MMS shall maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, 
all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the 
Association, consistently adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices its operations and financial condition and to 
register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
Parts A and B of the Project.
(b)
AHC-MMS shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, 
statements of income and 
expenses, and related statements) for each fiscal 
year, including those for the Project Account, audited in 
accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Association consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later 
than six months after the 
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
Page  4
for such 
year as so audited, and (B) an opinion 
on such statements and report of such 
audit by said 
auditors of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records, 
accounts and financial 
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, AHC-MMS shall carry out a time-bound action plan 
acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of its financial 
system for Parts A and B of the Project in order to enable AHC-MMS, not 
later than 18 months after the Effective Date, or such later date as the 
Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, 
acceptable to the Association. Each such report shall:
(i)
set forth actual sources and application of funds for 
Parts A and B of the 
Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and application of funds for the said 
Parts of the Project 
for the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report, and show 
separately expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month 
period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
describe physical progress in Project implementation, 
both cumulatively and 
for the period covered by said 
report, and explain variances between the 
actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and 
(iii)
set forth the status of procurement under the said 
Parts of the Project and 
expenditures under contracts 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at 
the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section, AHC-MMS shall prepare in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association, not later 
than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, a Project Management 
Report for such period.
Section 4.03 (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
AHC-MMS shall produce for its fiscal year ending on March 31, 2005 and 
each fiscal year thereafter, a positive net income excluding depreciation 
and amortization charges.
(b)
Before September 1, in each of its fiscal years commencing 
in fiscal year ending on March 31, 2001 and up to and including the 
fiscal year ending on March 31, 2004, AHC-MMS shall, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by AHC-MMS and satisfactory to the Association, review 
whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in 
respect of the fiscal year ending on March 31, 2005 and shall furnish to 
the Association a copy of the results of such review upon its completion.
(c)
Before September 1, in each of its fiscal years commencing 
in fiscal year ending on March 31, 2005 and each fiscal year thereafter, 
AHC-MMS shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by AHC-MMS and 
satisfactory to the Association, review whether it would meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the 
Page  5
next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Association a copy of 
the results of such review upon its completion.
(d)
If any such reviews in paragraphs (b) and (c) show that 
AHC-MMS would not meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for 
AHC-MMS’s fiscal years covered by such review, AHC-MMS shall promptly 
take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments 
of the structure or levels of its  tariff), to the satisfaction of the 
Association to enable AHC-MMS to meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph (a) of this Section.
(e)
For the purposes of this Section, the term “net income” 
means the total revenue of AHC-MMS in the relevant calculation period 
after deduction of all expenses, costs and charges, as further reduced by 
further reserves for payment of all taxes on that  income; provided that 
the net income forecast for any fiscal year has been calculated to 
include a provision for doubtful debt which is equal to the actual 
percentage of billings made in the two quarters preceding the review and 
which remains unpaid at the end of those two quarters.
Section 4.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
AHC-MMS shall not, for each of its fiscal years following next after its 
fiscal year ending on March 31, incur any debt unless a reasonable 
forecast of the revenues and expenditures of AHC-MMS for each fiscal year 
during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times 
the estimated debt service requirements of AHC-MMS in such year on all 
debt of AHC-MMS including the debt to be incurred.
Section 4.05. For the purposes of Sections 4.03 and 4.04 of this 
Agreement:
(i)
the term “debt” means any indebtedness of AHC-MMS 
maturing by its terms more 
than one year after the 
date on which it is originally incurred;
(ii)
debt shall be deemed to be incurred:
(A)
under a loan contract or agreement or other 
instrument providing for 
such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date 
of such contract, agreement or instrument; and
(B)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the 
agreement providing for 
such guarantee has been 
entered into;
(iii)
the term “debt service” means the aggregate of 
repayments (including sinking 
fund payments, if any) of, 
and interest and other charges on, debt; and
(iv)
the term “reasonable forecast” means a forecast 
prepared by AHC-MMS not 
earlier than twelve months 
prior to the incurrence of the debt in question, 
which both the Association and AHC-MMS accept as reasonable and as 
to which 
the Association has notified AHC-MMS of its 
acceptability, provided that no 
event has occurred since 
such notification which has, or may reasonably be 
expected in the future to have, a material adverse effect on 
the financial 
condition or future operating 
results of AHC-MMS.
Section 4.06. Whenever for the purposes of Sections 4.03, 4.04, and 
Page  6
4.05 of this Agreement, it shall be necessary to value, in terms of the 
currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another currency such valuation 
shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at 
which such other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable 
for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, 
on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on 
the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the 
Association and of AHC-MMS thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of 
the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement 
shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance 
with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this 
Section, the Association shall promptly notify AHC-MMS of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue 
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension 
under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be 
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties 
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or 
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For AHC-MMS:
AFD Building
P.O. Box 22494
Kitwe
Zambia
Page  7
Facsimile:
260-2-245-199
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any 
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on 
behalf of AHC-MMS, or by AHC-MMS on behalf of the Borrower under the 
Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by the General 
Manager of AHC-MMS or such other person or persons as AHC-MMS shall 
designate in writing, and AHC-MMS shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several 
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively 
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
AHC MINING MUNICIPAL SERVICES LIMITED
By /s/ Atan Shansonga
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Implementation Program for Parts A and B of the Project
1.
(a)
AHC-MMS shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
Project Implementation Manual in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association setting out details of all procedures, guidelines, timetables 
and criteria required for Parts A and B of the Project.
(b)
AHC-MMS shall carry out Parts A and B of the Project in 
accordance with the Project Implementation Manual and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, AHC-MMS shall not amend or waive any 
provision of the Project Implementation Manual (or concur in the 
amendment or waiver of any such provision) if, in the opinion of the 
Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect 
the carrying out of the said Parts of the Project or the achievement of 
the objectives thereof.
2.
AHC-MMS shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
indicators set forth in paragraphs A and B (a) and (b) of Schedule 6 to 
Page  8
the Development Credit Agreement (i) the carrying out by AHC-MMS of Parts 
A and B of the Project; and (ii) the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, on or about March 31 and 
September 30 of each year, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph 
(a) of this paragraph, on (i) the progress achieved in the carrying out 
by AHC-MMS of Parts A and B of the Project, during the period preceding 
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of Parts A and B of the Project; and 
(ii) the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association by May 31 and November 30 of 
each year, or such later date as the Association shall request, the 
report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of Parts A and B of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report 
and the Association’s views on the matter.
3.
(a)
AHC-MMS shall, no later than December 31, 2003, carry out 
jointly with the Association and the Borrower, a mid-term review of the 
progress made in carrying out Parts A and B of the Project. The mid-term 
review shall include (i) the progress made in meeting the objectives of 
the said Parts of the Project; (ii) an assessment of the overall 
performance by AHC-MMS of Parts A and B of the Project; (iii) an 
assessment of the overall performance by the Private Operator of its 
obligations under the management contract; and (iv) a determination as to 
whether or not, having regard to all the relevant circumstances, the 
mid-term review should recommend an extension of the Management Contract 
beyond the fourth Project Year.
(b)
AHC-MMS shall carry out, no later than one month after the 
completion of the mid-term review the recommendations of the mid-term 
review as agreed with the Association and set out in an action plan for 
Parts A and B of the Project satisfactory to the Association.
4.
(a)
AHC-MMS shall enter into a management contract with a 
Private Operator satisfactory to the Association. The Management Contract 
shall, inter alia, provide for the assignment to the Private Operator of 
responsibility for (i) the full operation and maintenance and repair 
works of the systems, plant, equipment and other facilities of AHC-MMS; 
(ii) the planning of a rehabilitation program, within general guidelines 
established by AHC-MMS, for the approval of AHC-MMS; (iii) the 
preparation of annual budgets and plans for the approval of AHC-MMS; (iv) 
the management, including supervision on behalf of AHC-MMS (but not the 
execution) of the rehabilitation works included in Parts A and B of the 
Project; (v) the issuance, on behalf of AHC-MMS, of bills for water, 
wastewater and solid waste; (vi) payment to AHC-MMS of moneys collected 
by the Private Operator in respect of the said bills; (vii) compensation 
of the Private Operator consisting of (A) a competitively bid fixed fee, 
with time bound performance targets that increase over the duration of 
the Management Contract, and (B) an incentive payment based on 
performance targets; and (viii) the overseeing and contracting out of the 
solid waste management services provided by AHC-MMS for the Mine 
Townships.
(b)
The said rehabilitation works may be contracted out by the 
AHC-MMS. AHC-MMS shall be responsible for all operations and maintenance 
costs, as well as the management fee payable to the Private Operator. The 
Private Operator shall not be responsible for any financial risk relating 
to the operations and maintenance costs or revenues undertaken by it 
Page  9
under the Management Contract.
(c)
AHC-MMS shall be responsible for the procurement of goods, 
works and services required for Parts A and B of the Project. AHC-MMS may 
however delegate said procurement responsibilities to the Private 
Operator. The Private Operator shall have suitably qualified staff in 
adequate numbers to carry out the procurement responsibilities delegated 
to it by AHC-MMS.
5.
AHC-MMS shall furnish to the Association no later than December 31, 
2000, the terms and conditions of employment of (a) all key management 
personnel of AHC- MMS; and (b) all operational staff of AHC-MMS. The said 
terms and conditions shall be satisfactory to the Association.
