Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CA-9  /95- CrA
Report No. 7440-Gi
STAFF APPRAIS'L REPORT
GHANA
PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MARCH 6; 1989
Africa Region, Western Africa Department
Industry and Energy Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UN_TS
Currency Unit = Cedi (¢)
In September 1986, the Government introduced a second-tier foreign exchange
auction  system,  and in February 1987 the official and auction r.tes were
unified at Cedis 150 per US dollar. Since then, the auction has proceeded
smoothly anid the exchange rate has depreciated further to Cedis 235 per US
dollar (February 3, 1989). Initially, the auction was limited to producer
goods, but its coverage has expanded steadily, and by February 1988 all
imported goods were eligible for funds from the auction. A rate of US$l =
0250 has been used for project analysis.
US$1 = 0250
¢1    = US$0.004
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADB      -  Agricultural Development Bank                  IMF   -  International Monetary Fund
ASAWA    -  Association for the Advancement of             ISAC  -  Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit
African Women                                 ITTUs -  Intermediate Technology Transfer Units
Barclays -  Barclays Bank Ghana                            LCB       Local Competitive Bidding
BCC      -  Bank of Credit and Commerce                    MCGS  -  Mutualist Credit Guarantee Scheme
BHC      -  Bank for Housing and Construction              MDPI  -  Management Development and Productivity
BOG      -  Bank of Ghana                                            Institute
CDH      -  Consolidated Discount House Ltd.               MGAs  -  Mutualist Guarantee 4ssociations
COOP Bank-  Ghana Cooperative Bank                         MIST  -  Ministry of Industries, Science and
CIDA     -  Canadian International Development                       Technology
Agency                                        NBSSI -  National Board for Small Scale
CFTC     -  Commonwealth Fund for Technisal                          Industries
Assistance                                    NCWD  -  National Council for Women in
CSIR     -  Council for Scientific and Industrial                    Development
Research                                      NGO   -  Non-Covernmental Organization
CUSO     -  Canadian University Services Overseas          NIB   -  National Investment Bank
DFD      -  Development Finance Department                 NSCB  -  Nat onal Savings and Credit Bank
EDAC     -  Entrepreneurship Development Adv:sory          NVTI  -  National Vocational Training Institute
Centre                                        PFI(s)-  Participating Financial Institution(s)
EDP      -  Entrepreneurship Development Program           PNDC  -  Provisional National Defence Council
EDII     -  Entreneurship Development Institute of         RIR   -  Reference Interest Rate
India                                         SAP   -  Structural Adjustment Program
EEC      -  European Economic Community                    SIL   -  Special Import Licence
ERP      -  Economic Recovery Program                      SMEs  -  Small and Medium Scale Enterprises
FUSMED   -  Fund for Small and Medium Enterprise           SOEs  -  Statements of Expenditure
Development                                   SSB   -  Social Security Bank
GCB      -  Ghana Commercial Rank                          SSEs  -  Small Scale Enterprises
GDP      -  Gross Domestic Product                         SSNIT -  Social Security and National Insurance
GEDC     -  Ghana Enterprise Development                             Trust
Commission                                    Standard-Standard and Chartered Bank
GEPC     -  Ghana Export Promotion Council                 TCC   -  Technology Consultancy Centres
GIC      -  Ghana Investments Centre                       UNDP  -  United Nations Development Program
GIMPA    -  Ghana Institute of Management and              UNICEF-  United Nations International Children's
Public Administration                                   Emergency Fund
GRATIS   -  Ghana Regional Technology Industrial           USAID -  United States Agency for International
Services                                                Development
IDA      -  International Development Association          WWBG  -  Women's World Banking Ghana Ltd.
IDF      -  Industrial Development and Finance             WWB   -  Women's World Banking International
ILO      -  International Labor Organization               YWCA  -  Young Women Christian Association
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GHANA
PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY              .................                    iii
I.   INTRODUCTION ..........................................                 1
II. THE SECTORAL ENVIRONMENT.                                                1
A. The Economic Setting              .           .                      1
1. Background.                                                    1
2.  The Economic Recovery Program.                                2
B. The Manufacturing Sector              .         .                   3
1. Structure.                                                     3
2. Performance.                                                   4
3.   Recent Poli^cy and Regulatory Reforms                        4
4.   Impact of the Reforms and Prospects                          5
C.   The Small and Medium Scale Enterprise (SME)
Sector...    6
1.  Structure and Characteristic.                                 6
2.   Government Policies and Support Programs                     8
3. Women in SMEs .10
4.   SME's Prospects and Constraints .11
D. The Financial Sector .12
1.  Institutional Structure .12
2.   The Policy and Regulatory Framework .14
3. Development Constraints .15
E.   Government Objectives and the Role of SMEs                       17
F. Bank Group Assistance .18
1.   Previous Bank Involvement in the Industrial
Sector .18
2. IDA's Role in the Sector .20
III. THE PROJECT .21
A.   Project Rationale and Objectives .21
B. Project Description                      .           .             22
1. The Credit Component .22
2.  Equipment Lease Financing .22
3.   Pilot Mutualist Credit Guarantee Scheme
for Micro-Enterprises .23
4.   Technical Assistance Components .23
This report was prepared by K. K. Framji (Task Manager), B. Ateng, and
Ms. M. Manalo (Western Africa Department), W. Steel (Industry and Energy
Department), M. Stoller, Ms. Rosemary McCarney, Ms. Leila Webster, R. Marks
and P. Bossard (Consultants), following missions to Ghana in February and
July 1988. Ms. Eleanor George providei word processing support and
Ms. Angie Wani provided secretarial support in preparation of the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



/ ~~~- ii -
Page No.
C.  Credit  Demand       ....................................  27
D.  Project Cost and Financing Plan ..................     27
IV.  PRINCIPAL FEATURES OF THE CREDIT ......................   29
A.  Institutional Arrangements for the IDA Credit  ....    29
B.  Eligible Financial Intermediaries      ................  30
C.  Eligible Beneficiaries and Subprojects .... .......    31
D.  Onlending Terms and Conditions .....    ..............  33
E.  Maximum Size of Subloans and Free Limits    .........  34
F.  Advisory Services for SMEs .....     ..................  35
G   Project Implementation Arrangements and Schedule .     35
H.  Procurement  ......................................    36
I.  Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit  ....    37
J.  Accounting, Auditing, and Reporting Requirements .     38
V.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ......    ......................  38
VI. AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS TO BE REACHED AND
RECOMMENDATIONS   .....................................  40
ANNEXES
2-1   Key Economic Indicators
2-2   Gross Domestic Product by Economic Activity, 1979-1986
2-3   The Manufacturing Sector
2-4   Results of a Small Scale Industry Survey, 1984
2-5   Assets and Liabilities of Banks
2-6   GDP/Money Supply
2-7   Deposits and Their Structure
2-8   Selected Interest Rates
2-9   Total Bank Credit to Private Sector and Public Enterprises by Sector
2-10  Characteristics of Subprojects under the National Investment Bank II
Project (No. 901-GH)
3-1   Pilot Mutualist Credit Guarantee Scheme
3-2   Institutional Technical Assistance Components and Estimated Costs
4-1   Eligibility Criteria for Participating Financial Institutions
4-2   Procurement Arrangements
4-3   Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Reporting Requirements
4-4   Allocation and Disbursements Under the IDA Credit
4-5   Estimated Disbursement Schedule for the IDA Credit
6     Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP
IBRD NO. 18112R1



- iii -
GHANA
PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT A1D PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Republic of Ghana
Beneficiaries: Bank of Ghana (BOG); small and medium scale enterprises (SMEs) in
the private productive sectors; participating financial
institutions (PFIs); National Board for Small Scale Industries
(NBSSI); and other governmental and non-governmental
organizations (NGOs).
Amount:         SDR 22.3 million (US$30 million equivalent).
Terms:          Standard, with 40 years maturity.
Onlending
Terms:          The Government would make the proceeds of the US$30.0 million
equivalent IDA credit available to the BOG, as follows: US$28.0
million equivalent for o.lending to SMEs by eligible PFIs through
an apex arrangement established in the BOG as the Fund for Small
and Medium Enterprise Development (FUSMED); and, US$2.0 million
equivr- at for institution building and technical assistance.
The BOG would retain US$0.7 million equivalent of the technical
assistance funds for FUSMED's initial start-up costs, and
administer the remaining US$1.3 million equivalent for the other
institutional support and technical assistance components. The
credit proceeds would be onlent to PFIs in cedi terms at variable
and market determined rates equal to the average highest rates
paid by the primary banks for term deposits (currently 20Z p.a.),
with amortization terms equivalent to those of the subloans made
by PFIs. The final onlending rates to beneficiary enterprises
would be variable and determined by the PFIs. The BOG would
retain 21 points of the interest it charges PFIs to cover its
administrative costs and pay the remaining amount to the
Government. Subloans under the credit components would have a
maturity of up to 10 years including a 3-year grace period and
PFIs would be permitted to write leases under the equipment
leasing component for up to 10 years including a grace period of
up to 2 years. Under the mutualist credit guarantee scheme,
subloans would have maturities of up to 5 years including a grace
period of up to one year.
Proiect
Description:   The principal objective of the project is to finance the
development of SMEs in the private productive sectors to generate
a supply response and thus increase employment, output and
income. The Project is an integral part of IDA's strategy for
supporting the ongoing reform program and paving the way for
sustained growth. The Project consists of (a) a line of credit
component to finance the fixed asset and working capital needs of
SMEs in all economic sectors other than agriculture, trading and



- iv -
real estate; (b) an equipment lease financing component to
provide an alternative and flexible source of long-term financing
to SMEs; (c) a pilot mutualist credit guarsantee scheme for
microenterprise lending; (d) technical assistance for FUSMED
(strengthening the technical and institutional capabilities of
the BOG apex facility, training PFIs in project analysis and term
financing, promoting and designing the mutualist credit guarantee
scheme); (e) an integrated package of technical assistance for
SMEs, micro-enterprises and women entrepreneurs (with a Pilot
Studies Fund for sharing the cost of feasibility studies, pilot
small business advisory centers, a growth center and business
incubators, and inter alia strengthening and assisting NBSSI to
enable it to continue the Er,trepreneurship De3velopment Program,
and to assist SMEs more effectIvely); and, (E) studies on the
equipment leasing industry, technology development, the potential
for free trade zones for export promotion, and the regulatory and
incentive envircnment for private sector and small-scale
enterprise development.
Proiect
Benefits and
Risks:          The Project would provide important support to the Goverrment's
efforts in stimulating productive activity ir. the private sector
and generating a sustained supply response by assisting SMEs
through an integrated package of institutional and financial
measures. It would help establish viable newf projects and would
strengthen and improve the competitiveness of existing SMEs. The
Project would also help generate new employment, maintain
employment in existing viable enterprises,  and thus partially
alleviate the severe unemployment problem in Ghana. The project
would improve the quality and range of financial services
available to the SME sector through: strengthening the
capability of the BOG as well as the banking sector to lend
long-term to SMEs; the equipment leasing component; the pilot
mutualist credit guarantee scheme for microenterprises; the
support to women entrepreneurs and training institutions; and the
development of an appropriate policy and regulatory framework for
equipment leasing. Small scale entrepreneurs would receive
assistance from the Pilot Studies Fund for obtaining consultancy
services of their choice, thus making the provision of technical
assistance demand driven, with the involvement of the private
sector and the banking system. The provision of technical
assistance and training for BOG (FUSMED), PFIs and NBSSI and
other organizations would enhance their capacity to develop and
implement more effectively support programs for SMEs.
The possible reluctance of the banking system to ern,age in term
financing for SMEs is a major risk of the credit. Term financing
is perceived generally as more risky than traditioral commercial
financing, and this could result in slow disbursement of the
loan. This risk has been minimized as the PFIs will be free to
determine the final onlending rates to beneficiary SMEs. The
PFIs' ability to contribute to subproject costs fromi their own
resources could be affected by credit ceiling constraints. Their



- V -
expected contribution has, however, been kept to the minimum
necessary to ensure their commitment. The effectiveness of the
apex facility in the BOG in channeling credits to the banking
system particularly in rural areas is another possible risk.
This would be minimized by the provision of appropriate expertise
and training. The high interest rates in Ghana may also dampen
investment demand. The conservative demand estimates on which
the overall size of the credit components are based, in part
mitigates this risk. The participation of the entire banking
system with extensive branch networks would extend the outreach
of the project in all parts of the country, and would help
mitigate this risk. The Pilot Studies Fund would also help
generate a significant pipeline of bankable SME subprojects and
further mitigate this risk. The pilot mutualist creQlt guarantee
scheme could also encounter a difficult start-up because of its
newness. To minimize this risk, the project includes appropriate
technical assistance. Finally, in view of the multi-component
nature of the Project, there is always the risk of Government
bureaucracy slowing down Droject implementation. To mitigate
this risk, the Project relies largely on the banking system which
is more efficient than Government departments or agencies and
which is being improved through the Financial Sector Adjustment
Project.
Estimated Costs: a/
Local         Foreign        Total
------US$ million equivalent-----
Line of Credit                        20.5             30.0         50.5
Equipment Leasing                      0.6              2.5          3.1
Technical Assistance                   1.A              2.3          3.3
Unallocated                                             0.5          0.5
Total                            22.1             35.3         57.4
a/ Net of taxes and duties.
Financing Plan:
Local          Foreign        Total
-US$ million equivalent-----
IDA                                    0.8             29.2         30.0
PFIs                                   7.9               -           7.9
SMEs                                  13.2               -          13.2
Cofinancing                            0.2              6.1          6.3
Total                            22.1             35.3         57.4



- vi -
Estimated Disbursements:a/
IDA FY             90         91        92        93        94        95       96
-------US$ million equivalent-----------------
Annual            4.0        5.5       5.5       5.8       4.7       2.7      1.8
Cuuiulative       4.0        9.5      15.0      20.8      25.5     28.2      30.0
a/   Based on standard, actual disbursement profile of the Africa Region
for IDF projects.
Economic Rates
of Return:      Subprojects with costs above US$25,000 equivalent would be
required to have after tax financial rates of return (FRRs) of at
least 122 and those with costs above US$300,000 equivalent would
be required to have FRRs and economic rates of economic (ERRs) of
at least 12Z; the payback periods for leased equipment would not
exceed 7 years.



GHANA
PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Republic of Ghana (the Government) has requested an IDA
Credit of SDR 22.3 million (US$30 million equivalent) for a Private Small
and Medium Enterprise Development Project (the Project). The Project
comprises an integrated package of financial support programs, investment
pron:otion, technical assistance and extension services for small and
medium-scale enterprises (SMEs). In 1983, the Government launched an
Economic Recovery Program (ERP) and introduced economic reforms
designed, inter alia, to promote economic eff tency and long-term growth
and a more robust private sector by restoring incentives for private
savings and investments. The most important measures of the ERP, the
liberalization of trade and the introduction of market-determined exchange
rates, were supported by industrial sector and general structural
adjustment credits. The Government considers the development of SMEs to be
an important vehicle for increasing productive activity, generating a
supply response and increasing employment, and accordingly has now placed a
high priority on developing a broad program to assist their development.
1.02      The proposed project would assist micro, small- and medium-size
enterprises in the private sector by providing a broad range and integrated
package of financial and technical assistance services. More specifically,
it would: finance the investment needs of SMEs through a line of credit;
provide equipment lease financing to improve access of SMEs to long-term
finance; improve the access of microenterprises to institutional credit
through a pilot mutualist credit guarantee scheme; and, provide technical
assistance to (a) develop an efficient apex institution to promote, within
the banking system, term lending to SMEs, (b) improve extension services to
SMEs and women entrepreneurs by strengthening existing governmental and
non-governmental institutiorns, developing pilot business incubators ard a
growth center, business advisory services ana otner schemes, and (c)
conduct studies to improve the policy framework for SMEs.
1.03      Total financing of about US$57.4 million equivalent including
US$35.3 million equivalent in foreign exchange would be required for the
Project. The proposed IDA credit of US$30 million equivalent will cover
52Z of the total financing required (83Z of total foreign exchange and
about 4Z of local costs).
II. THE SECTORAL ENVIRONMENT
A.   The Economic Setting
1.   Background
2.01      Ghana once enjoyed a high standard of living compared with most
other West African countries. However, drought, poor economic policies,



-2.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- 2 -
and increases in oil prices led to a significant decline in per capita
ircome during the 1970s and early 1980s. Since the inception of the ERP in
1983, however, GDP growth has averaged above 52 a year, about 2Z over the
growth rate of the population (Annexes 2-1 and 2-2). But per capita income
remains low at $390 (mid-1986), and an estimated half of the population
lives in absolute poverty.
2.02      The country is well endowed with natural and human resources.
Agriculture accounts for about 47Z of GDP and provides income for about 70Z
of the population. Ghana is the world's third largest producer of cocoa,
which accounts for about two-thirds of the country's export earnings. The
country also possesses valuable mineral deposits, particularly gold.
Hydropower generates most of the electricity, some of which is exported to
neighboring countries. Manufacturing output increased substantially after
independence in 1957, partly due to government policies that encouraged
import substitution industries behind a wall of protection, although
capacity utilization and production fell sharply when the economy declined
in the 1970s and 1980s. Services, which account for over a third of GDP,
are dominated by retail and wholesale trade (Annex 2-2).
2.   The Economic Recover-; Program (ERP)
2.03      Per capita income in Ghana declined by 30X between 1970 and 1982;
import volumes fell by a third, real export earnings halved, domestic
savings and investment fell to almost negligible levels, and inflation ran
at an average of 44X a year. In 1983, the newly constituted Provisional
National Defense Council (PNDC) intrcduced an economic recovery program to
reverse the decline in living standards and restore economic growth.
2.04      The major objectives of the initial phase of the ERP were to: (a)
shift relative prices in favor of production, particularly for exports and
efficient import substitution; (b) restore fiscal and monetary discipline;
(c) initiate restoration of the country's social and economic
infrastructure; and (d) encourage private investment. The centerpiece of
the reform was a move to introduce a more realistic exchange rate. The
cedi was devalued from ¢2.75 in April 1983 to ¢90 to the U.S. dollar by
January 1986. In September 1986, the Government introduced a second tier
auction system, and in February 1987 the auction and official exchange
rates were officially unified at the then prevailing auction rate of 150
cedis to the US dollar. Since then the exchange rate has depreciated to
¢228 to the US dollar (September 12, 1988). Initially the auction was
limited to producer goods, but its coverage has expanded steadily, and by
February 1988 all imported goods were eligible. Price controls were
abolished fur all but a few commodities. The remaining administered
prices, particularly for cocoa and petroleum, have been adjusted at regular
intervals to reflect changes in the exchange rate, and widespread price and
distribution controls have been abolished. Interest rates were adjusted
upwards steadily, and in September 1987 all interest rates except those for
savings deposits were liberalized; savings deposit rates were liberalized
in early 1988.  In the area of fiscal policy, the Government's efforts have
concentrated on eliminating subsidies, mobilizing resources through
improved tax collection and selective increases in taxes, and providing
more adequately for maintenance and capital expenditures. In addition, the
Government raised public sector wages and salaries to offset partially the
drastic erosion of real incomes in previous years. At the same time, it



- 3 -
has begun to reverse the previous severe compression of salary
differentials between the lowest and highest paid members of the civil
service.
2.05      The response of the economy was crip.  ed initially by the drought
in 1983 and insufficient aid flows. Since 1984, however, performance
improved on several counts: growth averaged over 52 a year; the
Government's fiscal position improved markedly; the rapid growth of the
money supply was curbed; and the trade balance improved substantially. In
addition, the Government introduced significant improvements in public
expenditure policies. It initiated rehabilitation programs for
infrastructure in the cocoa, timber, g&,ld, and transport sectors. At the
same time, the Government prepared a rolling three-year development program
based on reviews of public expenditures conducted jointly with IDA. At
this stage, the high level of inflation (averaging 39Z in 1987) remains a
major concern. This was mainly attributable to the lagged effect of the
significant devaluation of the currency in 1986, the decline in domestic
food production, and the increase in domestic petroleum prices. Evidence
on price increases for the first quarter of 1988 indicates no deceleration
in the pace of inflation. However, increased food production in 1988, and
stringent controls over both the budget deficit and monetary expansion,
will begin to have a dampening effect on inflation in the second half of
1988.
2.06      The second phase of the Government's ERP (sometimes termed the
Structural Adjustment Program, SAP) is currently under implementation and
has as its principal objectives continued economic growth, sustained fiscal
and monetary discipline, increased levels of domestic savings and
investment, improvements in the efficiency of public resource management,
and further development of the private sector. To achieve these goals, the
Govet ment is moving on five broad areas of reform: trade and exchange
rate policies; public resource management; cocoa sector policies;
state-owned enterprise reforms; and public sector management--a key aspect
of which is the reduction in the number of surplus civil servants. This
has, however, added to mounting unemployment which the Government now
considers a serious problem. The high level of unemployment and a growing
number of job seekers, made up of new entrants as well as redeployees from
the public and private sectors, together with the high population growth
rate of 3.35% p.a., is increasing pressure on the Government to encourage
the development of productive labor-intensive activities including SMEs.
B.   The Manufacturing Sector 1/
1.   Structure
2.07      The manufacturing sector is diversified and includes consumer,
intermediate and capital goods industries. According to the 1987
1/   The structure and performance of the sector, recent policy and
regulatory reforms and their impact and prospects for growth are
discussed in detail in Annex 2-3.



- 4 -
industrial census the total number of manufacturing enterprises in the
medium and large-scale category (defined as those employing between 10 and
29 workers and 30 workers or more, respectively) was 420; formal
small-scale enterprises (defined as those employing up to 9 workers) were
in excess or 3,000. Value added in the modern sector is dominated by food
processing, beverages, toba'co, textiles and garments, and wood products.
These subsectors accounted for about 52Z of total manufacturing value added
in 1970, 592 in 1980 and 78Z in 1984, and for over 602 of total
manufacturing employment. Large and medium-scale industrial enterprises
are also found in aluminium and other basic metals, chemicals, petroleum
refining, building materials, rubber, plastics, and paper. Apart from
aluminum and sawmilling industries, Ghanaian manufacturing firms produce
primarily for the domestic market. The sector Is highly import-dependent
(77% of tot l materials consumed in 1984 were imported). Food processing
and other agro-based industries are the n,ost important small-scale
industrial activities, followed by tailoring, bakeries, wood-related
industries, shoomaking and shoe repair, manufacture and repair of metal
products, motor fitting and bodyworks, and electric repairs. Other
small-scale industrial activities include black- and gold-smithing,
handicrafts, pottery, and printi.ig.
2.   Performance
2.08      Manufacturing GDP nearly tripled in constant prices between 1960
and 1970; value added grew by 13Z per annum on average; and employment
doubled during the same period. Output grew by 13X per annum in real terms
up to 1970, remained stagnant between 1970 and 1977 after a fall in
1973-74, and then declined sharply between 1977 and 1980. Annual indices
of manufacturing production by subsector between 1977 and 1986 are
presented in Annex 2-3, Table 2. The sector was characterized by falling
production and declining capacity utilization during the 1970s. This trend
continued until it was reversed in 1984 following the introduction of the
ERP. Employment in the large and medium-scale manufacturing establishments
increased from 59,300 in 1970 to 80,000 by 1980 (value added in these
establishments declined during the period) and then declined to 55,800 by
1984. Labor productivity fell by nearly a third as employment kept rising
while output fell during the former period and then fell more slowly than
value added in the latter period. The ERP reversed the declining trend in
the sector's performance through an improved business climate and greater
availability of resources, especially foreign exchange. Significant and
continuous increases in capacity utilization have been realized especially
in agro-based industries, wood processing, tobacco, beverages, chemicals,
and non-metallic mineral subsectors.
3.   Recent Policy and Regulatory Reforms
2.09      Trade Policy.  Trade policy reforms, especially the flexible
exchange rate, have made production for export much more attractive than
previously. Market forces have replaced administrative discretion to
allocate official foreign exchange for imports. Manufacturers are now able
to plan ahead because availability of foreign exchange has become more
reliable. The manufacturing sector has benefited from the foreign exchange
auction more than any other sector--over 50% of funds auctioned to date
have gone to manufacturing enterprises. In addition, special import
licenses (SIL) continue to be issued for all but a small negative list of



- 5 -
items to importers who do not require official foreign exchange. In sum,
all goods, with the exception of those relative few that are banned, can be
freely imported. Actions announced in the 1987 and 1988 budgets have
brought about a major restructuring of import duties, sales taxes and
excise taxes. The reforms have established the framework for transforming
the sales tax into a relatively non-distorting revenue source by separating
the revenue and protection functions of taxes on international trade. The
Government has also taken steps toward creating a structure of protection
more conducive to encouraging the development of efficient import replacing
and exporting activities.
2.10      Export Promotion.  In addition to the reform of the foreign
exchange regime, the Government has simplified export procedures for most
non-traditional export items. Flexibility in the use of exporters'
retention accounts has also been increased and the proportion of foreign
exchange earnings from non-traditional exports which may be retained has
been increased from 251 to 351. Furthermore, the Government is reviewing
existing duty/tax suspension/tax rebate procedures with the aim of
streamlining them and expediting implementation. In addition, the
Government has taken steps to strengthen the Ghana Export Promotion
Council.
2.11      Business Regulations.  The Government has taken steps to reverse
most of the negative effects of its past actions on the businE s
environment and to establish a more positive political climate for private
entrepreneurs and professionals to respond positively to improved policies
and incentives. A more responsible, cooperative relationship between
workers and management has been encouraged, for example, by activation of
the Tripartite Committee (on which they are represented, together with the
Government) to advise on issues such as wages and salaries. Greater
efforts have been made to communicate Government policies to private
businessmen, and to represent them on policy-making bodies such as the
National Economic Commission. Efforts are underway to streamline and
reorient the Ghana Investments Centre. An area where further improvement
is required is the regulatory system, especially with respect to
establishing and operating small-scale enterprises. At present, a
small-scale entrepreneur wanting to start a business is confronted with a
confusing regulatory environment, where a variety of government mtr.'stries
and departments are responsible for the issuance of licences,
authorizations, registration, etc., required for start-up businesses. This
issue will be addressed by the project and changes, where appropriate, to
the regulatory system will be sought, to remove impediments faced by SMEs.
4.   Impact of the Reforms and Prospects
2.12      The manufacturing sector has made remarkable progress over the
last three years in its attempt to adjust its cost and price structure to
the more competitive and liberalized market. In spite of depressed domestic
demand, production levels of enterprises are increasing, largely because of
the improved supply .of raw materials. The capacity utilization rate is, in
many cases, higher than in previous years, and company sales have grown.
However, improved output levels have not been associated with any
significant increase in labor demand, as firms are able to utilize the
excess labor they carried forward. Use of domestic resources is increasing
though the sector still remains heavily dependent on imported inputs. In



- 6 -
the case of the chemicals subsector, the use of palm oil in the manufacture
of soap has replaced a significant portion of tallow (imported), and
sheanut and citronella plants are currently showing great promise in
cosmetic preparations. The textiles subsector through the Ghana Cotton
Company has successfully grown and ginned cotton replacing almost 30Z of
imported inputs. In the case of the brewing industry, a program is
underway for partial replacement of barley malt by locally grown cereals
(sorghum has been identified as the initial grain). This innovation is
being pursued jointly by all breweries. Non-traditional manufacturing
exports are responding positively to currency depreciation and other
incentives. The value of such exports was estimated at US$45 million in
1986, compared to the estimated value of US$18 million in 1984. The
subsectors that have shown positive response include cash crops, processed
fish, and wood products.
2.13      With an appropriate incentive framework now in place, Ghana can
develop an efficient resource-based manufacturing sector. The country has
an excellent potential to develop agro-processing enterprises, given the
emergence of agricultural surpluses of various kinds (fruits, vegetables,
etc.). Possibilities exist to significantly increase the value added to
wood and other agro-based products which also have export markets.
Non-traditional exports such as fresh agricultural produce (including
horticultural products), marine products (e.g., canned tuna), processed
wood products (furniture parts and joinery) and other manufactured goods
(including processed "ethnica food) have ready export markets, and export
earnings could, therefore, be increased quickly.
C.   The Small and Medium Scale Enterprise (3ME) Sector
1.   Structure and Characteristics
2.14      There are a number of different definitions of SMEs in Ghana,
most of which are based on the number of workers employed by an enterprise.
Also, no one definition has wide acceptance. In the Statistical Service's
Industrial Statistics, small-scale industrial enterprises are defined as
those employing 29 or fewer workers; the rest are lumped together as medium
and large-scale enterprises. However in the 1987 industrial census
small-scale industrial enterprises were defined as those employing up to 9
workers; medium-scale enterprises as those employing between 10 and 29
workers; and large-scale enterprises as those employing 30 or more workers.
On the other hand, in the Labor Statistics small-scale enterprises (SSEs)
are defined as those employing 9 or fewer workers. The National Investment
Bank defines SSEs as those employing 9 or fewer workers or with fixed
assets not exceeding l0o million, and medium-scale enterprises as those
with between 10 and 30 workers or fixed assets valued at between 1l0 and
q5O million. Other institutions have used different definitions based on
size of employment or value of fixed assets. As a result of the rapid
inflation of the mid-19BOs and the substantial devaluation of the cedi
these value definitions are no longer relevant. For purposes of the
proposed project, therefore, SMEs will be defined as those enterprises with
an estimated value of total assets (excluding land) plus investment under
the Project of up to US$2 million equivalent, in 1988 constant prices.
2.15      The 1987 industrial census disclosed that the number of
small-scale industrial enterprises (defined as enterprises employing up to



-  7  -
9 workers) in the formal sector was in excess of 3,000 compared to 420 in
the medium- and large-scale category (para 2.07). The Ministry of
Industries, Science and Technology (MIST), using the Statistical Service's
definition, estimated that as of December 31, 1987 there were 2,386 medium
and large-scale firms and 2,596 small-scale enterprises.
2.16      Data on small-scale enterprises (fewer than 30 workers) is
scarce, with little information gathered specifically on these enterprises
between 1973 and 1984. Nevertheless, historical data point to the relative
importance of small-scale manufacturing. According to the 1960 population
census, the small-scale sector accounted for 78Z of total employment in
manufacturing; a 1962-63 industrial census showed a figure of 82Z; and a
1976 study estimated the proportion in 1973 at 85?. Total manufacturing
employment was estimated at about 427,000 in 1973, of which large and
medium-scale establishments accounted for 64,000 and rural small-scale
309,000, the rest being shared between organized and unorganized
small-scale urban enterprises.
2.17      The most recent survey of SSEs (defined as enterprises employing
up to 30 workers) was conducted by the University of Ghana and J. W. Goethe
Universitat in 1984. A total of 13,363 units was surveyed in 36 towns,
excluding the three towns with the largest population. The nature of
activities, source of credit, constraints on expansion, and type of
technology in the SSE sector are presented in Annex 2-4. Results of the
survey show that SSEs are round in a wide range of activities in the
manufacturing, construction/building, mining/quarrying, repairs, service,
and retail sectors. Most of the SSEs do not offer much scope for
substantial, permanent wage employment, except for a few industries (corn
milling, carpentry, tailoring and welding)--782 of the units started
operating without any full-time wage employee; 13Z and 5Z started with one
and two full-time wage employees, respectively. By 1984, 752 of the units
covered in the sample did not have any full-time wage employee; 142 and 6?
had one and two such employees, respectively.  In general most of the units
contain a total workforce of up to three persons. Apprenticeship is the
most common form of employment in the small-scale industrial enterprise
sector. While the total work force of the enterprises increased by 16Z
from the year of commencement of their respective operations to 1984, the
total number of apprentices increased by 2:Z during the period.  About 61?
of the SSEs started operations without any apprentice, but by 1984 about
33? of them employed between one and three apprentices, and 8? between four
and six apprentices per enterprise. Also, 90? of the apprentices work
throughout the year. Thus while SSEs may not offer much scope for wage
employment, they play a critical role in training future entrepreneurs and
in providing self-employment which is just as good as wage employment.
2.18      SSEs have the potential to contribute towards regional growth.
Stimulating agricultural production by processing products and at the same
time offering urban-based services to the rural population provide a good
foundation for further growth. Almost 33? of the enterprises in the 1984
University of Ghana survey bought their equipment in the local market; of
these 7? purchased their equipment from local artisans while the remaining
depended on the retail sector. For the maintenance of equipment only 48Z
used an outside service. Out of this, 11? (705 enterprises) used services
offered in town, thus contributing to the development of the service sector
in towne. Of the enterprises surveyed, 41Z source their raw material



- 8 -
requirements from the local area while others depend on the local retail
market. The results show that the SSEs depend mostly on domestic raw
materials. The main constraints facing the SSE operators include
inadequate credit to set up their businesses on a sound financial footing
and to run the enterprises, inadequate supply of basic inputs (due largely
to general scarcities in the economy and poor but expensive transportation
system) and the generally depressed domestic demand for the products and
services of these enterprises (Annex 2-3).
2.   Government Policies and Support ProRrams
2.19      As discussed earlier (para 2.06), the Government considers the
high level of unemployment to be a serious problem and is under increasing
pressure to develop productive labor-intensive activities. The Government
is committed to fostering the development of small-scale industries as part
of its objectives to increase employment and income levels, utilize local
resources to further decentralized regional development and to enhance the
skills levels of the population. The Government seeks to strengthen the
delivery of financial and technical assistance to SSEs through appropriate
institutional structures. The focal point for policies affecting SSEs is
the National Board for Small Scale Industries (NBSSI) of the MIST. While
its statutory mandate is extensive, it is operationally limited at present
to a small office with four professional staff in Accra. There are also a
number of other public and private sector agencies with a mandate to
provide financial, technical assistance and extension services to SSEs.
Like NBSSI, their capacity to engage in programming and delivery is minimal
due to professional and financial resource constraints.
2.20      Financial Assistance.  In every study or survey done on the SME
sector in Ghana, lack of access to credit is overwhelmingly cited as the
primary problem. Public participation in the financing of SMEs has had an
unsatisfactory history in Ghana. There have been two significant efforts:
(a) the Credit Guarantee Scheme established in 1969 by the Bank of Ghana
(BOG) to assist SSEs to obtain credit from the commercial banks; and, (b)
the small business loan scheme which the Ghana Enterprise Development
Comm'ssion (GEDC) was established to administer in 1970. The Credit
Guarantee Scheme has essentially failed as most banks have withdrawn from
use of the guarantee scheme. Generally, the scheme as a whole has not
benefitted the small manufacturers. A breakdown of loans made in recent
years shows that the agricultural sector has dominated in terms of
beneficiaries (84.6Z), and in volume of credit (78.7Z). The GEDC small
business loan scheme has been modest in terms of reaching SSEs. In its
first decade many of the loans went to large and well established
businesses and a large portion (78Z) of funds went into trading and
transport activities. Last year the GEDC financed approximately 10
e3ntrepreneurs in each of 9 regions of Ghana. GEDC has a staff of 110 and
the size of its capital fund is about 11 million. The average size of the
loan was ~200,000-250,000 at an interest rate of about 20 percent which was
below the prevailing commercial rate.
2.21      Extension Services and Technical Assistance.  There are a large
number of public and private sector agencies with a mandate to provide
non-financial support services to SSEs. The reality of these agencies
however is that little actual implementation is done due to severe resource
constraints. Some, such as NBSSI and the Management Development and



Productivity Institute (MDPI) lack a regional network of area offices to
provide extension services (preparation of feasibility studies, management
and technical services). Others, such as the Ghana Investment Centre
(GIC), GEDC and Ghana Regional Technology Industrial Services (GRATIS),
lack the appropriate staff and financial resources. Training programs for
SSEs could be carried out by a number of institutions, such as MDPI, Ghana
Institute of Management and Public Administration (GIMPA), and the National
Vocational Training Institute (NVTI). However, a restructuring of their
programs is necessary in order to effectively deliver low cost training
that would be easily accessible to SSE entrepreneurs. In sum, there are a
sufficient number of existing institutions and agencies (although mostly
located in Accra) that are positioned to offer support to the SSE sector.
They themselves need technical assistance and training in order to be
responsive to the needs of the SSE entrepreneur. Currently, they are too
rigid in their training programs to be suitable to SSEs. Courses, where
offered, are too long, too academic in nature and generally only available
in urban cities in a formal classroom environment. The project would
assist training institutions such as GIMPA and MDPI to develop practical _
small business training programs for SSEs.
2.22      The Project would strengthen technical assistance and extension
services to SSEs through: (a) the establishment of regional small business
advisory centres; (b) two pilot projects for SSE assistance focussing on
growth centres and business incubators; (c) institutional support to
improve the effectiveness of NBSSI; and, (d) institutional strengthening
and staff training for the WWBG, MDPT and GIMPA.
2.23      Entrepreneurship Development.  The Government has placed a high
priority on developing effective means of identifying and training
potential entrepreneurs and programs to facilitate the establishment and
growth of SSEs. The Entrepreneurship Development Program (EDP), based on
the successful model developed by the Entrepreneurship Development
Institute of India, was adopted as part of an overall plan to stimulate
employment, increase income levels, mobilize local resources, and enhance
the skills levels of the population. NBSSI has been promoting this program
and plans to implement it on a nationwide basis (Annex 3-2). Though the
EDP program is at a relatively early stage of development, the initial
response to the program and the progress made thus far are encouraging.
The Project provides assistance for: (i) conducting additional EDP
workshops, (ii) developing more trainer/motivators to carry out the EDP;
and (ii) conducting periodic reviews of the program by experts to assess
its overall effectiveness and recommend necessary changes.
2.24      Other Programs.  As mentioned earlier, major constraints to the
growth of industry in Ghana, particularly SSEs are the cumbersome
regulatory environment, lack of access to adequate infrastructure, and an
absence of a regional network of accessible services. The Project would
support studies aimed at enhancing the business environment for private
sector development, and extension services for SSEs. These would include:
(a) assessment of the feasibility of establishing industrial growth centers
on a commercial basis and business incubators for SSEs as part of the pilot
projects (para 2.22); (b) assessment of the current regulatory and
incentive environment for private sector and SSE development in Ghana; and
(c) an assessment of the appropriateness of establishing an industrial
export promotion and processing zone. The importance of technological



- 10 -
development for industrialization has long been recogni.ed by Ghana, and
there are universities and specialized research institutions such as the
Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) which can meet the
technological needs of industry. However, SMEs lack information on the
in.ustrial production technologies available and also need to build up
their technical capacity to assess, acquire and adapt technological
knowledge. A study of technology development in Ghana, to identify means
of enhancing the technical capabilities of the manufacturing sector and
developing linkages between SMEs and research institutions and larger
enterprises, would also be supported by the project.
3.   Women in SMEs
2.25      A Profile.  As in other African countries, women in Ghana take
primary responsibility for the home and children, agricultural production
and agro-processing, and the operation of extensive trade networks in
virtually every marketplace and across the country. In addition, women own
and manage numerous small- and micro-businesses where they manufacture
products like detergent bleach, hair pomade, printed fabrics, and concrete
blocks; they process fruits into juice, cassava into gari, and fresh fish
into smoked fish; they offer services in photocopy businesses, hairdressing
salons, and machine shops. The 1984 census shows that of the 1.6 million
workers in the non-agricultural labor force, nearly 1.1 million were women.
2.26      There are a number of constraints to be overcome if Ghanaian
women are to expand their participation as entrepreneurs and contribute
more to national output. A recent survey (to evaluate the socio-economic
situation of women in Ghana for a women's component in UNDP's fourth
country program) commissioned by UNDP found that 66? of the women
interviewed had no formal education; seventy percent had annual incomes of
less than 50,000 cedis (about US$200); and, less than 2Z owned land or
buildings. Rural women have an average of five children, and urban women
an average of three plus responsibility for one or two additional close
relatives. Only 2.52 of those sampled were solely responsible for the
household; the rest were engaged in a variety of economic activities on the
side to generate needed cash incomes. With the exception of traders,
businesswomen in Ghana will sometimes use current accounts but very rarely
open fixed deposit accounts or apply for loans. There are no legal
restraints to women's access to credit, but they are typicaLly limited by
their lack of collateral and confidence. Women's traditional roles as
agricultural workers and traders have left them with little experience in
the more formal business environment. In short, Ghanaian women typically
are not well educated; they are poor with many dependents and few assets;
they are required to work long hours in many arenas; and their experience
with formal institutions is limited. Each and all of these factors can
serve as constraints to the Ghanaian woman who initiates or maintains a
business.
2.27      Notwithstanding the obstacles above, current economic and social
conditions are promising in many ways for women entrepreneurs. Ghanaian
women are well-known for their skill and industriousness, and there is
little doubt in Ghana as to their abilities as businesswomen once given the
essential tools. Banks consider women to be generally creditworthy
borrowers with high motivation and good repayment rates. Government
institutions that offer technical and management training to entrepreneurs



- 11 -
seek to include larger numbers of women in their courses. Numerous
non-governmental organizations (NGOs), both domestic and international,
operate a substantial number of projects designed to help women generate
more income mostly through agro-processing industries (Annex 3-2). Women
entrepreneurs interviewed demonstrate an eagerness to access higher levels
of term credit and training, and to increase their production levels.
There are several women's organizations that are active in promoting
women's economic interests the largest and most visible of which are the
National Council for Women in Development (NCWD) and Women's World Banking
Ghana Ltd. (WWBG). The NCWD is receiving assistance from UNDP and other
donors. The project would provide assistance to WWBG to enable it to play
a more effective role in assisting women entrepreneurs and to fulfill its
mandate more fullyv.
4.   SME's Prospects and Constraints
2.28      Progress in the overall macroeconomic and industrial sector
adjustment programs has been satisfactory. The adjustment process remains
on track and the medium-term outlook appears to favor growth and more
productive employment, provided the Government continues to maintain the
incentives needed for growth. To achieve the Government's medium-term
objectives of an annual average growth rate of real GDP of about 5Z, a
strong performance from both agriculture and industry will be required.
2.29      In light of the reformed business environment and the interest
the Government has expressed in the SME sector, prospects for SME growth
are good. Liberalization of the exchange rate and trade policies that
encourage greater use of domestic raw materials should work in favor of
local resource-based SMEs. Also, removal of interest rate controls is
expected to give SMEs better access to institutional credit. On the supply
side, Ghana is endowed with natural resources and human capital that, if
efficiently exploited, can provide a strong base for the SME sector. The
country has agricultural land that is potentially capable of producing an
agricultural surplus that can sustain most of the agro-based industries
(food and vegetable oil processing, beverages and tobacco) as well as the
textile subsectors. Given its forest resources, the country is capable of
providing adequate raw materials for wood processing enterprises. SMEs are
relatively strong in these subsectors (Annex 2-3).- The country is also
endowed with a rich and well-developed source of energy (hydro-power). The
Ghanaians' demonstrated entrepreneurial abilities and quickness to grasp
opportunities would also assist the growth of the SME sector.
2.30      On the demand side, the SME sector has good prospects for growth
as well. The country's population is relatively large (estimated at 13
million). Although currently depressed, increased domestic demand could
absorb higher capacity production of manufactured products. Prospects for
exporting manufactured products would increase with continued recovery as
higher productivity and exchange rates make them more price competitive.
The most severe constraints on the activities of the SMEs include liquidity
and cash flow problems, shortages of equity funds and term credit on
suitable terms, limited access to working capital, low consumer demand in
some cases, and limited access to technical assistance for preparing
bankable projects. Inadequate implementation of incentives provided under
the Investment Code still limits access to such benefits. The regulatory
environment, especially for smaller firms, needs to be improved (para



- 12 -
2.11). Inadequate infrastructure creates a bottleneck to the performance
of many enterprises, especially the larger ones.
D.   The Financial Sector
1.   Institutional Structure
2.31      Ghana's formal financial system is dominated by an oligopolistic
banking sector comprising the Bank of Ghana (the Central Bank), three
primary commercial banks, 2/ seven secondary banks, 3/ a small cooperative
bank, Ghana Cooperative Bank (Coop Bank), and over one hundred small raral
banks. The three primary commercial banks are the largest financial
intermediaries both in terms of their asset- and network of branches. Of
the total assets of the banking system of a:  und 156 billion cedis (about
25Z of GDP), some 60? are controlled by the three primary banks, althougi
the secondary and rural banks have been growing faster. All the primary
and secondary banks which include the development finance institutions
(DFIs) accept deposits from the public and with the exception of the BCC,
are either partly or wholly owned by the Government. Annex 2-5 details the
aggregate assets and liabilities of the banking system.
2.32      The three government-owned specialized DFIs (NIB, BHC and ADB)
have increased their level of commercial banking activity in recent years.
At the end of 1986, one-quarter of their outstanding liabilities was
accounted for by demand, savings, and time deposits. Nevertheless, they
face serious financial difficulties arJsing from a huge foreign exchange
exposure and/or loss, a substantial non-performing portfolio, and a com-
plete erosion of net worth. Long-term resources have been concentrated in
the three DFIs and the non-bank financial institutions. The Merchant Bank,
established in 1972, is a joint venture of the Government, Grindlays Bank
(London) and the State Insurance Corporation. It provides normal corporate
banking services, hire purchase and leasing facilities, and management and
consultancy services. Its equipment leasing business has grown rapidly in
recent years as a result of its active development of this business. The
rural banks are private unit banks established to mobilize resources in
rural areas and extend credit locally. They are owned and managed by their
respective local communities, and are small and do not compete individually
with other banks. Despite the large number of rural banks, they account
for under 37 of the total deposits mobilized by the banking system as a
whole. A large number of rural banks are in financial difficulties, but
their nunit" nature has contained the effect of this problem on the banking
system.
2/   Ghana Commercial Bank (GCB), the Standard Chartered Bank of Ghana
(Standard) and Barclays Bank of Ghana (Barclays).
3/   These are:  the Social Security Bank (SSB), the Bank of Housing and
Construction (BHC), the Agricultural Development Bank (ADB), the
National Savings and Credit Bank (NSCB), the National Investment Bank
(NIB), the Merchant Bank, and the Bank of Credit and Commerce (BCC).



-  13  -
2.33      The money market is composed of the recently opened Consolidated
Discount House Ltd. (CDH), which is charged with the task of acting as an
inter-bank intermediary for short-term assets to enable banks to manage
better their liquidity position. The CDH is permitted to deal in treasury
bills, short-dated government securities, bankers' acceptances, cocoa
bills, negotiable short term certificates of deposit, and commercial paper.
Its operations to date have, however, been minimal. The very rudimentary
capital market in Ghana has also not been able to make a substantial
contribution to the mobilization of long term resources. The few
transactions in the market are mainly in long dated government stock and in
bonds of one or two development banks, and in a very small number of shares
of private companies.
2.34      The non-banking sector is limited principally to the Social
Security and National Insurance Trust (SSNIT, a national trust holding
company) and eleven insurance companies. SSNIT is a large government-owned
ins::itution charged with providing social security payments to workers upon
their retirement from service. All enterprises with five or more employees
must become members of SSNIT, and it has about 1.5 million members. Of the
investible funds of SSNIT, only a very small portion has so far been made
available to the banking sector (e.g., a loan to BHC). This was because
until late 1986, SSNIT was compelled to invest its funds in liquid assets
(short-term deposits) or specially assigned government bonds yielding only
5.5% to 62. These constraints resulted in the financial system being
deprived of the term resources needed for investment in productive
activities. SSNIT now has the freedom to invest its funds in assets of its
own choosing. It has been a major purchaser of treasury bills and long
dated government securities.
2.35      Overall, the banking system in Ghana is still relatively
concentrated and lacks competition. FurtheLmore, the financial risks are
rather unequally distributed among the various financial institutions,
largely in conformity with their specialization in different types of
banking and in lending to different sectors (e.g., the ADB and rural banks
are concentrated in risky agricultural lending and NIB in long-term finance
of industry). The banking system in Ghana has also suffered adversely from
generally low-level productive activities during the period of economic
decline, although a few institutions are reportedly profitable and
relatively efficient. Its current distressed situation can be
characterized inter alia by (a) substantial non-performing loan portfolios,
(b) inadequate provisions for portfolio losses, (c) inflated profits, (d)
high operational costs, (e) potential/actual foreign exchange exposure, (f)
insolvency, (g) capital inadequacy, and (h) inadequate accounting systems,
management information and internal controls. Comprehensive external
diagnostic audits by international auditors have been undertaken with IDA
assistance for the nine main banks (GCB, SSB, Barclays, BHC, NIB, ADB,
Standard, NSCB and Coop Bank) and an in-depth and accurate assessment of
the operating and financial condition of each of these banks has been
obtained. This has provided a basis for determining their restructuring
prospects and requirements, and is part of the broad program of reforms
currently being undertaken by the Government with assistance from IDA under
the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (President's Report No. P-4781-GH).
Summary financial statements based on the latest available audited accounts
of the three primary banks (GCB, Barclays and Standard) and three secondary



- 14 -
banks (SSB, NIB and the Merchant Bank) are available in the Project File;
all have expressed strong interest in active participation in the project.
2.   The Policy and Regulatory Framework
2.36      Deposit Mobilization.  The formal financial system has not proved
an effective vehicle for mobilizing domestic resources. The M2/GDP ratio
in Ghana is low by international standards, and indicates the low level of
financial intermediation in the economy (Annex 2-6). During the 1970s and
early 1980s, liquidity expansion was fuelled by large government deficits
financed domestically by the BOG. Excessive money creation at a time of
stagnant growth and investment stoked inflation and turned government-
determined deposit rates deeply negative in real terms. In addition, the
lack of longer term lending opportunities provided few incentives for banks
to attract term savings. Instead, those with surplus funds tended to
invest in inflation-hedged assets such as real estate. The disincentives
to depositors arising from negative real interest rates during this period
were compounded by a series of ad hoc monetary measures (including the
demonetization of 50 cedi notes, the freezing of bank deposit accounts in
excess of 50,000 cedis and investigation for tax liability and possible
corruption) which shook the confidence of the public in the banking system,
and discouraged term savings. The immediate response by firms and
individuals was to rechannel their financial resources into the informal
(unregulated) financial sector. Following recent announcements by the
Government, however, there are now signs that confidence in the banking
system is returning gradually. Currency held outside the banking system as
a proportion of narrow money fell to below 50Z in 1986 and declined further
in 1987.
2.37      Since 1983, the Ghanaian authorities have pursued a flexible
interest rate policy aimed at mobilizing domestic savings (Annex 2-7), in
line with their growth and stabilization objectives. Accordingly, minimum
rates for savings and time deposits were adjusted upwards repeatedly from
8.25Z-9Z in 1983 to 22Z-23Z in 1987. In addition, declining inflation
during this period as a result of fiscal and monetary discipline on the
part of the Government helped turn real deposit rates positive for the
first time in more than a decade. However, as the rate of inflation
climbed in 1986 and 1987, real interest rates once again turned negative
(Annex 2-8). In September 1987, the Governfiuent liberalized all interest
rates except for savings deposits which were fully liberalized in February
1988. Commercial Bank time deposit rates currently range between 20Z-23z.
2.38      The poor record of deposit mobilization by the banking system can
also be attributed to the inferior quality of customer services of a number
of banks and the limited range of financial instruments aimed at mobilizing
savings. In addition, banks find it difficult to improve the efficiency of
their operations and reduce intermediation costs because of antiquated
systems and procedures, the lack of high denominat:ion currency notes and
the shortage of trained and qualified staff. The BOG regulates charges
that banks can levy on their customers, thereby curtailing competition
between banks and reducing incentives to improve efficiency.
2.39      Credit Allocation.  The BOG has been controlling the growth and
allocatioi. of credit by the banking system through global and sectoral
credit ceilings. To determine the total quarterly credit expansion by any



- 15 -
individual bank, the BOG first determines the overall rate of credit
expansion consistent with projections of real economic growth and
inflation. Until February 1988, sectoral growth rates were established
according to the development priorities of the Government, and guidelines
were then issued to individual banks based on the application of these
growth rates to the outstanding loans at the beginning of the period. The
allocation for agricultural lending (20X of the total) was serving as a
minimum whereas for other sectors it was usually a maximum. All sectoral
lending targets have now been removed, except for agricultural lending.
2.40      Partly as a result of interest rate controls, term transformation
has been a problem for the Ghanaian banking system. Banks were unable to
compensate for risk and maturity by varying their interest rates. In
addition, the high proportion of banks' liabilities at the short end of the
maturity structure (mainly demand deposits) have constrained their ability
to lend long term. Furthermore, large holders of long term funds, such as
the SSNIT, were compelled to purchase low yielding government stock to
finance the government deficit, which hindered the flow of financial
resources for investment. The banks have tended to lend short term, mainly
to their established customers, a high proportion of whom are in the trade
and service sectors. In 198b, it was estimated that only around 15Z of
commercial bank loans outstanding (including those of development finance
institutions) were of maturities over three years, and nearly 50% of all
loans were to trade and services (Annex 2-9).
2.41       Liquidity Management.  To regulate the overall expansion of
liquidity, the BOG has thus far relied largely on direct controls.  In
early 1988, however, a situation of excess liquidity once again emerged.
The present situation of excess liquidity in the banking system,
ironically, coincides with a shortage of liquidity in parts of the
manufacturing sector.  The demand for credit in the manufacturing sector
has risen sharply as a result of increased import costs, 100Z deposit
requirements for the foreign exchange auction, and improvements in the
efficiency of tax collection. But the banking system has been unable to
intermediate between the resource-rich cocoa and mining sectors and the
resource-hungry manufacturing and foodcrops sectors.
2.42      Since credit ceilings are used primarily as instruments for
monetary policy, the distortions created by the credit ceilings are
beginning to make it difficult for the BOG to manage liquidity. This
points to the need to develop as rapidly as possible indirect instruments
for monetary management capable of absorbing or injecting liquidity as and
when required. The BOG is gradually introducing new instruments such as
treasury bills to manage monetary aggregates indirectly. In the meantime,
the BOG lending and discount rates combined with open market operations
will be used more actively to influence market conditions and reduce the
excess resources of commercial banks.
3.   Development Constraints
2.43      Lack of Competition in Banking.  The oligopolistic rather than
competitive banking system in Ghana together with the very high rate of
inflation has led to interest margins, costs and profits which are high
compared to other countries. Gross interest margins are currently about
8Z with correspondingly high net interest margins and operating costs.



- 16 -
These are exceptionally high by international standards, and adversely
affect borrowers, especially SMEs, from obtaining financing for productive
investments. Success at bringing down inflation, and growth in the
financial system should bring down gross interest margins to more
acceptable levels. Over the long term, however, greater competition
amongst financial institutions, including entry of more domestic and
foreign banks, would help to bring margins down to more acceptable levels.
2.44      Lack of Tem Financing.  One of the major weaknesses of the
Ghanaian economy has been its inability to generate a sufficient flow of
long-term financing (para 2.33). The current restructuring of the economy
depends upon the entry of new firms and investments in areas which have
become or are potentially attractive under the new cost-price structure.
These firms need domestic and external financing. Private businesses have
hitherto, raised only a small amount of funding through capital markets,
relying instead on their internal funds and on borrowings from financial
institutions. However, because of the lack of available term financing,
these borrowings have for the most part been short-term loans and
overdrafts from commercial banks (para 2.40). Commercial banks operate on
the short-end of the market largely because of the short-term nature of
their deposits and their aversion to the risks of term financing. In
practice, through continuous overdraft roll-overs banks do in effect
provide long-term finance to the more creditworthy customers, and have
traditionally preferred this type of lending to avoid illiquidity and the
risk of interest rate changes. With the complete deregulation of interest
rates in Ghana, it should be possible to mobilize longer-term deposits
through higher interest rates (and greater public confidence in the banking
system) which would over time minimize the need for term transformation and
provide an appropriate base for long-term lending.
2.45      Lending to SMEs is associated with relatively higher
administrative costs and risks, and a lack of adequate collateral and
guarantees. Prior interest rate policies prevented banks from recovering
such costs and in practice resulted in a bias in favor of large industrial,
and commercial borrowers and to the service sectors, against small
enterprises and farmers. Without the specific lines of credit, mainly
through DFIs though now increasingly through all commercial banks, there is
little doubt that the flow of credit from commercial banks to small scale
and rural enterprises would be almost non-existent. 4/ There is, therefore,
a need to address quickly and effectively the problem of credit
availability to SMEs if the employment and productive potential made
possible by recent economic reforms is to be more fully realized. The
liberalization of interest rates is a major step towards improving credit
allocation. It is also necessary to make more effective the legal and
administrative system for collecting bad loans.
2.46      Resource Mobilization.  As mentioned above (paras 2.36-2.38), the
principal obstacles to the increased mobilization of resources by the
formal financial system have been the lack of confidence in the banks, the
4/   Report entitled "Ghana's Financial Sector:  Initial Action Program",
July 1987.



-  17  -
inconvenience of banking services and the previous interest rate policy.
The lack of attractive lending opportunities--due mainly to the
deteriorated economic climate--was also a disincentive for banks to attract
deposits, particularly long-term deposits, although progress under the ERP
has served to remove this disincentive. There has been some improvement in
the confidence in the banking system though there remains a lingering
mistrust. The inconvenience in banking reflects inter alia, the poor
quality of customer services and the limited range of financial instruments
aimed at savings mobilization. Until recently, negative real interest
rates prevailed on savings and time deposits with nominal rates (set by
fiat) rising much less rapidly than inflation. Also the structure of
interest rates did not provide incentives to increase term savings (and as
indicated above, the lack of attractive longer term lending opportunities
provided no incentives for banks to attract terms savings). The
liberalization of interest rates is an important step which should
translate into a significant increase in the share of broad money accounted
for by time and savings deposits.
2.47      Financial Sector Adjustment Program.  The main objectives of the
financial sector adjustment program are (a) the enhanced soundness of
banking institutions, through an improved regulatory framework,
strengthened banking supervision by the BOG, and the restructuring of
financially distressed banks, (b) improved deposit mobilization and
increased efficiency in credit allocation, and (c) development of money and
securities markets. The program is expected to foster the development of a
strong, efficient, and responsive financial sector, with an effective
banking system at its core, to provide the needed support for the ongoing
structural adjustment effort. The liberalization of interest rates and
removal of sectoral ceilings will contribute to enhancing the efficiency of
financial intermediation by channeling savings to higher yielding
investments. The restructuring of financially distressed banks, training
programs for their employees, and improvement in the supervision by the BOG
should ensure the soundness of future banking activities and increase
confidence in the banking system. The development of money and capital
markets and an initial program for corporate restructuring would stimulate
private investment. The reform program would also provide for the
development of the auditing and accounting professions.
E.   Government Obiectives and the Role of SMEs
2.48      Government Objectives.  The policy reforms, including exchange
rate and trade liberalization under the ERP have put in place an
appropriate incentive framework for growth of the industrial and
agricultural sectors. However, the supply response to the reforms has not
so far contributed much to the generation of new job opportunities. One of
the objectives of the second phase of SAP will be the implementation of key
sectoral growth strategies in support of the broader macroeconomic
objectives. The objectives of the sectoral strategies are to stimulate
employment, alleviate poverty, improve the supply of social services,
especially in rural areas, and encourage efficient export development and
import substitution. Industry and agriculture are the prime sectors
through which these objectives are to be achieved. The emphasis on
employment generation is a result of the need to absorb in productive
employment the rapidly growing number of job seekers in the economy, both
new entrants to the labor force and redeployees from the public and private



- 18 -
sectors. To achieve these objectives, the Government has requested IDA to
help prepare a comprehensive program for private sector SME development as
a means of stimulating investment in the types of enterprises that create
employment opportunities in both urban and rural areas and thereby generate
income and growth and help mitigate the social costs of adjustment. Since
employment generation is ont of the Government's main goals, and given that
SSEs may not offer much scope for wage employment (para 2.17), the SMEs in
the proposed project have been defined flexibly to include larger
enterprises (e.g., with an asset size up to US$2 million equivalent) that
would hire more people.  The smalle  enterprises also play a crucial role
in employment generation as they provide self-employment and family
employment at relatively low levels of investment.
2.49      Role of SMEs.  The private sector SMEs have several important
roles to play in Ghana's adjustment process and in the evolution of the
country's industrial sector over the next several years. Since the sector
is relatively more engaged in local resource-based processing activities,
its responsiveness will be especially important in determining the extent
to which the industrial structure shifts in this direction. The sector has
stron- linkages with the agricultural and service sectors. Furthermore,
expansion of employment in industry will, for some time, depend on
expansion of the SME sector, since it provides the bulk of employment (para
2.16) and since the overstaffed (at least until recently) large-scale
sector can substantially expand production without increasing employment.
The SMEs tend to be relatively efficient users of foreign exchange compared
to the large-scale industrial enterprises. They also require relatively
small investments, are more flexible and give quick paybacks. They offer
an exceptional opportunity for developing the potential of women
entrepreneurs in productive &ctivities. In addition, the SMEs are more
regionally dispersed than the large-scale industries, which tend to be
urban based. SME development should also help develop linkages with larger
industries through subcontracting.
2.50      The emphasis being given by the Government to developing the
private SME sector is therefore, timely and represents an appropriate
strategy for pursuing longer-term growth in the context of the ongoing
adjustment process. However, for the SME sector to play the above roles
effectively would require an integrated package of assistance including (a)
provision of credit through market mechanisms for financing rehabilitation
and working capital needs of existing enterprises as well as new
investments, (b) delivering effective institutional support services, (c)
fostering entrepreneurial capacity, and (d) continuing to improve the
business environment. The proposed Project would assist the Government in
these efforts.
F.   Bank Group Assistance
1.   Previous Bank Involvement in the Industrial Sector
2.51      The World Bank Group has been associated with the industrial
sector in Ghana since 1975 when it approved its first loan of $10 million
(Loan 1180-GH) to the NIB, Ghana's main development finance institution.
The objective of this first loan was to encourage the development of mainly
SMEs that use local raw materials and that are capable of contributing to
foreign exchange earnings and savings. A related objective was to



-  19  -
strengthen NIB's institutional capability. A second line of credit to NIB
for US$19 million (Cr. 901-GH), approved in 1979, provided foreign exchange
working capital to help increase capacity utilization of priority
enterprises and long-term capital investment. IDA also assisted NIB in
assessing the quality of its loan portfolio and formulating a financial
restructuring program. Both lines of credit to NIB were committed and
disbursed slower than expected due to the severely depressed state of the
economy. The economic deterioration led to financial difficulties for all
businesses, including NIB's clients, which in turn resulted in large loan
portfolio arrears. NIB's loan recovery record continues to be poor. As of
the first quarter of 1988 half of the beneficiaries of its second line of
credit were in arrears totalling approximately US$4.1 million, of which
US$1.7 million was for principal and US$2.4 million for interest and other
charges. The characteristics of subprojects under the second line of
credit to NIB are set out in Annex 2-10.  To continue assisting the
Government in its economic recovery program, IDA approved in January 1984
the Export Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1435-GH), a related Export
Rehabilitation Technical Assistance project (Cr.1436-GH) and an Export
Rehabilitation Special Fund (Cr. F-9-GH) for an overall total of $93.1
million. The primary objectives of these projects were to strengthen the
institutional capability of key organizations in the export sector through
a number of sector policy and institutional reform measures and strengthen
the capacity of export sector organizations to effectively manage and
implement the components of the rehabilitation program. Industry benefited
from these credits. Under the IDA (Cr. 1573-GH) and African Facility (Cr.
A-3-GH) credits for the Second Reconstruction Import Project, approved in
March 1985 for a total of US$87 million, provisions were made to finance
inputs for increased utilization in industries which were included under
the base import program and whose prices were liberalized.
2.52      In addition, IDA also provided assistance to the Government in
revising its investment and incentive policies and import and industrial
restructuring programs. The IDA and related African Facility credits for
the Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit (ISAC) of $28.5 million (Cr.
1672-GH) and US$25 million (Cr. A-13-GH) respectively, approved in March
1986, aimed at: (a) increasing production of locally manufactured goods
through greater use of existing capacity; (b) streamlining Ghana's
industrial capacity through appropriate incentive policies and cautious
rehabilitation of economically viable industries; and (c) strengthening key
institutions in the industrial sector to undertake policy analysis, credit
delivery and investment analysis. The ISAC credit line, previously for
rehabilitation and later amended to include new investments, has until
recently been slow to commit. This was mainly because of the reluctance of
borrowers to assume the foreign exchange risk, the unclear communications
between the BOG and the banking system on the changes introduced in
mid-1987 tc provide a choice to borrowers to either borrow in foreign
exchange or in local currency, and the effect of credit ceilings. Thus
far, out of a total of SDR 8 million (US$10 million equivalent), SDR 2.4
million (US$3.1 million equivalent) has been committed. Recent information
on the pipeline of projects indicates a strong demand from NIB and other
banks, which should result in ISAC funds being utilized before the proposed
SME credit is effective.
2.53      The industrial sector is also expected to directly benefit from
the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit, which would support a comprehensive



- 20 -
and far-reaching program for the development of a well functioning and
broadly-based financial sector, through the implementation of in-depth
policy and institutional reforms (para 2.47).
2.   IDA's Role in the Sector
2.54      IDA's role in Ghana's industrial sector may be summarized as that
of influencing policy to improve the busine.s climate, assisting in
building the institutions that provide technical and support services to
industry, and helping improve availability of resources to the sector. To
play this role effectively, IDA is involved in economic sector work,
lending operations and policy dialogue with the Government. IDA has
undertaken a substantial program of sector work since 1984 to broaden and
deepen understanding of industrial sector issues and to provide direction
to future lending to the sector and the design of project components. This
sector work includes a sector memorandum (Ghana Industrial Policy,
Performance and Recovery, Report No. 5716-GH), subsector studies, industry
policy studies (e.g., trade liberalization and incentives for industry, a
study of price and income effects of exchange adjustments, and a review of
state-owned industrial enterprises), an export diversification study, and
an assessment of the impact of policy adjustments on industry. The results
of sector work have been used to influence the direction of industrial
policy and strategy and incentives framework. They have also enabled IDA
to establish an effective dialogue with the Government on matters that
affect the sector; the Government continues to be both receptive and
responsive to IDA's advice.
2.55      In both lending and sector work, attention has been given to ways
of strengthening the institutions that provide support to the industrial
sector. Many institutions benefitted from the inititutional building
component of the ISAC. IDA has worked closely with the International
Finance Corporation (IFC) to improve the investment climate for the private
sector in Ghana. In this regard, technical assistance financed under ISAC
is being provided for the strengthening of the GIC in close coordination
with IFC. IDA has also liaised and kept IFC informed of the preparation
and development of this project, intended to assist private sector SMEs.
It is also expected that come of the SMEs assisted by the IFC managed
African Project Development Facility would benefit from financing provided
under the proposed Project. IDA has also carried out an annual review of
public expenditure in industry over the last three years in the context of
the overall public expenditure program to ensure that proposed public
expenditures are consistent with the sectoral strategy. IDA is also
involved in helping the Government prepare and implement a program for
rationalizing state-owned enterprises, many of which are in the industrial
sector. Furthermore, IDA is collaborating with other donors to ensure
consistency in lending strategy to the sector.
2.56      The proposed SME Project is in line with IDA's lending strategy
for Ghana, which inter alia, calls for industrial growth in line with
Ghana's long run comparative advantage, financial sector reforms to improve
efficiency, the alleviation of unemployment and poverty and the
strengthening of institutional capabilities. The SME Project would
complement policy reforms by helping private enterpreneurs establish new
busir.sses and restructure or expand existing enterprises in the productive
and service sectors, and thereby generate income and employment. It would



- 21 -
also provide scarce long-term investment resources to private sector SMEs.
The project would use eligible commercial banks (which have extensive
branch networks), development, and merchant banks to enhance credit
outreach and increase competition and efficiency amongst the banks. It
would also improve the quality and range of financial services available to
SMEs, and would make the delivery of extension serrices to SMEs,
microenterprises, and women entrepreneurs more responsive to their
requirements. Future lending to the sector is expected to include
financial restructuring of viable corporate enterprises.
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Project Rationale and Objectives
3.01      Project Rationale.  To sustain the recent reforms, there is a
need to combine the ongoing adjustment process with growth promoting
programs to facilitate a supply response and generate efficient employment
in the private productive sectors. The Project is an integral part of
IDA's assistance to Ghana for structural adjustment of its economy. With
an appropriate incentive system moving into place, the economy is gradually
starting to respond to the significant changes in relative prices. Direct
growth oriented programs can be effective if appropriate institutional
mechanisms are in operation. It is expected that SMEs will play an
important role in the expansion of employment and output and the resumption
of growth. They generate employment at lower inve_tment costs, have higher
levels of domestic value added than the larger firms and provide the
foundation for the development of entrepreneurial and industrial
capabilities. SMEs are traditionally dispersed in the country and have the
potential to establish productive linkages with a rejuvenated agricultural
sector, as well as with larger industrial enterprises through
subcontracting. However, impediments for lending to SMEs remain,
especially for term credits for investment. There are a number of market
imperfections which discriminate against SMEs, which affect both the
availability of funds and costs of credit. These include insufficient
collateral, poor access to information and high transaction costs. Until
recently, banks have concentrated their efforts on larger clients. They
need to overcome their traditional reluctance to lend to smaller and
relatively new enterprises which have become profitable only recently.
There are shortages of term resources, working capital and foreign
exchange. Also, there is a ntajor need to strengthen the institutional
support system for SMEs, microenterprises, and women entrepreneurs. The
proposed Project would address these constraints, provide credit for the
development of private sector SMEs, and thereby expand employment and
output.
3.02      Proiect Obiectives.  Specific project goals would be to:  (a)
expand production and employment in private productive activities in all
sectors except agriculture, trading and real estate by supporting
financially and economically viable new or expansion projects as well as
restructuring viable existing enterprises, and service activities; (b)
develop an efficient apex institution designed to foster active
participation of the banking system in term lending, and SME and
microenterprise financing; (c) strengthen the capability of private and



- 22 -
public commercial, merchant and development banks to lend long term to
SMEs, including enterprises in the rural areas; (d) provide SMEs with an
alternative, flexible source of long-term financing of equipment and
machinery through equipment leasing; (e) initiate, develop, and support a
program of assistance for microenterprises; (f) improve the availability of
technical assistance and entrepreneurial training to smaller enterprises
and women entrepreneurs, helping them to prepare projects for financing
under this project and developing better local self-help capacity to
enhance longer term entrepreneurial growth; and, (g) improve the policy and
institutional support framework for private sector development.
B.   Project Description
3.03      To achieve the above objectives the proposed Project would
include the following financial and technical assistance components: (a) a
line of credit; (b) equipment leasing; (c) a pilot mutualist credit
guarantee scheme for microenterprises; and (d) technical assistance to
undertake the needed institution building, and to provide the quality and
range of extension services to SMEs, and women entrepreneurs. These
components are described below and the cost and financing plan are
summarized in Table I on page 28.
1.   The Credit Component
3.04      The line of credit component of US$25 million would be used to
finance private sector SMEs through eligible participating financial
intermediaries (PFIs) in the banking system. The line of credit would be
made available to PFIs through the Fund for Small and Medium Enterprise
Development (FUSMED), an apex lending facility established by the BOG in
its Development Finance Department (DFD), which would be expected to
aggressively promote SME development (para 4.02-4.03). For purposes of the
Project eligible SMEs are defined as firms with total assets (excluding
land) plus investment under the Project not exceeding 0500 million in
constant 1988 prices or US$2 million equivalent (para 2.14). To benefit a
reasonable number of small scale and microenterprises defined as firms with
total assets (excluding land) plus investment under the Project of 025
million and 05 million respectively in constant 1988 prices (or US$100,000
equivalent and US$20,000 equivalent), US$2 million of the total line of
credit would be earmarked for financing these enterprises. The commitment
of these funds will be monitored during implementation and, based on
experience, appropriate action acceptable to IDA would be taken by the BOG
to adjust these allocations, if necessary. The line of credit will be used
to finance existing as well as new private sector SMEs. More specifically,
it would finance: (a) fixed investments in plant, machinery and equipment
(including civil works, installation costs and training), (b) working
capital needs (raw materials and spare parts), and (c) consultancy services
requirements (para 4.07).
2.   Equipment Lease Financing
3.05      The equipment leasing component of US$2.5 million will provide an
alternative and flexible source of medium or long-term financing of fixed
production equipment (plant and machinery) as well as most forms of
agro-allied, transport, forestry, and business equipment, for creditworthy
SMEs which are undercapitalized and lack adequate collateral. As with the



-  23  -
credit component, the funds to be used for equipment lease financing by
PFIs would be provided by FUSMED. It is expected that merchant banking
and other eligible financial intermediaries would build or expand their
relatively nascent equipment lease financing operations. An integral part
of the financial assistance for leasing would be the provision of technical
assistance aimed at helping to provide an appropriate policy and regulatory
framework for the development of the emerging leasing industry in Ghana,
and ensuring that FUSMED and PFIs are well prepared to engage in lease
financing operations (para 3.09).
3.   Pilot Mutualist Credit Guarantee Scheme for Microenterprises
3.06      Because of their small size and lack of collateral traditionally
required for commercial bank lending, microenterprises, that is, the
smallest enterprises operating in the informal artisanal sector, are
generally unable to borrow from the banking system. Successful lending to
microenterprises requires the intervention alongside the formal banking
system of appropriate non-governmental organizations (NGOs), with intimate
knowledge of the microenterprise and acting as a conduit between them and
commercial banks. An objective of both the Government and IDA is to work
towards developing such a lending scheme to allow a large number of
microenterprises in Ghana to access institutional credit. Accordingly, a
pilot program to develop and assist mutualist guarantee groups would be
included under the project (Annex 3-1) in order to improve the prospects
that microenterprises have for access to term credit to finance fixed asset
investment and working capital. The basic model of the program is similar
to a mutualist lending program currently being carried out by Women's World
Banking (WWB). Experts would work with eligible PFIs and a select group of
pre-identified trade associations (such as garage mechanics, distillers and
blockmakers in Kumasi), cooperatives, village associations and other
regional NGOs to train and encourage local groupings to develop mutualist
guarantee associations (MGAs) and administer their own mutualist credit
guarantee schemes. All eligible PFIs would have access to funds under the
scheme. PFIs would finance eligible subloans submitted by
microenterprises, and, guaranteed by the MGAs. The new mutual guarantee
scheme would be supported by an initial counter-guarantee facility
available through FUSMED that would provide assurance to PFIs that the MGAs
obligations would be met and to enable operation of the scheme over the
longer term. This support would be limited to one-third of the outstanding
loan balance in the form of a guarantee program assurance to PFIs until an
agreed upon cut off date when the MGA program is well established. Because
this concept is relatively new in Ghana, the Project would provide
technical assistance to help identify new target groups, define the
required promotional/extension mechanisms and lending instruments and
conditions (para 3.09). The preparation of implementation precedures for
this scheme is a condition of disbursement.
4.   The Technical Assistance Components
3.07      While credit is an essential factor in the success of SMEs,
experience in Ghana shows that credit alone is seldom successful without
support that i.cludes business advice, training and assistance in project
preparation and implementation.   Projects for SME development must
encompass technical support to strengthen and professionalize the
in-country capacity to administer credit, provide advisory, training and



- 24 -
support services, apply and use technology. In addition, in Ghana, it is
well documented that the largest component of the business community, the
SSE sector, requires more direct assistance in improving working habits and
methods, acquiring simple business management tools, understanding basic
bookkeeping and cash flow techniques and accessing institutional credit.
SSEs also suffer from congested sites, poor access roads and inadequate
water and power supply, and would benefit from upgraded sites, improved
access to basic infrastructure services and assistance in obtaining land.
Since SSEs provide most of the family income, jobs, training opportunities,
services and products, removing the constraints on their present activities
and providing the environment and infrastructure for their maximum
potential is essential.
3.08      The purpose of the technical assistance components (total of
US$3.3 million, including IDA financing of US$2.0 million) is to provide a
base of institutional support to SMEs and in particular SSEs to enable them
to take advantage of the credit facilities being offered to the banking
sector through the BOG apex lending unit, FUSMED. Technical assistance
includes: (a) project support (consultant services, training and
equipment) for the establishment of FUSMED in the BOG (para 3.09), and, (b)
assistance for other government and non-government institutions to improve
their effectiveness and the quality and range of extension services and
training provided to SMEs, and studies financed under the Project (para
3.10-3.16). The principal institutional beneficiaries of the technical
assistance under the project are NBSSI, WWBG, GIMPA and MDPI, with the SME
Secretariat (para 4.19) serving as the body responsible for coordinating,
and reporting on the activities of these beneficiaries and executing
agencies. A detailed description and the related costs of the technical
assistance program and the financing arrangements are set out in Annex 3-2.
3.09      The Bank of Ghana Apex Lending Unit.  The technical assistance
and initial financial support to be provided to FUSMED, the SME apex unit,
would cost an estimated US$0.7 million. Technical assistance to FUSMED
would include (a) assistance from an outside expert to supplement BOG staff
skills and build FUSMED's technical and institutional capabilities to
administer and operate the line of credit and other SME and microenterprise
lending schemes; and to train its staff and build skills in SME lending/
rediscount operations, project appraisal and supervision; (b) training of
PFIs to improve their skills in term financing, subproject preparation,
appraisal and supervision, with emphasis on subproject preparation for
small enterprises, and also procurement and basic environmental awareness;
(c) identification of appropriate institutional participants for the pilot
mutualist credit guarantee scheme for microenterprises, and development of
policies and procedures for the program; and (d) a study to develop the
necessary policy framework and regulatory measures for equipment leasing.
3.10      Assistance to SSEs for Advisory Services (US$670,000).  SSEs in
Ghana are often in need of consulting services to undertake studies,
particularly prefeasibility or implementation studies, to develop their
initial project ideas, obtain technical and extension services and
management counselling to solve operational problems. In Ghana there are a
number of private consulting firms and other agencies whose services might
be geared to usefully offer to SSEs assistance at various stages of project
preparation and implementation.   However, their cost is likely to be too
onerous for many entrepreneurs, particularly for small projects. Therefore,



- 25 -
two types of assistance have been targeted to assist small entrepreneurs
gain needed access to the professional services of consultants: (i) a
special Studies Fund (Us$0.5 million), established on a pilot basis and
managed by FUSMED; and (ii) setting up pilot small Entrepreneurship
Development Advisory Centers under the responsibility of NBSSI.
3.11      The pilot Studies Fund of US$0.5 million would cover up to 50Z of
the cost of consulting services with a maximum of ¢250,000 (US$1,000
equivalent) for any single SSE. Eligible SSEs would be those with total
assets not exceeding ¢25 million in constant 1988 prices, or in the case of
new enterprises, the estimated subproject cost should not exceed this
amount. In addition to assisting SSEs, the fund would benefit the growing
local consulting industry in Ghana. The issuance by the BOG of a circular
to the banking system outlining the terms, conditions and procedures for
use of the pilot Studies Fund is a condition of disbursement.
3.12      Under the EDP being carried out in Accra by NBSSI,
Entrepreneurship Development Advi3ory Centers would be established in
Accra, as well as Kumasi and Tamale.   These centers would maintain a high
profile and would be community based with a client population targeted at
SSEs as defined under the project.   Their role would be to assist SSEs
through the complex, regulatory processes required to commence a business
in Ghana and to offer appropriate training seminars and business advice.
The centers could ultimately have the discretion to register SSEs and give
approvals with the responsibility to forward the information to the various
authorities in Accra. Personnel would be trained to staff these offices,
to be highly responsive and efficient to the needs and time constraints of
small businesses. A small fund would be available to retain local
consultants to assist EDP graduates in the preparation of feasibility
studies and business plans, access of credit, and other start-up,
implementation or expansion problems.
3.13      Assistance to NBSSI for SSE/Microenterprise Development (US$1.5
million) to: (a) retain the services of a small-scale industry expert to
assist the Executive Director in policy development, and in the management,
and implementation of its program of technical assistance under this
project; (b) continue to carry out the EDP for the next three years, train
additional trainers/motivators, and conduct apnual reviews of the EDP by
outside experts to assess its effectiveness and suggest improvements and
modifications as needed; (c) coordinate and oversee the feasibility studies
leading to two pilot programs for SSEs: business incubators through the
three existing Intermediate Technology Transfer Units (ITTUs) of GRATIS and
a pilot growth center/site and services in Accra; (d) improve its office
facilities, infrastructure and human resource base through professional
staff training, maintenance of an SSE data base and improved marketing of
services for SSEs; and (e) conduct a study to assess the regulatory and
incentive environment for private sector and SSE development; the study
will review the problems faced by the private sector, including SSEs and
the current system of incentives, taxation and assistance programs for
them; develop the rationale for certain types for interventions and
incentives, if needed; define the most effective approach to implementing
national objectives for SSE development (Annex 3-2). The recruitment of
the small-scale industry expert to assist NBSSI in the implementation of



- 26 -
its technical assistance components under the project is a condition of
disbursement.
3.14      Assistance to WWBG for Women Entrepreneurs (US$110,000) to: (a)
conduct training workshops in simple business skills such as accounting,
bookkeeping, cash management, inventory control, and marketing ap well as
project preparation and implementation; (b) assist businesswomer in
preparing feasibility stuAies, obtaining licenses and credits and solving
operational problems; (c) strengthen WWBG's operational staff capabilities
in appraising, supervising, and monitoring projects as well as in
developing linkages between the formal and informal financial sectors; (d)
increase WWBG's ability to provide training and financial services through
the provision of office equipment, a computer and a vehicle; (e) produce
and distribute a quarterly newsletter covering the following information:
credit facilities available in Ghana; programs offering entrepreneurial
training in financial matters, technical assistance, extension services,
and management counselling for preparation of feasibility studies and
operational problem solving; and acquisition of know-how, machinery and
materials; and (f) cover partial costs of setting up a branch in Kumasi in
its third year of operations.
3.15      Assistance to MDPI and GIMPA (US$100,000) to:  develop small
business training programs that are practical, cost efficient and easily
accessed by SMEs. This will involve: (a) support for overseas training for
a nominee each from GIMPA and MDPI to examine successful programs of
training and consulting services to SMEs; (b) logistical support to GIMPA
and MDPI to enable them to offer within and outside of Accra short-term
programs in small business promotion and management to various
associations, government bodies and agencies; (c) assistance in upgrading
their library resources of small business management case books and
periodicals; (d) assistance to prepare curriculum, teaching and workshop
materials. It is expected in turn that GIMPA and MDPI will consult and
work closely with NBSSI in determining the needs of SMEs and undertake to
work with other training facilities in Ghana such as WWBG, EDP, NVTI, OIC
and the Cooperative College to strengthen their institutional capacity to
offer small business management courses and business advice. Through GIMPA
and MDPI other organizations such as the Department of Rural and Cottage
Industries will be able to access small business promotion and management
training.
3.16      Assistance for Studies (US$205,000).  The project would also
finance two other studies: (a) study conducted by the Council for
Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) on the state of technology
development in Ghana that examines and identifies the constraints and
opportunities for technological development and innovation in Ghana, the
gaps that need to be filled locally and by transfer of technology, and the
state and potential for linkages among SMEs, between SMEs and large
enterprises, and between SMEs and research/scientific institutions. The
study would be completed in time for the "Technology for SMEs' Conference
in 1990 to be held in conjunction with Indutech '90; (b) a study executed
by the GEPC to examine the potential for establishing a duty free zone for
export promotion and processing and if preliminary findings are
appropriate, draft the terms of reference for a full feasibility study
(Annex 3-2).



-  27  -
C.   Credit Demand
3.17      The absence of reliable data in Ghana on new credits as opposed
to outstanding credits, and capital formation by subsectors for the target
group of the proposed project, makes it difficult to correlate closely the
proposed credit amount to the potential demand for credit. The definition
of SMEs targeted for assistance under the proposed Project differs
considerably from SMEs as presently defined in Ghana. The proposed amount
of US$25 million for the line of credit, to be committed over four years,
represents: (a) about 9? of the Ghanaian banking system's estimated total
outstanding credit to the private sector as of April 1988 (¢54.1 billion or
US$292.5 million equivalent); (b) about 15? of outstanding bank credit to
the private sector for manufacturing, mining, construction and services;
and, (c) about 10 of the foreign exchange auctioned between July 1987 and
June 1988 (US$251.8 million) intended for imports of inter alia machinery,
spares and raw materials of the industrial sector. The major potential
users of the proposed credit (Barclays, Standard, GCB, SSB, the Merchant
Bank and NIB) have estimated on the basis of their pipeline and investment
trends for term credits that they could, in the aggregate, utilize about
US$120 million over the four-year period (1989-1992), with an average
commitment of about US$30 million annually for the SME target group of the
proposed project. The overall credit demand of the entire banking system
would be larger. On a conservative basis, if only half of these projects
were to materialize, about US$60 million in new credit would be needed. On
the basis of the above, the line of credit is expected to be committed
within the four years assumed for the purposes of project implementation.
The modest US$2.5 million projected for equipment leasing was based upon
the pipeline estimates of the Merchant Bank and its finance subsidiary,
which have been active in leasing, and some other banks that have begun to
organize to enter into financial leasing operations.
3.18      The banking system's ability to lend to the private productive
sectors is, inter alia, currently constrained by the credit ceilings which
the BOG uses to regulate the loans and advances made by banks and thereby
control credit expansion. Private productive enterprises in Ghana,
especially SMEs, are currently facing a serious problem of credit
availability due primarily to the tight credit policies of the BOG and the
difficulties banks are experiencing in collections which would otherwise
have resulted in the ability to increase their lending. The effect of
these ceilings on the financial system is a bias in favor of bank lending
to larger and more established industrial enterprises and commercial
borrowers, as lending to SMEs is generally associated with relatively
higher unit costs and risks. Cognizant of both the potential implications
of credit ceilings on the incentives for PFIs under this project, and the
serious problem of credit availability, the Government and the BOG have
indicated that suitable arrangements would be made to ensure that use of
the proposed IDA Credit for this project would not be constrained by the
credit ceilings.
D.   Project Costs and Financing Plan
3.19      The estimated project costs and financing plan are sumiarized in
Table I. Total prcject cost is estimated at US$57.4 million equivalent of
which US$35.3 million (61Z) would be in foreign exchange. The proposed IDA
credit of US$30 million would finance an estimated 52? of total project



- 28 -
cost (83X of total foreign exchange requirements and about 4% of the local
costs). Private sector SMEs and PFIs would together contribute about US$21
million equivalent, equal to an estimated 372 of total project cost. A
detailed breakdown of the costs of the technical assistance component is
given in Annex 3-2.
3.20      Cofinancing of US$6.3 million is being sought under this project
for both the credit and technical assistance components. The Canadian
Government and the Commonwealth Fund for Technical Cooperation (CFTC) have
been approached, and both have indicated their interest in contributing to
the required cofinancing. The Swiss Government and other potential sources
of cofinancing have also been approached. The reactions received so far
have been encouraging and it is expected that the target amourt for
cofinancing should be achieved.
Table I
Estimated Proiect Costs
Z of       Z of
Components                      Local    Foreign    Total    Subtotal        Total
------(USS million)------
A. SME Line of Credit
IDA                              -         25.0       25.0      50
PFIs                             7.4        -          7.4      15
SMEs (Equity)                   13.1        -         13.1      25
Cofinancing                                 5.0        5.0       10
Subtotal                     20.5       30.0      50.5      100          88
B. Equipment Leasing Component
IDA                              -          2.5        2.5      81
PFIs                             0.5        -          0.5      16
SMEs                             0.1        -          0.1        3
3ubtotal                      0.6        2.5       3.1      100           5
C. Technical Assistance
IDA                              0.8        1.2        2.0      61
Cofinancing                      0.2        1.1        1.3       39
Subtotal                      1.0        2.3       3.3      100           b
D.  Unallocated (IDA Credit)           -        0.5        0.5      100           1
Total Project Cost              22.1       35.3       57.4     100         100
Summary Project Financing Plan
IDA                                  0.8       29.2       30.0                   52
PFIs                                  7.9       -          7.9                   14
SMEs                                13.2        -         13.2                   23
Cofinancing                           0.2       6.1        6.3                   11
Total Financing                 22.1       35.3     - 57.4                 100



- 29 -
IV. PRINCIPAL FEATURES OF THE CREDIT
A.   Institutional Arrangements for the IDA Credit
4.01      The proposed IDA Credit of US$30 million will be made to the
Government at standard IDA terms (40 years maturity including 10 years of
grace) and conditions for Ghana. The Government would make the proceeds of
the credit available to eligible financial intermediaries through an apex
arrangment in the BOG which would onlend the line of credit to
intermediaries participating in the project. The functions and
responsibilities of the BOG would be defined in a subsidiary administration
agreement between the Goverrment and the BOG. The signing of the
subsidiary administration agreement with terms and conditions satisfactory
to IDA is a condition of credit effectiveness. The Government would pass
on the total proceeds of the Credit to the BOG for: the line of credit
component (US$25.0 million); the equipment leasing component (US$2.5
million); technical assistance for the apex unit (US$0.7 million);
technical assistance to NBSSI, other GOs and NGOs and studies financed
under the project (US$1.3 million); and, an unallocated amount of US$0.5
million in view of the pilot nature of various components, which could be
allocated to any component based on implementation experience. Technical
assistance program funds would be administered by the apex unit in line
with the program of work detailed in Annex 3-2. A Project Agreement will
be signed between IDA and the BOG.
4.02      Funds under the credit components would be available to eligible,
participating commercial, development and merchant banks through the apex
unit, FUSMED, which has been established by the BOG. Channeling the credit
to the banking system as a whole would improve competition among the banks
and extend credit availability to viable SMEs on a nationwide basis. In
the past, an IDA credit has been administered by BOG's Development Finance
Department (DFD). This operation has been a relatively slow-disbursing
credit operation mainly because of credit ceiling constraints but also
because the DFD had not been involved in extensive promotion, training or
technical assistance activities. The operation of a higher-volume,
promotional small and medium enterprise lending facility, rapidly
channeling funds through geographically disbursed financial intermediaries
requires that the BOG undertake a more active promotional approach in its
development financing function. The BOG has established FUSMED as a
separate unit in the DFD with the independence, staff and responsibilities
necessary for it to administer, manage and actively promote the project.
FUSMED would operate under lending policies that would clearly define its
objectives, its scope and its method of operations. FUSMED would have its
own operational procedures which would be developed to provide an
acceptable degree of autonomy to avoid undue delay in the processing of
subprojects submitted for financing by PFIs. The preparation of FUSMED's
operational policies and procedures and their approval by the BOG and IDA
is a condition of credit effectiveness. Initial staffing consists of a
manager, a small team of 4 qualified Project Officers, an accountant and a
disbursement officer, and secretarial support staff adequate to: (a)
complete the organizational, accounting, edministrative and reporting tasks
required; (b) efficiently process the initial applications for financing
subprojects presented by PFIs; (c) arrange and coordinate training seminars
and workshops with assistance from specialized consultants as necessary to



-  30  -
fully familiarize the staff of prospective PFIs with project appraisal
(particularly economic, financial, technical and creditworthiness analysis)
as well as supervision and monitoring procedures; (d) establish and manage
the pilot studies fund; (e) promote project preparation assistance for
regionally dispersed PFIs, enterprise associations, women entrepreneurs and
other relevant groups; and (f) develop and implement the pilot mutualist
credit guarantee scheme and other programs to increase the involvement of
other possible intermediaries in financing of SSEs. It is expected that as
lending volume expands, additional staff would be provided. The technical
assistance to be provided to the BOG under the project would include
financing for (i) SME credit and banking experts for a two-year period to
help FUSMED establish its operations, systems, policies and procedures and
build technical and institutional capabilities through on-the-job training
of FUSMED and DFD staff; (ii) costs of training of FUSMED staff some of
whom would be trained in sue essful, mature SSEs or SME second-tier (apex)
facilities operated in other countries; (iii) the training of PFIs in term
financing, subproject preparation, appraisal and supervision; (iv) initial
project start-up and operating costs, including procurement of computer
hardware (PCs) and software required to manage its portfolio, finances and
accounts, and an operational data base from which to manage the project and
measure project outcome; (v) vehicles to meet local and regional travel
requirements (Annex 3-2). The BOG is recruiting banking/SME credit experts
to assist FUSMED in the administration and operations of the credit
components and related activities.
4.03      IDA has obtained assurances from the Government on the onlending
arrangements, the eligibility criteria for PFIs, beneficiary enterprises
and subprojects, onlending terms and conditions, subloan processing and
administration, and auditing and reporting requirements. These are
described in the following paragraphs.
B.   Eligible Financial Intermediaries
4.04      To reach the largest possible number of private SMEs, the
pLrticipation of a large number of banks will be needed, especially in the
earlier project years as PFIs are expected to take a conservative approach
toward increasing their term lending exposure to smaller enterprises.
Thus, the project would promote and encourage the broadest possible
participation by financial intermediaries. The three primary and several
secondary banks would be the principal candidates for participation.  To
qualify as a participant, a financial intermediary would need to: (a)
demonstrate that it is in compliance with Ghana's banking laws, the BOG's
creditworthiness criteria and other terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA (Annex 4-1); (b) take appropriate measures, where necessary, to provide
for an organizational setting and training for SME term lending; and (c)
sign a participation agreement that defines the rights and obligations of
PFIs and the procedures to be followed in the administration of subloans.
The PFIs would bear the full credit risk of subprojects financed by them
and would be responsible for their appraisal and supervision. Fir.ancial
exposure to any single PFI would generally be limited to an amount equal to
twice the total of paid-in capital and reserves of the PFI. This exposure
limit would be reviewed from time to time. Exceptions to this limitation
could be made by the BOG, in agreement with the IDA, for PFIs successfully
implementing programs of recapitalization.



-  31  -
4.05      Each PFI would be required to sign a participation agreement
prior to drawing on the line of credit and equipment leasing components,
and the mutualist credit guarantee scheme. The participation agreements
between BOG and PFIs would contain inter alia:   statements of procedures
and methods specifying conditions for utilization of the credit component,
criteria for processing loan applications and methods of review, analysis
and reporting. A circular outlining the conditions and procedures for use
of the credit and leasing components under the project, including a
standard participation agreement to be entered into between PFIs and BOG
will be prepared in consultation with IDA; its issuance by the BOG is
a condition of credit effectiveness. Signed participation agreements
between BOG and at least two PFIs for the credit and leasing components,
with terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, is a condition of credit
effectiveness.
4.06      Several of the banks that could be expected to play an important
role in SHE lending and/or leasing operations are currently in substandard
condition or in non-compliance with capital requirements as a result of
excessive foreign exchange exposure and/or substantial portfolio losses and
reduced income flows.  .hese institutions would, however, prepare detailed
programs for financial and organizational restructuring as conditions
under the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit. In this context, financial
intermediaries not in current compliance with BOG capital adequacy and
other regulatory requirements could be given access to the SME credit
facility provided they are advancing an acceptable program of restructuring
and have agreed plans with the BOG to be in compliance.
C.   Eligible Beneficiaries and Subprojects
4.07      All private sector SMEs (defined as firms with at least 51l
private ownership) engaged in productive sectors, and services would be
eligible for financing under the project. Other enterprises with
acceptable privatization plans would also be eligible. SMEs engaged in
primary agriculture, trading and real estate, would, however, be excluded.
The project would finance new enterprises as well as existing enterprises
in need of expansion or rehabilitation. Financing would be made available
to SMEs for the following assets and types of expenditure: (a) fixed
assets (plant, machinery, factory buildings and related civil works,
consultancy services and training); (b) free-standing working capital (raw
materials and spare parts) to increase capacity utilization of existing
enterprises; (c) permanent working capital (raw material inventories
components and spares); and, (d) consultancy services, training and
technical assistance. PFIs could also use the line of credit component to
finance their equity and quasi equity investments in SMEs, to assist
under-capitalized corporate SMEs destined for rehabilitation to improve
their capital structure and the consultancy servnices necessary to prepare
the restructuring programs. To be eligible for financing, subprojects
would have to be technically, financially and economic&lly sound. In
addition to evaluating the market potential and technical and managerial
capabilities of enterprises, PFIs would also assess the environmental
aspects of subprojects to ensure they are consistent with Ghana's
environmental regulations. Eligible beneficiaries would need to be
financially sound and able to contribute at least 25? of the subproject
cost in equity. PFIs would be expected to finance from their own resources
between 10Z-15Z of the subproject cost but their contribution could be made
as part of or outside the subloans themselves. SME subprojects would be



- 32 -
required to maintain a current ratio of at least 1.2, a debt service
coverage ratio of at least 1.4 and a total debt to equity ratio of not more
than 3:1. SMEs would be required to meet these ratios during project
implementation and for 5 years from start-up of operations.
4.08      SMEs with total assets (excluding land) plus investments under
the project of less than 0500 million in constant 1988 prices (Us$2.0
million equivalent) at the time of subloan approval, or new firms to be
established with assets not exceeding this amount would be eligible for
financing under the credit and equipment leasing components. This ample
criteria would provide access to long-term foreign exchange for private
sector enterprises at large, not just SMEs covered by the various
definitions in Ghana (para 2.14). SSEs and microenterprises are defined as
firms with assets (excluding land) of 025 million and 05 million in
constant 1988 prices respectively (US$100,000 and US$20,000 equivalent,
respectively). They would be eligible for financing under the portion of
the line of credit earmarked for these enterprises (US$2 million).
Microenterprises as defined above would also be eligible for financing
under the pilot mutualist credit guarantee scheme.
4.09      Subproiect appraisal by PFIs would include calculations of the
financial rates of return (FRR) for all subprojects with a cost in excess
of 06.25 million in constant 1988 prices (US$25,000 equivalent). The
economic rates of return (ERR) would also be required for subprojects with
costs of over 075 million in constant 1988 prices (US$300,000 equivalent),
which would represent approximtely 15Z of the number of projects financed.
The after tax FRR and the ERR would each have to be at least 12?
respectively, in real terms. Financing from the line of credit would be
limited to a maximum of 702 of the subproject cost. For subprojects under
05 million and for beneficiaries under the mutualist credit guarantee
scheme, simplified appraisal procedures would be adopted by PFIs. PFIs
would, therefore, only be required to undertake a cash flow analysis of the
subproject. The IDA credit would finance 1002 of the subloans under the
mutualist credit guarantee scheme.
4.10      The equipment leasing component would provide SMEs with an
alternative and more flexible source of term credit. It would offer
enterprises, particularly SMEs with insufficient asset and capital bases to
meet the high collateral requirements of most forms of term credit, greater
access to capital and more flexible repayment arrangements--advantages
inherent in the lease instrument. Lease financing would be provided to
creditworthy, financially and economically sound SMEs. Simple payback
period tests based on equipment cost and net cash flow derived from the
leased asset would determine eligibility for financing. A maximum payback
period of 7 years would be used for this purpose. All business, industrial
and transport equipment and machinery would be eligible for financing.
Individual leases financed under the project would not exceed 087.5 million
in constant 198b prices (US$350,000 equivalent), and the total value of
leased assets to any single firm or group of firms would also not exceed
this amount. The maximum lease financing from the IDA credit would be 852
of the installed cost, with PFIs and SMEs together providing at least 152
of the financing from their own resources.
4.11      FUSMED would place special emphasis on promotion and making
resources available to the very smallest artisan operations. To ensure



-  33  -
that a significant portion of project resources would, over time, benefit
the smallest enterprises, given the limited experience of financial
intermediaries with term lending to this group and the higher costs and
risks associated with such lending, FUSMED would: (i) provide additional
financial incentives to lend to SSEs (para 4.13); (ii) coordinate with
regional and national associations of small enterprises, local chambers of
commerce, cooperatives and other groups to develop programs that would
assist SSEs prepare subprojects for financing; (iii) help to develop local
mutualist groups to expand the financial capability and creditworthiness of
smaller enterprises; (iv) encourage PFIs to undertake SSE lending programs
modelled along the lines of successful operations; and (v) reduce the costs
of processing SSE credits by the use of simplified documentation and sight
approval of FUSMED credits for loans of under US$10,000 equivalent (para
4.16). It is anticipated that as a result of the combination of
promotional activities, inc(ntives under the project, and training and
technical assistance in project preparation, a high proportion (about 40Z)
of the loans committed under the project would be for loans amounting to
less than US$50,000.
D.   Onlending Terms and Conditions
4.12      The Government would deposit with BOG the cedi equivalent of the
IDA credit to be used for onlending to PFIs through FITSMED. Onlending to
PFIs would be in cedi terms at variable and market determineci rates, and
the foreign exchange risk would be borne by the Government for a fee
implicit in the difference between the nominal cost of the IDA credit and
the interest paid to it by BOG. FUSMED would retain two percentage points
of the interest it charges to PFIs to cover its administrative costs. The
spread of two percentage points would be adequate to cover the costs of its
operations and provide it with resources needed to develop and promote the
project.
4.13      Interest Rates.  The BOG's lending rate to PFIs would be based
upon a "reference interest rate" (RIR) that would reflect the cost of
domestic funds to the banking system. The RIR would be based upon the
market-determined average cost of 180-day deposits mobilized by the banks.
The RIR (currently about 20Z) would be adjusted each January 1 and July 1
to establish PFI lending rates for new subloans during the next relevant
semester. Subloans to SMEs by PFIs would be at variable and market based
interest rates. Interest rates on outstanding balances of FUSMED loans and
PFI subloans to SMEs for ongoing operations, would be adjusted for the next
relevant semester of each subloan. Interest rates on PFI subloans to
microenterprises would, however, be a4justed by PFIs only annually. The
adjustment in interest rates on outstanding loans to SMEs by the PFIs would
be equal to the change in the RIR. To prevent unanticipated shocks to SMEs
and PFI loan portfolios that would result from major adjustments in costs
of funds, the maximum annual increase in interest rates on existing loans
would be limited to 5 percent in any one semester (or 10 percent annually).
In the case of loans intended for micro-enterprises, firms with fixed
assets of less than ¢5 million (US$20,000 equivalent), FUSMED's onlending
rate to PFIs for microenterprises would be two percentage points below the
prevailing RIR to reflect the higher costs and risks to PFIs of such loans,
encourage and provide incentive to PFIs to promote lending to
microenterprises. PFI onlending rates to SMEs and microenterprises would



- 34 -
be monitored and kept under review to ensure their reasonableness and to
determine any modifications necessary to meet project objectives.
4.14      Maturities.  Subloan maturities would be in line with the
requirements of each subproject. Normally, subloans for fixed assets would
have maturity periods of not greater than 10 years including up to 3 years
of grace; for free-standing working capital subloans would have maturities
up to 3 years including 1 year grace; and, under the equipment leasing
component, PFIs would be permitted to write leases of up to 10 years
including a grace period of up to 2 years. Under the mutualist credit
guarantee scheme, subloans for fixed assets would have maturities of up to
5 years including 1 year of grace and for free standing working capital up
to 2 years including 6 months of grace. The maturities permitted under the
project are substantially longer than those presently extended by banks in
Ghana and should, therefore, provide an incentive for PFIs and SMEs to
utilize funds under the project. Equity and quasi-equity investments of
PFIs would require that a divestment policy acceptable to IDA be adopted,
with an average investment holding period of about five years. The
divestment policy would include buyback options for the owner of the
business to purchase equity held by PFIs on an agreed valuation basis
(market or predetermined price).
4.15      Repayments.  For each subloan, repayments from PFIs to the BOG
would be on the basis of the fixed amortization schedule established at the
time of subloan approval and financing by FUSMED. Repayments undeL this
back-to-back arrangement would require that PFIs repay the BOG at the time
they are scheduled to collect repayments from subborrowers.
E.   Maximum Size of Subloans and Free Limits
4.16      The maximum size of subloan for any one investment under the
credit and leasing components project would be US$500,000 and US$350,000
equivalent, respectively, and under the mutualist guarantee scheme the
maximum subloan would be US$10,000 equivalent. PFIs would be responsible
for the appraisal of subloan requests and credit risks, and would make the
final decision on whether to approve a subloan. All subproject appraisals
submitted by PFIs would be reviewed by FUSMED to see that they conform to
the conditions and objectives of the credit and leasing components. For
subloan processing and administration under the project, separate free
limits have been established for PFIs and for FUSMED as follows: (a) PFIs
would be permitted to make loans or write leases of up to a free limit of
US$10,000. Subloans below this free limit would be submitted by PFIs to
FUSMED in standard project format and reviewed by FUSMED on an ex-post
basis; (b) FUSMED would be permitted to approve subloans or lease financing
requests from PFIs up to its free limit of US$100,000. FUSMED would
process all such loans within fifteen working days of their receipt; FUSMED
would intensively review subloan request under its free limit, including
where applicable, the ERR calculation; and (c) all loans above FUSMED's
free limit (US$100,000 equivalent) would be sent to IDA by FUSMED for
approval. At the commencement of the project, the first two loan requests
of over US$50,000 equivalent from each PFI would be submitted to IDA by
FTJSMED for review and comment. The maximum subloan size and the free
limits could be modified on the basis of experience by agreement between
IDA and the BOG.



_ 35 -
4.17      The eligibility criteria for PFIs, beneficiary SMEs, onlending
terms and conditions under the project will be kept under constant review
to identify modifications, if necessary, based on project implementation
experience.
F.   Advisory Services for SMEs
4.18      The experience of many developing countries including those in
Africa has shown the importance of integrating business advice with the
provision of credit by the banks to smaller borrowers. Specifically, such
advisory services are needed in the following areas: (a) accounting,
budgeting, management of cash, finance, credit and insurance; (b)
marketing, purchasing and inventory control; (c) plant and equipment
maintenance; (d) company registration, organization and statutory
requirements, and office and personnel management; and (e) taxation and
legal obligations. In Ghana, the merchant banks provide some business
advisory services to their corporate clients. The PlIs, particularly the
commercial banks, would be encouraged (although this would not be financed
under the Project) to provide business advisory services to SME clients as
an ixtegral part of project financing, thus complementing technical and
managerial assistance from other institutions. PFIs would therefore be
able to issist their clients in managing their enterprises more
efficiently.  The staff of the business advisory units would act as
financial diagnosticians assisting clients with specific problems and
helping them obtain more specialized professional services. The PFIs will
levy appropriate charges for such services.
G.   Project Implementation Arrangements and Schedule
4.19      SME Policy Committee and Secretariat.  In light of the importance
of the proposed Project and its various components, a small, high-level SME
Policy Committee and Secretariat has been established by the Government to
oversee the project. The SME Policy Committee is responsible for reviewing
policy recommendations emanating from the SME Project and submitting them
to the Committee of Secretaries, if warranted. It is also the oversight
committee for the Project. It is composed of: (a) PNDC Secretary for the
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (MFEP), Chair; (b) PNDC Secretary
for the Ministry of Industries, Science and Technology (MIST); and (c)
Governor, Bank of Ghana (BOG). The oversight responsibilities of the SME
Policy Committee would be carried out by the Secretariat, consisting oft
(a) a Deputy Governor, BOG, Chair; (b) designated representative of the
PNDC Secretary, MFEP; (c) designated representative of the PNDC Secretary,
MIST; (d) Executive Director, NBSSI; (e) the Director of the DFD of the
BOG; and (f) Manager, FUSMED. The Secretariat is responsible for: (a)
monitoring implementation of the Project; (b) coordinating among different
agencies and financial institutions involved, both inside and outside the
country; (c) formulating and recommending policy proposals to the SME
Policy Committee relating to SMEs, arising from project implementation and
reports and studies submitted to it; and, (d) reporting on project
progress. The Secretariat would meet at least once every month and more
frequently, if necessary.
4.20      FUSMED will manage the credit components of the project, as
described earlier. The PFIs would be responsible for: the appraisal and
supervision of subprojects financed by them; ensuring that subprojects



- 36 -
submitted for financing comply with the eligibility criteria; and,
reviewing implementation arrangements for subprojects. PFIs would submit
to FUSMED semi-annual progress reports. FUSMED will also administer (as
disbursing agent) the funds allocated under the technical assistance
components for the various GOs and NGOs. The technical assistance
components will be implemented by the responsible executing agenc4es
(NBSSI, WWBG, GIMPA, MDPI and GEPC). The Secretariat would, however, serve
as the apex body to coordinate and report on the various technical
assistance and institutional support activities and studies. The Pilot
Studies Fund would be managed by FUSMED and requests for assistance from
the Fund would be channeled through PFIs.
4.21      Project Implementation Schedule.  The credit components are
expected to be committed over a period of about four years from
effectiveness. Therefore, subprojects would continue to be presented by
PFIs for approval and financing until April 1993. The implementation
period for SME subprojects is estimated at about two years, resulting in
project implementation being completed around April 1995 (i.e., an overall
implementation period of six years). On the basis of IDA's experience as
shown by the standard disbursement profile, however, the need for a
conservative estimate is indicated. Accordingly, a 7-year implementation
period is forecast. The project is, therefore, expected to be completed by
April 30, 1996. The technical assistance activities are scheduled to be
completed by end-1992.  Key indicators for project implementation are gi'-n
in Annex 4-3.
H.   Procurement
4.22      The project procurement arrangements are summarized in Annex 4-2.
FUSMED would have the overall responsibility for ensuring that procurement
procedures are followed by the PFIs. Standard procurement practices and
procedures for Bank Group Industrial Development Finance (IDF) type
projects would be followed for goods and services financed under the credit
and leasing components. The PFIs would be responsible for ensuring that
goods and services for SME subprojects are purchased at competitive prices,
due account being given to other relevant factors such as time of delivery,
quality and reliability and availability of spare parts for items procured
and their suitability for the purpose intended. The maximum size of
subloans will be Us$500,000 and US$350,000 equivalent for the credit and
leasing components, respectively, and US$10,000 equivalent under the
mutualist guarantee scheme (para 4.16). All bid packages of value
exceeding US$75,000 equivalent would be procured under SME subloans upon
the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at
least three qualified suppliers from at least two countries that are
eligible under the Bank's guidelines and contracts will be reviewed by the
PFIs prior to award. Bid packages valued at less than US$75,000
equivalent, could be procured through direct contracting, but the PFIs
would be required to assure themselves that the main sources of supply have
been canvassed and that the purchasing is from the most advantageous
sources. Appraisal reports sent to FUSMED of subprojects financed by the
PFIs will include a list of goods and services to be financed under the
credit, as well as the methods of procurement. PFIs would maintain records
of the procurement methods and documents for review by IDA during
supervision. Procurement of vehicles and microcomputers under the FUSMED
technical assistance component (estimated to be less than US$100,000 in



-  37  -
total) would be made according to local competitive bidding procedures.
Consultants for technical services and training under the technical
assistance program financed with credit proceeds would be contracted in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines for the use of consultants. It is
expected that much of the consultant services, studies, and technical
assistance are, however, of a nature and scope to allow the use of local
consultants and experts. Activities requiring the use of foreign firms and
experts would be linked with training programs with a view to ensure the
transfer of know-how. All consultancy contracts for studies and training
under the technical assistance component would have terms of reference and
consultant selection subject to IDA's prior approval. However, due to some
short-term assignments, contracts for consultants and training below
US$25,000 would be subject to post-approvai review by IDA supervision
missions. such contracts are not expected to exceed an amount of
US$100,000 in aggregate. Consultants for technical services under the
Pilot Studies Fund for SSEs will be selected by the SMEs. The maximum size
of these contracts is expected to be less than US$4,000.
I. Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit
4.23      The proposed allocation of the IDA credit and percent
expenditures to be financed are given in Annex 4-4. To facilitate
disbursemencs, two external Special Accounts will be established by the BOG
in US dollars in a bank acceptable to IDA and would be managed by the BOG.
The first Special Account would be used for the SME credit and leasing
components and the program of technical assistance for FUSMED and would
have an authorized allocation of US$2.0 million. The second Special
Account would be used for funds under the technical assistance program for
which FUSMED would act as a disbursing agent, and would have an authorized
initial allocation of US$200,000.
4.24      Disbursements of the IDA Credit will be fully documented except
for expenditures of less than US$75,000 equivalent which will be disbursed
against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). All IDA expenditures of less
than US$75,000 will be financed from the Special Accounts. Documents in
support of SOEs will be retained by FUSMED and made available to IDA for
review during its periodic supervisions. Only expenditures made no more
than 180 days prior to the receipt by IDA of information relating to a free
limit subloan, investment and leasing operation as applicable, or before
receipt of the request to IDA for approval of subprojects above the free
limit, would be eligible for reimbursement. In view of the longer period
required for transactions under a two-tier credit system, this extension of
the World Bank's normal 90-day limit under IDF projects is justified.
FUSMED would ensure compliance with this 180-day limit.
4.25      Documentation to be submitted by FUSMED to IDA, prior to a
request for authorization to make withdrawals from the credit account or
payments out of the special account in respect of expenditures for a
subproject on account of a free limit subloan, investment or leasing
operation as appropriate would include: (a) a descript3on of the
beneficiary and of the appraisal of the subproject, including its
technical, economic and financial viability and environmental aspects in
accordance with guidelines satisfactory to IDA; (b) a list of goods and
services to be financed out of proceeds of the IDA credit; (c) the method



-  38  -
of procurement of the goods and services; and (d) terms and conditions of
the subloan, investment or lease financing as appropriate.
4.26      Disbursement Schedule.  On the basis of the standard disbursement
profile for IDF operations of the Africa Region, the IDA credit is assumed
to be disbursed according to a schedule given in Annex 4-5. The credit
closing date will be December 31, 1996.
J. Accounting, Auditing, and Reporting Requirements
4.27        Separate financial accounts would be maintained by BOG for
FUSMED with adequate records prepared by FUSMED to reflect the project's
operations and financial situation, as well as separate accounts and
adequate records related to the PFIs in accordance with sound accounting
principles consistently applied. FUSMED would maintain separate accounts
and adequate records in accordance with sound accounting practices to
reflect its credit operations and for other programs for which it acts as a
disbursing agent. These project accounts, including withdrawals from the
special accounts and withdrawals made on the basis of SOEs would be audited
by independent auditors acceptable to the IDA in accordance with
appropriate accounting principles consistently applied. Audited accounts
together with the auditor's reports would be submitted to IDA within six
months after the end of each fiscal year. The BOG will also submit to IDA
monthly reports on the transactions of the special accounts. The BOG's
external auditors will provide IDA with a separate audit opinion on whether
satisfactory procedures are in operation regarding the use of SOEs and an
opinion on the withdrawals made on the basis of SOEs.
4.28      The reporting requirements are set out in Annex 4-3.  FUSMED will
prepare a computer based project information system which would consist of:
(a) amortization schedules for the loans financed by FUSMED for each PFI
and the data required for it to administer loan payments and collections
for each subloan granted by FUSMED; (b) monthly reports on operation and
cash flow condition, and quarterly projections; (c) periodic balance
sheets, income statements and statements of operating results; and, (d)
monthly project progress reports including the size, location and types of
loans granted for investment, leasing or rehabilitation operations, and key
economic variables (employment generation, value-added content, export
potential, etc).
4.29      The SME Secretariat would prepare and submit to IDA, periodic
progress reports related to the technical asoistance components.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.01      Benefits of the Project.  The Project represents a comprehensive
program in Ghana for the promotion of and assistance to private sector
SMEs. It is intended to help generate a supply response in the context of
the new policy environment by providing critical support to the
Government's efforts in stimulating productive activity. To alleviate the
social cost of the adjustment process and thereby enhance its
sustainability, the Government's major objectives are the resumption of
growth, maintenance of employment in existing and viable enterprises, and



- 39 -
the generation of new employment. The integrated package of institutional
and financial support programs under the proposed Project would foster a
stronger private sector. Private sector SMEs supported by the Project are
expected to be complementary to and have important linkages with the
agriculture sector and larger enterprises. They would thereby lead to a
shift in the industrial structure consistent with Ghana's resource
endowments and comparative advantage. SMEs should also make substantial
contribution by helping to develop scarce entrepreneurial capabilities,
management skills, and technological infusion.
5.02      The quality and range of financial services available to the SME
sector would be improved by the Project. The project would strengthen the
capability of the BOG as well as the banking sector to lend long term to
SMEs, especially to enterprises in the more rural areas. A second-tier
(apex) facility designed to foster active participation of the entire
banking system in term lending and SME financing would be put in place.
The financing of working capital under the line of credit would ensure more
efficient utilization of existing assets and the maintenance of employment.
SMEs, which generally have less bankable collateral, insufficient asset and
capital bases, and are under-capitalized would be provided greater
flexibility to access long-term finance through the equipment leasing
program. It would also help develop necessary policy and regulatory
framework for the nascent leasing industry. Use of the credit for
financial restructuring would enable the restructuring of selected
over-leveraged firms, which are potentially viable but are underutili!ing
installed capacity, and improve their profitability. The mutualist credit
guarantee scheme would lead to innovations in the financial system by
involving NGOs in the delivery of credit, and particularly benefit
low-income microenterprises who, because of their small size and lack of
collateral, are generally unable to borrow through the normal banking
channels. The Pilot Studies Fund and other arrangements for technical
assistance to SMEs and the strengthening of existing institutional support
services is expected to make the delivery of non-financial support services
responsive to the needs of the private sector SMEs, as well as help develop
the local consulting industry in Ghana. The entrepreneurship development
and women's components would assist in creating first generation local
entrepreneurs, help establish small scale enterprises to generate
productive self-employment, and improve the- access of Ghanaian women to
higher levels of term credit from the formal sector and obtain required
training. The economic benefits of training as well as technical
assistance, many of which are unquantifiable, add to the benefits of the
Project.
5.03      Project Risks.  The possible reluctance of the banking system to
engage in term financing for SMEs, perceived generally as more risky than
traditional commercial financing, could result in slow disbursement of the
credit and is a major risk of the project. This risk would be minimized as
the PFIs would obtain acceptable, market-based spreads from the final
onlending rates to beneficiary enterprises. The PFIs ability to contribute
to subproject costs from their own resources could be affected by credit
ceilings and constraints. Their expected contribution has, however, been
kept to the minimum necessary to ensure their commitment. The
effectiveness of the apex facility established by the BOG in channeling
credits to the banking system and successfully undertaking a promotional
role with respect to SSE and micro enterprises, particularly in rural areas



_ 40 -
is another possible risk. The institutional arrangements are also new to
PFIs and the BOG and some initial delays in subloan processing may,
therefore, occur. These risk3 will be miminized by ensuring the
availability of qualified outside expertise, and adequate technical
assistance and training for FUSMED and PFI staff. Another risk is that
demand for new investments may be slow to materialize on account of the
pace of economic recovery and the very high interest rates in the current
highly inflationary environment. It is expected that initially the Project
will finance mostly the restructuring, expansion and diversification of
existing enterprises. As the policy reforms gain further ground in
achieving their objectives, the revised incentive system should, however,
provide a sustainable basis for the development of new investment
opportunities. This would be particularly so with reductions in the rate
of inflation and interest rates. The overall size of the credit component
has been based on conservative demand estimates. Also, the Pilot Studies
Fund for the preparation of feasibility studies would help generate a
significant pipeline of bankable SME subprojects, and the participation of
the entire banking system with extensive branch networks would extend the
outreach of the Project in all parts of the country, which would further
mitigate this risk. The pilot mutualist credit guarantee scheme and other
p4lot extension service schemes could also encounter a difficult start-up
because of their newness. Technical assistance in these areas will be
provided under the Project. Finally, in view of the multi-component nature
of the Project, and the past experience of project implementation in Ghana,
there is always the risk of clogged paper work which may slow down project
implementation. To mitigate this risk, the Project relies largely on the
banking system which is more efficient than Government departments or
agencies.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      The BOG has established the SME apex unit (FUSMED) as a separate
unit in its Development Finance Department to administer and manage the
Project with an organization structure, and responsibilities acceptable to
IDA (para 4.02).
6.02      During negotiations, the major assurances and agreements obtained
were as follows:
(a)  the project financing plan (para 3.19 to 3.20), arrangements for
channelling the loan to eligible PFIs (para 4.04 to 4.06) and the
eligibility criteria for beneficiary enterprises and subprojects
(paras 4.07 to 4.11);
(b)  onlending terms and conditions - interest rates, spreads
maturities and repayments (paras 4.12 to 4.15);
(c)  subloan processing and administration (para 4.16);
(d)  the procurement, disbursement, accounting, auditing and reporting
requirements (paras 4.22 to 4.29);



- 41 -
(e) the time limits for completion of various studies set out in
Annex 3-2 (on the equipment leasing industry, the regulatory and
incentive environment for private sector and SSE development,
technology development, and the establishment of duty-free zones
for export promotion and processing) under the project (paras
3.09, 3.13, 3.16); for establishment of the pilot mutualist
credit guarantee scheme, and the Pilot Studies Fund (paras 3.06
and 3.11; and
(f) the technical assistance activities to be carried out by NBSSI
and other agencies (paras 3.10, 3.12 to 3.15).
6.03      Conditions of credit effectiveness would be:
(a) signing of the subsidiary administration agreement between the
Government and BOG for channeling the credit with terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA (para 4.01);
(b) preparation of FUSMED's operational policies and procedures,
approved by the BOG and acceptable to IDA (para 4.02);
(c) the issuance by BOG of a circular to the banking system,
satisfactory to IDA, outlining the conditions and procedures for
the utilization of funds by the PFIs under the SME credit
components (para 4.05); and
(d) the signing of participation agreements between BOG and at least
two PFIs for the credit components with terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA (para 4.05).
6.04      Specific conditions of disbursement.  Specific conditions of
disbursement would be:
(a) recruitment of a satisfactory expert to assist NBSSI in the
implementation of its technical assistance components under the
project (para 3.13);
(b) preparatien of satisfactory implementation procedures for the
mutualist credit guarantee scheme (para 3.06); and,
(c) issuance by BOG of a circular to the banking system, satisfactory
to IDA, outlining the terms, conditions and procedures for use of
the pilot Studies Fund (para 3.11).



- 42 -
6.05      Based on the above assurances and agreements reached, the Project
is suitable for an IDA credit of US$30 million equivalent to the Government
of Ghana with standard IDA terms. The Government will pass on the IDA
credit to the BOG for use under the credit and technical assistance
components under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.
AF4IE
March 6, 1989



- 43 -
ANNEX 2-1
GHANA - PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Actual          Prelim.               Projected
1984    1985    1986    1987       1988    1989    1990
------------------------(in 2)-----------------------
GDP Growth Rate                       8.6     5.1      5.3      4.5       5.5     5.0      5.0
GDY Growth Rate a/                    5.6     4.2      6.1      4.5       5.5     5.0      5.0
GDY/Capita Growth Rate a/             2.3     0.9      2.8      :.2       2.2     1.7      1.7
Total Consump./Capita Growth Rate  -          0.0      1.1    -0.6        0.4     1.0      1.0
Debt Service, MLT (in US$ M) b/    403        415      386      567       561     464      376
Debt Service/XGS c/                  59.7    59.2    44.6    60.5        56.1    41.8    30.1
Debt Service/GDP                      5.4     6.1      8.0    12.3       11.3     8.8      6.4
Gross Investment/GDP                  6.9     8.0    10.7    13.0        15.0    16.9    18.0
Domestic Savings/GDP                  4.1     5.2      7.2      9.9      11.5    11.7    11.8
National Savings/GDP                  4.0     4.1      6.5      8.2      10.3    11.2    12.0
Marginal National Savings Rate        -      40.0    32.8    45.8        39.3    23.0    22.5
Public Investment/GrP                 2.5     3.8      5.9      7.9       7.8     8.2      8.4
Public Savings/GDP                   -0.6     0.1      1.7      3.2       2.8     3.4      3.6
Private Investment/GDP                4.4     4.2      4.8      5.1       7.2     8.7      9.6
Private Savings/GDP                   4.6     4.1      4.7      5.0       7.5     7.8      8.3
Ratio of Public/Private invest.    0.56    0.92    1.21    1.57           1.09    0.94    0.87
Government Revenues/GDP               8.0    10.4    13.6    14.0        13.5    14.0    14.0
Government Expenditures/GDP          10.9    14.1    17.8    19.1        18.9    19.1    18.9
Deficit (-) or Surplus (+)/GDP    -2.9    -3.7    -4.2    -5.1           -5.4    -5.1    -4.9
Export Growth Rate                    -      22.4    12.3       8.7       9.1     4.6      5.4
Export/GDP                            8.0     9.8    16.6    19.3        19.1    19.0    18.4
Import Growth Rate                    -       8.8    13.0       2.4       5.6    12.0      9.3
Imports/GDP                          10.7    12.5    20.1    22.4       22.5    24.2    24.5
Current Account (in US$M)            -214    -263    -203    -220        -231    -299    -356
Current Account/GDP                  -2.8    -3.8    -4.2    -4.8        -4.6    -5.6    -6.0
Source:  World Bank Estimates.
a/ GDY per capita = GDP per capita adjusted for changes in the terms of trade.
b/  Includes IMF and payments of arrears but excludes repayments of short-term oil
facility borrowings.
c/ Includes private unrequited transfers.
AF4IE
July 1988



GHANA - PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Gross Domestic Product by Economic Activity, 1979-1986
1979       1980       1981       1982        1983        1984       1985        1986
(Current million cedis)
Agriculture                     16,924      24,820    38,553    49,572    109,927    133,232    154,003    244,317
Industry                         3,466       5,086      6,653     5,401      12,199      28,831      57,209      92,566
(Manufacturing)              (2,448)    (3,346)   (4,338)   (3,117)       (7,101)   (17,506)   (39,562)   (61,864)
(Mining & 0;arrying)           (238)       (462)     (369)      (285)    (1,944)    (3,214)    (3,822)    (8,783)
Services                         7,939      13,202    27,993    32,740       62,764    109,068    132,374    210,974
Subtotal               28,329      43,108    73,199    87,712    184,890    271,131    343,586    547,857
Less Imputed Bank Charges          521         651      1,207     1,802       2,259       2,865       5,323       6,903
Im ort Duties                      422         397        634       .41       1,407       2,494       4,786       9,561
GD  at Market Prices            28,231      42,853    72,626    86,451    184,038    270,760    343,048    550,515
(Constant 1975 million cedis)
Agriculture                      2,898       2,957      2,881     2,724       2,534       2,780       2,778       2,890
Industry                           892         895        752       624         550         599         705         758
(Manufacturing)                (583)       (575)     (464)      (369)       (328)       (370)       (460)      (510)
(Mining & Quarrying)            (73)        (71)      (66)       (61)        (52)        (59)        (63)        (61)
Services                         1,806       1,765      1,824     1,758       1,798       1,917       2,061       2,195
Subtotal                5,592       5,617      5,457     5,106       4?881       5,296       5,544       5,843
Less Imputed Bank Charges          169         160        166       166         177         191         206         218
Import Duties                       89          81         53        34          44          53          63          77
GDP at Market Prices4            5,512       5,538      5,344     4,974       4,747       5,158       5,401       5,702
Real Growth (7):GDP               -2.5         0.5       -3.5      -6.9        -4.6         8.6         4.7         5.8
Manufacturing                 -16.8        -1.4     -19.3      -20.5       -11.1        12.8        24.3        10.9
(Sectoral Share Z) a/
Agriculture                         53          53         54         55         53          54          51          51
Industry                            16          16         14        13          12          12          13          13
(Manufacturing)                (11)       (10)        (9)        (7)         (7)         (7)         (9)        (9)
(Mining & Quarrying)            (1)        (1)        (1)        (1)         (1)         (1)         (1)        (1)
Services                            33          32         34        35          38          37          38          39
a/ Details may not add up to 100  due to omission of bank charges and import duties.
Source:  Statistical Service, Quarterly Digest of Statistics, June 1984 and December 1987.
x
AF4IE
July 1988



45  -ANNEX 2-3
Page 1 of 6
GHANA - PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR
A.   Structure
1.        Ghana's manufacturing sector consists of a range of activities
diversified over time to include consumer, intermediate and capital goods
industries. Value added in the modern sector is dominated by food
processing, beverages, tobacco, textiles and garments, and wood products.
These subsectors accounted for about 522 of total manufacturing value added
in 1970. Their share increased to 59% by 1980 and then to 78Z by 1984.
Their combined share of total manufacturing employment is over 602. Large
and medium-scale industrial enterprises (defined in Industrial Statistics
as those employing 30 workers or more) are also found in aluminium and
other basic metals, chemicals, petroleum refining, building materials,
rubber, plastics, and paper. Apart from aluminum and sawmilling
industries, Ghanaian manufacturing firms produce primarily for the domestic
market.  The sector is highly import-dependent (77Z of total materials
consumed in 1984 were imported). Food processing and other agro-based
industries a:e the most important small-scale industrial activities,
followed by tailoring, bakeries, wood-related industries, shoemaking and
shoe repair, manufacture and repair of metal products, motor fitting and
bodyworks, and electric repairs. Other small-scale industrial activities
Include black- and gold-smithing, handicra'-ts, pottery, printing, and
diversified manufacturing activities.
2.        Highlights of the manufacturing sector for selected years between
1970 and 1984 by major activities are given in Table 1. Subsectors whose
shares of value added increased in the 1970s included tobacco, beverages,
chemicals, petroleum refining, and non-metallic mineral products. But the
shares of food processing, textiles and garments, wood processing, paper
and printing, tires and tubes, basic metals, electrical appliances, and
transport equipment industries declined during 1970 to 1980. In the 1980s,
however, the relative shares of many subsectors changed significantly and
major increases were realized in food processing, beverages, and tobacco
iAdustries. The share of resource-based and consumer industries in total
manufacturing value added increased from about 57Z in 1970 to about 80Z by
1984; the share of intermediate and heavy industries declined from about
432 in 1970 to 202 in 1984. There was little structural change in the
shares of total manufacturing employment during the period. The major
subsectors in terms of employment in 1970 were wood processing, textiles
and garments, food processing, basic metals, paper and printing, and
chemicals in that order. The order remained basically unchanged by 1980.
However, by 1984 there had been some changes, the beverages subsector
having risen to the fourth rank in terms of its share in employment. The
relative shares of resource-based and consumer industries and intermediate
and heavy industries in total employment remained almost constant at about
752 and 25Z, respectively, between 1970 and 1984.
3.        Manufacturing enterprises are concentrated in the Greater Accra
area and to a lesser extent in Takoradi and Kumasi. Greater Accra accounts
for over 50Z of manufacturing employment and about 602 of value added;
Western Region, about 14Z and 202; Ashanti Region, 15Z and 102; and Eastern



_  46 _                     ANNEX 2-3
Page 2 of 6
Region, about 10? and 3Z, respectively.  The rest is shared between
Central, Volta, Brong-Ahafo, Northern and Upper regions. Attempts to
locate large plants in rural areas have been generally unsuccessful because
of the high costs associated with the lack of infrastructure and
difficulties in organizing supplies and distribution.
4.        The post-independence strategy of a leading role for the state in
industry raised the share of production in firms with public ownerthip or
participation. The increased role of the state has come riot so much
through the number of firms it controls but through the relatively large
size of these firms. Whereas the number of firms with state ownership oL
participation ranged from 20Z to 28Z of medium and large-scale
manufacturing firms over 1962-84, their share of gross output rose
dramatically from 19? to 631, and of employment from 27? to 532 during the
same period. The shares of output, value added, and employment of the
relatively small private wholly Ghanaian-owned firms are only a fraction of
these firms 412 share of firms in the medium- and large-scale enterprise
sector. Private joint Ghanaian-foreign enterprises, however, are
considerably larger than wholly Ghanaian ones, with output, value added,
and employment shares roughly in proportion to their 332 share of all
firms.
5.        The age and sophistication of equipment used in the manufacturing
sector varies considerably, and obsolete equipment is prevalent in a number
of enterprises. Most plants have equipment which is at least 10 years old
(up to 20 years in some of the food processing, textile and metal
processing plants). Much of _.t needs replacement and modernization which
has been neglected because of shortage of foreign exchange and term credit.
In the small-scale enterprise sector, the level of technology varies from
simple tools to mechanical machines snd power transmitted machines.
B,   Performance
6.        Ghana's manufacturing GDP nearly tripled in constant prices
between 1960 and 1970. Value added grew by 13? per annum on average.
Employment doubled during the same period. Manufacturing output grew by
13? per annum in real terms up to 1970, remained stagnant between 1970 and
1977 after a fall in 1973-74, and then declined sharply between 1977 and
1980. Annual indices of manufacturing production by subsector between 1977
and 1986 are presented in Table 2. The sector was characterized by
declining production and declining capacity utilization during the 1970s;
There was a further decline in output of about 8? between 1980 and 1981,
followed by declines of about 20? and 30? over the next two years, before
the downward trend was reversed in 1984 following the introduction of the
ERP.
7.        Employment in the large and medium-scale manufacturing
establishments increased from 59,300 in 1970 to 80,000 by 1980 (value added
in these establishments declined during the period) and then declined to
55,800 by 1984. Labor productivity fell by nearly a third because
employment kept rising while output fell during the former period and then
fell more slowly than value added in the latter period. The fall in labor
productivity was especially severe in intermediate and heavy industries
(Table 1). Thus, manufacturing has shifted from being a leading sector



-  47 -                     ANNEX 2-3
Page 3 of 6
generating growth elsewhere in the economy, to becoming a lagging sector
with increasingly under-utilized capacity. Excess capacity has been a
feature of Ghana's manufacturing sector since the mid-1960s. The average
rate of capacity utilization during the period 1970-77 was in the range of
43-52X. The capacity utilization worsened in the late 1970s and early
1980s as the country's ability to import raw materials and spare parts
diminished. By 1984 the average capacity utilization had fallen to 18Z,
resulting in many plants closing down.
8.        The downward trend was reversed in 1984 following introduction of
the ERP the previous year. This was accomplished through improved business
climate and greater availability of resources, especially foreign exchange.
Restoration of continuous power supplies in 1984 following power cuts
throughout all of 1983 and the more favorable weather conditions in 1984,
which resulted in increased supplies of local raw materials available to
agro-based industries, also contributed to the reversal of the downward
trend. The supply of foreign exchange not only increased, but also became
more reliable since the introduction of the foreign exchange auction in
1986. Significant and continuous increases in capacity utilization have
been realized especially in agro-based industries, wood processing,
tobacco, beverages, chemicals, and non-metallic mineral products
subsectors. Average capacity utilization rate was estimated at 35Z and 56%
in the import reliant and domestic resource based manufacturing subsectors,
respectively, in 1987. ,he manufacturing sector registered an estim9ted
growth of 11.3% in 1984, 25.31 in 1985 and 9.9Z in 1986 (Table 2).
C.   Recent Policy and Regulatory Reforms
9.        Incentive System.  A major plank of trade policy reform has been
a flexible exchange rate (para 2.04 and 2.06). This has made production
for export much more attractive than previously. Market forces have
replaced administrative discretion to allocate official foreign exchange
for imports. Manufacturers are now able to plan ahead because availability
of foreign exchange has become more reliable. The manufacturing sector has
berefited from the foreign exchange auction more than any other sector--
over 50% of funds auctioned to date have gone to manufacturing enterprises.
10.       Along with the exchange rate and foreign exchange allocation
reforms, specific import licensing, involving firm-level allocation by
sector ministries, has been replaced by the Ministry of Trade's automatic
issue of "A-licenses" which initially covered industrial, agricultural and
other productive inputs. Consumer goods have been added to the list of
imports for which "A-licenses" can be issued since February 1988.   In
addition, special import licenses (SIL) continue to be issued for all but a
small negative list of items t3 importers who do not require official
foreign exchange. In sum, all goods, with the exception of those relative
few that are banned, can be freely imported.
11.       Actions announced in the 1987 and 1988 budgets have brought about
a major restructuring of import duties, sales taxes and excise taxes. The
reforms involved: unifying sales tax rates across most local and imported
goods, and abolition of the special sales tax on goods imported under SIL;
changing the base for sales tax on imports to Include import duty; creating
four sales tax categories at rates of 0, 10, 25 and 35 percent; reducing



- 48  -                     ANNEX 2-3
Page 4 of 6
many import duty rates to create a five-rate structure--0, 10, 15, 20 and
25 percent; providing temporary adjustment protection to production of
certain goods through additional duty protection rates ranging from 10-40
percent; reimposing import duties on certain classes of passenger motor
vehicles; restricting the coverage of excise taxes to traditional excisable
products, changing from specific to ad valorem rates of tax, and replacing
specific taxes or special tax on imports of excisable products with a lower
rate of ad valorem tax; increasing the excise on petroleum products;
extending the range of motor vehicles subject to purchase tax; replacing
certain export taxes by royalties and fees; and introducing an additional
profit tax on windfall profits. These reforms have established the
framework for transforming the sales tax into a relatively non-distorting
revenue source by separating the revenue and protection functions of taxes
on international trade. The Government has also taken steps toward
creating a structure of protection more conducive to encouraging the
development of efficient import replacing and exporting activities. In
addition, the Government has implemented a significant reform of income
taxation by increasing the basic personal exemptions; reducing t,he number
of personal income tax brackets; lowering marginal tax rates; reducing
rates for company tax for certain activities; and revising tax incentives
for companies investing in various activities.
12.       Export Promotion.  The Government has taken several policy
measures to promote exports, including non-traditional exports. In
addition to the reform of the foreign exchange regime, the Government has
simplified export procedures by abolishing export license requirements and
designating the new exchange control form A2, to be issued by the Bank of
Ghana and authorized commercial banks, as the sole document for the purpose
of export of most non-traditional items. Flexibility in the use of
exporters' retention accounts has been increased; such funds can now be
used to meet business promotion, training and related expenses and the
proportion of foreign exchange earnings from non-traditional exports which
may be retained has been increased from 20Z to 35Z. Furthermore, the
Government is reviewing existing duty/tax suspension/tax rebate procedures
with the aim of streamlining them and expediting implementation. In
addition, the Government has taken steps to strengthen the Ghana Export
Promotion Council.
13.       Business Regulations.  The Government has taken steps since the
introduction of the ERP to reverse most of the negative effects of its past
actions on the business environment and to establish a more positive
political climate for private entrepreneurs and professionals to respond
positively to improved policies and incentives. A more responsible,
cooperative relationship between workers and management has been
encouraged, for example, by activation of the Tripartite Committee (on
which they are represented, together with the Government) to advise on
issues such as wages and salaries. Greater efforts have been made to
communicate Government policies to private businessmen, and to represent
them on policy-making bodies such as the National Economic Commission. In
its effort to improve the business environment further, the Government
requested IFC to assist in: diagnosing private sector constraints and
recommending ways to reduce these obstacles; streamlining and reorienting
the Ghana Investments Centre (GIC) and preparing implementing regulations
for the Investment Code (1985); and targeting priority sector/project



49 -                     ANNEX 2-3
Page 5 of 6
opportunities and finding suitable local and foreign entrepreneurs. IFC
has completed the first stage of the work and has identified some major
constraints on private sector development. On the whole, these constraints
are less policy issues than implementation issues involving, in particular,
tax administration, the investment approval system, and approvals for
foreign capital-related outflows.
14.       An area where further improvement is required is the regulatory
system, especially with respect to establishing and operating small-scale
enterprises. At present, a small-scale entrepreneur wanting to start a
business is confronted with a confusing regulatory environment, where
responsibility for start-up business is handled by a variety of government
ministries and departments. For example, the Registrar General handles the
formation of the legal entity and the Ministry of Industries, Science and
Technology registers the company as an operating entity. However, to take
advantage of investment concessions under the Investment Code, the promoter
must go also to the GIC which has authority to administer the provisions of
the Code. All the above comes before the issuance of permits, licenses,
consents, etc. Furthermore, small businesses remain subject to occasional
arbitrary actions by local authorities.
D.   Impact of the Reforms and Prospects
15.       The impact of policy reforms on the manufacturing sector is
already visible in increased capacity utilization and output, development
and use of local resources, and increased earnings from non-traditional
exports. Notwithstanding depressed domestic demand, production levels of
enterprises are increasing, largely because of the improved supply of raw
materials. The capacity utilization rate is, in many cases, higher than in
previous years, and company sales have grown. Annual indices of
manufacturing production (1977=100) which had dropped to 35.3 in 1983
improved to 49.3 and 54.2 in 1985 and 1986, respectively (Table 2). As a
result, increased supplies of commodities such as milk, bread, soap, beer
and other local products have brought market prices down, sometimes below
the earlier controlled prices, while increased imports have eliminated
scarcity rents for other goods (for example, tires, vegetable oil).
Producers benefited initially from greater access to scarcity rents, but
their margins tended to be squeezed by increased supplies and competition,
higher cost of foreign exchange, and weak consumer demand. Given the
larger flow of resources to the sector, it is estimated that the upward
trend in capacity utilization and production has continued in 1988.
16.       A slight shift towards domestic resource use is visible though
the sector still remains heavily dependent on imported inputs. In the case
of the chemicals subsector, the use of palm oil in the manufacture of soap
has replaced a significant portion of tallow (imported), and sheanut and
citronella plants are currently showing great promise in cosmetic
preparations. The textiles subsector through the Ghana Cotton Company has
successfully grown and ginned cotton replacing almost 30? of imported
inputs. The food subsector is currently benefitting from a number of local
innovations in processing and packaging technology. In the case of the
brewing industry, a program is underway for partial replacement of barley
malt by locally grown cereals (sorghum has been identified as the initial
grain). This innovation is being pursued jointly by all breweries.



50-                       ANNEX 2-3
Page 6 of 6
17.       Non-traditional manufacturing exports are responding positively
to currency depreciation ar. ther incentives. The value of such exports
was estimated at US$45 million in 1986, compared to the estimated value of
US$18 million in 1984. The subsectors that have shown positive response
include food, processed fish, and wood products.
18.       The foreign exchange auction has substantially improved the flow
of foreign exchange to industry. Industry continues to buy much more
foreign exchange than other sectors at the auction. The manufacturers are
now able to plan their production schedules and lack of foreign exchange is
no longer considered a binding constraint on capacity utilization. Rather,
the key problems now for producers are liquidity (in cedis) and cash flow,
and inadequate consumer purchasing power. The liquidity problem is
compounded by the requirement to pay 1002 of the cedi equivalent on winning
foreign exchange bids at the auction. Thus, while the severity of the
foreign exchange crisis has eased over the past year, it seems clear that
growth will coi,tinue to be constrained by shortages of essential raw
materials and spare parts.
19.       Improved output levels have not been associated with any
significant increase in labor demand, as firms are able to utilize the
excess labor resources they carried forward. In the past, employment has
fallen more slowly than the decline in manufacturing production (Table 1)
--partly because of costs associated with firing and hiring labor, but,
more importantly, because government impediments to laying off labor made
attrition virtually the only way to adjust labor to lower output levels. A
large number of companies have now cut the number of people they employ.
The largest drop has occurred in the textiles and garments sector, where
weak consumer demand and competition from imports have resulted in low
capacity utilization.
20.       With an appropriate incentive framework now in place, Ghana can
develop an efficient resource-based manufacturing sector. The country has
an excellent potential to develop agro-processing enterprises, given the
emergence of agricultural surpluses of various kinds (fruits, vegetables,
etc.) and the existing possibilities of significantly increasing the value
added to wood and other agro-based products which also have export markets.
Non-traditional exports such as fresh agricultural produce (including
horticultural products), marine products (e.g., canned tuna), processed
wood products (furniture parts and joinery) and other manufactured goods
(including processed "ethnic" food) have ready export markets, and export
earnings could, therefore, be increased quickly.
AF4IE
July 1988



OMA - PRIVATE SMALL. ND bEDI BlTRPIS& cEVEn,ME  PROJ=T
Tabl. 1: Kw Date a- Subf.cturin. b. Submstor, 1970-1984
(1977 ca.4.ett prices)
ion             i       19tl    114                         Sbec of Totr I Mav. Annuol Crowth Rote M
VA     E_l.    VA       Emgl.    VA      1S.          1970        .ii9.                19. 4              VA                    E_-               VA ,ar WS.4t (41
0 )   (l0o0)   co *)  (t00D)   co *)  ('000)    VA    El.    VA    Eapt.            VA     1I.      9         1980-      1   M      19t  N070   NkO
_re _-mmw NW
Consumr IdStris               M.7D   442    f7,2    D2D l        2      416D0    S599  74.34   ALM   74.97    Zia0   ZL3I           =L                                                          . U lal  AMLZ    IM  L-251 2M
Food                          10.25    5.60   41.18   12.00    34.06  0.70    11.05   O.44    6.73  14.04    10.39  12.01          -9.22      -4.59       7.92     -13.56   19.330   3.427   5.066
sa1eagga                      106.09    2.60   S2.50    4.30    73.51  4.3D    10.63   4.69   13.30   8.60    22.41    7.71         -2.2D      -2.34       4.49      -1.13  3S.549  1S.334  17.096
Tobacco                         7.4    1.00  181.7       1.30    96.39  1.40    10.6   10.9   24.64   1.62    29.99   2.51           4.46    -10.27        2.56       1.67   97.956  116.765  70.279
Texti A Gar_mets              106.25   14.30   49.10  1I.40    23.79  M0.6D    11.06  24.11    6.03  22.91         7.25  19.33       -7.60o   -16.57       2.55      -12.47    7,570   2.669   2.203
wld Prodt.                     W7.63 14.6D  SS.14   17.40    25.45  14.10         6.97  24.62    6.24  21.67       7.76  25.27       -7.96     -9.61       1.77      -5.12    6.002   2.192   1.60
L.taU,. am" a Foot.ma          5.15    1.6D    3.24    1.2D       0.76   0.60     0.63   5.04    0.S3    1.49     0.25   0.90       -4.54    -30.49       -3.97     -19.66    2.664   2.700   1.513
P0. Product. A Printi         46.89    4.00   10.72    5.40       6.14  4.00      4.75   A.73    1.75   6.72       1.67   7.17     -13.59    -12.99        3.0       -7.23    11596    1.96ss   I.36       I
ne dodtad *   m"  nd       e 4M.10 b.5210 2.05 t.4.00                                   20.    ISO M     Lg      20l l3  25 09 -.  e                                          27 2 1  1N 9 . 
OmulecalS 36.0l    3.30   24.66    4.0    20.32  3.60                             3.69   5.66    4.04   5.96       6.25   6.61       -3.73     -4.51       3.s2      -s.67   10.934   S.141   S400         1
Tyro. Tub.. A *  bb_           2s.77    1.20    9.47    :.70      6.66  1.30      2.64   2.0A    1.35   2.12      2.03   2.33       -9.53      -6.43       3.54      4.49   21.47t   5.572   5.400
P.641.. 3.dW.                 1614.95    0.40  107.93    0.60    15.74  0.60 D   1.69   0.67   17.6    0.75       4.60   1.06       -4.13    -36.21        4.14       0.00  412.371 179.677  26.229
pw-41"aI;c Mi.. Pod.           15.46    2.30   11.22    2.40    10.59  2.70       1.66   3.66    1.64   2.99      3.25   4.64       -.16       -1.42       0.44       2.99    62       4.67m    3.923
3.3e IlteSa                  13.13    5.40   71.29    6.40       6.14  3.10    14.25   9.11   11.63   7.97       2.46   5.36       -6.47    -41.67        1.71     -16.63    25.773  11.13    2.2
UOctrlea4 Appliances           10.31    0.70    2.99    1.20      1.57  0.90      1.66   1.16s   0.49   1.49      0.48   1.61      -11.64    -14.i3        5.54      4.94    14.725   2,493   1.749
T  mWN"   Sgwupme             26.77    1.30    5.9.    2.20       1.46  1.00      2.64   2.SS    0.65   2.74      0.48   1.79      -17.32    -21.91        3.60     -17.69   17.182   1t813   1.463
_ow                            2.66    0.30    2."      0.60)    1.24  0.60       0.26   0.51    0.49   1.O0      0.36   1.06        1.3s    -19.74       10.31      4i.94    *.591   3,739   2.066
TIIL                          9761.60   59.0  611.17   6t0.so0   s.7  ss.60)  100.0D  100.0D  10o.00 1O0.O    100.00 100.0 OD       -4.6    -14.40         3.06      -6.70   16u472   7.611 r5.6
VAy WA - Wa1S  Md
JUN. -, 111
_-   %i";_l   _i,  D:.  F  .  _  ._.  O ..................................................... ._. -31
Ff4=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Z 
Saue.  SttccISr..  ,...a   3   te. bd   90  umbo16.ad.S66



QW4A - PRIVATE S4ALL AND PMIIEN 13 PRISE O8VEL 1PIET PROJMCT
Tabl. 2a Ao..l Ind;c*v of Flnuf ctu-in- Prodtct;. 1977-1986
(1977 - 100)
Tobecco      Tetilo.       s   its      Pin.                   Ch_o;cml       Ceesnt        Ilon   Non-F-.,,e-  Cutlry '        Elnct.icity    T-sport
a       VMSg. AFSerl        a          P,04.                   P,0od.    *                   &        M.t.l     No-Fer-we    Equip~t    Equipst
Food    ln..r"O   Tobacco        Leathe          wood          a        petrol..m   0th.. T,..  Ito-Nt.l IIc      St"lI  n   .lc         M1tel.           &         A Othe.          All
im        WAN,   1kL         I       D S .,                rnu          ri1a Pr;nti   Bsfinin.   Patrolm     Minrod,        Prod,, 1,  n W .      P.r.1 A".uc   Al;*scqp   Product    moofac5ri no
(Weis: SAM  CO" LI                           NU& Th IL2 l                 e         ZL                                       Alm       2A    .                  e LI2  S   o    a            1J]
197       64.6     77.0        66.1         11.8            92.1        103.5       96.0        40.5           67.2         39.3      90.3          67.0           73.2         76.6          61.0
l91       70.6      75.0       82.0         6.2             70.2         70.6       16.1        #6.0             40         S1.6      67.2          4s.1           33.5         67.7          67.6
1060      70.0     70.2        67.0         41.4            62.0        60.6        67.9        34.7           S2.1         73.9      111.8         33.1           26.1         7. 5          69.0
1061      60.8     76.2        o.9           2.1            52.4        47.4        00.2        24.7           71.4         69.6      104.5         20.1           14.6        30.4           63.3
191       n6.2     80.7         6.1         15.7            2.0         26.9        as.0        17.1           4.6          30.e9    113.8           4.4           14.6         32.s          50.4
1063      46.8     42.8        NO.7         10.6            45.6         76.4       83.1        16.6           80.8         12.8      25.6           9.1            4.0         8.6           35.3
1e4       26.3     60.0        16.4         18.9            60.8         72.0       68.0        40.4           42.4         26.3       -            10.1           19.1          6.s          39.3
106s      41.6     89.8        61.0         19.2            75.4         68.1       6o0.6       81.6            63.         46.2      20.4          34.6           26.4          -            49.3
1966      40.6     75.1        57.e         22.9              .6         70.5       76.6        36.0            47.4        36.6      72.8          58.2            1.0          -            54.2
(Annum l Pe.centeg. Chan.e)
1976     -18.2    -2S.0       -ss.9        -18.s            -7.9         3.8s       -4.0       -59.5          -12.6        -60.7      -9.7         -3. 0          -26.6       -23.2          -19.0
1979     -10.9     -2.6       -20.4        -18.1           -23.6       -51.6       -13.4       -11.1           -49.5        31.3      -25.6       -32.7           -54.2        -11.9         -16.3
1960      -7.4     -6.4        27.4        -40.2           -25.9         14.1        5.6        -3.6           18.4         43.2      66.4         -26.8          -22.1         16 0           1.8
1961     -16.0      11.4      -24.0        -22.6             0.8        -41.3        2.6         0.0           37.0         -s.6       -6.5        -39.3          -43.3        -61.3          -6.3
1062     -se.0    -86.2       -25.2        -51.1           -31.3        -43.3       -2.4       -30.7          -34.9        -55.7       6.9         -76.1            0.0          6.9         -20.4
168       21.2    -16.2       -11.6        -66.5            26.7        164.0      -39.7         6.8            6.2        -56.6      -77.5        106.8          -73.0        -73.5         -30.0
1964     -36.7     41.2        86.1         80.0            32.2         -5.6       16.4        117.2         -15.7        105.5       -            11.0          377.5        -24.4          11.3
1966      42.7      -1.2       -8.3         20.6            25.0         -4.6       27.9        -21.3          50.0         75.7        -          242.6           48.7          -            25.5
106       -2.9     26.6       -4.o          19.              6.4         s.5        -5.0         19.5         -25.5        -16.0      155.3         s9.5           79.6          -             9.9
Sow,": Stat.eticmI Ser.ice. lodotriel Stetiot.c.* f;nc , 1906 m. July 196t  f e; h.rl.   . D..t of St.titi. D.cemb., 1967.
>
AF41E                                                                                                                                                                                                        "I
.8.. 1966
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Igoe                                                                                                                                     X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.l.



GHANA - PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Results of a Small-Scale Industry Survey. 1984 a/
Source of Credit
Non-farm Activities                                   For Starting Enterprise               Present
No. of        X Share of                               No. of                           No. of
Activity                          Enterprises        Total            Source               Responses          % Share       Responses    X Share
Manufacturing                                    4.114           32.8           Banks                    21               6.7            63          49.6
Agro-based & related industries               1,783           14.1           Parents/Relatives      221               70.4            43          33.9
Clothing industries A leather works           1,347           10.9           Friends                 62               17.6             9           7.1
Wood-related industries                         456            3.7           Moneylender              11               3.5             6           4.7
Diversified manufacturing ind.                  489            3.8           Oth-r                     3               0.9             a           4.7
Construction and building                           so            0.6           Couldn't get              6                1.8            -            -
Repairs Sector                                   1.098            8.9
Diversified Service Sector                         411            3.3           Total                   314              100.0          127         100.0
Retail Sector                                    6.748           54.6
Total                                      12,371          100.0
_n
Selected Industries and Level of Technology         W
Perceived Constraints on Expansion                                                                                         Power
Simple        Mechanical    Transmitted
No. of          X of                                  Tools           Machine         Machines      Total
Responses        Total                                  ------------------------()          -------------- -----
Lack of credit                                     664           61.1           Oil production          100                -              -         100
No markets/too much competition                    65             5.9           Crain production          6               30             64         100
Lack of inputs/spares                               47            6.1           Tailoring                 9              74              17         100
Credit/market/tax-s                                 49            5.3           Carpentry                96                -              4         100
Credit/inputs/spares                                SO            8.7           Blacksmith               91                B              3         100
Lack of shills                                      13            1.4           Electr. repairs           6              21              63         100
Other combination                                   22            2.4           Car fitting              94               6               -         100
Not applicable                                      93           10.1           General                  64.2             27.3           18.6       100
Total                                         923         100.0
p/  The Survey excluded the three biggest towns, i.e., Accra, Kumasi and Takoradi.
Source:  W. H. Thomi and P. W. K. Yankson, Small Scale Industries and Decentralization in Ghana, A Preliminary Report on Small Scale Industries in
Small and Medium Sized Towns in Ghana, 1985.
AF4IE



OW~  - PRIVATM SMLL AND lnIUM ET83PRISE D0EVEO ' PAOJ.T
(Is oilIion edia et end period)
uUm aN7 N77  m   17 18a 1984 N 85 19S697 tStj
Ca  - iba                                   89.6        81.1        16.7        312.1      196.6       489.4       461.6       760.7      1,401.1     2,294.8     3.431.8       3.631.4     7,338.0
tblanc .it   o sad Other ake               3S7.6       804.1        616.8     1.3.6    1.762.8    1.968.0        1.902.9     3,421.7      4.424.8     5,814.8    12,732.1      24.834.0    26.850.5
Treasuryf its. Stocks and _od              214.8       841.8    S 76.5          764.0    1,111.8    1.689.0      2,800.8     4.233.7  6,.27.8         6,300.6     S.8G4.2      11.Sal.1    10,7J4.0
Corecil Bills                              118.2        116.6       189.4       802.8      864.8        88.0        41.1       420.2        402.1        48.2     2,071.7       1.064.3       443.3
L1.  d WAdIe_                              604.1        776.9     1,097.9     1.543.5    1,746.8    2,832.8      8,168.4     8,876.5      6,423.4    12.258.0    22.416.6      40.926.8    52.981.5
0Gb  Ass_t di                                          211Z45 .9J   45.7        814 L4               L-4321    2.,35I    .3 1             8.477.2    1L204,9    1e328          33.9    57-907,
Toutl A...t                              1542        2.1UI        L J          SlS 9    L910    7974A           l0     1    18072.4    27655.        4L700       S4-?I1Lf     11.90  11.215
Oa.  01elta hi                             896.9        MA        1.387.?     2,898.1    2,814.8    8,019.0      8,268.8    56,74.0       8,712.9    L3,238.9    21,671.2      32,920.4    35.962.6
so. ins topoeto                            294.0       40.6         606.6     1,029.6    1,867.9    2,184.0      2.711.3     4,9.8        4.992.1     5.999.0     6,832.2      14,140.8    18,816.2
Ti;_ bapcist                                4168.6      186.8       169.9       242.9      268.2      8U.0         868e.7      460.7        870.3     1,180.8     2,842.8       S. 90.6    13.S98.5
blae. with 01 and Otlbr bake S/             91.4        102.8       117.0       168.8      19e.2      273.4        291.8       807.8      1,772.9     3,072.8     8,268.1      11.558.4    26,210.7
Paid-a  capital sod Reer.                  11t.1        147.4       18.8       278.7      882.2      460.0        440.3    e82.9         2,611.8     4,898.1      8,553.8      7.38.5      8,408.4     ,     n
Otlr Li ob. I O ta es       .9.J18-                  4,04           "S0         14    LL2            Lm.7        3131       .0l2.L        6          13I8A4.0    192           40J.32      53.991.
Total Liabilitie s;                                  LL 21        3    9                 l 8 S3S 9 5Lf  7-94.1    12.1         072,4     27,6.9    41D 74.711 1- 9  11          2.299.0   15  8J
Source: bek of Oh... World b nk.
M/  Eaclu. I  Mo.
h/  Includee all Saoemnt       to  .
3/  Include. serestl borrowings of banks.
j/  Other geote, inclue fised aate, other real    et.. special d.eoa"t with bo, si;cellanacu. etc.. other I l,buIitim include* raine egainat contingency lIabilities, balance in transit. a_m
borrowings from locel books, an o;.callonom, etc.
: Tbh proportion of public aector deposits plus govenmant deptAl a.or total dapo;Ws    about 201 for 1965. 189 for 1986, nd 18.83 we of Sptember 1967.
z
AP4IE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
AF41E 
ibno 2968



CHANA - PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CDP/MONEY SUPPLY
1970      1975      1980      1981       1982      1983      1984        1985       1988      1987
In million cedis or percentages                                                                                                  (estimate)
Total GDP at current market pric.,   2,259      5,283    42,853    72,628    88,451   184,038   270,581    373,068    511,258    702,789
Banking system not assets  (1)        572.7   1,746.3   9,882.2    15,393    19,930  28,148.7  33,129.2   40,591.4       67,397     96.129
Ass-ts/GDP                             0.26      0.33      C.23      0.21       0.23      0.15      0.12        0.13      0.13        0.14
Total Bank Credits                                      2,067.8   2,802.7   2,986.1   5,732.1  11,995.7   21,401.1   40,328.6       73,945
Credits/GDP                                                0.05      0.04       0.03      0.03      0.04        0.08       0.08       0.10
Total Narrow Money Supply (Ml)        305.4   1,008.8   6,224.6  10,147.8  12,297.1  18,770.1  28,843.3   43,471.1   84,819.8    100,638
MI/GDP                                 0.14      0.19      0.15      0.14       0.14      0.10      0.10        0.12       0.13       0.14
Total Broad Money Supply (M2)         426.6   1,386.3   8,698.2    13,634  17,129.6  24,323.6  33,835.9   55,036.1    84,604       113,782
M2/GDP                                 0.19      0.26      0.20      0.19       0.20      0.13      0.13        0.15       0.17       0.19
Source: BOG and World Dank Estimates
(1) includes Bank of Ghana.
MONEY SUPPLY
1970        1975        1980      1981       1982     1983      1984       1986 1988    1987 (Sept.)             Ln
Million Cedis Currency
Notes A coins in circulation        167.1       624.4       3,897     6,562   7,488.3  11,434.8  16,234.4   25,328.5   34,734.7   40,357.6
Held by co_mercial banks             18.4 a    38.8 *       489.4     608.9      760.7   1,398.2   2,:.91.2    3,429.6    3,494.5    7,038.8
Total hold outside banks            150.7       485.8     3,427.6   6,946.1   6,727.6  10,036.6  13,943.2   21,896.9   31,240.2   33,318.8
Demand deposits
With Primary Banks                  154.7       623.2       2,090   3,309.8      4,048     6,477   8,778.1   13,240.1   17,736.1   19,825.6
With Secondary Banks                   NA          NA       651.3     884.4   1,419.1   2,717.2   3,786.1    7,549.8   13,806.8        16,287
With Bank of Ghana                     NA          NA        55.7       28.3     102.4     539.3      135.9      784.5    2,034.5    7,276.2
Total demand deposits               154.7       523.2       2,797   4,202.5   6,569.5   8,733.5  12,700.1   21,514.2   33,379.4   43,388.8
Total narrow money supply (MI)        305.4     1.008.8     6.224.6  10.147.8  12.297.1  18.770.1  26.643.3   43.471.1   64.619.6   76.087.6
Tim & Savings Deposits:
With Primary Banks                  121.2       377.5     1,861.8   2,613.6   3,832.5   4,084.2   5,107.8    8,405.2   13,951.5   19,902.6
With Secondary Banks                   NA          NA         610     872.9      1,200   1,489.2   2,084.8    3,169.8    6,032.9   11,220.6
Total Quasi Money                   121.2       377.5     2,471.6   3,488.4   4,832.6   5,553.4   7,192.6       11,586   19,984.4   31,123.1
Total Broad ioney Supoly (M2)         426.6     1.380.3     8.696.2    13.634  17.129.6  24.323.5  33.83S.9  56.036.1        84.604  107.810.7
sPrimary Banks only.
Source: Bank of Ghana
AF4IE



GHANA - PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DEPOSITS AND THEIR STRUCTURE
(Sept.)
1976      1977      1978       1979     1980     1981       1982     1983       1984      1986       1986      1987
(In million cedis)
Demand Deposits        765.2   1,294.7   2,208      2,334.6  2,777.3  2,968.8   6,476.1   8,160.4  12,635.8  20,881.8  31,610.4  34,419.6
Savings D-posits       408.8     606.8   1,029.6   1,387.9  2,134    2,711.3   4,389.8   4,992.1   6,999        8,832.2  14,140.8  17,816.2
Tim  Deposit.          185.6     189.9     242.9      263.2    315      388.7      4B0.7     670.3   1,180.8   2,842.6   5,980.6  13,989.6
Total                1,359.3   20.91.4   3.480.4   3,986.6  5,226.3  6.0S8.8  10.306.6  13.722.8  19.81E.4  32.66B.S  S1.731.8  86,134.2
(In percentages)
Demand Deposits         56        62        63         59       53       49         S3        69         64        64         61        62
Savings Deposits        30        29        30         34       41       46         42        as         30        21         27        27
Tie Deposits            14         9         7          7        8        6          4         4          B         9         12        21
Total                  100       100       100        100      100      100        100       100        100       100        100       lOO
Source: Bank of Ghana
Note: Includes primary and secondary banks; and for both private and public sector.
AF4IE
June 1988
x



57 -                           ANNEX 2-8
GHANA - PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SELECTED INTEREST RATES
Jan/Mar.   Apr./June
1985      1986       1987       1988        1988
------------------(Z) per annum------------------
Rediscount Rate               18.50      20.50     23.50      26.00      26.00
(minimum)
Treasury Bill Rate            17.75      19.75     22.75      20.00      19.70
Savings Deposit Rate          16.50      18.50     21.50      21.50      21.50 a/
Time Deposit                  16.75/    19.00/    22.00/    23.00        18.00/ b/
Rates (3-24 months)           19.00      22.00     23.00                 23.00
Certificates of
Deposits                      c/         c/        C/         21.50      18.00
Maximum Lending d/            18.50/    22.50/    23.50/    23.00/        23.50/
Rates For Preferred Sectors  23.00       23.00     26.00      30.00      30.00
Lending Rates for             23.00      23.00     26.00      26.00/     26.50/
Other Sectors                                                 30.00      30.00
Memo Items:
Inflation (Consumer           10.40      24.60     39.80      39.10      39.00 e/
Price Index)
Real Savings
Deposit Rate                   6.10      -6.10    -18.30    -17.60      -17.50
Real Maximum Lending
Rate For Preferred Sectors   12.60       -1.60    -13.80      -9.10      -9.00
Notes:   a/  By notice BG/GOV/SEC/88/6 of February 19, 1988, the Bank of Ghana
abolished the minimum savings deposit rate, and each bank is free
to determine its borrowing and lending rates. Except for
agriculture (20%), sectoral credit ceilings are also abolished.
b/ Time deposits accepted by Commercial banks at 22.5Z carry maximum
maturity of 12 months. Other banks (NIB, ADB, SSB, Merchant Bank,
and BHC) offer 23Z for 24-month deposits.
c/  Not available.
d/  Sectors include agriculture, forestry, fishing, export trade and
manufacturing.
e/  Estimated.
Source: Bank of Ghana.
AF4IE
September 1988



GHANA - PRIVATE SMALL AND NEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TOTAL BANK CREDIT TO PRIVATE SECTOR AND PUBLIC ENTERPRISES BY SECTOR a/
(in million cedis)
(Sept.) (April)
1980      1981       1982     1983       1984        1985        1986    1987    1988
Agriculture. forestry,           412.4      655.0     688.6   2.012.9   3,779.1    5,207.6   7.476.3   9,447.1 10,234.8
fishing
Export trade                      69.4      172.9      67.2       92.0     187.4       490.0   1.451.2   2,255.6  1,516.0
Manufacturing                    472.0      508.3     635.2      866.6   3,288.4    6,046.4  10,800.4  15,952.5 20,010.2
Transport, storage.
couuunications                 193.5      215.2     201.8      331.3     653.7    1.154.3   2,021.5   3,451.2  4,207.3
Mining. quarrying                 55.0      137.1     243.0      416.3     497.5       960.2   1,437.3   2,430.5  1,165.2
Import trade                      34.4       47.6      42.4      107.4     307.7       990.7   2.931.4   4.476.4  4.838.9
Construction                     289.1      411.9     511.2      796.6   1,273.9    2,017.8   3.899.4   5,052.9  6.566.1
Commerce and finance             246.0      321.1     293.5      683.2   1,175.0    2,820.3   5,042.0   5,265.7  7,376.6
Electricity. gas,                116.0       44.2      42.2       49.6      21.4        37.8      46.1       83.8    124.9
water
Services                         108.5      157.1     175.0      250.8     533.7    1,224.8   2,611.5   3,449.3  4,458.5
Miscellaneous                     71.5      132.3      86.0      125.4     277.9       451.2   2,611.5   1,144.1    991.6
TOTAL                     2,067.8   2,802.7   2,986.1   5,732.1  11,995.7   21,401.1  40,328.6  53,009.1 61,490.1
a/ In September 1987 and April 1988, bank credit to the private sector accourted for 88Z of total credit.
Source: Bank of Ghana
AF4IE
July 1988



CHANA - PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Characteristics    of Sub-oroiects   under  the National  Investment  Bank II Proioct
(Cr 901-GH
Total            Totl           Projected      Projected       Projected     Projected
Sub-proj        No. of       Sub-proj              IDA          Avg. Value      Average         Average       No. of
Industry             Costm        Proiacts          Cost           Creit             Added            FRR            ERR           Jobs
Agro-based            0   - 1.0            12       3,909,749         1,586,963          24,727            42.0           10.8        414
industries          1.1 - 2.0            8      10,666,303         3,869,336             n.a.           44.9            30.0        301
2.1 - 3.0            -                -                -
Over 3.1             1       4,148,363         1,384,944           6,039            21.4              .5         41
Construction,         0   - 1.0             4         992,111           420,837            n.s.            64.3           22.3        179
building            1.1 - 2.0            -                -                 -                              -              -          -
materials           2.1 - 3.0            -                -                 -
Over 3.1             -                -                        -               -              -                  -
Garments,             0   - 1.0             7       1,278,916           192,376        249,244            40.0            n.a.        220
footwear,           1.1 - 2.0            1        1,230,646           689,275            n.a.           39.0            n.a.        600
leatherworks        2.1 - 3.0            -                -                -                              -
Over 3.1             -               -                                 -                      -                  -
Metal products        0   - 1.0             4         803,783           522,112             108            24.3           n.-.        216
1.1 - 2.0            1       1,410,233           943,210            n.a.            60.0           50.0           0      .
2.1 - 3.0            1       2,987,257           667,230            n.a.            60.0           50.0         56      @
Over 3.1             -               -                 -                              -               -          -
Paper products        0   - 1.0             -               -                 -
1.1 - 2.0            1       1,288,400           990,167                0           17.0           n.a.           0
2.1 - 3.0            2       4,404,728         1,642,344            n.a.            60.0           n.a.        113
Over 3.1             -               _                 -               _              _
Wood-related          0   - 1.0            20       6,665,036         2,762,910          11,581            45.7           12.5       1902
industries          1.1 - 2.0            -                -                -                       -              -            -
2.1 - 3.0            -               -                 -
Over 3.1                             -                 -                              -               -  
Others                0   - 1.0             5       1,788,694         1,081,480            n.a.           60.6            14.0        104
1.1 - 2.0            2       2,918,036           604,136            n.a.            50.0           n.a.        213
2.1 - 3.0            -               -                 -
Over 3.1            A        4.s67.82e        .20S009             2L3.3I             0.0           n.a.        ee4
Total                                70      48,944,980        17,416,318          31,533           41.0            12.8       5021      >
n.a. - not available
Sourre:   NIB
AF4IE
September 1988



_  60  -                         ANNEX 3-1
Page 1 of 4
GHANA - PRIVATE SMALL AMD MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PILOT MUTUALIST CREDIT GUARANTEE SCHEME
Rationale in the Ghanaian Context
1.        The Government of Ghana has placed a high priority on improving
the access of microentrepreneurs to credit, with the objective of raising
employment and income-earning opportunities at the lower end of the income
scale. A variety of informal arrangements exist to help people accumulate
savings and obtain short-term credit. But small borrowers have
historically had very littie contact with the formal banking system,
especially for term loans. The Mutualist Credit Guarantee Scheme (MCGS) is
a pilot project that attempts to bridge the gap between formal banking
institutions and microentrepreneurs. It has many similarities to the
recently-established Women's World Banking Ghana Scheme and to schemes
included in private enterprise development projects in Nigeria and Togo.
2.        Two obstacles that inhibit commercial bank lending to small- and
micro-enterprises in Ghana are the banks' insistence on collateral, usually
land or buildings, and their perception that such loans are relatively
risky. The mutualist approach addresses these problems by encouraging
fairly homogeneous small businesses to form associations and raise funds
for deposit in participating financial institutions (PFIs) as a form of
collateral and guarantee against default for loans made to the group or
individual members. Experience with successful microenterprise credit
programs in other countries suggests that responsible behavior by
individual borrowers can best be enforced through the peer pressure of
close associates who stand to lose either savings or borrowing capacity in
the case of non-payment. A central Counter-Guarantee fund further reduces
the risk to the PFI. The mutualist association can also help reduce the
bank's costs of administering the loans.
3.        The mutualist approach is well grounded in Ghanaian tradition and
experience, although it has not been applied systematically to
nonagricultural lending. Farmers commonly group together to make group
purchases of inputs and equipment, and most of Ghana's banks have made term
loans to such groups. Registered associations represent the various trades
at both the local and national levels, and some have used banks to make
group credits. Most important, voluntary associations have long been a
means of mobilizing savings and providing credit, ranging from informal
"susu" groups to registered credit unions. In many of these arrangements,
participants pay a fee to the group or an agent in order to accumulate
savings and have access to credit in time of need.
4.        Although the commercial banks have extended short-term credit and
assistance for group purchases of inputs when the amount is fully covered
by the group's funds on deposit, they have been reluctant to leverage
borrowers' funds or to make term loans that are not backed by seizable
collateral. The experience has been least favorable when the borrowers (or
loan co-signers) have little of their own funds at risk. To encourage



-  61  -                         ANNEX 3-1
Page 2 of 4
banks to increase their lending to very small enterprises, the proposed
scheme offers positive incentives and minimizes the risks involved.
Outline of the Scheme
S.        Two types of loans are envisaged:  group loans, to an association
as a whole for the purchase of a jointly-owned asset or of inputs to be
distributed by the association, and individual loans to members of an
association. Conditions and procedures would be similar in both cases,
with some possible variations in the method of collection and in the
maximum ratio between loans outstanding and the guarantee fund. Mutuilist
associations may be any voluntary grouping of entrepreneurs, as well as
registered professional associations, credit unions, and cooperatives.
6.        To qualify for a loan under the MCGS, an association would have
to raise funds from members and deposit them in an interest-bearing
guarantee fund account with the PFI. The PFI would set guidelines as to
the maximum amounts it would lend to individual members and/or to the group
as a whole (relative to the guarantee fund) and the minimum equity
contribution the borrower must make to a proposed project. The guarantee
fund would cover a specified proportion (e.g., one-third) of the
outstanding balance on loans in default. Although the association's
guarantee fund and the Counter-Guarantee Fund are intended to substitute
for collateral, the PFI may also place a lien on assets purchased with the
loan in order to cover its own funds at risk.
7.        Project proposals would have to receive the endorsement of the
mutualist association and would then be appraised by the PFI. To be
eligible, the project must be in productive sectors and related service
activities other than subsistence agriculture, trade, and real estate; and
total assets of the enterprise, defined as existing fixed assets (excluding
land) plus the cost of the project, should not exceed the equivalent of
US$20,000. The PFI should apply simple appraisa. criteria based on the
expected cash flow and repayment capacity. Both fixed assets and working
capital will be eligible for financing.
8.        For loans made under this scheme, PFIs would be able to obtain
the funds from FUSMED at two percentage points below the reference interest
rate and to receive a guarantee from the Counter-Guarantee Fund for up to
one-third of the loan amount. The extra two percent spread is intended to
provide an incentive for PFIs to participate in this scheme; it is expected
that they would charge the same rate of interest to both small and large
borrowers.
9.        If a payment to a PFI on a loan is overdue for 90 days, the PFI
will inform the mutual association and FUSMED, as well as the individual
borrower. Unless payment is made or the borrower and the PFI reach
agreement on a rescheduling within 90 days, the PFI may declare the loan in
default. The PFI then may deduct the specified percentage of the amount
outstanding from the association's guarantee fund, call the guarantee from
the Counter-Guarantee Fund, and initiate proceedings to recover any
mortgaged assets under the loan. If net proceeds from the sale of
recovered assets exceeds the PFIvs losses from the loan, it must distribute



-  62  -                         ANNEX 3-1
Page 3 of 4
the excess proportionately to the mutualist association's guarantee fund
and the Counter-Guarantee Fund.
10.       FUSMED will build up the Counter-Guarantee Fund by setting aside
a portion of interest payments received from PFIs under the
MCGS. The proportion can be adjusted periodically on the basis of actual
experience. Mutual associations will be encouraged to build up their
guarantee funds by adding a portion of earnings or dues, as well as by
accumulating interest.
Technical Assistance
11.       As a pilot project, the MCGS requires some technical assistance
to initiate and publicize it. The technical assistance component of the
SME Development Project includes funds for FUSMED to hire consultants to
work with PFIs and professional associations to develop appropriate
guidelines and set some of the parameters.
12.       Guidelines and procedures are needed for:
(a)  the niature, form, and size that mutualist associations can
take under the scheme, including standard forms (specifying
terms and conditions) for them to register with PFIs when
depositing a credit guarantee fund;
(b) applying for a loan, including format of the application and
criteria to be applied by the mutualist association and by
the PFI in approving an application;
(c) declaring a loan to be in default and collecting from the
guarantee funds;
(d) terms and conditions for individual members to withdraw from
the association and receive their share of deposited funds,
and for new members to enter.
13. Parameters to be specified include:
(a) rate of interest on mutualist association guarantee fund
deposits;
(b) maximum ratios of Individual loans and of loans outstanding
to guarantee funds on deposit (which may vary between types
of associations and over time, depending on the rFI's
experience with each association);
(c) portion of outstanding balance to be covered by the
mutualist guarantee fund and the Counter-Guarantee Fund in
the case of default;
(d) equity contribution required and the extent to which the
mutualist guarantee fund can be counted toward meeting debt-
equity ratio requirements;



-  63  -                         ANNEX 3-1
Page 4 of 4
(e) share of interest payments to FUSMED under the MCGS that is
to be allocated to the Counter-Guarantee Fund, and criteria
for periodic adjustment of this proportion;
(f) portion of spread or fees to be allocated to the mutualist
association according to the extent that it takes
responsibility for loan supervision and collection.
AF4IE
September 1988



-  64 -                             ANNEX 3-2
Page 1 of 17
GHANA - PRIVATE SMALL AMD MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Institutional Technical Assistance Components and Estimated Costs
Introduction
1.        The technical assistance program of this project aims to
strengthen and professionalize Ghana's in-country capacity to administer
credit and provide advisory, training and support services in project
preparation and implementation to enable SMEs to take full advantage of the
credit facilities being offered through the Fund for Small and Medium
Enterprise Development (FUSMED), thereby improving the SME sector's
capacity to generate employment, improve income levels and develop
productive skills.  Assistance to FUSMED under the project is described in
para 3.09. The other principal institutional beneficiaries of the
technical assistance program are the National Board for Small Scale
Industries (NBSSI), Womens World Banking Ghana Ltd. (WWBG), the Management
Development Productivity Institute (MDPI) and Ghana Institute of Management
and Public Administration (GIMPA). Assistance would be provided to the
Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) for a study on the
state of technology development and the Ghana Export Promotion Council to
assess the feasibility of establishing an export processing zone. The SME
Secretariat would be the apex body responsible for the coordinating and
reporting activities of the beneficiary and executing agencies.
I.   The National Board for Small Scale Industries
2.        NBSSI, established by the Government of Ghana in 1985, is the
coordinating body for the small-scale industry (SSI) sector in Ghana. Its
mandate is to act as a coordinator and catalyst for small-scale enterprise
(SSE) promotion and growth. NBSSI's current activities include a survey of
3,000 SSEs conducted with the support of UNDP and the World Bank through
UNIDO. The results of the survey will enable NBSSI to develop a more
accurate picture of its client base and obtain an appropriate definition of
an SSE. There are a number of definitions of SSEs in Ghana although for
the purposes of the survey an SSE is defined as an enterprise having 2-10
million cedis in assets, excluding land and/or fewer than 9 employees.
NBSSI also continues to carry out its Entrepreneurship Development Program
(EDP). It has had its first training workshop in Accra and plans are
underway for additional sessions in Accra and other regions. UNIDO is also
proposing to support an NBSSI-sponsored conference in the Fall of 1938 to
be called the First National Conference on SSEs. Foreign and domestic
agencies concerned with the health and future of the SSE sector are
expected to discuss finance for SSEs and other forms of assistance for
SSEs.
3.        To date, NBSSI has been constrained by lack of professional,
financial and physical resources to undertake its responsibilities.
Through the SME project, this agency would be strengthened to enable it to
fulfill its essential mandate and to represent the small scale sector in
the various national programs and projects being started by international
donors as well as this project. Assistance will be provided to enable it



-  65 -                             ANNEX 3-2
Page 2 of 17
to: (a) continue to conduct the EDP and set up Entrepreneurship
Development Advisory Centers (EDAC); (b) coordinate the establishment of
two pilot projects; namely, a growth center providing sites and services
and business incubators; (c) improve its physical and professional
infrastructure.
A.   Entrepreneucship Development Program
(i) Background
4.        The EDP in Ghana began in April 1987 with World Bank support of
US$160,000 through its Special Project Preparation Facility. The four
phases of the first program completed in September, 1988 included: (i) a
country review to assess SSE related activities, institutions for technical
assistance and credit delivery, constraints at the policy, regulatory and
infrastructure levels and identification of ten trainers/motivators; (ii)
training of ten trainers/motivators; (iii) identification of business
opportunities and preparation of project profiles with the EDP graduates;
and (iv) training workshops for selected entrepreneurs.
5.        The objectives of the EDP are to:  (i) generate productive
self-employment through the establishment of SSEs; (ii) stimulate
indigenous entrepreneurship and harmonious growth of the industrial sector,
mobilize local resources, and reduce regional imbalances; (iii) improve the
performance of SSEs through training and development of well-rounded
entrepreneurs; (iv) improve the relationship between SSEs and credit
institutions; and (v) generate, stimulate and encourage cultural and
behavioral attitudes necessary for the evolution of a healthy industrial
culture.
6.        The EDP process involves the following principal steps:  (i)
identifying and carefully selecting potential entrepreneurs; (ii)
developing their business capabilities; (iii) preparing viable projects
suited to the entrepreneur's capability, inclinations and experience; (iv)
teaching entrepreneurs basic managerial skills; and (v) helping them secure
needed financial, infrastructural and related assistance so that the
business venture materializes within the shortest time. Two workshops were
conducted in Accra in July with 60 participants out of an application pool
of 930. The first workshops represented a wide range of participants
including men and women who were redeployed civil servants, school
graduates, traders, technicians, etc.
(ii) Next Steps
7.        NBSSI submitted a proposal for Government's consideration to use
its counterpart fund from USAID of ¢80 million to provide approximately
3,000 loans to SSEs and EDP graduates over three years. The project loan
would be administered by the Ghana Cooperative Bank which will provide
loans of up to 902 of the total project cost with the entrepreneur
contributing the remaining 10Z. The SSE loan project component is viewed
as an essential element for the EDP graduates who will have difficulty as



-   66-                             ANNEX 3-2
Page 3 of 17
start-ups securing access to conventional commercial credit. It also
allows NBSSI to evaluate the success of the EDP process more accurately.
8.        Two more EDP workshops are planned for Accra in November/December
1988 and in Kumasi, Tamale, and Takoradi early in 1989. Other regions are
targeted for 1990 and 1991. NBSSI plans to modify and adopt the tests,
content of the program, and study materials developed by the
Entrepreneurship Development Institute of India (EDII) to the Ghanaian
context as well as continue to develop new project profiles particular to
the region in conjunction with the workshops. Ten more trainers/motivators
will train at the EDII in India to complement the existing number of
trainers motivators.
9.        In addition, it is planned to establish the EDP in all ten
regions of the country through EDAC operating out of the regional offices
of NBSSI.
(iii) Support under the Project
10.       To assist NBSSI to continue the EDP partial assistance would be
made to: (a) conduct 30 training workshops in the next three years; (b)
develop ten more trainers/motivators; (c) adapt the content of the program
and materials to the Ghanaian context; (d) identify and develop new
business project profiles; (e) undertake a study tour to examine
technologies used in other countries and recommend new methods to be
adopted in Ghana; (f) undertake an annual evaluation of the program by an
outside consultantt Partial assistance would also be provided in the
start-up of the small business entrepreneurship advisory -entres in Accra,
Kumasi and Tamale. The EDAC would be staffed by a minimum of two trained
professionals with adequate support staff trained in SSE support and
promotioni activities. The offices would have the responsibilities of (i)
disseminating information to SSEs in their region; (ii) assisting SSEs with
the regulatory requirements for starting operations; (iii) identifying
project opportunities and helping with business plans; (iv) offering
workshops to interested groups in the region on SSE matters; (v)
coordinating the EDP training sessions in the regions; (vi) advising on
access to commercial and non-commercial forms of credit; (vii) assisting
through a special fund with implementation problems of SSEs through the use
of local consultants.
B.   Pilot Projects
11.       There are few working examples in Ghana of projects zf
application to SSEs. EDP is one of the first initiatives. The SME Project
will support two pilot projects, (i) a growth center providing sites and
services, and (ii) business incubators. These projects, supervised by
NBSSI, would be selected for their ease of replication and for the
significant SSE training component inherent in their design. The objective
of the selected pilot projects are to identify and strengthen a significant
number of SSEs and bring them quickly to commercial banking maturity to
access the credit facilities through FUSMED.



-   67 -                            ARMEX 3-2
Page 4 of 17
(i) Growth Center: Sites and Services
12.       In interviews and documented surveys, the needs expressed by the
SSE sector are consistent: access to credit, need for more certain
supplies of inputs--raw materials and equipment, bulk/group purchases of
inputs at lower costs, services such as developed land, better
transportation, water and electrical supplies, educational opportunities in
SSE management and the need for access to appropriate consultancy services
that will respond efficiently to various specific problems in production
and marketing. Essential to the success of SSE programs is to ensure an
integrated and complementary approach that packages the above elements.
Recognizing the difficulties SSEs face in obtaining land and access to
infrastructure (access roads, electricity, water, building permits, etc.)
these various elements will be brought together through the establishment
of a growth center in Accra providing sites and services to SSEs.
13.       At the request of MIST land has been set aside for NBSSI in Accra
and Kumasi for industrial plant sites. Tamale is expected to respond
shortly. It is estimated that each location would involve 50 plots, each
100 feet square. Each plot would cost about US$5,000 for acquisition by
lease from the owner, clearing the land and for electricity, water, roads
and drainage. It is anticipated that this cost would be recovered over 10
years through rental payments by the entreprenelirs. It is estimated that
the costs of constructing the sheds would be ¢1.5 million on average and
would be borne by the entrepreneurs outright or could be built by the
developer and amortized in the lease.
14.       A design study would first be prepared and would, among others,
appraise the sites located in Accra, and assess the potential demand of the
local community for developed plots; assess the prevailing industrial
sectors of the local market for potential growth center tenants; determine
the availability and extent of local institutional support, expertise and
consulting in project implementation assistance, marketing, exporting and
financing; recommend an organizational-management-financing structure for
the growth centers; provide a detailed working budget for start-up, fixed
and operating costs for the growth center itself; recommend a suitable
approach to providing support programs and advisory services in addition to
the basic sites and services by management of the growth centers; and
prepare the implementation schedule.
(ii) Business Incubators
15.       Ghana Regional Appropriate Technology Industrial Service (GRATIS)
was created in 1987 to promote small scale industrialization in Ghana by
making available consulting services to any small industrialist seeking to
upgrade its activities through the introduction of new products or
manufacturing processes. Intermediate Technology Transfer Units (ITTU"s)
are the operating divisions of GRATIS. The services of an ITTU are varied
and many. The ITTU offers advice on all technical and economic aspects of
an entrepreneur's project and offers on the job training to craftsmen and



-  68  -                            ANNEX 3-2
Page 5 of 17
their apprentices. The ITTU may assist a client in gaining access to
equipment or workspace.
16.       GRATIS is about to receive CIDA assistance to enable it to
acquire equipment and machinery (foreign and domestic) to then enter into
hire-purchase arrangements or payment installment plans with the
entrepreneurs to enable them to more easily finance equipment purchases
while having early access to the use of the machine.
17.       The next stage in the development of the ITTU is to move from
technical advice to advice and assistance in the whole area of small
business management skills including accounting, bookkeeping, marketing and
budgeting. The business incubator approach will enable GRATIS to offer the
complete package of inputs needed for SSEs to be successful.
18.       Essentially, the business incubator is a flexible model to assist
SSEs through the difficult start-up period of business growth, when cash
flow is negative, marketing is only beginning and experience is nominal.
While the model is adaptable, certain characteristics of incubator programs
are common: (i) the provision of shared services (secretarial, accounting,
legal) at low cost; (ii) easy access to pertinent business information and
advice; (iii) low rent; (iv) flexible space for expansion; and (v) flexible
leasing arrangements. The model packages the ingredients necessary to
promote sound, small business development so the entrepreneur can maximize
his technical know-how. Since the success of the business incubator is
determined by the commercial viability of the tenants, the presence of
incubator enterprises are not a distorting influence on the local economy.
19.       Generally, the incubator tenants pay a graduated rent, tied to
revenue, that increases over a 3-year period, at which time the tenant has
acquired the necessary business skills to succeed and a network of
associates to call upon. The graduation process out of the incubators is
important as it provides for a constant flow of tenant entrepreneurs,
making reom for new start-ups. The graduation out of the incubator is
highly compatible with the plans for the serviced plots to be developed
under the Growth Centers as a next stop in business growth.
20.       A design study will be undertaken under the project to examine
the local economic base of the primary and secondary ITTUs and their
surrounding communities, assess the small business support network, make
recommendations on the appropriate mix of incubator elements, and provide a
plan of action for its implementation.
C.   Infrastructure:  Physical and Professional
21.       NBSSI is currently located in inadequate facilities unable to
accommodate a full staff complement. We understand that NBSSI will shortly
be moving to larger, more appropriate space that has been allocated to
them. At this time, they will have a full staff complement and one/two
more economists, a statistician and additional project officers.



-  69 -                             ANNEX 3-2
Page 6 of 17
22.       Accommodation has also been set aside for NBSSI to open its next
office in Kumasi before the end of 1988. Approval has been given for an
office in Tamale in early 1989 and negotiations for appropriate office
space are underway. The EDP as well as the services of the
entrepreneurship development advisory centers will be coordinated from
these regional offices.
23.       Assistance will be provided for a computer, printer, and desk-top
publisher with related software to enable NBSSI to maintain and
continuously update its database on SSEs at its Accra Office. Assistance
will be provided for the two new offices in Kumasi and Tamale for a
computer for each office and for a vehicle to allow for regional outreach
to the rural communities in the surrounding areas through the extension of
the EDP to Kumasi and Tamale. It is understood that the Entrepreneurship
Development Advisory Centers of the EDP will form most of the activities of
the NBSSI regional office.
24.       Provision is made for NBSSI to develop materials and brochures
for dissemination of programs and policies affecting SSEs as well as a
guide to the regulatory requirements for business start-ups; to build a
data base on SSEs that it will maintain and update on a periodic basis.
Provi3ion for library materials and periodical subscriptions of small
business * ;rnals is also included.
25.       In addition, provision is made for an external consultant to be
attached to NBSSI for a period of two years to assist the Executive
Director in planning and policy formulation, office management, staff
training and implementation of the pilot projects and the study on
regulatory and incentive environment for SSEs proposed under this project.
The Terms of Reference for the external consultant have been prepared.
26.       Technical assistance will include resources for staff training in
financial analysis, SSE promotion, project preparation and other SSE
issues. This will permit NBSSI to staff the entrepreneurship development
advisory centers under EDP with highly motivated, knowledgeable staff
accessible and useful to the SSE community.
D.   Study on the Regulatory and Incentive Environment for Private Sector
and SSE Development
27.       The proposed study is expected to help the Government formulate a
consistent framework that will focus its resources on the critical problems
of the private sector and initiate practical steps to establish a more
conducive environment. The study would also focus on the critical problems
of SSEs, and is designed to provide a basis for discussion of the issues,
leading to a national policy. It will: (a) assess the current regulatory
and incentive environment for the private sector; (b) formulate appropriate
national objectives for private sector and SSE development, and develop the
rationale for certain types of interventions and incentives, if needed to
accomplish those objectives; (c) define the most effective overall approach
to implementing those objectives in terms of the organization and
responsibilities of governmental and non-governmental agencies that
regulate and assist private sector enterprises including SSEs; (d)
-------- A_ -^      -0 ----- a,lf+." vmrn4ri4nO cnnnort nrograms and special



- 70  -                             A!ENEX 3-2
Page 7 of 17
incentives directed at particular problems of SSEs, taking into account
legitimate objectives in regulating and taxing such business activity; and
(e) highlight additional measures that could be taken to improve the
overall environment.
II. Assistance to Women
(i) Background
28.       There are numerous organizations in Ghana whose purpose is to
deliver support and extension services to women. The largest and most
visible is the National Council for Women in Development (NCWD),
established by government decree in 1975. NCWD's objectives are to advise
the government on means by which women can be fully integrated into the
development process, serve as the official national body for coordinating
all projects designed specifically for women, initiate studies relating to
the status of women, and generally undertake to raise women's consciousness
and standards of living. Their activities include income-generating
activities such as fish-smoking and bead-making, social and scientific
research, counseling, public education programs, and special services in
times of emergencies. NCWD has been the recipient of a number of grants
from international donors as well as co-sponsor of projects with agencies
such as the ILO, UNDP and UNICEF. Current emphasis is almost exclusively
on rural, agro-based projects and research concerning improved technologies
for women. While NCWD is clearly in an advantageous position by virtue of
its government support and regional offices to deliver services to women,
it has been increasingly handicapped by frequently shifting leadership,
less than clear objectives, and competition among women's groups. UNDP is
sponsoring a project aimed at restructuring the Council, rationalizing its
staff and clarifying its goals.
29.       Another important women's organization is the Women's World
Banking Ghana Ltd. (WWBG), which is the local affiliate of Women's World
Banking International (WWB), an international NGO established in 1975 with
headquarters in New York and over 50 affiliated branches mostly in
developing countries. The focus of WWB is a guarantee scheme backed by an
international fund. Each affiliate of WWB raises a domestic guarantee fund
and has a call on the international fund. WWBG has a stand-by letter of
credit negotiated between Barclays Bank and WWB and signed in November
198?. Fifty percent of the principal amount of loans made by Barclays Bank
to women entrepreneurs through WWBG is guaranteed by WWB and 252 of the
principal is guaranteed by WWBG leaving the lending institution at risk for
only 25Z of the principal in the event of default. In all other aspects,
the loan is the same as a conventional bank loan with market interest
rates. The goal is to facilitate women's entry into the formal banking
system, establishing relationships of trust that will be ongoing and
mutually beneficial.



-   71 -                            ANNEX 3-2
Page 8 of 17
30.       WWBG was legally incorporated in 1982 as a private company, and
has been floating shares since 1984. Because business regulations in Ghana
restrict the number of shares to 50, women have grouped together to buy one
share which sells for a minimum of 50,000 cedis ($250). Through the sale
of shares and contributions from international organizations, the guarantee
fund is large enough for the scheme to be truly operational. WWBC- has
reviewed a number of loan applications and has submitted them to Barclays
Bank for processing. However, with the credit ceiling being enforced
Barclays Bank has not been able to grant loans under this scheme.
31.       WWBG's goals are to serve essentially as a financial mediator
between women entrepreneurs and banks assisting with project preparation,
initial financial appraisal, access to credit provision or referral for
appropriate business training, and follow-up on repayment where needed. In
line with its goals, WWBG also conducts workshops in simple business skills
to better prepare women entrepreneurs run successful businesses.
32.       Other women's organizations of some note include the Ghanaian
chapter of The Association for the Advancement of African Women (ASAWA),
begun in Zambia and Liberia and established in Ghana in 1985. ASAWA has
successfully organized 5-10 groups of women who smoke fish along the coast,
facilitating the transfer of improved technology to them as well as
obtaining loans from the Ghana Commercial Bank. The Business and
Professional Women in Ghana was initiated as a sister organization to WWBG
to help raise the status of women in business. The Christian Mothers of
Ghana has organized groups of women who meet regularly for general classes
on religious topics, nutrition and child care, and home industries.
(ii) Donors
33.       Among the international donors involved with women's projects,
Canadian University Services Overseas (CUSO), the YWCA, World Vision, UNDP,
and UNICEF are active participants. CUSO, with funding from CIDA is
establishing a comprehensive project for women in the Northern, Upper East
and Upper West regions. The US$2.8 million project aims at improving the
economic, social, educational and technical situation of women in Ghana and
provides for a revolving credit fund, a research fund for technology
development, three resource centers, training funds and vehicles. Rather
than focusing on projects that are directly income generating, the YWCA is
essentially service oriented with general courses in handicrafts and home
industries. World Vision sponsors a few projects that involve women: (a)
integrated rural development projects that address all aspects of village
women's lives with emphasis on income-generating agro-processing
activities, and (b) the Labadi family development projects that has
organized women into groups that bake bread and produce kenke. UNDP has
ccordinated a Technology for Rural Women project with funding from the
Dutch government and NCWD as the implementing agency. This project assists
rural women by providing technical support and equipment for smoked fish
production, gari processing, palm oil extraction and soap and shea butter
making. UNDP is also providing funds to restructure the NCWD. UNICEF
seeks to improve the health and well-being of rural women and children and



-  72  -                            ANNEX 3-2
Page 9 of 17
is active in distributing machines that are used to grind and combine
beans, corn, and groundnuts into a high protein, infant weaning food for
direct consumption or as an income-generating activity. UNICEF promotes
new technologies for smoking fish that are less wasteful and more hygienic.
Neither EEC nor USAID have programs that are specifically for women.
(iii) Assistance under the Project
34.       Except for certain services available for rural agro-processing
activities very little assistance is available to women who choose to
expand from trading activities to start up or maintain productive
businesses. Almost without exception, women's organizations, national and
international NGOs are expending their energies and funds on projects for
rural women who have long been neglected in development efforts. Although
these programs are indisputably important the value added and profits
generated from small, grass-roots programs are very low. Expansion of
businesses owned by women are ,.imited further since they tend to resort to
the informal sector consisting of friends, landlords, middlemen,
professional money lenders, and mutual aid groups (or rotating savings and
credit associations locally known as susu) rather than the formal
institutional sector to satisfy their credit needs.
35.       To assist in the growth and development of productive businesses
owned by women technical assistance will be provided to WWBG to enable them
to (a) conduct at least 3 training workshops per year in simple business
skills such as accounting, bookkeeping, cash flow projections, inventory
control and marketing ; (b) assist businesswomen in preparing feasibility
studies, obtaining licenses and credits and solving operational problems;
(c) strengthen their own staff's capabilities to appraise, supervise and
monitor projects and develop linkages between the formal and informal
financial sectors; and (d) on a quarterly basis produce and distribute a
newsletter that will provide information on: credit facilities available
in Ghana; programs offering entrepreneurial training in financial matters;
technical assistance, extension services, management counselling for
preparation of feasibility studies and operational problem solving; and
acquisition of know-how, machinery and materials; and (e) establish a
branch office in Kumasi on its third year of operation.
36.       To ensure that women are full beneficiaries of the project they
would be included as an integral part of the promotional and operational
phases of this project by banks, training institutions and agencies. The
means of promotion used would include those routes by which women receive
information. Data and records required for this project would be designed
to reflect the gender of the beneficiary, e.g. the number of women who
receive loans under the line of credit, are served by business advisory
centers, or are trained through programs supported by this project.



-  73  -                         ANNEX 3-2
Page 10 of 17
III. Assistance to Management Training Institutions
(i) Background
37.       Two organizations have been selected for support to enhance their
ability to offer management training and advisory services to the SME
sector: the Management Development and Productivity Institute (MDPI) and
the Ghana Institute of Management and Public Administration (GIMPA).
38.       MDPI was incorporated in 1964 as a parastatal to improve and
develop the standard of management in Ghana, promote increased efficiency
and productivity in industry, commerce and other related fields and to
introduce appropriate management practices and techniques into the
workplace. The Institute has five main program areas: management
training, management consultancy, management research, management agencies
and small-scale industry advisory services.
39.       GIMPA, on the other hand, was first established in 1961 to, among
other things, promote the study of public administration and management in
Ghana and to promote understanding and cooperation between governmental
bodies and those engaged in the private sector. GIMPA has historically
worked with senior executives. It has now been determined that the small
scale sector should be a focus of their activity.
(ii) Assistance Under the Project
40.       The SME project will provide support to the Small-Scale Industry
Management Department of MDPI and to the proposed small-scale management
department of GIMPA to strengthen their institutional and delivery capacity
for the SME sector. Support will focus on professional, curricula and
infrastructural improvements. This will involve as a preparatory stage
sending a nominee each from MDPI and GIMPA overseas to examine the growing
number of Centers of Excellence for Small Business and if possible having
the nominees take part in a case writing workshop specific to small
business.
41.       In return the mission of these respective departments of MDPI and
GIMPA will be to strengthen entrepreneurial activities within Ghana and
encourage innovations and new venture formation. The following are a
number of primary activities necessary to achieve these objectives: (a)
the teaching and encouragement of entrepreneurship, small business
management and enterprise development by providing courses to regular day
students and to evening and weekend part-time students; and conducting
various seminars, workshops and conferences to be offered to organisations,
associations and government bodies working with the SME sector such as the
Department of Rural and Cottage Industries, and to secondary school
teachers for early school leavers; (b) adapting existing course curricula
to the practical needs of SMEs and creating new course material where
appropriate; (c) using visiting speakers, active entrepreneurs, SME
business persons, exporters and researchers to join classes; (d)
undertaking an active student consulting program under supervision where



-  74  -                            ANNEX 3-2
Page 11 of 17
students apply their knowledge to aid business persons with a range of
problems at low cost. Services can include: marketing plans, feasibiity
studies, market surveys, business plans, budgeting, forecasting,
bookkeeping, access to government programs and access to credit. This
enables the entrepreneur to receive free or inexpensive advice and
assistance and the student sees, first hand, how small business operates
and understands the reasons for its success and failure; (e) the creation
of a SME Research Group to direct, encourage, support and widely
disseminate research in the areas of entrepreneurship, small business and
enterprise development. In particular MDPI and GIMPA should consult
frequently and widely with NBSSI and each other concerning the research
needs of SSEs; (f) the development of workshop material adapted to women
entrepreneurs to be made available to WWBG and other women's organizations
and other educational material including case studies of SMEs for internal
use as well as for other educational institutions such as the National
Vocational Training Institutes; (g) MDPI and GIMPA will be responsible for
liaison with other educational institutions, researchers and members of the
public and private sector, through interaction, joint programs, courses,
workshops and exchanges of materials; (h) planning through these activites
to generate revenue for future activities through securing private sector
funding for research, providing seminars and consulting; (i) creating a SME
advisory board for each institution with several common members from the
large scale and SME private sector which would include a representative of
NBSSI. The advisory board would guide activities at a general oversight
level during the initial three years of the project.
IV. Other Studies
42.       Technology Development:  Provision under the technical assistance
component would be made for a strategy study on technological development
to be carried out by CSIR for policy consideration and implementation by
the Government. This study will (a) prepare a technology development
review by examining the current state of technology innovation at selected
sectoral levels, identifying areas of weakness in relation to national
development plans, identifying areas of comparative advantage in
international, regional and national markets, based on the country's
physical and human resources, and examining existing policy and
institutional mechanisms reflecting the country's industrial policy; (b)
formulate appropriate national objectives for SSE development, and develop
the rationale for certain types of interventions and incentives, if needed
to accomplish these objectives; (c) define an approach to effectively
implement those objectives in terms of the organization and
responsibilities of the private and public sector which have a role to play
in technology development; (d) highlight the state of technology
development in the SSE sector and its potential for growth; (e) examine the
linkages between the SSE and SME sector and the large-scale enterprises and
show how the linkages can be facilitated; and (f) propose additional
measures that could be taken to improve the overall environment for the
development of appropriate technology. The study will examine the
elements/building blocks for technology, policy and institutional
instruments, the level of trade and technology development, the protection
of patents and intellectual property rights, financial mechanisms to fund



- 75  -                             ANNEX 3-2
Page 12 of 17
technology development and human resources and information systems. Draft
terms of reference, staffing, budget, and implementation schedule for the
study have been prepared and will be agreed on during negotiations.
43.       Export Promotion and Processing Zones:  In their efforts to
modernize and remain competitive, developing countries are increasingly
finding that duty free zones are a vehicle to stimulate exports, create
employment, and direct investment to targeted areas. GEPC will examine the
creation of a duty-free zone for expert promotion processing for SMEs in
Ghana.  This prefeasibility study will (a) assess the current environment
reviewing systematically the problems faced by exporters and particularly
SMEs; reviewing the current framework of incentives, taxation, access to
foreign currency, duties and customs affecting the exporter; assessing the
availability and ease of export financing through the commercial banking
system; determining the availability, reliability and costs of local costs
for developing a free zone including land, electricity, water, transport
and telecommunications; assessing the quality and productivity of labour;
and comparing this with neighboring comparative countries and other free
zone areas; and analyzing the provisions of the current Investment Code and
other relevant regulations from the perspective of potential free zone
investors on issues such as ease of dividend repatriation, other foreign
exchange controls, import licences, availability of imported spare parts,
customs duties, investment approval procedures and the availability of
business visas; (b) define the most appropriate approach for establishing
a free zone in Ghana by setting forth the economic policies that would be
needed to implement a free zone; and making recommendations on the type,
location, and operation of the free zone; and (c) if preliminary firdings
are appropriate, draft tLie terms of reference for a full feasibility study.
Draft terms of reference, staffing, budget, and implementation schedule for
the study have been prepared and will be agreed on during negotiations.



0WA: SAL SO MwDi eN EI  Rr
3MMR f     R1Ufi aCTS FURS  11    E          1ISt* SQ
Calmidu of Execution
Exttm   I  Load    Total       I,wtlittic,ul                                       (Assmmi dffect.ive
lilecti i                                    d                    It    to b Fi d               Cm       cost    Cost       _ tuibilita            Expeted &nwit                 dte of lam cAti
A.  Asistwm  to BOG. FRUIa  FFq
(a) ;A>t the BOM  In tlh Etbl7Sb Wt-     Supplloinit &tff sillI ini       Coniu I to   CM                 14D      SDO  10           Ostdiumit of an defhtive                          2 ye    inicirg first
nt, __nt and .isinistreicn of    RFUD wit an _7tanul                                                             sc. _nd-ti_r (Cpa) facility                                             qirtw- of 1M.
FRfD, Uo pm uit rrd in the               maxmltm*v#bmigU mid SE                                                                                         for -SE  Idlg.
airt7n of th  lin of credit ncl         dmlaps  ind credit
otiw ShE   MId  an tsrIN  Im iirn        qpcbli t.
sc    ; prov7 da  aordinst crn-
ti_job trsining  includinrg onwiran-     E7ipmnt wid vdhicle.              2 PCa with print.r nd          S10       6      Si
tel a    uwm training for RF    md                                         aInotf , a vahicle_.
PFn; _stsbli7h initoring emomtngi                                          p        iryig wd aflica
mid  WMart7ng syu,; 0 _ mist with                                           7  -nt
7nstitutlaul stiwrthnitV of CFD.
Extmil traini7n  visite to    b    ntmtio7tl travi llg          3D         -    3m
SE Apedsmems In otier            mnd _Agn. 
ountries, WWII attad,mnta.
(b) ShE projct orietation for FF1.,      Smlters, CoUa,   * _WS 'I.       C*nqultwft (18   _O 0m,         110       )    1W iR                          Tained peaot7mi  sff In          Sm7n_ers/xmz  0m WA     r
str-wIgthVI PrI staff caoi I Wase in     mid otle. project relata          .c.t.iul).                                                                   AFIs and BM; lpe-ov.d skui Is to  ppeapre-ita training to
project 7W1isa, qsrvision snd            training for staff of FFI mid                                                                                  in the bniig syIr                 otmtntn dfti .
innitori;g of thn line of crdit mnd      DM.                               Traininrg aId ad eop,-           a       -       6
oer SE lnding sdem_ .                                                     wit.
(c) rdoitify tM., mist with             Conduct stL*.                     Cameitmit  (6  _       ,        3D   20          OD        h/RS         0       a_l1   nt of procauw;   O         mr    31, II.
fogutiol of mutual ae-mi-                                                  locol mnd ac_w)                                                              idotification of NM&; 0nd
mocictions; drign policism                                                                                                                              lnwI .   Imidig to 0lcr-
pro oda  for mdi; ist crdit                                                                                                                             ent7rprismt.
omiwts sed.m for miao.terxrm
brding; mid, mist with
implumitetion.
(d) Asixtmia  to MOG to dlop an          Study of setng pati7ms,          CawItmnt (7-6 ti                     ---_ ,  4D   10       EOl                Policy aid rq.letory             Swod hslf of 2.
aporoprista Iegletory policy            dfrlop policy wid reglatory        local cnd mtmu)iproveaYt for lesig; md
fre-o- for epipmnt leming.               fr_ommm  , mid peWe deft                                                                                       nm  I_ing 1m.
legialstion.                     sutota   (                      616            7D
Fuinacing:>
DA                          MSlti      S71 1E6                                                                                     - > Z
CO4fiiow,ing                 -       -      -                                                                                      0   z



EKterrI  Locol   TOW l         irMt.it&oa~ml                                                  1ct
e. *h1amio to 
(i) Aist Se 'mitprmwaurn in                  I II o a pilot xbidim fuid     Lp to Rs of ca Iet                              XI Xna2me aces of .Wport                                        Sqi,S_  2, IM
cbaitelr, tbd icol m_i                   to fi n Lup to 5X of the           of oonal towi. *i   to S ,                                                                            ition
.cIon   i_vi  m   nd         nrelated m9t of   3                                                                                                           .  G; YrWiO   %E spUt
aurl I in for p epCatlcn of                                                                                                                                Institutions, md emur%
f_ibi I ity ebidimu   aoI,liolticn of                                                                                                                    tih deieepuI of tnm
lam   mwd mKhilwy ad for olvlr                                                                                                                            cormultirng lndustry.
cpeslcr1 l problm.
(b) Patiel m_t*-  to SS  In              Eatebl lsh 3   Eitrprarhip        Stuf triniV - 2                  go      20    120         NM,                 Sbtwthinlrg N         to        IWIS.
ubitlnhiU alewory   vice for             Dwv*mito Advisory CAnter,          orlntotion mal.r.  id 2                                                        provide rglcml acces tI
b-ilI ,twb-,_ 1, .ilutcry                 - part of  ssAPr wth              fol lc-_u  sminre (3 adaya                                                   parly mport *vime for
qpra.Il pcucli, poet atmt-                objectives.                       each) id coduct of                                                             SE tur     ativitie   i
Iqi m tion, p tiomil  id                                                    a 1cI p for SSE                                                              oning iand
emqicn problem.                                                             antrp-    (4 per                                 ning d                                        Icol
y_r)-                                                                         carlting in&intry.
Cplns te. SP
objetiv_.
Finance relae      altiqg         Pftial mtete of                   -              Snra  em. to supt                                               1-IS.
mute.    ~ ~ ~ ~~~ew iwina~tasuvlm.                                                                       rvicwfr SW;
1Actol (0)                     2ZD      SOD       c,p _cof lcol
Finncing:                                                                     ouinlti   industry.
I                           21D      SOD    am
Co-furmcing-                           -
C. Asisance MDM
(a) D_mlopFInt wd delivery of            Contimation  ind sterudming        TraInrg w   tikW    in nid       -      ISO    12                             MAl Id a Uthrn mful ly              1
training prorm  In businr a w d           of EP.                           caaeid of 0cO  (10                                                              laudd EP  nd  t    Ite
fi7nam.                                                                     alyhope/yr.), wadificotion                                                    delivory   cita to cmr
of study _btribis,                                                            regioc of  0mm, seist in
do_iopt of n  project                                                         adpting EP to a_nion
pro" _le.                                                                     bunin_m .wirorrAnt.
Train additionl traIner-        12)       -    12)
rotivat_r (total 20
P mv of EP by terim-             3D       -     30
cownltant (1/yr.).
-~ >
(b) Dweip pilot project to provide       Uhctar    tht eetablish...t of    Pr ision of a ftud to be         R         -                    I              Provide Ited   u          of      19)-2i91                r    z
infreatnactLral uwd adveasory atvport    ore pilot growth om,bor           -ap   by l~Ito                                                                 awviid land, aces to
to SSX throuigh tWe c- tion of a          providiqg situ  and _vr_m     camplewnt goeth centera,                                                           buaium  counl lrg amd joint
groth onte providing *it_e and            on lm  to SS enteepr.naa          pi . i;t_e nid "or                                 h                             ti irig for SSE
ervies to txlp ovwrx  difficultiuu        at A=                             svime on a met                                                                eti npurs on a    tal
of S5a with tOwir  r    to                                                  recovery bais fran 1_e                                                         b .isc
infrtrw  um faci I itim.                                                    fr  twnts owr 2                                                                                                                           
yin.



Calmibr of Exeution
BEmdIl  tnmi   Toawl          la.tibLtaml                                      Cm        fttv
!   it    ii FIn        CotEl Cm                    ip-i m1b  Iths _t d* mt                                d  h_i ,
Cam Jtmtfr mg  Nd              26      -     : 
Strt.Wo Tmtv.: a
wuU.; Lam: 4  nh).
TSmial  tanc to                76      2S    M
me ut urwlw   p for
(C) _ mtq Pi lot wrodcts to           hWtdmw tal  u hiplameWan         Ofc imap1 la,                  4       -      4         MM wit             i1 ldig muan th suc    1cess 
SbwWti CMTJS abl ity to otffa          ot U ea kmm   Inubatmar         owp     aid                                             CTI3              QO3 iUbr  of UIbW ad
t          l       t     ts            at th th_ @ATI5 locations       tertatian.                                                                the povIis   of td icol
bmr      Imbo.                           Tm,istl. aidbyI.proUvidW.g
scomes to amil bsines
Ste" tr'nf.4                            -     4D"ant A'Iin to the
frnmilta* tcjarte. avidd                                                           n 10  m
atart-  (sKtinu: 2
min.l  bitewnah: 3
( f rwioju. U.o cmt~y of pan        Staf tsaini.g In finwiaI         Atpw   at gagao.n to           2        6    2aIt                         St'.r   U . tt ai I it of           -.
to 'oMais" Pollclo, prvw  SE           Walyala, SI fwr.tIm.,           beoffered at OWA  tr NM  to m  baymd Ama,
deveoan, mii*a;n a    stm   mI an      Plojet F Wm- tion wd eur        M)X and am staf PMmam                                                      amud It. *Ryim  I hated
and P-M, informatio ciraulea      SS loom.                         to vigit o.umo  a ml                                                       mtsaIn a, ta
to    .                                                                bamie. ctm   and                                                           mtalyat for sUe- a,  i
and Institutlin, and  mist
teSE _ector
PW'oviaon of saul bs            Bt. I        ltau: 24          ZD      10   210                                                            rd v-t         .
ao1aop to msist U.e             w..
E6_Sive Diretr in
iategic plwuirg Nd po Icy
forfulation, offiaa
in  a   t, staf trainire md
iplI*itsIon of t. pilot
projecta.
1nfruatnwt.al &*Pat to          Om coiAer with. prInt..r        OD      10     80                                                         1imi.-2A.
iA   to CrFt  ad mintoIn         id rslatd amfu for
ta bwk, aPin ao        to        . I  . , S PCs with
rwamwi periodicals an      d      oo  tb o- Cr rgoional
mid to cwct,t national          off I   aid 2 vehicles for.
registrastion of ST.            l(imvl mnd Tome..>
C    amist QO in doplepIgV           Conigt a mb~*'.                  CSe.JItat aurvla..                     am   a               ibd  .                                                      .2    z
'Upq.iate a nstabty aid Is mniva                                                                          Rs                     o                                                  r   mw2.              3 
fr- * for pri wi ate, eto 
do-logame* includirg S;E*.                                              SLbtotll nCi                  2, 2       9      iX
C - finrreirs             l,CD    2ZD  I ,2S                                                                                   ° D



Cold_ at Exectio
6dbm1I  Locl   ToUal          b!iititi.mi                                          (_m  aifnhF
he Pi-                                                                                   CL    Ch   B                                                     toin    Ibtw           iim  31l
Strengthen t.  aqclty of        to       Accra: Trainine -op,              Tehnical assists,   mid           D      -      2109.-iS
_ait  _i m,rmwwms in                     bn_ avinwy service,               _      t trainiul
cbtlnilr t    odmicl astance             pi  tl. 1  tivitice.              miera for its ciemts.
mIt.Ion seviessmnd    0t
Cl--sWfi frg   rPVJect PW Ia  mid    stff trainin  in finiceli             AW8    at Ses           to       IS      2      Z                                                                Q
iW  lm tinbi;  8      i Ua nrlyals, SSE fhrtlcn,                          be offerd at mWi  mnd/or
staff c lbiIlt.i  to tSa_,               prject p amrion wi                mA    (au/staff
nl_vim  id initer projects;              ipi _ttion, carninati.lI          _m/y r), 0  study
devp linicda bn    mtAm fc,I             dwmlqpt, -;bu-ion wd              tar of an e_r_
Wd infaal flenil mot;                    outreac comic", at.          'n   bi
dl_tuinta ussul InIca   an fwr                                             inttbai by a
_  m*ipwmu ; wid _at wp ac                                                             tf   _
btmidm In Keis.                                                            trulningisa tio  to be
prded by an Seem   I
tawntmib fbiliar with
V'a am eti (2
awy-r) -
Jnfraatngtmal apcrt to           Om COu-, print-r mid             21       a     8.                                                                S2
priida bmim   advisory 1luted  sofe
_wvita I. Its l mn    ci te      p.bi ictiaM  .wiuiwit mid
mid publiiqh a  IArt-y            otIs, a  whc.
n_welatin an thoaowl                        ebb I ;ty
of Crdit facilitii, training
faciliti_m, bchnicel
_miat_, mIt ion _wvca
mid sawsitln of i _Ai1101 of
dIcnny, rw _imti tl far
_ m.
16_i  Trainirig  kW              Tehnical mitai  nd               t        -      O 
bamminA  adlisory trvice.,          _ut training
tr   iami activities.            m_inr fr ;to ellift.
Stff traininr In finciel          IMnca at Saein to               2        1      3                                                            1W-iS.
Wiyabs, SSE  onutin,             be offmed at kPI aid/ar
projct pi wstion md              CPA (cn/sCaff zmm/
ispitation, argniiticm.i         y_m) trlnirg  sion to
dm'elajswnt, matmIlin mid        be provided by an ext_rI
aotreach smvim, dc.              onultaft fmi 1r with
We's CPsUtclam.
lnfrsatruatcwal mq3rt to         GaC _ cp* , print.- ndII S                2     2d                                                            2
Mt UP n  affile foci I Iti;      misted ,sofb ; offfice
vide bule.m advity                qui_it, an vehiclce.
smvie  to Its "m    clijat.                                                                                                                                               >
&9otal 0))                      goS     2       3 11 0                                                                             rD  
Fitancinli:
Cofilacinncl                  W      11    1X                                                                                   O'   w
so  u  12D ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                          "
CO-finocirg~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



C. le      of Etnluign
Ebtv--I  LAMg    Tatmi           ulbftitlm.i                                        vow    effective
ctivem                                                           ibtot   ha Ftid                        COst   OC  Cit          tbi   X                          Itodhn of lIn Sh.
E. Aoi.tmnm to NDPI mi GCDPA
Dv     t.op:t   nid defiwq of prome       SIm it staxf sk III aad            Staff tralnin, urricula                    3               k I, GDPA          Stru_Uwn t  lky nait               U      .
#or 9E entmpronourbil trainirg In         r.insma:.                          dwalopimt wd trining                                                          training irautitAirw for SE
buminuo miod firawm minttr.                                                  Ps oVUlU                                                                      extenoon sarvioam, training
nd cnrIting _ id trmining
of trainwa.
1naLructionl librar-y            2       -      25
mr_x aid cqulpmrit.
PCn with satofr mid
vehicle.
(    _  *bth  ab*  visit (1       9       -      9
atff  ec) to rmvi
_ijio in SE
arricula mid tra;inng in                                                                                                                      I
Was ommitriam.
;nenclor
Cot l-                        or      13    1iD
F.   siStAM for OUW Sbadh'
Asses th te-1   of tated l w              Ccnijt a study.                   Cultom  :  (Eut.ruI:              41  6S         so         C-iR                                                 2t qrbtr I91X.
dwa.lqtt wd devloping; pr;prd-t                                             3   ,itk , LomI: 2 at 6
rI I        I rin.                                                          m*tu  c) .
_um        f;ibl Iity of ItIlIishina      Corduct a stucfr.                  Cultatn:  (xternl 2              76     31    106           -C                                                 2nfd qit.  19k).
an aprt procoman/dutj. frm aW.                                             to 3 -        1U; LaoI: 2 at
2 mmtl  eacd).
S%mmal (F)                     1u        so    206
Finnclng:
A                            116      Be    206                                                                                      T    >
fD   z
JUTA. FDNCC:                  2,334    gS   8,30D;XW
IDA                        1,2$7    7S3  2,0D_
Co-flinwnclo               1,i       213  1,1W
0 tin



- 81 -
ANNEX 4-l
GHANA - PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR PARTICIPATING FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
1.        The following criteria would be used by the BOG for assessing the
eligibility of the participating financial institutions (PFIs) for
participation in the SME credit and leasing components:
(a) Compliance with monetary regulations and applicable banking laws
and membership of the Clearing House of Bank of Ghana;
(b) Favo1.able rating by BOG in its latest supervision of the PFI,
which would include the following:
(i) Compliance with liquidity reserves requirements as specified
by BOG;
(ii)  Adequete provisions for bad and doubtful accounts
satisfactory to the BOG; and
(iii) Audited annual financial statements, including Income
Statements and Balance Sheets for its most recent financial
year within a period acceptable to the BOG; such accounts
should be certified by an independent firm of accountants
acceptable to the BOG;
(c) Compliance with the capital adequacy ratio requirements of the
BOG; and, where unable to comply, have agreed plans with the BOG
to be in compliance;
(d) Have adequate technical, financial and administrative capacity to
manage project lending or be agreeable to training under the
project, and have operating policies, procedures, organization
and profeesional staff, necessary to evaluate and supervise
loans, acceptable to BOG and IDA;
(a) Agree to adopt the specific terms and conditions for SME credit
components under the project; and, to sign Participation
Agreements with the BOG;
(f) Agree to furnish all relevant iaformation and documents requested
by BOG in connectior. with loans made under the project;
(g) Abide by any other regulations and guidelines issued from time to
time by the BO,.
2.        The ongoing eligibility of PFIs, consistent with the parameters
outlined above, will be monitored by BOG annually and by IDA as part of its
normal supervision.
AF41E
September 1988



- 82 -
ANNEX 4-2
GHANA - PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procurement Arrangement
Ghanaian      Total
IDA Financing        Financing   Project
Project Component                    LCB       Other a/   (Other)        Cost  a/
-_--------_-(US$ million)-------------
SME investments under the line
of credit and mutualist                       25.0  b/    20.5          45.5
guarantee scheme components                   (5.0)                     (5.0)
Equipment leasing                                2.5  b/      0.6          3.1
Technical assistance
Personal computers, vehicles       0.1         0.1                       0.2
and office equipment                          (0.1)                     (0.1)
Consultant's services                          1.1                       1.1
(0.2)                    (0.2)
Training                                       0.2                       0.2
(0.5)                    (0.5)
Studies                                        0.5                       0.5
Services to SMEs                              (0.5)                     (0.5)
Unallocated                                      0.5                       0.5
Total                            0.1        29.9         21.1         51.1
(6.3)                    (6.3)
a/ Figures in parenthesis denote items financed from cofinancing sources.
b/ Bid packages exceeding US$75,000 equivalent would require three price
quotations.
AF4IE
September 1988



- 83 -
ANNEX 4-3
Page 1 of 2
GHANA - PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Reporting Requirements
A.    Reporting Requirements
1.    To enable IDA to monitor the fulfillment of the project objectives (main
text, para. 3.02), during project implementation, the Bank of Ghana
(FUSMED) would, through inputs from PFIs and concerned agencies, prepare
the following minimum information on the line of credit, equipment leasing
and mutualist credit guarantee schemes:
Subpr3ject Lending Performance (semi-annually):
*     Number of subprojects and their financial composition
*     Total investment costs (projected and actual, foreign and local)
*     Sales (projected and actual)
*     SME equity contribution
*     Implementation delays
*     Current project pipeline (quarterly)
*     Status of loans outstanding (quarterly)
*     Classification by asset sizes
*     Commitments  of the IDA credit,  disbursements,  prepayments  and
cancellations (quarterly)
Socio-economic Impact (semi-annually):  Commitments and Disbursements by
*     Loan type (expansion, new investment,  leasing, working capital,
microenterprise) and gender (women entrepreneurs)
*     Enterprise size (assets, production capacity, sales and employment)
*     Sector/subsector
*     Region
*     Participating financial intermediary
*     Incremental jobs created and ccst per job
*     Financial and economic rates of return as appropriate
*     Percent use of local raw materials, and local value added
*     Capital/labor and capital/output ratios
Technical Assistance Program
*     Status report on the technical assistance activities
related to FUSMED (quarterly)
Progress Reports (quarterly) on the Use and Experience of the:
*     Pilct studies Fund for SMEs
*     Mutualist credit guarantee scheme
*     Equipment leasing



- 84 -
ANNEX 4-3
Page 2 of 2
2.    To enable IDA to monitor implementation of the studies component, the
agencies concerned will prepare the following minimum information:
*     Prepare and/or agree to terms of reference for each study (BOG,
aBSSI, CSIR, GEPC)
*     The SME Secretariat to provide progress report on studies (quarterly)
B.    Key Indicators
For monitoring purposes, the following indicators would apply:
By mid-     By mid-      By mid-      By mid-
1990        1991         1992         1993
1.    Loan Commitments
(a) Line of Credit               102          40Z          75Z         1OOZ
(b) Equipment Leasing            20Z          50X          802         1OOZ
2.    Technical Assistance Program
Technical assistance activities and corresponding technical assistance
schedules are set out in Annex 3-2.  Following is a timetable for the
studies:
By end-     By end-       By end-    By mid-
1988        1989         1990         1991
Studies
(a) Regulatory and
Incentive Environment
for SSEs                    TOR         Initiate    Complete
(b) Technology Development      TOR                      Initiate/
Complete
(c) Export Processing Zone      TOR                      Initiate    Omplete
(d) Equipment Leasing           TOR         Initiate/
Complete
3.    Pilot Fund for Feasibility Studies and Technical Assistance
By mid-     By mid-      By mid-      By mid-
1990        1991         1992         1993
Number of SMEs assisted           50         150          300          500
AF4IE
September 1988



-  85  -                             ANNEX 4-4
GHANA - PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Allocation and Disbursement under the IDA Credit
Category                                Amount                  Disbursement
(USS m)
A.  Line of Credit
i)  Subloans and investments in SMEs with               23.00        Subloans and equity
assets not exceeding US$2 million                                investments up to 70? of
equivalent.                                                      the cost of the
subproject.
ii) Subloans and investments in SSEs and micro-          2.00        Subloans and equity
enterprises with assets not exceeding                            investments up to 70? of
US$100,OOC equivalent. a/                                        the cost of the
subproject and 100Z of
amounts disbursed for
subloans under the pilot
Mutualist Credit
Guarantee Scheme.
B.  Equipment Leasing
Equipment lease financing for SMEs.                  2.50       Up to 85Z of the leased
assets.
C.  Technical Assistance
i)  Consultants' services, training, equipment           0.70        100% of expenditures.
and vehicles for BOG, FUSMED, and PFIs.
ii) Pilot studies fund for consultants'
services for feasibility studies for SMEs,           0.50       Up to 50% of the cost of
technical assistance, and management                            the services.
counselling.
iii)Consultant services, training for
Entrepreneurship Development Program and             0.24       10C; ,f expenditures.
Advisory Centers.
i.v) Consultants' services, training, office             0.15        1002 of expenditures.
equipment, transportation for business
incubators.
v) Consultants' services for studies on                 0.30        100Z of expenditures.
regulatory and incentive framework for
SMEs, technology development and export
processingiduty free zone.
vi) Consultants' services, training, office              0.11        100% of expenditures.
equipment, vehicles for WWBG.
0.50
D.  Unallocated b/
30.00
Total
a/   Allocation to be monitored during project implementation and reallocated if
necessary.
b/   Includes Project Preparation Facility US$90,000.
AF4IE
October 1988



- 86 -
ANNEX 4-5
GHANA - PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule for the IDA Credit
Disbursement
During                Cumulative
Period Ending                Semester a/            Disbursement
-------       (US$ million----------
December 31, 1989                  1.8                      1.8
June 30, 1990                      2.2                      4.0
December 31, 1990                  2.5                      6.5
June 30, 1991                      3.0                      9.5
December 31, 1991                  2.6                     12.1
June 30, 1992                      2.9                     15.0
December 31, 1992                  2.5                     17.5
June 30, 1993                      3.3                     20.8
December 31, 1993                  2.2                     23.0
June 30, 1994                      2.5                     25.5
December 31, 1994                  1.4                     26.9
June 30, 1995                      1.3                     28.2
December 31, 1995                  1.3                     29.5
June 30, 19.96                     0.5                     30.0
a/ Based on actual disbursement experience on industrial development
and finance projects in the Africa region during FY78-87.
AF4IE
September 1988



- 87 -
ANNEX 6
GHANA - PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Information in the Proiect File
1.   Survey of Small Scale Enterprises conducted by the University of Ghana
and J. W. Goethe Universitat (1984).
2.   Summary financial statements of the t.iree primary banks (GCB, Barclays
and Standard) and the three secondary banks (SSB, NIB and the Merchant
Bank); based on latest available audited financial statements.
3.   Report prepared by consultant on Women in Ghana, March 1988.
4.   Supervision reports prepared by Bank staff on Loans 1180-GH (1975) and
Credit 901-GH (1979) to NIB and the Project Completion Report for the
former.
5.   UNIDO Project Proposal for Feasibility Analysis Unit at the NIB (April
1988).
6.   Various reports inter alia on:  Credit Guarantee Schemes, Ghana
Regional Appropriate Technology Itdustrial Service (GRATIS), NIB's
Final Report on Loans for Small Scale Agriculture and Industrial
Projects, and the Ghana Export Promotion Council's Three-Year Non-
Traditional Export Development Plan.
AF4IE
September 1988



MAP SECTION



IBRD 18112R1
BU R K I N A-..o..,         FA *            yo(mov-                                                      I
~~~~~~~~~~~~i '  f      = S*   -*t#-*                          A                                 -     N.I ,o.r
vy / - i t           /                     ,: 8OL ANOIAA    Ugo                                ond.rIo.
t t    u E R  f ,    ; ) t.,  ~E A S T                             .-_                          Inrn ol
ts   s    \_s   Z  i $ ,e 'XR ~E G I10                ,      o 
S-\   A,8---,----                   H)                           \V   X                                         1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -
MA ~      ~         ~        I1~~A
>   90   R ~~~~T HE  R/  &\REG    G GN \
0t Om oww*1o of U,.
Wasd,. ft b0wmoakls 0mto
WOW go ko,f.o kw " ft
R of Tww 1 * erM ft
Oof VW fM1y 01 VW 8
(       S~~~JNYANI. ",'        bj                          EG'    ON          \1
.01~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7



