Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17250
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1996-GH)
December 22, 1997
Economic Management and Social Policy Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency unit - Cedi
US$1 = Cedi 250 (at appraisal)
US$1 = Cedi 2,180 (September 10, 1997)
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Fiscal Year of Borrower
January 1-December 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
BOG       -     Bank of Ghana
BSD       -     Banking Supervision Department
EDP       -     Entrepreneurship Development Program
ERP       -     Economic Recovery Program
FUSMED  -       Fund for Small and Medium Enterprise Development
GIMPA    -      Ghana Institute of Management and Public Administration
GRATIS   -      Ghana Regional Technology Industrial Services
IDA       -     International Development Association
MCGS    -       Mutualist Credit Guarantee Scheme
MDPI    -       Management Development and Productivity Institute
ME        -     Micro Enterprise
MGA       -     Mutualist Guarantee Association
MIST      -     Ministry of Industry, Science and Technology
NBSSI    -      National Board for Small Scale Industries
PFI       -     Participating Financial Institution
RIR       -     Reference Interest Rate
SME       -     Small and Medium Enterprise
SSE       -     Small Scale Enterprise
WWBG    -       Women's World Banking (Ghana) Ltd.
Vice President             :     Jean-Louis Sarbib
Director                   :     Peter Harrold
Acting Technical Manager         Thomas W. Allen
Operations Officer               - Marilyn S. Manalo



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1996-GH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface                                                                            Page
Evaluation Summary                                                                    i
Part I        Project Implementation Assessment
A. Background ................................................1
B. Project Objectives and Description ..........................................  2
C. Achievements of Project Objectives ........................................  2
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project .........................................  6
E. Project Sustainability ..................... ........................... 7
F. IDA's Performance .................    ............................... 7
G. Borrower's Performance   ...................   :      .8
H. Assessment of Outcome ........................... .................... 9
I.  Future Operations ...............    ............................... 9
J. Key Lessons Learned ..................   ............................. 9
Part II       Statistical Annexes
Table 1.  Summary of Assessments .12
Table 2.   Related Bank Loans/Credits .13
Table 3.  Project Timetable .14
Table 4.   Credit Disbursements .14
Table 5.      Key Indicators for Project Implementation               15
Table 6.      Key Indicators for Project Operations .15
Table 7.      Studies Included in the Project .16
Table 8.   Project Costs and Financing .17
Table 9.   Economic Costs and Benefits .17
Table 10.  Status of Legal Covenants .18
Table 11.     Bank Resources - Staff Inputs .19
Table 12.     Bank Resources - Staff Missions .20
Appendix:   1         Final Supervision Mission's Aide Memoire
2      Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
3-5    Private SMEs Assisted Under the Project-Characteristics,
Financing, Credit Status
6      Private SMEs Assisted Under the Project - Leasing
Map
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1996-GH)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Private Small and
Medium Enterprise Development Project in the Republic of Ghana for which Credit
1996-GH in the amount of SDR 22.3 million (approximately US$30 million equivalent at
appraisal) was approved on March 28, 1989 and made effective on October 25, 1989.
The credit closed .on June 30, 1997, six months later than originally projected.
Final refund of the special account took place on October 14, 1997 after which a balance
of SDR 484,114.55 was canceled.
Preparation of the ICR began during IDA's final supervision mission and is based
on material in the project files and information received from participating agencies and
banks. The Borrower contributed to the ICR by providing its views as reflected in the
mission's aide memoire of November 21, 1996 (Appendix 1), furnishing information
incorporated in the report, commenting on the draft ICR and providing their own
evaluation of the project's preparation and execution (Appendix 2).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1996-GH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    Project Objectives and Description. The SME Project was designed to: (a) assist in
financing private productive activities, facilities and resources to enable enterprises to contribute
to the economic and social development of the country; (b) revive production and improve the
economic viability of private SMEs and enable them to become more competitive; (c) develop an
effective mechanism to foster participation of banks to provide long-term financing to SMEs; (d)
support a program of assistance to micro-enterprises (MEs); (e) improve the availability of
technical assistance (TA), extension services and entrepreneurial training for small-scale
enterprises (SSEs) and women entrepreneurs; and (f) improve the policy and.institutional support
framework for SME development. The Project had four key components to support these
objectives: (a) a line of credit, (b) equipment leasing, (c) pilot mutualist credit guarantee scheme
for MEs, and (d) TA to build up the capacity of an apex organization and provide a range of
business advisory services to SMEs and women entrepreneurs.
2.   Implementation Experience and Results. Overall, the objectives of the project were
partially achieved. Financial assistance and advisory services were provided to a diverse group
of SMEs relative to firm size, industrial sectors, and geographic location. The repayment rate by
SMEs, however, has remained unacceptably low at about 50 percent on average. The
establishment of an apex unit provided a mechanism to foster the participation of seven banks
and two leasing companies and to develop their capacity to provide term financing and leasing
services, respectively, to SMEs. Also, the business advisory services and entrepreneurial training
extended to small and micro enterprises and women entrepreneurs provided the beneficiaries
with additional tools to increase their productive activities. On the other hand, micro-enterprises
received very little financial assistance (less than one percent of the Credit) as PFIs preferred
lending to established SMEs in urban areas who required larger loans. In addition, the TA under
the project was limited by the postponement and cancellation of some components.
3.    Line of Credit Component. This component was administered by the Fund for Small and
Medium Enterprise Development (FUSMED) Unit, established as an apex unit at the Bank of
Ghana (BOG). Resources totaling approximately US$28.2 million financed 121 loans to 109
SMEs and led to the creation of about 3,164 new jobs (see Appendices 3-6 for the distribution,
characteristics and cost of these subproj ects). Support for this component represented about 113
percent of the original allocation following requests made by BOG, and agreed by IDA, to
reallocate resources from other components to meet continued demand for medium-term funds.
The line of credit, as designed, was attractive to PFIs mainly because it provided: (a) medium-
term resources not supported by their generally short-term deposit base; and (b) foreign currency.



- ii -
While loan commitment and disbursement proceeded well, the major issue for this component
was the high default rates.
4.    Measures were taken to deal with the repayment problems, including regular monitoring
of the subprojects, periodic updates of action plans of PFIs, and training sessions for PFIs. These
measures helped the poorly performing banks to focus on loan recovery measures and assume a
more conservative lending approach. Despite these changes, however, the errors reflected in the
credit decisions of PFIs and business decisions of SMEs made in the earlier years of the project
were difficult to correct. A diagnostic study on the problem sub-projects, technical assistance to
some distressed SMEs, and the extension of the closing date by six months to complete related
consultant support did not yield much improvement in the overall default rate.
5.    Leasing Component. Under the leasing component, resources were provided by two
leasing companies to 25 enterprises for leases on equipment totaling approximately US$1.4
million. When the Credit closed, a leasing company had problems with seven leases; the arrears
position amounted to approximately Cedis 208 million.
6.    Mutualist Credit Guarantee Scheme. The objective of the mutualist credit guarantee
component to meet the financing needs of MEs and SSEs was not met. While US$28,000 was
disbursed for loans to 45 MEs (members of two groups formed under the scheme) by two PFIs,
FUSMED failed to execute the mutualist credit guarantee agreements and the funds for these
groups were disbursed as regular sub-loans. Despite attempts to make this component more user
friendly (including changing the preliminary complex design of this component as prepared by
consultants, exploring the use of a loan insurance ftand, and including non-bank financial
institutions (NBFIs) who lend primarily to the target group), the scheme was not implemented.
Some PFIs continued to be interested in the scheme but did not have the wherewithal to assist
micro enterprises and NBFIs did not meet BOG's regulatory requirements. IDA and BOG
agreed to reallocate the resources for this component to the line of credit.
7.    TA Component. The achievements of this component include: (a) enactment of the 1993
Finance Lease Law which contributed to increased competition with the establishment of new
leasing companies; (b) establishment of business advisory centers; (c) development of an on-
going Entrepreneurship Development Program at the National Board for Small Scale Industries
(NBSSI) which provided training for about 5,150 participants; (d) training of about 167 bankers;
(e) training of approximately 587 entrepreneurs (479 women) by Women's World Banking
(Ghana) Ltd. (WWBG); (f) training of managers and staff in FUSMED (6), NBSSI (12),
WWBG (1); and (g) completion of studies on financing needs for small businesses and
establishing business incubators and growth centers. Despite these achievements, the TA
objectives were only partially achieved because other components (for example, the pilot studies
fund and the business incubators study) were canceled or postponed.
8.    The estimated total project cost was US$57.4 million with IDA providing approximately
US$30 million, PFIs approximately US$7.9 million, and the beneficiaries US$ 13.2 million. Co-
financiers were approached to fill the project financing gap (approximately US$6 million) but
efforts to obtain additional funding failed.



- 111 -
9.    Summary of Findings and Future Operations. The key factors which affected project
execution were the unfavorable macro-economic conditions, participation in the line of credit by
some weak banks and undeveloped enterprises. The adverse macro-economic environment, was
reflected in inflationary pressures, the depreciation of the cedi, increasing public sector
borrowing and the subsequent squeeze on lending resources available to the private sector, and
high interest rates. Despite training, some staff of the active public PFIs, lacked an appreciation
of the time value of money and banking skills. This was further aggravated by weak credit
management skills, little decision-making power in bank branches, inadequate performance-
based incentives and logistical support, and decisions by PFIs to postpone any legal action
because of the absence of an effective legal framework. In addition, poor implementation of
capacity building measures negatively affected overall performance of the Project. For example,
focusing more on loan approval and disbursement than on the performance. Many enterprises
required essential financial, management and operational assistance. The over-leveraged
positions of clients with good projects prevented them from meeting the lending criteria of PFIs
including equity contributions and collateral requirements. The weaker enterprises that defaulted
on their loans were unable to implement their projects as planned, utilized short-termn funds for
capital expenditures, and faced chronic problems of insufficient working capital. The prevailing
high interest rate resulted in increasingly insurmountable problems. The difficulties in finding
lucrative markets and the inability to compete with imported goods following implementation of
trade liberalization policies also contributed in a major way to entrepreneurs' poor performance.
In addition, enterprises were unable to improve their businesses because the technical assistance
available to SMEs was unaffordable or inadequate.
10.   Weaknesses in project design and implementation contributed to the difficulties in
bringing the repayment ratio up to acceptable levels. Major deficiencies in the design included
the absence of: (a) criteria and procedures to address credit discipline and disallow weak
financial institutions from accessing the credit; (b) well-defined indicators and incentives to
ensure the disbursement and supervisory functions of the apex unit were supported with equal
emphasis; and (c) an adequate consideration of subproject repayment as a project risk.
11.   The project's outcome is unsatisfactory because: (a) the default rates were high; (b)
leasing as a new financial product was developed and 25 enterprises were assisted but the leasing
capacity of a participating company requires further strengthening as reflected in it's low
recovery rate of only 30%; (c) the credit management capacity of some banks remains weak so
that low loan recovery rates continue to erode banks' financial resources; and (d) many of the
objectives of the technical assistance components that were designed to provide business
assistance to SMEs were partially realized.
12.   Capacity building in the financial and real sectors is a long term process that requires
intensive work and commitment from all key players. It is uncertain that the few operations and
benefits achieved under the project will be maintained and improved unless the Government
consistently supports a development strategy guided by the need for macroeconomic stability, a
disciplined financial system operating competitively, and a business environment conducive to
private investment.



- iv -
13.   Key Lessons Learned. The key lessons are:
(a)   Initiatives with capacity building objectives for the financial sector have a better
chance of success if conditioned upon macroeconomic stability and include
assistance for developing a disciplined financial system and a business
environment conducive to private investment. Financial intermediary loans
should focus heavily on developing the capacity to mobilize long term funds
domestically.
(b)   The success of financial intermediary loans is dependent upon a disciplined credit
environment. Where this is weak, measures should be included in the project
design to improve it and address issues relating to governance, management,
financial policies, collection performance, appraisal and supervision techniques,
and credit risk management policies of PFIs.
(c)   If capacity building is a major goal and requires active participation by an apex
institution, such an apex should be housed in a more permanent, commercially-
oriented entity which does not compete with PFIs and is motivated by
performance-based incentives (for example, investment banks, accounting firms,
etc.).
(d)   Microenterprises require different financial products and delivery mechanisms
compared to the traditional lines of credit targeted for small- and medium scale
enterprises. The identification of institutions and partners dedicated to this target
group is key to the effective delivery of services to this sector.
(e)   The availability of equity funds may have more far reaching effects to the
development and growth of SMEs than credit for undeveloped SMEs. Banks are
not well equipped to serve their needs because of information asymmetries on
project quality and the lack of adequate collateral. The development of equity
financing instruments is important because: (i) they provide SMEs access to
technical know-how, (ii) through effective financial intermediation, equity funds
can bridge the information gap between emerging entrepreneurs and the banking
system; and (iii) as equity funds are used to nurture growth companies with the
objective of selling participation in them, the supply of companies traded in the
stock exchange increases leading to the development of the capital markets.
(f)    Where SMEs are still largely at an embryonic stage of development and the
market for business services is distorted for a host of reasons, the development of
affordable, effective, efficient, and sustainable capacity building services to SMEs
should remain a priority to realize private-sector led growth in the real sector.
Business development schemes should be based on key principles including that
activities receiving support should: be generated locally; delivered on a fee for
service basis; address actual market needs, provided by profit-driven private
sector specialists chosen by the receiving firm; and time bound. It is also
important that donors coordinate their efforts in supporting business know how



- v -
and a service market. These lessons were reflected in the design of the on-going
IDA-financed Private Sector Development Project.
14.  In discussing a future operational plan, it was agreed that FUSMED and the BSD would
proceed to work closely with PFIs to improve the repayment performance under the Project.
Also, the Government is considering BOG's request to continue to make some of the reflows
from this Project available to viable SMEs. In addition, BOG plans to house the management of
the funds within an organization that is autonomous and established to implement a proactive
program for SMEs.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GHANA
PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1996-GH)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background
1.   In the 1970s and early 1980s Ghana experienced major economic declines
prompting the Government of Ghana (GOG) to introduce its Economic Recovery
Program (ERP) in 1983 to improve the living standards and restore economic growth. By
1988 fiscal discipline was introduced, revenue collection increased, and direct controls on
foreign exchange, imports, prices, interest rates, and credit allocation were abolished.
The business climate improved as trade policy reforms were implemented including the
introduction of a flexible exchange rate system, simplification of procedures for non-
traditional exports, and improvements in the tax system. For a number of years, the
economy grew by an average of 5 percent per year. Import substitution occurred in some
sectors and the manufacturing sector continued to make progress in adjusting to a more
competitive and liberalized market.
2.    However, despite these positive economic changes, improved output levels were
not associated with significant increases in labor demand and unemployment was a
serious problem. Also, inflation continued to remain high (averaging 39% in 1987) and
was attributed mainly to the lagged effect of the significant devaluation of the currency,
the decline in domestic food production and the increases in domestic petroleum prices.
The GOG, however, remained committed to its ERP and to implement further measures
to support continued economic growth, sustained fiscal and monetary discipline,
increased levels of domestic savings and investment, and further development of the
private sector.
3.    Recognizing that the development of private small and medium enterprises would
be an important means to create employment opportunities in urban and rural areas and
generate income and growth to help mitigate the social costs of adjustment, the
Government and IDA designed the Private Small and Medium Enterprise (SME)
Development Project to assist in meeting these objectives. This Project followed other
IDA-supported projects that aimed to: revitalize the private sector by strengthening and
rehabilitating economically viable industries, increase the production of locally
manufactured goods, and develop the financial system. Excluding agriculture-related
projects, these projects included two loans to the National Investment Bank (Loan 1180-
GH, US$10 million, 1975 and Cr. 901-GH, US$19 million, 1979), the Second
Reconstruction Import Project (Cr. 1573-GH, African Facility Cr. A-3 GH, US$87



-2 -
million, 1985), and the Industrial Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 1672-GH, African
Facility Cr. A-13-GH, US$25 million, 1986). The Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
(Cr. 191 1-GH) to support policy and institutional reforms in the financial sector was
concurrently prepared with the SME Project and approved in May 1988.
B. Project Objectives and Description
4.    The SME Project was designed to: (a) assist in financing private productive
activities, facilities and resources to enable enterprises to contribute to the economic and
social development of the country; (b) revive production and improve the economic
viability of private SMEs and enable them to become more competitive; (c) develop an
effective mechanism to foster participation of banks to provide long-term financing to
SMEs; (d) support a program of assistance to micro-enterprises (MEs); (e) improve the
availability of technical assistance (TA), extension services and entrepreneurial training
for small-scale enterprises (SSEs) and women entrepreneurs; and (t) improve the policy
and institutional support framework for SME development. The Project had four key
components to support these objectives: (a) a line of credit, (b) equipment leasing, (c)
pilot mutualist credit guarantee scheme for MEs, and (d) TA to build up the capacity of
an apex organization and provide a range of business advisory services to SMEs and
women entrepreneurs.
5.    The preparation and focus of the SME Project were in line with the priority
objectives of the Government and IDA's lending assistance strategy the thrust of which
was to: establish more efficient industries and restructure or expand existing enterprises
in the productive and service sectors; develop the financial sector's competitive ability to
provide long-term investment resources; and stimulate employment, generate income and
alleviate poverty. The Project was to alleviate the constraints to the development of
SMEs, which were the unavailability of term resources and business support services.
The Project was justified given the need to sustain the ongoing adjustment process with
growth promoting programs and to facilitate a supply response and generate efficient
employment in the productive sectors.
C. Achievement of Project Objectives
6.    Overall, the objectives of the project were partially achieved. Financial assistance
was extended to a diverse group of SMEs relative to firm size, industrial sectors, and
geographic location. The establishment of an apex unit provided a mechanism to foster
the participation of seven banks and two leasing companies and to develop their capacity
to provide term financing and leasing services, respectively, to SMEs. Also, the business
advisory services and entrepreneurial training extended to small and micro enterprises
and women entrepreneurs provided the beneficiaries with additional tools to increase
their productive activities. However, micro-enterprises received very little financial
assistance (less than one percent of the Project resources) as PFIs preferred lending to
established SMEs in urban areas who required larger loans. Also, with the high default



-3 -
rates, PFIs' financial resources will continue to erode. In addition, the TA under the
Project was limited by the postponement and cancellation of some components.
Line of Credit Component
7.    This component was administered by the Fund for Small and Medium Enterprise
Development (FUSMED) Unit, established as an apex unit at the Bank of Ghana (BOG).
FUSMED onlent US$27.5 million to private SMEs for fixed investments, working capital
requirements, consultancy services, and leases of industrial and business equipment
through eligible participating financial institutions (PFIs). To remain eligible, PFIs were
required to: comply with the monetary regulations and banking laws of the BOG;
maintain a sound financial structure, a healthy portfolio, and the organization,
management, staff and resources required for its efficient operations; and maintain and
conduct its operations in accordance with sound financial principles and practices.
Beneficiary SMEs for medium-term loans were required to have an equity contribution of
at least 25 percent, a debt to equity ratio of not more than 3:1; a current ratio of at least
1.2 and a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.4. Funding from the Project was
available up to 70 percent of the sub-project investment cost and a maximum of
US$750,000 (an agreed increase from the original limit of US$500,000) for each
beneficiary SME. Resources were provided to: (a) PFIs at a market-determined
reference interest rate (RIR) based on the average cost of 180-day deposits mobilized by
PFIs; and (b) beneficiary SMEs at the PFI-determined spread above the RIR. The rate
also applied to the leasing component but was discounted by 2 percent for the
microfinance component to provide an added incentive to PFIs to extend financial
services to the microenterprise sector. With PFIs assuming the credit risk, the BOG
automatically debited the PFIs' accounts shortly after installment payment due dates.
The Government bore the foreign exchange risk.
8.    Resources totaling approximately US$28.2 million financed 121 loans to 109
SMEs and led to the creation of about 3,164 new jobs (see Appendices 3-6 for the
distribution, characteristics and cost of these subprojects). Support for this component
represented about 113 percent of the original allocation following requests made by
BOG, and agreed by IDA, to reallocate resources from other components to meet
continued demand for medium-term funds. The line of credit, as designed, was attractive
to PFIs mainly because it provided: (a) medium-term resources not supported by their
generally short-term deposit base; and (b) foreign currency. While loan commitment and
disbursement proceeded well, the major issue for this component was the high default
rates.
9.    When the mid-term implementation review was conducted in May 1994, over 90
percent (10 percent less than projected at appraisal) of the funds were committed and
about 50 percent of the borrowers servicing their loans were in arrears. In the course of
implementing the Project, measures were taken to deal with the repayment problems,
including regular monitoring of the subprojects, periodic updates of action plans of PFIs,
and training sessions for PFIs. These capacity building measures helped the poorly



-4 -
performing banks focus on loan recovery measures and assume a more conservative
lending approach as evidenced by their reduced participation in the Project. The
remaining 10 percent of the line of credit was committed over two and a half years.
Despite these changes, however, the errors reflected in the credit decisions of PFIs and
business decisions of SMEs made in the earlier years of project implementation were
difficult to correct. A diagnostic study on the problem sub-projects, technical assistance
to some distressed SMEs, and the extension of the closing date by six months to complete
related consultant support did not yield much improvement in the overall default rate.
Based on data provided by FUSMED, the overall arrears position (involving 56
enterprises) remained at about 51 percent when the Credit closed and amounted to
approximately Cedis 10.5 billion. About 30 percent of the loans were classified sub-
standard and below. PFIs confirmed that of the 109 enterprises assisted, eight have
ceased operating.
10.   Under the leasing component, resources were provided by two leasing companies
to 25 enterprises for leases on equipment totaling approximately US$1.4 million. When
the Project closed, one leasing company had problems with seven leases; the arrears
position amounted to approximately Cedis 208 million.
I1.   The objective of the mutualist credit guarantee component to meet the financing
needs of MEs and SSEs was not met. While US$28,000 was disbursed for loans to 45
MEs (members of two groups formed under the scheme) by two PFIs, FUSMED failed to
execute the mutualist credit guarantee agreements and the funds for these groups were
disbursed as regular sub-loans. During the life of the Project, despite attempts to make
this component more user friendly (including changing the preliminary complex design
of this component as prepared by consultants, exploring the use of a loan insurance fund,
and including non-bank financial institutions (NBFIs) who lend primarily to the target
group), the scheme was not implemented. Some PFIs continued to be interested in the
scheme but did not have the wherewithal to assist micro enterprises and NBFIs did not
meet BOG's regulatory requirements to participate in the Project. IDA and BOG agreed
to reallocate the resources for this component to the line of credit.
TechnicalAssistance Component
12.   The TA component was designed to support capacity building and skills
development for FUSMED, PFIs, SMEs, women entrepreneurs, and consultants.
Technical assistance was in the form of business advisory and consulting services,
training, and studies. The achievements of this component include the: (a) enactment of
the 1993 Finance Lease Law which contributed to increasing competition with the
establishment of new leasing companies; (b) establishment of three business advisory
centers (Accra, Kumasi and Takoradi) which led to another nine business advisory
centers (not funded under the Project) set up in eight regional capitals and two district
capitals; (c) development of an on-going Entrepreneurship Development Program at the
National Board for Small Scale Industries (NBSSI) from which training of about 5,150
participants (including women (59 percent), government re-deployed employees, and



-5 -
micro and small-scale entrepreneurs); information provided by NBSSI indicate that
approximately half of the participants received financing from formal and informal
sources; (d) training of about 167 bankers and loan officers through seminars, workshops,
and credit courses on the SME project operations, equipment leasing, credit management,
and non-performing asset management; (e) training of approximately 587 entrepreneurs
(479 women) by Women's World Banking (Ghana) Ltd. (WWBG) in Accra and Kumasi
and the NBSSI in areas including small scale business, bookkeeping, inventory control,
management, and marketing; many received financial assistance from formal and
informal sources; (f) training of managers and staff in FUSMED (6), NBSSI (12),
WWBG (1) in areas including financing schemes and support mechanisms for small-scale
enterprises, loan supervision, and entrepreneurship development; (g) completion of a
study on financing needs for small businesses; and (h) completion of a study on
establishing business incubators and growth centers.
13.   The objectives under the TA component were achieved partially. Despite the
achievements enumerated above, support to the real sector envisaged under the project
was minimized by the cancellation or postponement of some components and the
inability of the Government to access co-financing resources to fill the project financing
gap. The Pilot Studies Fund, designed to finance feasibility and implementation studies,
consultant services, management counseling, and the acquisition of technological know-
how, was canceled. Several reasons contributed to its cancellation: (i) the 50 percent
cost of the TA to the beneficiary was designed as a loan -- from banks who were
unwilling to take the risk should an investment project be deemed not credit worthy and
to entrepreneurs who did not want the burden of a debt without a guarantee of a
subsequent loan to cover their investment and operational requirements; and (ii) there was
no strong support from entrepreneurs, PFIs, FUSMED/BOG, the Government or IDA to
redesign the fund (for example, increasing the entrepreneur's contribution, incorporating
any TA in a comprehensive package of loan support services offered by PFIs, or
increasing the grant portion).
14.   The decisions by the NBSSI first, to postpone the business incubator and growth
center study because of a similar undertaking led by the Social Security and National
Insurance Trust (SSNIT) and second, to carry it out later when there was insufficient
progress by SSNIT, prevented further support under the Project to provide micro-
enterprises with a shared work environment while preparing them to operate as
independent business entities.
15.   Early in the project implementation phase, the GOG also decided to cancel the
assistance to the Management Development and Productivity Institute and the Ghana
Institute of Management and Public Administration and increase the allocation to NBSSI.
This reduced the development and implementation of short-term training programs in
small business promotion and management intended for enterprises, private associations,
banks and government institutions. The technology development study was implemented
but under another IDA-financed project; recommendations from this study served as the
basis of the Private Sector Development Project which benefits SMEs. Finally, the



-6-
feasibility of establishing a duty free zone for export promotion was first postponed at the
Government's recommendation (as assistance was being provided by an interested private
American firm) and later financed under the IDA Agricultural Diversification Project.
The establishment of a free zone is receiving support from foreign investors, other
donors, and IDA under the proposed Gateway Project. Resources originally allocated for
these components were reallocated to the line of credit component.
16.   The estimated total project cost was US$57.4 million with IDA providing
approximately US$30 million, PFIs approximately US$7.9 million, and the beneficiaries
US$13.2 million. Co-financiers were approached to fill the financing gap (approximately
US$6 million) but efforts to obtain additional funding were unsuccessful.
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project
17.   The key factors which affected project execution were the:
a) Macro-economic conditions. The performance of the project was negatively affected
by the adverse macro-economic conditions during the implementation period. The
annual inflation rate ranged from 10 percent to 59 percent, the cedi depreciated ten-
fold, and the claims on the central government and the non-financial public
enterprises ranged from 7 percent to 21 percent of GDP squeezing out the availability
of financial resources to the private sector. The Government's large borrowing
requirements were reflected in high treasury bill rates that ranged from 19 percent to
41 percent.
b) Participation by weak banks. Despite training, and as a result of years of operating in
a non-competitive enviromnent, many staff in the active public PFIs lacked an
appreciation of the time value of money, a commercial banking orientation, and
flexibility in dealing with clients with respect to repayment schedules, funding of
overruns or temporary accommodations. This was further aggravated by weak credit
management skills, little decision-making power in bank branches, inadequate
performance-based incentives and logistical support, and decisions to postpone any
legal action toward defaulters because of the absence of an effective legal framework.
Also, lending became less attractive (following the balance sheet clean-up exercise
conducted under the FINSAC Project) as banks were increasingly preoccupied with
their bottom lines and generally focused their attention on investing in risk-free BOG
bills, attractive returns from short-term placements with discount houses, and on
serving upscale, established clients rather than attracting new, small businesses. In
addition, weak implementation of capacity building measures targeted at banks
negatively affected the overall performance of the Project. For example, (i) the apex
unit, FUSMED, focused more on its loan approval and disbursement role than on the
performance of the Project portfolio because the PFIs bore the credit risk and their
accounts with the BOG were automatically debited shortly after repayment due dates;
and (ii) FUSMED funded more projects without taking steps to exclude PFIs whose
credit management capacity was weak. Also, while banks' lending policies on loan



-7-
pricing, credit approval, interest accrual, and provisions for actual losses on loans in
arrears were in place, their unorthodox practice of insufficiently provisioning for
potential losses on non-performing loans contributed to problems as a true picture of
the health of the portfolio was difficult to obtain.
c) Participation by enterprises that required essentialfinancial, management and
operational assistance to thrive. The over-leveraged positions of clients with good
projects prevented them from meeting the lending criteria of PFIs including equity
contributions and collateral requirements. Weaker enterprises that defaulted on their
loans were unable to implement their projects as planned, faced chronic problems of
insufficient working capital, accepted loans that were untimely delivered or too small
to meet their funding requirements, and utilized short-term funds for capital
expenditures. With the prevailing high interest levels and the effect of compounded
interest, they faced increasingly insurmountable problems. Difficulties in finding
lucrative markets and the inability to compete with imported goods following
implementation of trade liberalization policies also contributed in a major way to
entrepreneurs' poor performance. In addition, enterprises were unable to improve
their businesses because the technical assistance available to SMEs was unaffordable
or inadequate.
E. Project Sustainability
18.   Capacity building in the financial and real sectors is a long term process that
requires intensive work and commitment from all key players. The project was meant to
contribute to the evolution and maintenance of financial sector reforms through an
increase in the level of intermediation, an efficient and market-based credit allocation
system, and a vigilant credit management system. It is uncertain that the few operations
and benefits achieved under the Project will be maintained and improved, unless the
Government's policies consistently support a development strategy guided by the need
for macroeconomic stability, a disciplined financial system, and a business environment
conducive to private investment. To continue meeting the challenge of sustainable
growth, the Government needs to clearly and consistently send signals that translate into
rigorous macroeconomic management and steady policy implementation to win the
confidence of the private sector. Also, PFIs need to recognize that an efficient and
competitive financial system is indispensable to private sector development. In addition,
further development of the consulting industry to meet the demand for relevant business
advisory services, and reforms in the legal infrastructure to support adequate security for
loans and contract enforcement requirements are necessary.
F. IDA's Performance
19.   As designed, the Project reflected a correct analysis of the major constraints and
weaknesses faced by the financial and real sectors; careful assessment of the background,



- 8 -
experience, qualification and commitment of the implementing agencies; support for the
development strategy and priorities of the Government and IDA; the allocation of Credit
funds; and the establishment of the appropriate conditions prior to the effectiveness of the
Credit. While it was recognized early on that having the central bank disburse resources
under the line of credit component posed a potential conflict with its overall supervisory
role in the financial sector, at the time the project was developed there was no other
suitable organization that could implement this component satisfactorily. This
necessitated the creation of an apex unit, FUSMED, at the BOG. The Project could have
yielded better results if mechanisms were built to control potential problems resulting
from this set up. Deficiencies in the Project design included the absence of: (a) criteria
and procedures to address credit discipline and disallow weak financial institutions from
accessing the Project resources; (b) well-defined incentives and indicators to ensure the
disbursement and supervisory functions of the apex unit were supported with equal
emphasis and in coordination with the Banking Supervision Department (BSD) of BOG;
and (c) factoring unstable macroeconomic conditions and adequate consideration of
subproject repayment as a project risk. Also, deficiencies in the design of the TA
component of the project led it to its less than successful implementation.
20.   To compensate for these design weaknesses, the supervision missions consistently
stressed the importance of adequate appraisal of credit applications and close supervision
of sub-project implementation and loan servicing. When unsatisfactory delinquency rates
surfaced, IDA required FUSMED and PFIs to regularly follow up and report on the
repayment rates, action plans to deal with delinquencies, arrears and provisioning
positions. In addition to BOG-financed assessment studies, increased support was
provided for training and workshops wherein managing directors and officers in the PFIs
shared experiences and lessons learned from the assessment studies. However, IDA's
efforts to build up the financial sector were undermined when: (a) stringent re-
evaluations of individual PFI's capability, policies, procedures, finaincial performance and
appraisal quality were not conducted; (b) more weight was given to the progress (albeit
slow) in the privatization process of the state-owned PFIs under the FINSAC Project than
in implementing radical measures to suspend poorly performing PFIs from participating
in the Project; and (c) focus was on disbursement progress and meeting funding
requirements of the real sector without intensifying institutional development measures
for sub-borrowers. This was also evident in the satisfactory performance ratings recorded
in supervision reports, despite a high default rate.
G. Borrower's Performance
21.   Overall, the collaboration between the FUSMED staff and the implementing
agencies with the Bank in the preparation and implementation of the Project was
satisfactory. FUSMED's positive performance was reflected in their overall good
coordination with all the implementation agencies, cooperative relationships with PFIs,
serious attempts at getting the microfinance and pilot studies fund components off the
ground, persistence in the difficult task of gathering information to demonstrate Project
impact, and the generally timely submission of audit reports.



-9-
22.   The unfavorable market conditions, the weak credit management practices of
PFIs, the choices made by sub-borrowers to default on loans, and the poor contract
enforcement capacity in the judicial system all contributed to the difficult challenges to
bring the repayment performance ratios up to acceptable levels. The sustainability of the
Project achievements continued to be threatened by FUSMED's focus on delivering
credit and their less than rigorous monitoring of sub-borrower and PFI performance. This
deficiency was a result of FUSMED's reasoning that doing so would be overstepping
their boundaries because the PFIs were taking the credit risk. A stronger commitment by
and closer coordination between FUSMED and the Supervision Department at BOG to
capacity building in the banking sector through stringent re-evaluations of the
institutional and financial standing and credit management capacity of PFIs and
disqualification of poorly-performing PFIs from participating in the line of credit would
have improved the Project outcome. This was further complicated by a passive attitude
prevailing among the state banks personnel who felt they operated in an environment
where competition was not a problem.
H. Assessment of Outcome
23.   The Project outcome is unsatisfactory because: (a) although 109 enterprises were
assisted and 101 continue to operate, the default rates were high; (b) leasing as a new
financial product was developed and 25 enterprises were assisted but the leasing capacity
of a participating company requires further strengthening as reflected by its over 30%
recovery rate problem; (c) though the BOG and PFIs remain interested to continue
providing term loans utilizing their own resources, some of the reflows from the Project,
or funds from other lines of credit, the credit management capacity of some banks
remains weak so that low loan recovery rates continue to erode banks' financial
resources; and (d) many of the objectives of the technical assistance components that
were designed to provide business assistance to SMEs were only partially realized.
I. Future Operations
24.  In discussing a future operational plan, it was agreed that FUSMED and the BSD
would proceed to work closely with PFIs to improve the repayment performance under
the Project. Also, the Government is considering BOG's request to continue to make
some of the reflows from this Project available to viable SMEs. Pariicipating PFIs will
be required to have increasingly higher and acceptable repayment rates and micro-finance
institutions will be selected based on criteria that measure their sustainability and
outreach capacity. In addition, BOG plans to house the management of the funds within
an organization that is autonomous and established to implement a proactive program for
SMEs.
25.   The Government and many PFIs have also asked that IDA consider a similar
follow-on project for continued assistance to SMEs. While the Government is not
interested in assuming any foreign exchange risk, a key feature of the SME Project that



- 10-
was attractive to PFIs, PFIs indicated that despite this position, there is still strong PFI
interest in meeting the high demand for medium- and long-term financing with resources
not available through the capital markets nor supported by their deposit base. If a future
operation is considered, it should be designed to meet the objective of developing the
financial sector so that future long term SME lending can continue as a viable lending
activity with in-country sourced funds. It should address the credit disciplinary problem
extensively; be based on the ability to locally mobilize domestic long-term funds; and
involve sound banks or those participating in an intensive institutional restructuring and
strengthening program and whose exposure is linked to achievements of monitorable
targets. It is most important, however, that the Govermment remain vigilant in its work
toward developing a stable macro-economic environment and an enabling financial and
business environment in which the private sector can operate, compete and grow. The
Bank continues to support these objectives through other on-going projects.
J. Key Lessons Learned
26.   The key lessons are:
a) Initiatives with capacity building objectives for the financial sector have a better
chance of success if designed to include assistance and conditions for support based
on achieving macroeconomic stability and developing a disciplined financial system
and a business environment conducive to private investment. Financial intermediary
loans should focus heavily on developing the capacity to mobilize long term funds
domestically.
b) The success of financial intermediary loans is dependent upon a disciplined credit
environment. Where this is weak, measures should be included in the project design
to improve it and address issues relating to governance, management, financial
policies, collection performance, appraisal and supervision techniques, and credit risk
management policies of PFIs. For weak PFIs, capacity building should be addressed
through action plans and commitment conditions incorporating time-bound and
monitorable performance targets. Accrediting PFIs should be carried out by
technically trained staff at the BSD at appraisal and periodically re-examined
throughout project implementation so that PFIs are strengthened rather than
undermined by their participation.
c) If capacity building is a major goal and requires active participation by an apex
institution, such an apex should be housed in a more permanent, commercially-
oriented entity which does not compete with PFIs and is motivated by performance-
based incentives (for example, investment banks, accounting firms, etc.). Apex
arrangements with narrow administrative functions and located within central banks
or government entities are best in environments with sufficiently large numbers of
both institutionally strong PFIs and expected sub-borrowers that are good credit risks.



- I1 -
d) Microenterprises require different financial products and delivery mechanisms
compared to the traditional lines of credit targeted for small- and medium scale
enterprises. The identification of institutions and partners dedicated to this target
group is key to the effective delivery of services to this sector.
e) The availability of equity funds may have more far reaching effects on the
development and growth of SMEs than credit for undeveloped SMEs. Banks are not
well equipped to serve their needs because of information asymmetries on project
quality and the lack of adequate collateral. The development of private equity
financing instruments is important because: (i) they provide SMEs access to
technical know-how, (ii) through effective financial intermediation, equity funds can
bridge the information gap between emerging entrepreneurs and the banking system;
and (iii) as equity funds are used to nurture growth companies with the objective of
selling participation in them, the supply of companies traded in the stock exchange
increases leading to the development of the capital markets. In supporting an
enabling environment for equity investments, initiatives will have to address
constraints to the development of equity funds serving SMEs: high due diligence and
supervision costs, lack of reliable exit mechanisms for selling minority shares, little
understanding by entrepreneurs of the advantages and disadvantages of dealing with
minority equity partners, and the existence of legal and regulatory obstacles.
f) Where SMEs are still largely at an embryonic stage of development and the market
for business services is distorted (because consulting fees are distorted upward by
donor agencies that pay more for local firms; local firms experience a steep learing
curve in targeting the appropriate expertise required to upgrade their capabilities; and
firms do not appreciate the benefits they could derive from consulting services or
justify the high fees in advance of experiencing the potential benefits accruing from
the consulting services), the development of affordable, effective, efficient, and
sustainable capacity building services to SMEs should remain a priority to realize
private-sector led growth in the real sector. Business development schemes should be
based on key principles including that activities receiving support should: be
generated locally; delivered on a fee for service basis; address actual market needs,
provided by profit-driven private sector specialists chosen by the receiving firm; and
time bound. It is also important that donors coordinate their efforts in supporting
business know how and a service market. These lessons were reflected in the design
of the on-going IDA-financed Private Sector Development Project.



- 12 -
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.L  coetfObj cties               : Substania   j    Partial    J   Neglgible    [ Not Applicable-
Macroeconomic policies 
Sector policies
,   _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,
Financial objectives 
. Institutional development 
|_Physical objectives                                                                       I
Poverty reduction                                                                           /
Gender concerns                                          /
Other social objectives                                                                               :
Environmental objectives                                                                    V
Public sector management                 _
Private sector development                               V
Other (specify)                                                                                       .
jlRPretSusalablit,              Lkel                  UJlef                 Uncertain
C, E:nkterformsuce   f Hlgh*5 Sa1 :i:0:sl*ei:ory $  0 ;SaIsfeae            Deficient
Identification                  |
Preparation assistance                                 r
Appraisal                                               _
Supervision                                                                              I
Af Borrwev                                                                           Deficien tlg il-
P Preparation                    |                                                    D
Implementation                  I                                                                    | V
Covenant compliance                         _
E. Aiiii*m H                               S_tshtr    .   St. tery            l   Unsatisfactory
10 I fI                                                                It-



- 13 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Approval
Preceding Operations:
National Investment Bank I  Development of SMEs, strengthen
(Ln 1180-GH)             National Investment Bank (NIB)            1975       Completed
National Investment Bank   Development of SMEs, develop a          1979       Completed
II (Cr. 901-GH)          restructuring program for NIB
Export Rehabilitation    Export sector policy and institutional    1984       Completed
Project, Export          reform, capacity building of key
Rehabilitation TA, Export   organizations and industries in the
Rehabilitation Special Fund  export sector
(Cr.1435-GH, Cr. 1436-GH,
Cr.F-9-GH)
Second Reconstruction    Finance inputs for selected industries    1985       Completed
Import Project (Cr. 1573-
GH, African Facility Cr. A-
3-GH)
Industrial Sector        Finance the development of the            1986       Completed
Adjustment Project       industrial sector
(Cr.1672-GH, African
Facility A- 13-GH)
Following Operations:
Financial Sector         Financial sector policy and reform;       1988       Completed
Adjustment Credit        capacity building for key institutions in
(Cr. 191 1-GH )          the sector
Second Financial Sector  Removal of remaining policy distortions,  1991        Ongoing
Adjustment Credit (Cr.)    further development of the financial
sector
Private Enterprise and   Development of an enhanced export         1993        Ongoing
Export Development       credit program, the export financing
Project (Cr. 2502-GH)    capacity of banks, and the export
capability of non-traditional exporters



-14-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Identification                                                  .              2/88
Appraisal                                                                   3/ 6/89
Negotiations                                                               11/11/88
Board approval                                                              3/28/89
Signing                                                                     5/ 1/89
Effectiveness                                         8/ 1/89              10/25/89
Mid-term review                                                             5/10/94
Project completion                                    4/30/96               3/30/97
Loan closing                                         12/31/96               6/30/97
Table 4: Credit Disbursements - Cumulative Estimated and Actual (US$ million)
Appraisal estimate               4.0    9.5   15.0   20.8   25.5   28.2   30.0   30.0
Actual disbursement              2.2    6.2    9.5   18.8   21.7   24.4   29.2   30.7
Actual as % of estimate          55      65     63     90      85     87      97     102
Final refund to the special account: October 14, 1997



-15-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Incator- -Estimated                                        Actual
Line of credit commitment:
10%                                  Mid-1990                          1%
40%                                  Mid-1991                         42%
75%                                  Mid- 1992                        67%
100%                                  Mid- 1993                        88%
Mid-1994                         91%
__ __ __ _ __ __ _ __ __ _Mid- 1995                           103%
Equipment leasing commitment:
20%                                  Mid-1990                           0
50%                                  Mid-1991                          0
80%                                  Mid-1992                           0
100%                                  Mid-1993                          0
Mid-1994                          0
Mid-1995                         55
Mid-1996                         56
Regulatory and incentive
environment for SSEs study              End-1990             Cancelled; conducted by IDA
Technology development study            End-1990             Cancelled; implemented by IDA
Export processing zone study            End- 1991            Cancelled; conducted under the
l_____________________________ ______________________________  Agricultural Diversification Proj.
Equipment leasing study                 End- 1989                      End 1990
Business incubator and growth
center study                                                          March 1997
No. of SMEs assisted under the
Pilot Studies and TA Fund:
50                                   Mid-1990                           0
150                                   Mid-1991                          0
300                                   Mid-1992                           0
500                                   Mid-1993                           0
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
There were no specified indicators for project operation.



-16-
Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
lj.;;Study. ........                              0 7 7            -Purpose. S- 7t  Impact
Regulatory and           Review problems faced by       Cancelled       Carried out by IDA under
incentive environment   the private sector, current                     an industry sector study;
for SSEs                 incentive system                               recommendations were
incorporated in projects
____________________     ______________________                         assisting   SSEs
Technology               Identify and examine           Cancelled       Carried out by IDA under a
development              constraints and                                sector study;
opportunites for technical                    recommendations were
development and                                incorporated in the Private
._____ _    innovation                                Sector Development Project
Export processing zone   Examine the potential for      Cancelled       Study implemented under
-establishing a duty free                      Agricultural Diversification
zone                                           Project; recommendations
incorporated in the
.____________________   ._____________________                         proposed  Gateway  Project
Equipment leasing        Examine the leasing.           Completed       Finance Lease Law, 1993
industry, define a leasing                     passed; new leasing
law and develop the                            companies established and
leasing industry                               participated in the Project's
.____________________    ______________________                         leasing   com ponent
Business incubator and   Assess the feasibility and     Completed       Studies combined;
growth study             define the requirements                        requirements for setting up
for establishing pilot                         incubators and growth
incubators and growth                          centers defined and will
centers                                        serve as basis for
establishing these centers
Mutualist credit         Study and define the           Completed       Microfinance procedures
guarantee scheme         procedures for providing                       were defined and the
financial resources to                         scheme was established;
microenterprises  _                            two banks participated and
two groups were assisted
Meeting the financing    Assess the depth of            Completed       Studv provided an
needs of SSEs            financial services and                         important resource to
instruments used to assist                     determine support
SSEs                                           mechanisms for MEs/SSEs
(Non-Bank Financial
Institutions Proj.)



-17-
Table 8A: Project Costs (US$m)
Line of credit                20.5       30.0       50.5       10.3      28.2       38.5
Leasing                        0.6        2.5        3.1       0.3         1.4        1.7
Technical assistance           1.0        2.3        3.3        -          1.3       1.3
Unallocated                     -         0.5        0.5        -           -         -
Total                      22.1       35.3       57.4       10.6       30.9       41.5
Table 8B: Project Financing (US$m)
|IDA                       | 0.8   l29.2   l30.0   l            -    |30.9   l30.9 |
|Participating banks            7.9         07.9                0.3                   0.3
SMEs                          13.2         O        13.2      10.3                  10.3
Co-financiers                  0.2        6.1        6.3
Total                      22.1       35.3       57.4       10.6       30.9       41.5
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Ex-post FRR and ERR data for the beneficiary enterprises are not available.



- 18-
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Development Credit Agreement
Section                   Descripton                              Status    Og Date   Rev. Date
2.03    Closing date                                       3        C       12/31/96     6/30/97
3.01    Borrower's subsidiary agreement with Bank of Ghana  2       C
3.04    SME Policy Committee and Secretariat               3        C
4.01    Financial records, audit reports                   I        C
6.01    Subsidiary Administration Agreement, operational
policies and procedures, circular to the banking
system, Participation Agreement                   2        C
6.02    Ratification of the Project Agreement, Subsidiary
Administration Agreement                          2        C
Sch. I   Withdrawal of proceeds                            2        C
Sch. 4   Special accounts                                  2        C
Sch. 2   Completion date                                   3        C        4/30/96     3/30/97
Project Agreement
Section 1Description,'                                   Ty17pe    Sat,     Orig. Date IRev. Date
._                                                          -  -   
2.01    Establishment of the apex unit, FUSMED             3        C
2.02    Participation Agreement with PFIs                 3, 2      C
2.06    Subsidiary Administration Agreement               3, 2      C
2.07    Implementation review and progress report          4        C
2.08    Staffing, coordination, monitoring                3,4       C      .
2.09    Training for staff at Bank of Ghana, PFIs          5        C
2.10    Pilot mutualist credit guarantee scheme - study,
establishment                                     5        C        12/31/89
2.11    Equipment leasing regulatory and policy framework -
l______ study, implementation                              5        C       12/31/89
2.12    Coordination between the Secretariat and IDA       3        C
2.13    Pilot Studies Fund establishment, implementation   5        C        9/30/89



19-
Project Agreement
Section                     Description                                s Statius.   Orfg. Date    Rev. Date
2.14     Annual review - social and economic impact             4         C
3.01     Financial records, audit reports                       4         C
Sch. 1   Principal terms, conditions of sub-loans, investments,
l______ participation agreements                               2, 3       C
Sch. 2   Procedures for terms and conditions of sub-loans,
investments                                           2, 3      C
Sch. 3   Procurement, consultants' services                    2, 3       C
Covenant types:
Present status:
I - Accountstaudits                           4 - Monitoring review, reporting    C - Complied
2 - Flow, utilization of project funds        5 - Project implementation not
3 - Management aspects of the project, executing  covered by categories 14
agency
Table 11: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs (Staff Weeks)
Stag of                                    Actua-
Through appraisal (preparation,                   71.0
pre-appraisal)
Appraisal-* Board (Negotiation)                   32.6
Board -+ Effectiveness                            14.9
Supervision                                      143.0
Completion                                         8.0
Total                                            269.5



-2o-
Table 12: Bank Resourees - Staff Missions
Stageof       Month    Number  Days in I    Staff SkiDls    |   Performrating b/   I             Types ofFPoblem
of                                           rating__ b/Tpso
Project Cycle    Year      Persons    Field     rpst              Imp'n w     Dcv't   _ _ _            V_ _ _^_-
Through                                        FIN, OP, EC,
appraisal        3/88          6        20     Credit Spec.
Appraisal -                                    FIN, OP, EC,
Board            7/88          7        20     Credit Spec.
Board -_
Effectiveness
Supervision      7/89         2         5      EC, OP
5/90         2         7     EC, OP                 l           2       Slow loan processing because of a shortage in
skilled staff, poor quality feasibility reports,
delays in TA component implementation
10/90         2        8      EC, OP                 1           2       Slow loan processing due to intemal problems
and restructuring of some PFIs; delays in TA
component implementation due to
reorganizational processes
5/91         3        10     EC, PS/FN, OP          2           1       Slow submission of loans for term lending
because of capital adequacy requirements,
implications of financial restructuring; lack of
interest in the Pilot Studies Fund
9/91         2        1 8    EC, PS/FN              2           l       Weak capacity in PFIs, size of special
account, absence of interest in the mutualist
credit guarantee scheme and incorporation of
a loan insurance scheme, non-utilization of
the pilot studies fund
11/92         3        1 1    FN, PS, OP             2           2       Weak capacity in PFIs, slow disbursement,
delays in establishing the mutualist credit
guarantee scheme, lack of any leasing activity
9/93         2        15    OP, FN                  2           2       Slowdown in disbursements under the line of
credit component, no lending activity under
the mutualist credit guarantee scheme and
leasing component, high default rates, weak
capacity in PFIs, computerization problems in
the apex unit, absence of interest in the pilot
studies fund
6/94         2        15    OP, FN                  S           S       High default rates, weak PFI capacity, lack of
banking mentality, absence of leasing activity
and lending to microenterprises, poor
supervision support from the apex unit, no
interest in the pilot studies fund
1/95         2        l l    OP                     S           S       Low repayment rates, poor credit
management capacity in PFIs, lack of interest
in the mutualist credit guarantee scheme
6/95         4         4     OP                     S           S       Poor Repayment performance, delays in lease
payment
Completion      11/96          2        15    OP, Credit Spec.        S           U       High default rates
a/  EC-Economist, FN-Financial Analyst; OP-Operations Officer, PS-Private Sector Specialist,
b/ Ratings: I-Minor problems, 2-Moderate problems, 3-Major problems, actions taken, 4-Major problems, insufficiently addressed
S-Satisfactory, U-Unsatisfactory



Appendix 1
GHANA
PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1996-GH)
FINAL SUPERVISION MISSION
AIDE MEMOIRE
1.    An IDA supervision mission represented by Ms. Marilyn Manalo (team leader)
and Mr. Ramon Marks (Consultant) were in Accra November 6-21, 1996 to conduct the
final supervision of the implementation of the Private Small and Medium Enterprise
Development Project (SME Project, Credit 1996-GH) and to commence the preparation
of the completion report for this project. This Credit was expected to close on December
31,1996 but an extension of the closing date has been proposed.
2.    The mission would like to express its appreciation for the assistance and
courtesies extended by FUSMED, the apex unit at the Bank of Ghana, representatives of
participating financial institutions (PFIs), the National Board for Small Scale Industries,
Ghana Leasing Co. Ltd., LeasAfric, Women's World Banking (Ghana) Ltd., and private
sector beneficiaries.
3.    Following is a summary of the implementation status of the project; an
operational plan discussed with FUSMED; and the next steps to be taken by FUSMED,
PFIs, and other beneficiary agencies in preparation of the completion report.
confirmation of this aide memoire will be provided by the Bank upon the return of the
mission to Washington, DC.
A. Project Implementation Status
Credit and Leasing Component
4.    Under the line of credit component, support totaling approximately $ 28.6 million
was approved for 109 small and medium enterprises. This represents about 122% of the
original allocation for this component. The distribution of the enterprises assisted under
this Credit are as follows: (a) sectoral: manufacturing-69%, service-3 1%; (b)
geographical: Greater Accra-68%, Ashanti-12%, Western-6%, Brong Ahafo-6%, other-
8%; (c) loan size: medium-65%, small-27%, micro-8%. It is estimated that about 3,164
new jobs were generated under the project at an average cost of about $9,039. Total
project cost for these subprojects is estimated to be $39.4 million, of which $28.6 million
was financed by the Credit, $1 million by PFIS, and $9.8 million by the enterprise
sponsors themselves.



-2-
5.    While the loan commitment and disbursement status is satisfactory, the major
issue on the line of credit remains the poor repayment collection performance. In the last
year, the overall arrears position for the subprojects has deteriorated to around 60% of the
amount outstanding. Of the 109 enterprises that have been funded under the Project, 47
are current with their repayments. Arrears for the remaining 62 enterprises amount to
approximately Cedis 9 billion.
6.    The Project's unsatisfactory loan recovery performance by the PFIs has been
attributed to many factors. The difficult economic conditions prevailing in the country
continue to adversely affect the ability of the enterprise to implement their projects,
operate competitively, and service their loans. Other factors that contribute to this
unsatisfactory performance include management, financial, accounting and technical
weaknesses of some sub-borrowers, insufficient equity contributions, deficient and
sometimes untimely credit approvals, and delayed implementation of sub-projects. In
addition the weak credit management procedures and poor client relationships on the part
of the PFIs also contributed to this position. In the discussions, the meetings highlighted
the importance of sound project appraisal and close loan monitoring as a key lesson they
learned from this Project. The importance of technical assistance to enterprises was also
stressed.
7.   In an attempt to improve the non-performing status of the sub-projects, FUSMED
recently funded a review of the PFIs' portfolio of 35 problem projects financed under the
SME project. This review was carried out by consultants from the Non-Performing
Assets Recovery Trust. The goals of the review were to diagnose problems experienced
by the SMEs and to recommend corrective actions FUSMED and the PFIs can take to
enable the PFIs to recover the funds lent. Following the completion of this study, the
findings and recommendations were provided to the managing directors of PFIs and
discussed at workshops sponsored by FUSMED for loan officers of the PFIs. The
mission was informed that in September 1996, recommendations stemming from the
workshops and discussions with PFIs were submitted to the BOG for its consideration.
As the Bank has not had the opportunity to comment on these recommendations, the
mission expressed the need for the Bank to review BOG's plan of action for the
concerned PFIs and enterprises and requested that this be forwarded to the Bank. During
meetings with the mission, it was also agreed that FUSMED would provide BOG's
Banking Supervision Department (BSD) with a copy of the report to enable the BSD to
follow-up on the PFIs' action plans for the problem projects. For other non-performing
clients, PFIs have rescheduled their loans or taken litigation action.
8.    Under the mutualist credit guarantee component, $ 2 million was provided for
micro and small enterprises. The component was not utilized. While $28,000 were
allocated for 45 enterprise members in two groups formed under the scheme and
supported by two PFIs, FUSMED failed to execute the mutualist credit guarantee
agreements and the funds for these groups were disbursed as regular sub-loans. While
there is continued interest in this scheme, the disbursement and repayment problems



- 3 -
experienced under one sub-loan prompts the mission to strongly recommend that a re-
examination of the grouping process, guarantee mechanism and the credit channeling
arrangements be reviewed before funding for candidate groups are considered under the
scheme. In addition, the legal documentation required between BOG and PFIs on the
MCGS should be finalized for future adoption.
9.    On the leasing component, approval was provided for 26 sub-projects submitted
by two leasing companies totaling approximately $ 1. 8 million. As of end-July 1996,
approximately $1.4 million was disbursed; the remaining funds will not be required by
the lessees. Of the total Cedis 1. 5 billion due in lease payments, approximately Cedis
341 million was overdue. The same factors that contributed to sub-borrowers defaulting
under the line of credit have also affected lessees of one participating company, Ghana
Leasing Co. (GLC). GLC informed the mission that it continues to implement action
plans for their non-performing clients to improve their lease payment performance. The
second company, LeasAfric, has not been experiencing any problems with defaults to
date.
10.   The mission expressed concern that the persistent condition of high arrears would
continue to adversely affect the outcome and sustainability of the Project. The mission
recommended that FUSMED, BSD and PFIs take a more aggressive loan supervision
approach to address the recovery issue and that PFIs continue their process of drawing up
and implementing action plans for each non-performing sub-loan to reduce the arrears
level. In addition, FUSMED and PFIs should reinforce the assistance provided to the
defaulting sub-borrowers by extending technical assistance to help these enterprises
strengthen their operations and eliminate their loan arrears with the PFIs.
Technical Assistance Component
11.   The technical assistance component was designed to support capacity building
and skills development for FUSMED, PFIs, SMEs, women entrepreneurs, and
consultants. Technical assistance was in the form of business advisory and consulting
services, training and studies. Some preliminary indications of the qualitative
achievements of the TA include the:
*  enactment of a finance lease law in 1993 following the completion of a study;
*  establishment of three pilot business advisory centers (Accra, Kumasi and
Takoradi) which led to the further establishment of another nine business
advisory centers (not funded under the project) in eight regional capitals and
two district capitals;
*  development of an Entrepreneurship Development Program at the National
Board for Small Scale Industries which contributed to the training of 5,150
entrepreneurs including women (40%), government redeployed employees,
and micro and small-scale entrepreneurs;



-4 -
*  training of about 167 bankers and loan officers through seminars, workshops,
and credit courses (11 in number) on the SME project operations, equipment
leasing, credit management, and non-performing asset management;
training of approximately 587 entrepreneurs (479 women) by Women's
World Banking (Ghana) Ltd. in Accra and Kumasi and the NBSSI in areas
including small scale business, bookkeeping, inventory control, management,
and marketing;
*  training of managers and staff in FUSMED (6), NBSSI (12), WWBG (1) in
areas including financing schemes and support mechanisms for small-scale
enterprises, loan supervision, and entrepreneurship development;
* completion of a study on financing needs for small businesses.
A complete record of the achievements under the technical assistance component and an
evaluation of the impact of the assistance provided will be covered in the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR). To sustain the achievements listed above and to further assist
entrepreneurs, FUSMED, PFIs, NBSSI, WWBG and SMEs have indicated the need for
on-going training (in various areas including, for example, banking, financial services,
project management, small business management, etc.) and logistics support.
12.   NBSSI informed the mission that the study on the growth center/business
incubator is expected to be completed prior to the Project's closing date. Because the
consultants' work on this study is yet to commence, the mission expressed concern that
the quality of the study may be jeopardized. NBSSI indicated that sufficient time is
available for the work to be done and that all the support for the consultants would be
made available. It was agreed that NBSSI will keep the Bank informed of the
developments of the study given the very tight schedule.
Project Administration
13.   A review of FUSMED's records on the commitments to date under the Project for
all components and discussions with PFIs on possible cancellations of allocations for
some sub-projects revealed that approximately SDR900,000 will be available for
onlending. Based on FUSMED's records, disbursements under the line of credit amount
to approximately SDR21 million Given the extent of these resources, some PFIs and
FUSMED have requested the Bank's consideration for more time to use these recently
freed up resources to refinance some of the PFIs' projects which meet the objectives and
the eligibility criteria under the Project. Recognizing the demand for medium-term
resources, the mission advised FUSMED to formally request Bank consideration for an
extension to the closing date from December 31, 1996 to June 30, 1997.
14.  In light of the poor recovery performance of projects financed by the Project, the
request for extension should include an action plan by FUSMED and PFIs for all sub-
projects, technical assistance to beneficiary enterprises, eligibility criteria of PFIs, and
utilization of funds (incorporating a listing of the number of eligible candidate projects by



- 5 -
PFI and their funding requirements). The action plan should provide by defaulting sub-
borrower information on: the total amount approved, total amount outstanding, arrears
classification and amount, specific action to be taken to recover the loans made and the
expected timing of the action and technical assistance to be provided to improve the
repayment record. The mission suggested that on-going technical assistance programs
(for example the Technology and Enterprise Development Fund under the Private Sector
Development Project) specifically set up to assist SMEs can be tapped for this purpose.
Also, the benefits of a technical expert to assist PFIs and SMEs specifically benefiting
from the Project might be considered. It was agreed that the request for the closing date
extension and the action plan will be sent to the Bank not later than December 16, 1996,
The mission also stressed the importance of FUSMED and PFIs recognizing that only
disbursements made by the closing date will be funded under the project.
15.   The mission expressed concern that despite attention called by previous missions
and repeated recommendations recorded in the-annual audit reports, FUSMED's
accounting system is still not fully computerized and interactive. This results in delays in
processing commitments, disbursements, repayment schedules, and aging analysis. The
mission reviewed FUSMED's reporting procedures and suggested reporting formats that
would enable FUSMED to monitor more effectively the performance of the Project.
FUSMED also indicated that work has commenced to incorporate FUSMED's records
into the overall BOG computerized network.
16.   With regard compliance with the legal covenants, FUSMED submitted their audit
reports in a timely manner. PFIs were also in compliance with the submission
requirements for their annual audited financial report. However, in accordance with the
Project Agreement, Schedule 1, para. (B)(2), PFIs were to include a supplementary audit
statement on their compliance with eligibility criteria of investment projects. While this
was not done, the evaluation of FUSMED of all sub-projects ensured compliance with the
criteria. However, to ensure compliance with this legal requirement, it was agreed that
FUSMED would ensure that an opinion on this audit for all PFIs would be included in the
audit report for 1996. FUSMED will provide this report to the Bank by June 30, 1997.
B. Operational Plan
17.  In discussing a future operational plan, it was agreed that:
a) FUSMED and the BSD would closely liaise with PFIs to obtain quarterly action plans
for loans under the Project that are still being serviced;
b) the mission would inform the Bank of the request from BOG and expressions of
interest from FUSMED and PFIs for a second SME project. BOG also requested
consideration for a foreign exchange guarantee scheme. The mission reminded the
meetings that when this idea was discussed about two years ago, the Government



- 6 -
indicated that it could no longer assume the foreign exchange risk if a second line
would be contemplated. For this reason, PFIs indicated that a second line would not
be as attractive as this Project and that there could be problems with its utilization.
Following an expression of interest by PFIs on a follow-on line of credit m meetings
with this mission, some PFIs informed the mission that despite the Government's
position, if the project were properly designed to cover the foreign exchange risk,
there still is scope in the system for another line of credit to meet the high demand for
medium- and long-term financing. The mission agreed to bring this to the attention of
the Bank's country team for serious consideration;
c) FUSMED and BOG agreed to pursue their earlier request to the Government for
resources from the reflows of this Project to re-lend to SMEs and micro-enterprises
on a medium-term basis. The mission suggested, and the Deputy Governor
confirmed, that the terms under the PEED Project's medium-term facility would be
adopted for the facility funded by the reflows. Also, the mission asked that care in
extending credit be exercised and that lessons from this Project be applied particularly
in terms of (i) lending to viable enterprises following thorough examination of
feasibility studies and careful assessment of the enterprises; (ii) making funds
available to PFIs that have attained gradually increasing repayment rates of at least:
70% in the first year to over 90% in the third year (consistent with the medium-term
facility under the Private Enterprise and Export Development Project); (iii) providing
a sufficient level of resources on a timely basis; (iv) lending to micro-enterprises
based on best practices relating to the ability of participating NGOs and other
financial institutions to provide financial services on an operationally sustainable
basis and with increasing outreach as a primary goal; (v) providing complementary
technical assistance to both PFIs and entrepreneurs through existing service providers;
and (vi) managing the funds within an organization that is autonomous and properly
motivated to implement a proactive program for SMEs; and,
d) most importantly, that the Government work toward providing financial
intermediaries and entrepreneurs with an enabling macro-economic environment in
which to operate and compete.
C. Implementation Completion Report
18.   The mission discussed the requirement of an implementation completion report
(ICR) with the Bank of Ghana, FUSMED, PFIs, the National Board for Small Scale
Industries, and the Women's World Bank (Ghana), Ltd. The policy of the Bank is to
evaluate completed projects together with the Borrower and to record this evaluation in
an ICR. The ICR is prepared jointly by the Bank and the Borrower and assesses primarily
the (a) degree of achievement of project objectives; (b) prospects for the project's
sustainability; (c) performance of IDA and the Borrower; (d) project outcome; and (e)
plan for the project's future operation. The ICR provides the data and analysis to



-7 -
substantiate these assessments and also identifies the lessons learned from
implementation.
19.   The mission discussed with FUSMED the requirements to complete the report. It
was agreed that FUSMED would assist IDA in its preparation and would coordinate the
submission of data from PFIs and other implementing agencies. Also, FUSMED will
assist in the preparation of the Borrower's evaluation report to be attached, unedited, to
the ICR. The Borrower's contribution will be supervised by the Ministry of Finance. The
attached annex provides the format of the data to be incorporated in the report and to be
submitted by FUSMED and all other implementing agencies.
Accra, Ghana
November 21, 1996



I



Appendix 2
PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1996-GH)
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR






GHANA
PRIVATE SMALL & MEDIUM ENTERPRISE
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT 1996-GH
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT - FUSMED PORTION
Introduction
The SME Project was an integral part of IDA's strategy to support Ghana Government's
reform programme aimed to reverse the decline in living standards and pave the way for
sustained growth. A total amount of SDR22.3 million was made available by IDA to the
Government in October 1989 when the Credit was declared effective. The Project closed
finally on June 30, 1997 after postponement from the original date of December 31, 1996.
Obiectives of Project
The Government made the proceeds of the Credit available to the Bank of Ghana for the
principal objective of financing the development of SMEs in the private productive
sectors in order to generate a supply response and thus increase employment, output and
income. The beneficiaries of the Credit included privately-owned SMEs in all economic
sectors other than agriculture, trading and real estate, institutions or organisations
providing business support services to SMEs such as NBSSI and WWBG as well as
banks that were assisted to provide medium and long-term funds to SMEs. Also, the
Credit sought to improve the broad policy support framework for the development of
SMEs.
The bulk of the proceeds of the Credit was to be lent to the participating financial
institutions (PFIs) who were to on-lend the funds in cedi terms at variable and market



2
determined interest rates to the beneficiary SMEs. The Project had the following
components:-
(a) a line of credit to finance the fixed asset and working capital needs of SMEs;
(b) equipment lease finances to provide an alternative and flexible source of long-term
financing to SMEs;
(c) a Pilot Studies Fund to assist micro and small enterprises obtain consultancy
and technical assistance;
(d) a pilot mutualist credit scheme for micro-enterprise lending;
(e) an integrated technical assistance package to directly assist FUSMED, WWBG
NBSSI, MDPI, GIMPA designed to provide capacity building and skills
development; and
(f) studies on equipment leasing, technology development, free trade
zones and the regulatory and incentive environment for private
sector and small enterprise development.
PROJECT'S OUTCOMES AND RESULTS
A total of SDR21.9 million ($30.9 million) was disbursed out of the total credit amount
of SDR22.3 million. This amount may be considered a big contribution in terms of
foreign exchange resources being made available to the economy of Ghana.



3
Line of Credit Component
Under the line of credit component, 121 SME sub-loans were financed to the tune of
$28.6 rmillion or SDR19.9 million through 7 PFIs. The beneficiary enterprises were
located in 9 out of the 10 administrative regions in Ghana, and engaged in manufacturing
and service industries such as printing, agro-processing, metal fabrication, food and
beverage, timber/wood processing, hotels, transport and restaurant operations. Medium
enterprises received $25.3 million or 88% of resources; small enterprises $3.2 million or
11 %; and micro-enterprises $0.13 million or 0.4% of resources.
Equi2ment Leasing Component
Twenty-five enterprises had $1.8 million approved for them through 2 leasing PFIs under
the equipment leasing component, though only $1.6 million or SDR944,929 was
eventually disbursed. The beneficiaries were engaged in various economic fields
including services but generally located in urban centres mainly the city of Accra. As at
June 30, 1997, one (1) lessee account was tenninated; 3 were expired; 8 were non-
performing; the remainder were classified as current or performing.
Pilot Studies Fund
The Pilot Studies Fund scheme to assist micro and small enterprises with the cost of
studies was cancelled due to lack of patronage arising from the design of the scheme and
the peculiar problems of micro and small enterprises. Beneficiaries were required to
contribute 50% of the cost of studies or technical assistance with the remaining 50%
being provided by FUSMED as a loan. In accessing this facility, beneficiaries were



4
required to provide their contribution up front to PFIs which then applied for the second
portion from FUSMED. Firstly, many micro and small enterprises could not afford the
50% contribution. Secondly, as there was no guarantee that the related sub-project would
be successful, the risk of the second portion becoming a loan burden was a disincentive.
Thirdly, PFIs were generally not interested in the scheme considering it unimportant to
them. A number of small enterprises cited their frustrations with PFIs.
Mutualist Credit Guarantee Scheme
The Mutualist Credit Guarantee Scheme, another facility for MEs and SSEs, was
virtually not implementable. Again, PFIs regarded the scheme as unimportant to them.
It seems that where MEs and SSEs are concerned, there is little or no co-operation from
PFIs.
In December1995 when the credit line became fully exhausted against the background of
continuing demand for credit, it was decided that SDR1,378.500 out of the MCGS
allocation of SDR1,490,000 should be reallocated to the line of credit, the difference
remaining in the books out of consideration. Again, in April 1996 a withdrawal of
SDR91,500 was made out of the remaining amount.
These reallocations were made because, among other things, not many MEs and SSEs
came forward to form successful Mutualist Guarantee Associations (MGAs). The few
that expressed interest in forming MGAs could not find PFI support while two MGAs
that finally secured PFI sympathy found the processing time so long that its members



5
could not maintain the monthly membership contributions required to establish a
guarantee fund (GF). For this reason, these two MCGS applications were eventually
treated as sub-loans.
The two groups, involving a total of 45 members, were assisted in the total sum of
SDR12,822 ($28,000).
Technical Assistance Component
A total of $1.3 million was spent under the technical assistance component. The
assistance covered training, consultancy services and logistics to the beneficiary
institutions, FUSMED, NBSSI and WWBG together trained nearly 6,000 persons in
skills related to management, project appraisal, supervision and monitoring, non-
performing accounts management and entrepreneurship development.
MDPI and GIMPA, original beneficiaries of technical assistance, were excluded by the
SME secretariat in order to make more funds available to institutions directly supporting
small enterprises. Studies on equipment leasing, financing needs of SMEs and the
development of incubators and growth centres were completed.



6
General
In all, there were 3 re-allocations of funds under the various components due to slow
disbursement by June 30, 1997, the final closing date.



7
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Assessment of Overall Implementation Results
The objectives of the project were partially achieved. Fund for Small and Medium
Enterprise Development (FUSMED), the apex unit set up at the Bank of Ghana (BOG),
for the purpose, provided the avenue for seven banks and two leasing companies to assist
their SME customers in the term financing. The banks accessed the line of credit mainly
because it provided them with medium-term foreign exchange resources not available to
them because of the generally short-term nature of their deposit base, and also because
the Government of Ghana assumed the associated foreign exchange risk.
The distribution of approvals under the line of credit component shows that the bulk of
resources went to medium enterprises (88%) confirming PFI preference of medium-sized
enterprises to MEs and SSEs. Urban and peri-urban located SMEs received 99% share of
total funds disbursed. Female proprietors involved in 22 enterprises generally received
about 20% of the Project's resources.
The overall repayment under the Project remained low as at the closing date. Under the
line of credit the amount of arrears was approximately  10.5 billion or 50% of amounts
outstanding. Efforts undertaken to deal with the repayment problems, including regular
visits to the sub-projects, creation and adoption of action plans by PFIs, training sessions
for participating financial institutions (PFIs), a diagnostic study on problem sub-projects,



8
technical assistance to some distressed SMEs, and the extension of the closing date by six
months to complete related consultant support, did not yield much results.
For the leasing component, of the total 691.8 million due in lease payments,
approximately 0209.7 million was overdue from 9 lessees representing approximately
30% when the Project closed. Compared to the line of credit component, the leasing
component's overall performance was better. Provision of funds under this component
was on re-finance basis.
Patronage of the mutualist credit guarantee scheme was poor. Efforts were made to make
this component more attractive to the participating banks once it was realised the
component was not moving. Use of Non-bank Financial Institutions (NBFIs) that lend
primarily to the target clientele was considered at a later stage but delays in making thai.1
eligible defeated the purpose. Some PFIs continued to be interested in the scheme but
could not still avail themselves of it. Accordingly, IDA and BOG agreed to reallocate
some of the resources for this component to the line of credit component.
Under the TA component, assistance was advanced in the form of business advisory and
consulting services, training, and studies. The achievements of this component include
the: (a) enactment of the Finance Lease law, 1992 which led to the establishment of new
leasing companies; (b) development of an Entrepreneurship Development Programme
and training of trainers programme at the National Board for Small Scale Industries
(NBSSI) through which training for about 5,150 participants was conducted; @



9
establishment of business advisory centres by NBSSI; (d) training of 167 bankers;
project supervision/monitoring and NPA management (e) training of 587 entrepreneurs
(479 women) by Women's World Banking (Ghana)Ltd. (WWBG); (f) training of
managers and staff in FUSMED (6), NBSSI (12), WWBG (1); and (g) completion of
studies on financing needs for small businesses and the development of business
incubators in Ghana.
The goals under the TA component were partly achieved as support to the real sector
envisaged under the Project was mitigated by the cancellation of some components.
Project Cost and Financing
The total project cost was approximately SDR2 1.9 million. (US$30.9) million. For the
line of credit, IDA provided SDRl9.9 million or approximately US$28.5 million. PFIs
provided approximately $0.9 million and the SMEs US$10.3 million under the line of
credit. Cost of the other components were as follows: Equipment leasing (SDR944,929);
Mutualist Credit Guarantee Scheme (SDR12,822); and Technical Assistance
(SDR772,887).



10
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS
LEARNED
In genela1, the Project's outcome was negatively affected by the adverse macro-economic
environment. High inflation and the depreciation of the cedi, vis-a-vis external
currencies, played a prominent role to impact the Project's perfonnance.
FUSMED did not encounter major insurnountable problems in monitoring projects.
Indeed FUSMED trained 4 officers in Project Monitoring and Supervision. It had the
logistics for project supervision and actually monitored projects twice a year. Problems
encountered were from SMEs not co-operating in providing information.
Weaknesses in the Project's design and its implementation, though identified earlier on,
did not prevent delays in disbursement of the Project's resources. This was in spite of itie
fact that foreign exchange resources were available to the PFIs for on-lending to their
SME customers, even as pre-conditions of eligibility were either changed or varied.
Non-banking Financial Institutions (NBFIs) were considered a little late during
implementation. The NBFIs did not meet BOG's regulatory requirements in spite of the
efforts applied. Being more suitable as intermediaries for the target group, no effort was
spared to adopt them to outreach particularly the micro and infonnal enterprises. These
enterprises lacked requisite collateral security to support their sub-loan applications to the
formal banks.



ii
Some of the Project's components were cancelled due to no or low patronage (i.e. Pilot
Studies.Fund). Also, studies into regulatory incentive framework for SSEs; technology
development and export processing zones were cancelled. Two original beneficiary
institutions, MDPI and GIMPA were also excluded as already explained. IDA, through
other initiatives was implementing assistance in one form or another.
The PFIs lacked the speed to process the pre-approval aspects of sub-loan applications as
well as the disbursement procedures in a timely fashion. PFIs typically scaled down sub-
project costs without regard to inflation even after the long delays. There was little
FUSMED could do to help the SMEs in these circumstances.
On the whole, the Project design, through sensitive to the constraints and weaknesses c.
the real and financial sectors, was optimistic in its expectation that the banking system
would be considerate to micro enterprises and SSEs. The banking system was not
friendly to these beneficiaries. Even with medium-sized enterprises, BOG had to employ
arm-twisting techniques on a number of occasions before PFIs submitted applications.
SUGGESTIONS FOR THE FUTURE
Non-banking financial intermediaries e.g. savings and loans companies, should be
seriously considered in the future. Alternatively, banks specializing in micro, small and
informal enterprises should be involved early on in project design to assure ownership
and effective implementation and achievement of project objectives. Basically,



12
specialised institutions to effectively assist the informed sector should be employed.
Informal businesses have the potential to employ more people at a lower cost per job than
the forr. al business sector.
The eligibility of a financial intermediary should be based on an analysis of its
institutional capacity to deliver appropriate financial products to the beneficiaries. Pre-
determined mechanisms to assess PFI eligibility based on previous loan recovery
performance, on an on-going basis should be employed. Conformance to BOG
regulations should be rigorously enforced to enhance realization of project objectives.
In the future, a component to train promoters in basic managerial skills and appreciation
of accounting/book keeping should be included. Possibilities of linking up with the
NBSSI EDP and EMPRETEC training system should be considered. Tapping into tho
pool of already trained self-employed entrepreneurs from both programmes who are now
networked through periodic regional fora would be particularly useful.
Institution building/strengthening roles should be more seriously thought out and
implemented next time. Utilisation of already existing human resource capacity in apex
institutions should be maximised as a first step. The apex institutions should be housed
outside but linked to the Central Bank and given a free hand.
October 26, 1997



Appendix 3
Page 1 of 4
PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1996-GH)
CHARACTERISTICS OF PRIVATE SMES ASSISTED UNDER THE PROJECT
Agricultural      B-20   Alone with God Works              Brong Ahafo       Manufacturing      Metal fabrication          Male               33         15,892   Fixed AssetslWkg. Cap
Development       B-21   B.E.F. Oppan Elec. &Carb.         Brong Ahafo       Manufacturing      Metal fabr-ication         Male                6         14,670   Fixed Assets/Wkg.Cap
Bank              A-64   Cape Coast Hotel                  Central           Service            Hotel                      Male               30        335,236   Fixed Assets/Wkg. Cap.   l
A-74   Hotel Cisneros                    Volta            Service            Hotel                       Male/Female        15       243,764   Fixed Assets
B-37   Dymns Hotel                       Brong Ahafo      Service            Hotel                       Male              20         38,420   Fixed Assets
A- 14   Gha. Priv. Road Transp.          Greater Accra    Service            Transportation              Male/Female                1,599,687   Vehicles
A-54   Kofas Transport                   Greater Accra    Service            Transportation              Male                4        115,116   Fixed Assets
A-43   Nulux Plantation                  Northem          Manufacturing      Cotton ginnery              Male               20       736,011   Fixed Assets
A-4   Okaiko Farms                      Greater Accra    Manufacturing      Meat processinp             Male               28        237,190   Raw materials
B-30   Sunyani Medical Lab               Brong Ahafo      Service            Medical laboratory          Male                9        47,207   Fixed Assets
A-53   Teilot Enterprises                Greater Accra    Service            Cold store                  Female             19        192,939   Fixed Assets
Bank for          B-18   Ave Maria Prep. School            Greater Accra     Service            School                     Male               32         38,252   Fixed Assets
Housing and       B-25   Bellview Hotel Ltd.               Greater Accra     Service            Hotel                      Male               20         37,846   Fixed Assets
onstruction      B-42   Christian Home School             Greater Accra    Service            School                      Female             19         16,852   Fixed Assets
A-26   Darold Hotel                      Greater Accra    Service            Hotel                       Male/Female        28         68,422   Fixed Assets/Wkg. Cap.
A-49   Horeca Hotel Ltd.                 Westem           Service            Hotel                       Male               13         83,873   Fixed Assets
B-3   lrokko Ltd.                       Greater Accra     Manufacturing      Printing                   Male               30         10,547   Working Capital
B-24   Jack & Jill Prep. School          Greater Accra    Service            School                      Female             23        45,365   Fixed Assets
B-39   Jofel Catering Service           Ashanti           Service            Restaurant                  Male/Female        21         13,528   Fixed Assets/Wkg. Cap.
B-26   Mima Construction                 Northem          Service            Construction                Male               23         65,167   Fixed Assets
B-36   Mother Care School   -            Greater Accra    Service            School                      Female             12         12,385   Fixed Assets
B-23   Noks Hotel Ltd.                  Ashanti           Service            Hotel                       Male               20         55,768   Fixed Assets/Wkg. Cap.
A-85   St. Anthony Institute             Greater Accra    Service            School                      Female            173         63,136   Fixed Assets
A-76   St. Anthony Institute             Greater Accra    Service            School                      Female              0        176,923   Fixed Assets
Trio Courage Ltd.                Greater Accra     Manufacturing                                  Male               12       201,820   Fixed Assets
Ghana              A-8   Al Helou & Marfo                  Greater Accra     Manufacturing      Printing                    Male               20       248,414   Raw material
Commercial        A- 13   Alugan Ltd.                      Greater Accra     Manufacturing      Aluminum products           Male               4        478,067   Fixed Assets
Bank              A-55   Andrews Agency                    Greater Accra     Service            Haulage                     Male              34        365,208   Fixed Assets
A-12   Apex Guest House                  Greater Accra    Service             Hotel                      Female             10        157,709   Fixed Assets



Appendix 3
Page 2 of 4
Characteristics of Private SMEs Assisted Under the Project
A- 17   Artificial Leather               Ashanti          Manufacturing      Leather works               Male               30        239,840   Raw materiall
A-23   Central Laboratory                Greater Accra    Service            Medical laboratory          Male               10        112,679   Fixed Assets
B-7   Cine-Centa Amusemt. Center        Greater Accra     Service            Cinema/video               Male                9         28,175   Fixed Assets
B-5   City Foods                        Greater Accra     Manufacturing      Meat products              Male               20        100,270   Fixed assets/wkg. cap.
A-71   Commercial Associates             Greater Accra    Manufacturing      Printing                    Male               15        123,452   Working capital
A-39   Commercial Associates             Greater Accra    Manufacturing      Printing                    Male                0        195,388   Fixed Assets
A-10   Faj Ltd.                          Westem           Manufacturing      Agricultural processing     Male               15        171,675   Fixed assets/wkg. cap.
A-3   Ferro Fabrik Ltd.                 Greater Accra     Manufacturing      Iron rods production       Male               35        506,000   Fixed Assets
A-86   Ferro Fabrik Ltd.                 Greater Accra    Manufacturing      Iron rods production        Male                0        250,000   Fixed Assets
B-I   Fotokwik Ltd.                     Greater Accra     Service            Photo laboratory           Male               1 8        90,540   Working capital
A-2   Ghana Drum Products               Greater Accra     Manufacturing      Production of buckets      Male               20        495,500   Working capital
A-84   Ghana Drum Products               Greater Accra    Manufacturing      Production of buckets       Male                0        250,000   Fixed Assets
A-16   J.E. Timbers                      Ashanti          Manufacturing      Lumber products             Male               34        497,075   Fixed Assets
A-33   Longlife Confectioners            Greater Accra    Manufacturing      Food processing             Male               25        699,388   Fixed Assets
A-1l    Maple Leaf Hotel                 Greater Accra    Service            Hotel                       Male               33        293,489   Fixed Assets
A-37   Metallica Ltd.                    Greater Accra    Manufacturing      Construction                Male               14        383,883   Working capital
A- 18   Metal Ware Ltd.                  Greater Accra    Manufacturing      Construction                Male               24        377,558   Working capital
A-9    Mount Pleasant Hotel             Greater Accra     Service            Hotel                      Male               30        437,590   Fixed assets/wkg. cap.
A-42   Nana Adu Timbers Ltd.             Greater Accra    Manufacturing      Construction                Male               52        717,781   Fixed Assets
A-19   Ohens Ltd.                        Greater Accra    Manufacturing      Printing                    Male               30        167,509   Fixed assets/wkg. cap.
A-21   Pee-Tay Electricals               Greater Accra    Manufacturing      Electrical appliances       Male               14        205,320   Fixed Assets
A-20   Samford Ltd.                     Ashanti           Manufacturing      Construction                Male/Female        19        454,518   Fixed assets/wkg. cap.
A-45   Secaps Hotel                      Greater Accra    Service            Hotel                       Male               44        659,567   Fixed Assets
B-4   Survival Books                    Greater Accra     Manufacturing      Stationery                 Male               10          8,561   Working capital
A-48   Tropical Hotel Ltd.               Brong Ahafo      Service            Hotel                       Male               16        165,670   Fixed Assets
B-2    Yas Timbers                      Central           Manufacturing      Sawmilling                 Male                7          9,036   Working capital
Merchant          A-82   Assene Household & Elec.          Greater Accra     Manufacturing      Household utensils         Male              146        185,248   Fixed Assets
Bank              A-75   Buck Press Ltd.                   Greater Accra     Manufacturing      Printing                   Male               48        335,945   Fixed Assets
B-46   Buck Press Ltd.                  Greater Accra     Manufacturing      Printing                    Male                0         60,000   Working capital
A-6   Colorama Photo                    Northern          Service            Photo laboratory           Male                6         90,169   Fixed Assets



Appendix 3
Page 3 of 4
Characteristics of Private SMEs Assisted Under the Project
A-83   Global Haulage                   Greater Accra    Service            Haulage                    Male             131        742,243   Fixed Assetsl
A-34   Plantation Dev. Ltd.             Upper West       Manufacturing      Cotton ginnery             Male             463        749,998   Fixed assets/wkg. cap.
A-35   Suntex Furniture                 Greater Accra    Manufacturing      Fumiture                   Male              23        369,800   Fixed assets/wkg. cap.
National           B-6   Agricom Ltd.                     Ashanti           Service           Palm oil                   Female             12         24,992   Fixed Assets
Investment        A-24   Alfa Commerce & Transp.          Greater Accra     Manufacturing     Transport                  Male                5        117,297   Working capital
Bank              B-40   Animens Industries               Western          Manufacturing      Beverage                   Female              9        39,659   Fixed Assets
A-59   Ashanti Foam                     Ashanti          Manufacturing      Foam producton             Male               18       374,694   Working capital
A-59   Ashanti Foam                     Ashanti          Manufacturing      Foam producton             Male              42        315,987   Working capital
B-8    Asmah Producton                 Greater Accra     Manufacturing     Twine, wick production      Male/Female       I1         73,446   Fixed Assets
A-36   Asona Timbers                    Western          Manufacturing      Timber                     Male               24       142,135   Fixed assets/wkg. cap.
A-31   Asuo Bomosado Timber             Brong Ahafo      Service            Constructon                Male               12       222,423   Fixed Assets
B-26   Awumee Memorial Clinic           Greater Accra    Manufacturing      Clinic                     Male                6        24,272   Fixed Assets
B-43   Can & Kaa Ltd.                   Greater Accra    Manufacturing      Food processing            Male/Female         8       174,602   Working capital
A-70   Croym Industries                 Greater Accra    Manufacturing      Plastics                   Male               38       237,645   Working capital
A-81   Croym Industries                 Greater Accra    Manufacturing      Plastics                   Male                0       512,355   Working capital
A-87   Duraplast Ltd.                   Greater Accra    Manufacturing      PVC pipes                  Male               13       464,153   Fixed Assets
B-33   Edinaman Salt                    Central          Manufacturing      Salt extraction            Male               22        55,779   Fixed assets/wkg. cap.
A-50   Exemplair Paper Products         Greater Accra    Manufacturing      Toilet paper production    Male                8       229,268   Working capital
A-80   Gelina Packaging                 Greater Accra    Manufacturing      Woven sacks                Male               34       746,176   Working capital
A-56   Ghana Rubber Products            Greater Accra    Manufacturing      Rubber products            Male              180       500,275   Working capital
A-79   Ghana Rubber Products            Greater Accra    Service            Rubber products            Male                0       245,850   Fixed Assets
B-29   Gloryland Hotel                  Greater Accra    Service            Hotel                      Male/Female        20        32,014   Fixed Assets
A-40   Hotel Georgia                    Greater Accra    Manufacturing      Hotel                      Female             I 0      217,942   Working capital
A-63   Interplast Ltd.                  Greater Accra    Manufacturing      Construction               Male               40       302,351   Working capital
B-45   Isada Roofing & Tiles            Greater Accra    Service & Mfg.     Constructon                Male/Female        20        79,123   Working capital
B-9   Jos Boateng Agric. Prod.         Greater Accra     Manufacturing     Agricultural products       Male              16         70,149   Working capital
A-58   J.T. Ossei & Co. Ltd.            Ashanti          Manufacturing      Toilet roll production     Male/Female        10       220,046   Working capital
B-34   J.T. Ossei & Co. Ltd.            Ashanti          Service            Toilet roll production     Male/Female         0        35,425   Fixed Assets
A-68   Kingley Hotel                    Greater Accra     Service           Hotel                       Male               8        116,338   Fixed Assets
B-44   Kofas Medical Lab                Greater Accra    Manufacturing      Medical laboratory         Male                6         54,635   Working capital
A-52   Latex Foam Ltd.                  Greater Accra     Manufacturing     Foam production             Male              20        246,260   Working capital



Appendix 3
Page 4 of 4
Characteristics of Private SMEs Assisted Under the Project
A-15   Latex Foam Ltd.                   Greater Accra    Manufacturing      Foam production             Male                0        490,100   Working capital|
B- 17   Masdo Garments                  Greater Accra     Manufacturing      Garmnents                   Male                8          9,657   Fixed Assetsl
B-32   Mensah Bonsu Group                Ashanti          Manufacturing      Pomade production           Male                8         30,227   Working capital
A-32   Metal & Motor Engg.               Greater Accra    Manufacturing      Metal fabrication           Male               89        210,361   Working capital
A-66   Metalloplastica                   Greater Accra    Manufacturing      Plastics                    Male               52        315,916   Working capital
A-25   Multiwall Paper Sack              Western          Service            Paper sacks                 Male               51        746,021   Fixed Assets
A-47   Nogahil Co. Ltd.                  Greater Accra    Manufacturing      Hotel                       Male               30        134,605   Working capital
A-5   Pioneer Metals                    Greater Accra     Manufacturing      Construction               Male               18        493,900   Working capital
A-73   Pipes and Plastics                Greater Accra    Manufacturing      Plastics                    Male               23        184,388   Working capital
A-41   Polyproducts (Gh) Ltd.           Greater Accra     Manufacturing      Plastics                    Male               30        673,215   Working capital
A-61   Qualiplast Ltd.                   Greater Accra    Manufacturing      Plastics                    Male               16        249,658   Working capital
A-69   Qualiplast Ltd.                   Greater Accra    Manufacturing      Plastics                    Male                0        375,785   Fixed Assets
A-44   Qualiplast Ltd.                   Greater Accra    Manufacturing      Plastics                    Male               16        128,052   Fixed assets/wkg. cap.
A-77   Rukker Ventures Ltd.              Greater Accra    Manufacturing      Food processing             Female              2        123,042   Working capital
B-22   Sam-Woode Ltd.                    Greater Accra    Service            Printing                    Male                9         25,316   Fixed Assets
A-27   Sanaa Lodgings Ltd.               Greater Accra    Service            Hotel                       Male                8        250,391   Fixed Assets
A-46   Sir Max Hotel Ltd.                Ashanti          Manufacturing      Hotel                       Male               33        173,184   Fixed assets/wkg. cap.
A-78   Takoradi Gas                      Westem           Service            Gas production              Male               32        328,797   Fixed Assets
A-7   Togbui Patamia                    Volta             Manufacturing      Transport                  Male                9        128,283   Working capital
A-51   United Mattress & Foam            Greater Accra    Manufacturing      Foam production             Male               18        198,131   Fixed Assets
B-31   West Coast Mfg. Co.              Greater Accra     Manufacturing      Garments                    Female             13         37,530   Fixed Assets
Standard          B-12   LJS Colour Publication            Greater Accra     Manufacturing      Printing                    Male              21         43,962   Working capital
Chartered Bank
Social            A-28   Amponsah-Effah Phanmacy           Ashanti           Manufacturing      Pharmaceuticals            Male               15         81,202   Fixed assets/wkg. cap.
Security          B-41   Frank Motoring                    Greater Accra     Service            School                     Male                5         43,000   Fixed Assets
Bank              A-60   Lonpol Gh Ltd.                    Eastern           Service            Coldstore                  Male               it        329,000   Fixed assets/wkg. cap.
B-38   St. Joseph Clinic                Central           Service            Clinic                      Male                6         55,454   Fixed assets/wkg. cap.
A-I    Achimota Vegetable Oil           Greater Accra     Manufacturing      Copra oil production       Male                7        103,544   Working capital
B-13   Prince Oystershell               Greater Accra     Manufacturing      Terazzo chippings           Male               10          5,220   Fixed Assets
A-30   Tanoa Srafa Salt                  Central          Manufacturing      Salt production             Female             15         94,434   Working capital
B-15   Vongas Industries                Greater Accra     Manufacturing      Aluminum utensils           Female              6         26,000   Working capital



Appendix 4
Page 1 of 3
PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1996-GH)
FINANCING SOURCES OF PRIVATE SMES ASSISTED UNDER THE PROJECT
ricultural      Alone with God Works                          15,892            501            6,702          23,094
opment         B.E.F. Oppan Elec. & Carb.                    14,670          2,949           4,528           22,14, ,
SBank               Cape Coast Hotel                            335,236          15,014          44,335         394,581
Hotel Cisneros                              243,764          37,865          20,000         301,620
Dymns Hotel                                  38,420          11,202            1             49,622
Gha. Priv. Road Transp.                   1,599,687              0               0         1,599,68
Kofas Transport                             115,116          49,330           8,016         172,46
Nulux Plantation                            736,011         708,662              0         1,444,67
Okaiko Farmns                               237,190              0          62,500          299,69(
Sunyani Medical Lab                          47,207          37,789          15,116         100,117
Teilot Enterprises                          192,939          90,480              0          283,415
-tot                                      3,576,132        9     03,792    161,197        4,691,121
Bank for            Ave Maria Prep. School                       38,252          34,682               0          72,934
HloJsing and        Bellview Hotel Ltd.                          37,846          27,423               0          65,269
Construction        Christian Home School                        16,852          15,144               0          31,996
Darold Hotel                                 68,422         45,832           10,363         124,612
Horeca Hotel Ltd.                            83,873          12,622              0           96,495
Irokko Ltd.                                  10,547              0              32           10,579
Jack & Jill Prep. School                     45,365         64,872               0          110,237
Jofel Catering Service                       13,528          16,000              0           29,528
Mima Construction                            65,167          20,487              0           85,654
Mother Care School                           12,385          11,857              0           24,242
Noks Hotel Ltd.                              55,768         323,502          10,769         390,039
Paloma Suites
St. Anthony Institute                       176,923              0               0          176,923
Trio Courage Ltd.                           201,820         217,620              0          419,440
Sub-total                                826,748         790,041          21,164        1,637,953
Ghana               Al Helou & Marfo                            248,414               0            753          249,167
Commercial          Alugan Ltd.                                 478,067               0           1,440         479,507
Bank                Andrews Agency                              365,208               0               0         365,208
Apex Guest House                            157,709              0               0          157,709
Artificial Leather                          239,840         104,956              0          344,796
Central Laboratory                          112,679          55,032              0          167,711
Cine-Centa Amusemt. Center                   28,175              0               0           28,175
City Foods                                  100,270              0               0          100,270
Commercial Associates                       123,452          12,425              0          135.877
Commercial Associates                       195,388         121,520              0          316,908
Faj Ltd.                                    171,675          68,291          13,658         253,624
Ferro Fabrik Ltd.                           506,000       1,472,487              0         1,978.487
Ferro Fabrik Ltd.                           250,000              0               0          250,000
Fotokwik Ltd.                                90,540          38,235          7,059          135.834



Appendix 4
Page 2 of 3
Financing Sources of Private SMEs Assisted under the Project
Gh_h ana Drum Products                    495,500         185,731              0         681,231
Ghana Drum Products                       250,000               0              0         250,000
J.E. Timbers                              497,075         238,192              0         735,26
Longlife Confectioners                    699,388           7,500              0         706,888
Maple Leaf Hotel                          293,489               0              0         293,489
Metallica Ltd.                            383,883          65,934              0         449,817
Metal Ware Ltd.                           377,558         172,000              0         549,558
Mount Pleasant Hotel                      437,590               0              0         437,590
Nana Adu Timbers Ltd.                      717,781        204,598              0         922,379
Ohens Ltd.                                 167,509         84,000              0         251,509
Pee-Tay Electricals                       205,320         223,703              0         429,023
Samford Ltd.                              454,518          11,586              0         466,104
Secaps Hotel                              659,567         118,089              0         777,656
Survival Books                              8,561           6,377              0           14,938
Tropical Hotel Ltd.                        165,670        141,529              0         307,199
Yas Timbers                                 9,036           3,870              0           12,906
Sub-total                             8,889,862       3,336,055         22,910      12,248,827
Merchant            Assene Household & Elec.                   185,248              0              0          185,248
Bank                Buck Press Ltd.                            335,945        132,997              0         468,942
Buck Press Ltd.                            60,000               0              0          60,00
Colorama Photo                             90,169               0              0          90,169
Global Haulage                            742,243         335,231              0        1,077,474
Plantation Dev. Ltd.                      749,998         770,350              0        1,520,348
Suntex Furniture                          369,800         253,407            961         624,168
Sub-total                             2,533,403       1,491,985           961        4,026,349
National            Ashanti Foam                               374,694         74,272              0         448,96
Investment          Ashanti Foam                               315,987         60,600              0         376,587
Bank                Asmah Producton                             73,446         41,685          10,568         125,699
Asona Timbers                              142,135          2,219              0          144,354
Asuo Bomosado Timber                      222,423           5,497         92,308         320,228
Awumee Memorial Clinic                      24,272          2,777              0           27,049
Can & Kaa Ltd.                             174,602         52,666              0         227,268
Croym Industries                          237,645          10,050              0         247,695
Croym Industries                          512,355           5,767              0         518,12
Duraplast Ltd.                            464,153          33,048              0         497,201
Edinaman Salt                              55,779          49,088              0          104,867
Exemplair Paper Products                  229,268          60,920        107,396         397,584
Agricom Ltd.                                24,992          8,489          3,188           36,669
Alfa Commerce & Transp.                    117,297         48,512          16,529         182.338
Animens Industries                          39,659          9,777              0           49,436
Gelina Packaging                           746,176        230,852         133,949       1,110,977
Ghana Rubber Products                      500,275        226,239              0          726,51
Ghana Rubber Products                      245,850         59,987              0          305,83
Gloryland Hotel                             32,014         20,178              0           52,192



Appendix 4
Page 3 of 3
Financing Sources of Private SMEs Assisted under the Project
Interplast Ltd.                           3,02,351        27,919              0         330,270
Isada Roofing &Tiles                       79,123         26,298              0         105,4211
Jos Boateng Agric. Prod.                   70,149         28,726              0          98,875|
J.T. Ossei & Co. Ltd.                     220,046         41,134              0         261,180
J.T. Ossei & Co. Ltd.                      35,425          5,903              0          41,328
Kingley Hotel                             116,338         32,825              0         149,163
Kofas Medical Lab                          54,635          4,649              0          59,284
Latex Foam Ltd.                           246,260              0              0         246,260
Latex Foam Ltd.                           490,100              0              0         490,100
Masdo Garments                              9,657          2,675              0          12,332
Mensah Bonsu Group                         30,227         11,330              0          41,557
Metal & Motor Engg.                       210,361         39,548              0         249,909
Metalloplastica                           315,916         97,512              0         413,428
Multiwall Paper Sack                      746,021        163,984              0         910,005
Nogahil Co. Ltd.                          134,605         54,542              0         189,147
Pioneer Metals                            493,900        188,578         29,777         712,255
Pipes and Plastics                        184,388         45,455              0         229,843
Polyproducts (Gh) Ltd.                    673,215        131,500              0         804,715
Qualiplast Ltd.                           249,658        152,424              0         402,082
Qualiplast Ltd.                           375,785          6,544              0         382,329
Qualiplast Ltd.                           128,052        324.130              0         452,182
Rukker Ventures Ltd.                      123,042              0         33,473         156,515
Sam-Woode Ltd.                             25,316             65           1,031         26,412
Sanaa Lodgings Ltd.                       250,391         28,955              0         279,346
SirMaxHotelLtd.                           173,184        155,617              0         328,801
Takoradi Gas                              328,797        618,563        207,651        1,155,011
Togbui Patamia                            128,283          9,848          12,394        150,525
United Mattress & Foam                    198,131         35,652              0         233,783
West Coast Mfg. Co.                        37,530          6,000              0          43,530
Sub-total                            11,181,850      3,284,013        648,264      15,114,12
Standard           LJS Colour Publication                      43,962          6,141              0          50,103
Chartered Bank
Social             Amponsah-Effah Pharmacy                    210,166         23,454          5,953         239,573
Security Bank      Frank Motoring                              34,578         13,939              0          48,517
Lonpol Gh Ltd.                            475,434        100,000         34,286         609,720
St. Joseph Clinic                          78,402         50,000              0         128,402
Achimota Vegetable Oil                    305,516        115,563         23,113         444,192
Prince Oystershell                         13,957          2,888          2,740          19,585
Tanoa Srafa Salt                          205,498         69,277         40,109         314,884
Vongas Industries                          69,705         15,951              0          85,656
Sub-total                             1,393,256        391,072        106,201       1,890,529
Total                               28,445,213     10,253,099        960,697      39,659,009






Appendix 5
Page I of 4
PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1996-GH)
CREDIT STANDING OF PRIVATE SMES ASSISTED UNDER THE PROJECT
lAgricultural      Alone with God Works                       15,892            6,500           6,391           4,718               0               0             Current
lDevelopment       B.E.F. Oppan Elec. & Carb.                 14,670            6,000           7,700           4,550                               0             Current
lBank              Cape Coast Hotel                          335,236          403,838          49,564         215,469               0                             Current
Hotel Cisneros                           243,764          293,648         199,812               0               0                             Current
Dymns Hotel                               38,420           36,000               0               0               0                             Paid
Gha. Priv. Road Transp.                 1,599,687         739,200          179,261         513,604                              0             Current
Kofas Transport                          115,116           69,184          53,200          54,800                          108,000            Loss
Nulux Plantation                         736,011          404,558               0               0               0                             Paid
Okaiko Farms                             237,190           92,814          89,200               0                               0             Current
Sunyani Medical Lab                       47,207           44,213          36,523          69,202               0                             Current
Teilot Enterprises                       192,939          115,957          115,957              0               0               0             Current
Sub-total                            3,576,132        2,211,912         737,608         862,343              0          108,000      7
Bank for           Ave Maria Prep. School                    38,252            15,000          17,268             609              0                0             Current
Housing and        Beliview Hotel Ltd.                        37,846           15,000           1,300               0              0                0             Current
Construction       Christian Home School                      16,852           20,000          15,000               0              0                0             Current
Darold Hotel.                             68,422           40,000          35,746               0               0           64,300            Loss
Horeca Hotel Ltd.                         83,873           50,000               0               0               0               0             Paid
Irokko Ltd.                               10,547            6,000               0               0               0               0             Current
Jack & Jill Prep. School                  45,365           20,000            8,322              0               0                0            Current
Jofel Catering Service                    13,528            13,647          2,114            7,580              0                0            Current
Mima Construction      -                  65,167           23,000               0               0               0               0             Paid
Mother Care School                        12,385           19,454               0               0               0               0             Paid
Noks Hotel Ltd.                           55,768           20,306           4,154               0               0               0             Current
St. Anthony Institute                     63,136           24,000               0               0               0               0             Paid
St. Anthony Institute                    176,923          230,000               0           15,295              0               0             Current
Trio Courage Ltd.                        201,820          325,707         325,707               0               0                0            Current
Sub-total                             889,883           822,114         409,611          23,484               0          64,300      15
Ghana              Al Helou & Marfo                         248,414            87,555              0                0               0               0             Paid
Commercial         Alugan Ltd.                              478,067           228,561         228,561         435,370                         524,982             Loss
Bank               Andrews Agency                           365,208           335,818         192,995         211,977               0          158,018            Doubtful
Apex Guest House                         157,709           56,462               0               0               0                             Paid



Appendix 5
Page 2 of 4
CREDIT STANDING OF PRIVATE SMES ASSISTED UNDER THE PROJECT
Artificial Leather                      239,840           88,688               0              0               0               0             Paid
Central Laboratory                       112,679          39,239          44,814          99,694              0          143,862            Loss
Cine-CentaAmusemt. Center                28,175           10,195               0              0               0               0             Paid
City Foods                               100,270          34,300          35,759          27,855              0           17,897            Loss
Commercial Associates                    123,452         136,235          80,262          82,286         77,588               0             Current
Commercial Associates                    195,388          76,564          97,738          64,862         20,996               0             Current
Faj Ltd.                                171,675           69,346          64,530         137,168              0          197,661            Loss
Ferro Fabrik Ltd.                       506,000          160,000              0               0               0               0             Paid
Ferro Fabrik Ltd.                       250,000          411,286          98,968          30,230              0               0            Current
Fotokwik Ltd.                            90,540           32,669              0               0               0               0             Paid
Ghana Drum Products                     495,500          200,232              0               0               0               0             Paid
Ghana Drum Products                     250,000          395,725         120,953         127,825        248,777               0             Current
J.E. Timbers                            497,075          172,000              0               0               0               0             Paid
Longlife Confectioners                  699,388          268,630         340,200         542,990        731,531               0             Sub-standard
Maple Leaf Hotel                        293,489          118,039              0               0               0               0             Paid
Metallica Ltd.                          383,883          223,440         201,596         124,231              0         146,442             Doubttul
Metal Ware Ltd.                         377,558          139,089              0               0               0               0             Paid
Mount Pleasant Hotel                    437,590          151,705         154,538        401,862               0         556,400             Loss
Nana Adu Timbers Ltd.                   717,781          276,425         331,114         449,515              0         404,234             Loss
Ohens Ltd.                              167,509           56,947          74,151          97,483              0          127,205            Loss
Pee-Tay Electricals                     205,320           81,104          81,104          82,748              0         134,263            Loss
Samford Ltd.                            454,518          174,545         138,451         414,535              0         552,986             Loss
Secaps Hotel                            659,567          290,210         346,735        715,960               0        1,043,694           Loss
Survival Books                            8,561            3,000           3,186           5,208              0           7,785            Loss
Tropical Hotel Ltd.                     165,670           87,000          54,707         170,490              0         217,198             Doubtful
Yas Timbers                               9,036            3,000           3,308          4,126               0           4,262            Loss
Sub-total                           8,889,863        4,408,009       2,693,670       4,226,415      1,078,892       4,236,889     77
Merchant           Assene Household & Elec.                 185,248         248,000         210,903               0              0               0             Current
Bank               Buck Press Ltd.                          335,945         369,539         547,854              0               0               0             Current
Buck Press Ltd.                          60,000           81,000              0               0               0               0            Paid
Colorama Photo                           90,169           29,936              0               0               0               0            Paid
Global Haulage                          742,243         1,002,028        896,592              0               0               0            Current
Plantation Dev. Ltd.                    749,998          300,000          84,124              0               0               0            Current
Suntex Fumiture                         369,800          143,778         865,110              0               0         865,110            Doubtful
Sub-total                           2,533,403        2,174,281       2,604,583              0              0          865,110     33



Appendix 5
Page 3 of 4
CREDIT STANDING OF PRIVATE SMES ASSISTED UNDER THE PROJECT
National           Agricom Ltd.                              24,992            8,847          4,570           2,560               0           7,130            Loss
Investment         Alfa Commerce &Transp.                   117,297          43,400               0               0              0               0             Paid
Bank               Animens Industries                        39,659           26,000         42,229          42,184               0          73,152            Loss
Ashanti Foam                            374,694          448,264          52,528           1,899         54,427               0             OLEM
Ashanti Foam                            315,987          375,768         269,602          61,852        206,192               0             OLEM
Asmah Production                         73,446           10,000               0               0              0               0             Paid
AsonaTimbers                            142,135           58,844          59,340          96,044              0          155,385            Loss
Asuo Bomosado Timber                    222,423           87,857               0              0               0               0             Paid
Awumee Memorial Clinic                   24,272           10,000           3,144               0           3,144              0             Paid
Can & Kaa Ltd.                          174,602          140,427         146,780          44,573         116,120              0             OLEM
Croym Industries                        237,645          762,866        1,165,859        423,462              0          747,312            Sub-standard
Croym Industries                        512,355          260,254         260,254               0              0               0             Sub-standard
Duraplast Ltd.                          464,153          649,814              0               0               0               0             Current
Edinaman Salt                            55.779           45,531               0               0              0               0             Paid
Exemplair Paper Products                229,268          181,576         181,436         185,119              0          298,515            Loss
Gelina Packaging                        746,176         1,159,672       1,667,346        145,574              0               0             Current
Ghana Rubber Products                   500,275          325,057               0               0              0               0             Paid
Ghana Rubber Products                   245,850          282,728               0               0              0               0             Paid
Gloryland Hotel                          32,014           10,000               0               0              0               0             Cancelled
Hotel Georgia                           217,942          101,467          98,988           8,128          58,973              0             OLEM
Interplast Ltd.                         302,351          318,679               0               0              0               0             Paid
Isada Roofing & Tiles                    79,123          101,811          93,325           3,518          10,803              0             Current
Jos Boateng Agric. Prod.                 70,149           29,084          22,108          51,036              0           73,144            Loss
J.T. Ossei & Co. Ltd.                   220,046          146,703         149,264         159,168              0          308,432            Loss
J.T. Ossei & Co. Ltd.                    35,425          204,833               0               0              0                0            Paid
Kingley Hotel                           116,338          149,450         204,355          15,027          30,356              0             OLEM
Kofas Medical Lab                        54,635           26,952          98,091          35,628          50,598              0             OLEM
Latex Foam Ltd.                         246,260          120,000               0               0              0               0             Paid
Latex Foam Ltd.                         490,100          168,124               0               0              0               0             Paid
Masdo Garments                            9,657            3,940           2,860           2,974                           5,834            Loss
Mensah Bonsu Group                       30,227           16,014          14,000          10,734              0           24,734            Loss
Metal & Motor Engg.                     210,361          101,718          52,003           4,023              0           56,026            Loss
Metalloplastica                         315,916                0         397,637          14,379          48,947              0             Sub-standard
Multiwall Paper Sack                    746,021          275,282               0               0              0                0            Paid
Nogahil Co. Ltd.                        134,605           69,995         126,562          99,481              0           19,787            Doubtful
Pioneer Metals                          493,900          169,902               0               0              0                0            Paid
Pipes and Plastics                       184,388         211,255          37,352           3,129          40,481               0            OLEM



Appendix 5
Page 4 of 4
CREDIT STANDING OF PRIVATE SMES ASSISTED UNDER THE PROJECT
Polyproducts (Gh) Ltd.                  673,215         278,461              0               0              0               0             Paid    
Qualiplast Ltd.                         249,658          73,017               0              0              0               0             Paid|
Qualiplast Ltd.                         375,785         432,105         340,995         27,611         368,606              0             OLEM|
Qualiplast Ltd.                         128,052         429,624             I 0              0              0               0             Paid
Rukker Ventures Ltd.                    123,042          92,592          90,048          6,991          27,235              0            OLEM
Sam-Woode Ltd.                           25,316          10,000               0              0              0               0             Paid
Sanaa Lodgings Ltd.                     250,391         123,124          51,811           1,888          7,359              0             Current
Sir Max Hotel Ltd.                      173,184          99,381         102,990         30,929          43,751              0             OLEM
Takoradi Gas                            328,797         497,893         568,985         106,033        168,602              0             Current
Togbui Patamia                          128,283          30,445          31,321          50,457             0           81,779            Loss
United Mattress & Foam                  196,131         119,634          90,216         67,457              0          157,673            Loss
WestCoast Mfg. Co.                       37,530          28,438          12,688          16,429             0           29,118            Loss
Sub-total                          11,179,849       9,316,828       6,438,687       1,718,287      1,235,594       2,038,021    40
Standard
Chartered Bank     LJS Colour Publication                   43,962          16,266              0               0              0                      0      Paid
Social             Amponsah-Effah Pharmacy                 210,166          81,200          48,094         38,283           6,600              0            Current
Security Bank      Frank Motoring                           34,578          43,000          15,776         26,986              0               0            Current
Lonpol Gh Ltd.                          475,434         347,845         347,845              0              0          226,754           Doubtful
St. Joseph Clinic                        78,402          55,454          35,294         113,966             0          102,821           Doubtful
Achimota Vegetable Oil                  305,516         135,295         142,691         194,664             0          337,355           Loss
Prince Oystershell                       13,957           5,220              0               0              0               0            Paid
Tanoa Srafa Salt                        205,495         160,111          51,358         144,252             0          195,610           Loss
Vongas Industries                        69,705          26,000              0               0              0               0            Paid
Sub-total                           1,393,253         854,125        641,058         518,151          6,600         862,540     75
Total                              28,506,345      19,803,535      13,525,217      7,348,680       2,321,086       8,174,860    50



Appendix 6
PRIVATE SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1996-GH)
PRIVATE SMES ASSISTED UNDER THE PROJECT - LEASING
Ghana      L-7   Aikins Elec. Eng.          Service         Electrical Inst. Wk.  Vehicles           43,350     43,350                     Current|
Leasing    L-l1l  Amtam Ghana Ltd           Manufacturing   Printing              Equipment                     42,500                     Paidl
Corp.      L-24  Ananse Systems Ltd.        Service         Computer Service      Vehicles           58,096     88,308
L-19  Chako Enterprise Ltd.     Manufacturing   Chocolate Drink        Equipment          37,051     43,350    22,141     6    Non-performing
L-9   Ekuona Supply & Cons.      Service        Sand Winning           Equipment          73,950     73,950    24,025     7    Non-performing
L-18  Fairbon Biscuits & Agric.    Manufacturing   Biscuit Production  Equipment          59,500     69,615    71,912    18    Non-performing
L-l   Fidelity Resources Ltd     Service        Haulage Business       Cargo Truck        95,200     93,200                     Paid
L-13  GIST Limited               Service        Construction           Equip/Vehicles    135,107    156,370    20,218     4     Non-performing
L- 14  Great Imperial Company    Service        Transport              Vehicles          124,294    141,695                     Current
Impact Art                                                                                    42,500    27,348     4    Non-performing
L-6   Interlink Comm. Ltd.       Service        Telecom Installation   Vehicles           41,650     41,650                     Paid
L-3   Juaben Oil Mills           Manufacturing   Oil Milling           Equipment          45,900     45,900                     Current
L-21   Koani Trading Co. Ltd.   Manufacturing   Aluminium Products     Equipment          79,488    101,575
L-5   Multi-Media Technology    Service         Service                Equipment          30,600     30,600                     Current
L-10  Nationwide Travel & Tour    Service       Tourist Programmes     Vehicle                       42,500                     Cancelled
L-4   Oak Royal Hotel            Service        Service                Vehicle            43,350     43,350     1,521           Current
L-17  Parry & Company Ltd        Service        Sand Winning           Equipment         134,256    157,080    11,995     I    Non-performing
L-23  Polyjohn Enterprises Ltd.  Service         Sanitation            Equipment          85,000    127,500
L-8   Rexal Company Ltd          Manufacturing   Aluninium Products    Equipment          42,500     42,500    26,703     6    Non-performing
L-2   Rinacand Company Ltd       Service        Construction Business   Vehicle           94,350     92,369                     Current
L-20  Sagrenti Tours Limited     Service        Tourism                Equipment          62,229     79,609                     Current
L-15  Starwin Products Ltd.      Manufacturing   Pharmaceuticals       Equip/Vehicles    217,949    255,000                     Current
L-12  Valachi Company Ltd        Manufacturing   Jewellery Mauf.       Equipment                     13,600     3,806     3    Non-performing
Sub-total                                                                     1,503,820  1,868,071   209,669
Lease      L-26  Greenline Logistics Ltd.   Service         Computer Service      Vehicles           28,900     34,000
Afrique    L-22  K-Compu Service Ltd.       Service         Computer Services     Vehicles           11,289      13,281
Corp.      L-25   South Akim Mfg Ltd.       Manufacturing   Mfg. Crown Corks      Vehicles           48,054     56,534
Sub-total                                                                        88,243    103,815         0
Total                                                                         1,592,063   1,971,886   209,669



MAP
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



IBRD 26553
"BURKINA   FASO2                                     1'ST 
3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                           il U R K I N  A                 N AA   l   ,   4_t1
Tumu         i NavrongoO
IU                    X                         rSu t /  CITIES AND TOWNS
Lawrac                  UJ p p E R          Sondeat\       
iShX OJlra                                                    mboago               -  PRIM,ARY ROADS
\ \v/   X  W E S T                                                   0 f   0   E   1  t   o DISTRICT CAPITALS
Naclawli   \                  <      e          1   t             |       ^.       (3REGION CAPITALS
\ x S WclewaleY \                           NATIONAL CAPITAL
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
REGION BOUNDARIES
)s                            ~> > \ J \ ' _INTERNATIONAL
BOUNDARIES
> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s e u    
A -    J             C) )   X                  m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Scabobas(
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
2   /               = ~~~~~~~~          j             \\t Zabz~~~~~~~~~~~ug u?
i      2   ~ORTHERN                                               f  
|  /    \         O~~~Damongo                >       
so            E                                                                                     5                  9T G
Kenyosi Tep       Ofn 0   0,                                                            T O G
D ' I V O I  R E            n   soNkwantp ne
8      jf                Kl~~~~~~ntompo/  .ONG-AHAFO
)Bbin Ikwi                    AS    0         f"           -'se\    :'p'')e 
.  0 A  /   k 9   /   \   S Kete  p
Enchi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m  os                            1-%ooh
ADroboA WenchSAt                                                               LK h g (  Knop donot  y    h
/  f          <           g       4            (                       fiX  g~~~kra  dibi
Do         SUaAN)         S,,                  ~ A   iH ANTi T                        .
k henkno            ovhem      \o MOampongo                              d     on the 1 .     of oe
<   XKenyaSTepa 0\!ff)\ b SOEffiduas               >\g mpong                         nd
A;dm       AgOIO           GULFo Ou   GUIN EAoIDn
3,'                                        t~~~~~~~                                                  I'    1
{\lustesD 1994
Xoo TRA6Go,scI
} gE~~~~~~~Nkchiwe                                pAnrawoeso3=;  Ad
0       j           rkwan        e  I6       _     tAol                                     IE  
Ju6 es -                                            /-  mnCAECATsomo h.mrpdnt*mpey uflfcpl fJeW7WBn 
sS~~~~~~~~~u di i-s                           At.                        o1
ru~ ~~~~~~~~~DCME 3A9C9R



