Page  1
                                      December 19, 1990
His Excellency
Dr. Kwesi Botchwey
The Provisional National Defense Council
Secretary for Finance and Economic Planning
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
P.O. Box M-40
Accra, Republic of Ghana
Dear Dr. Botchwey:
               Re:  GHANA - Credit No. 1996-GH
               (Private Small and Medium Enterprise Development
               Project)
               Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement
               and the Project Agreement
     We refer to the Development Credit Agreement (Private Small
and Medium Enterprise Development Project) dated May 1, 1989,
between the Republic of Ghana and the International Development
Association (the Association) and to the Project Agreement of the
same date between the Association and the Bank of Ghana.
     Following the discussions during the 1990 Annual Meetings here
in Washington, we propose to amend the Development Credit and
Project Agreements as follows:
1.   Paragraph C.1 (a) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement shall
be amended to read as follows:
          "(a) Beneficiaries shall contribute at least 25% of the
          Investment Project cost in equity or from internally-
          generated resources; provided, however, that in the case
          of expansion and/or rehabilitation projects, the
          Borrower's equity investment in the existing enterprise
          shall be included in the calculation of the 25% minimum
          contribution to the Investment Project."
2.   Paragraph C.1 (e)(i) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement
shall be amended by changing the maximum size of a Sub-loan under
Part A of the Project from $500,000 equivalent to $750,000
equivalent.
3.   Paragraph C.1 (e)(iv) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement
shall be amended to read as follows:
          "(iv) the maximum financing from the proceeds of the
          Credit would be 7O% of the cost of an Investment Project
          made under Part A of the Project in case of new projects
          and 100% of the cost of an Investment Project made under
          Part A of the Project in case of expansion and/or
          rehabilitation projects."
4.   The table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement shall be amended by changing the
disbursement percentage related to Category (1) as follows:
          "100% of amounts disbursed for Sub-loans and Investments
          under Part A of the Project up to 7O% of the total cost
          of the Investment Project in case of new projects and up
          to 10O% of the total cost of the Investment Project in
          case of expansion and/or rehabilitation projects, and
          10O% of amounts disbursed for Subloans under Part C of
          the Project."
     Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendment to
the Development Credit Agreement by signing the form of confirmation
Page  2
below on the enclosed copy and returning it to us and obtain Bank of
Ghana's agreement to the amendment of the Project Agreement by
having an authorized representative of Bank of Ghana signing the
form of confirmation below.  This amendment shall become effective
upon receipt of the signed copy by the Association.
                   Sincerely  yours,
                  Jorge C. Barrientos
                    Acting Director
              Western African Department
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
By
        Authorized Representative
Date: January 7, 1991
CONFIRMED:
BANK OF  GHANA
By
        Authorized Representative
Date: January 7, 1991
