Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1996 GH
                     (Private Small and Medium
                  Enterprise Development Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                           BANK OF GHANA
                         Dated May 1, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1996 GH
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  May  1,  1989  between  the  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and BANK OF GHANA (BOG).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the  Republic  of  Ghana  (the  Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to lend to the Borrower an
amount in  various  currencies  equivalent  to  twenty-two million
three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 22,300,000), on
the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  in  the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that BOG agrees to undertake such
obligations toward  the  Association  as  are  set  forth  in this
Agreement; and
     (B)  by a subsidiary  administration  agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower  and  BOG (the Subsidiary Administration
Agreement), the proceeds  of  the  credit  provided  for under the
Development Credit Agreement  will  be  made  available  to BOG on
Page  2
terms and conditions  set  forth  in the Subsidiary Administration
Agreement; and
     WHEREAS BOG, in  consideration  of the Association's entering
into the  Development  Credit  Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement  and  in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. BOG declares  its  commitment to the objectives
of the Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to the Development
Credit Agreement and, to  this  end,  shall,  through the Fund for
Small and Medium  Enterprise  Development  (FUSMED),  carry out or
cause to  be  carried  out  the  Project  with  due  diligence and
efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate administrative,
financial, technical, management  and environmental practices, and
shall provide, or cause  to  be  provided, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and  other  resources required for the
Project.
     Section 2.02. For the purpose of carrying out Parts A through
D of the Project, BOG shall  provide to PFIs the equivalent of the
Credit allocated  to  Parts  A  through  D  of  the  Project under
participation  agreements  (the  Participation  Agreements)  to be
entered into between BOG and  each PFI, under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Association, and which shall
include those set forth in Schedules 1 and 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. (a) BOG  undertakes that Sub-loans, Investments
and loans made under Part D of  the Project will be made in accor-
dance with the  procedures  and  on  the  terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in Schedules 1 and 2 of this Agreement.
     (b)  BOG  shall  exercise  its  rights  in  relation  to each
Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests
of the Association and  of  BOG;  (ii) comply with its obligations
under this Agreement and  the Subsidiary Administration Agreement;
and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
     Section  2.04.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services required
for Parts E and F of  the  Project  and  to be financed out of the
proceeds of the  Credit  shall  be  governed  by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.05. BOG shall  carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,  9.06,  9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition) in respect of the Project Agreement.
     Section 2.06.  BOG  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under  the  Subsidiary  Administration  Agreement.  Except  as the
Association shall otherwise agree, BOG shall not take or concur in
any action which  would  have  the  effect of assigning, amending,
abrogating or waiving  the  Subsidiary Administration Agreement or
any provision thereof.
     Section 2.07.  (a)  BOG  shall,  together  with the Borrower,
Page  3
review with the Association, at least once every year, progress in
carrying out the Project, with a view to determining and effecting
such changes as may be required to ensure the successful implemen-
tation of the Project,  including  any  adjustment required in the
onlending terms and conditions. To  that end, BOG shall furnish to
the Borrower and the Association a report on the progress achieved
in carrying out the Project, in  such  detail and at such times as
the Borrower or the Association shall reasonably request.
     (b)  BOG shall promptly inform  the Borrower and the Associa-
tion of any condition  which  interferes or threatens to interfere
with the progress of the  Project,  the accomplishment of the pur-
poses of the Credit, or the  performance by BOG of its obligations
under  this  Agreement  and  under  the  Subsidiary Administration
Agreement.
     Section 2.08. For the purpose of carrying out Parts A through
D of the Project, BOG shall:
     (a)  establish, and maintain at least until the completion of
the Project, FUSMED  which  shall  be  staffed  with qualified and
experienced  persons  in  adequate  numbers  satisfactory  to  the
Association; and
     (b)  coordinate and monitor the  overall execution of Parts A
through D of the  Project  and  supervise  the carrying out by the
PFIs of the  provisions  of  their respective Participation Agree-
ments  in   accordance   with   procedures   satisfactory  to  the
Association.
     Section 2.09. BOG shall, under  terms of reference and within
a timetable acceptable to the Association, carry out the following
training programs for staff of  BOG  and the PFIs: (a) an orienta-
tion program in term  lending  procedures; and (b) project apprai-
sal, procurement, supervision  and  monitoring  and basic environ-
mental awareness.
     Section 2.10. BOG  shall:  (a)  not  later  than December 31,
1989, carry out  and  complete  a  study  under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association,  to formulate policies and imple-
mentation procedures  for  the  Pilot  Mutualist  Credit Guarantee
Scheme included in Part C (1) of the Project and to identify pros-
pective  non-governmental  organizations  to  participate  in said
scheme; and  (b)  take  appropriate  measures  soon  thereafter to
establish the Pilot Mutualist Credit Guarantee Scheme, taking into
account the views of the Association.
     Section 2.11. BOG  shall:  (a)  not  later  than December 31,
1989, carry out and  complete  a  study,  under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association, to develop an appropriate regula-
tory and policy framework for equipment leasing; and (b) implement
the findings  of  said  study  after  obtaining  the  views of the
Borrower and the Association.
     Section 2.12. BOG shall,  in cooperation with the Secretariat
referred to in Section 3.04 of the Development Credit Agreement:
     (a)  cause the studies included in  Part  F of the Project to
be carried out under terms  of  reference and in accordance with a
timetable acceptable to the Association;
     (b)  exchange views with the  Borrower and the Association on
the conclusions and recommendations of the studies; and
     (c)  taking into account the  views expressed by the Associa-
tion, implement such recommendations within a timetable acceptable
to the Association.
     Section 2.13. BOG shall:
     (a)  not later than September  30,  1989, establish the Pilot
Studies Fund included in Part  D  of  the Project in a form satis-
Page  4
factory to the Association; and
     (b)  through PFIs, extend, out of said fund, financial assis-
tance to  SSEs  and  Micro-enterprises  under  arrangements satis-
factory to the  Association  for  the  purposes  of  Part D of the
Project.
     Section 2.14.  BOG  shall:  (a)  carry  out,  under  terms of
reference acceptable to the  Association,  an annual review of the
social and economic impact of  Investment Projects; and (b) submit
to the Association the  findings  of  every such review; provided,
however, that the findings of the  first such review shall be sub-
mitted to the Association not later than June 30, 1991.
                            Article III
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 3.01.  (a)  BOG  shall  ensure  that FUSMED maintains
procedures and records adequate to monitor and record the progress
of the Project and of  each Investment Project (including its cost
and the  benefits  to  be  derived  from  it)  and  to reflect, in
accordance   with   consistently   maintained   sound   accounting
practices, the operations and financial condition of FUSMED.
     (b)  BOG shall ensure that FUSMED:
          (i)  has its records,  accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and related statements) relating to the Project for
               each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appro-
               priate auditing principles  consistently applied by
               independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnishes to the Association,  as soon as available
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year:  (A)  certified copies re-
               lating to the  Project  of its financial statements
               for such year as so  audited; and (B) the report of
               such audit by said  auditors,  of such scope and in
               such detail as  the  Association shall have reason-
               ably requested; and
        (iii)  furnishes to the Association such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as  well  as  the  audit  thereof as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, BOG shall ensure that FUSMED:
          (i)  maintains or causes to  be maintained in accordance
               with  sound   accounting   practices,  records  and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  ensures that  all  records  (contracts, orders, in-
               voices, bills, receipts  and  other documents) evi-
               dencing such  expenditures  are  retained  until at
               least one year  after  the Association has received
               the audit report for  the  fiscal year in which the
               last withdrawal from  the  Credit Account was made;
               and
        (iii)  enables   the   Association's   representatives  to
               examine such records.
                            ARTICLE IV
                    Effective Date; Termination
                    Cancellation and Suspension
Page  5
     Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 4.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of BOG  thereunder  shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
        (i)    the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate; or
       (ii)    a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  If the  Development  Credit  Agreement terminates before
the date specified  in  paragraph  (a)  (ii)  of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify BOG of this event.
     Section 4.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 5.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at  such  other  addresses  as  such party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
           International Development Association
           1818 H Street, N.W.
           Washington, D.C. 20433
           United States of America
           Cable address:                   Telex:
                INDEVAS                        440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For BOG:
           Bank of Ghana
           P.O. Box 2674
           Accra
           Ghana
           Cable address                    Telex:
                GHANA BANK                    2541 GHANABANK GH
                Accra                         2052
     Section 5.02. Any action required,  or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of BOG  or  by  BOG  on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit  Agreement,  may be taken or executed
by the Governor of BOG or  by  such other person or persons as BOG
shall designate in writing, and  BOG shall furnish to the Associa-
tion sufficient evidence  of  the  authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Page  6
     Section 5.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                        BANK OF GHANA
                        By /s/ Eric K. Otoo
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
           Principal Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans,
             Investments and Participation Agreements
     Except as the  Association  shall  otherwise agree, the prin-
cipal terms and conditions set  forth in this Schedule shall apply
for the purposes of Section 2.02 of this Agreement with respect to
Participation Agreements.
A.   Terms
1.   Currency
     All Sub-loans and Investments and  loans made under Part D of
the Project shall be  denominated  in  Cedis. The aggregate amount
(the PFI Subsidiary Loan) to  be  made  available  by BOG to a PFI
under  its  respective   Participation   Agreement  shall  be  the
equivalent in Cedis (determined as of the respective date or dates
of withdrawal from the Credit  Account using the market determined
rate of the most  recent  foreign  exchange  auction system or any
other lawful rates acceptable to  the Association) of the value of
the currency or currencies so withdrawn  or paid out on account of
the cost of the goods and  services to be incurred with respect to
the carrying out of an Investment Project.
2.   Interest Rates
     (a)  Interest on a PFI  Subsidiary  Loan  shall be charged on
the principal amount thereof  outstanding  from  time to time at a
reference interest rate which shall  be  based on the average cost
of 180-day  deposits  mobilized  by  PFIs  (the Reference Interest
Rate), except that the interest to  be charged on a PFI Subsidiary
Loan for Micro-enterprises  shall  be  two percentage points below
the prevailing Reference Interest Rate.
     (b)  Interest on Sub-loans  to  Beneficiaries  and loans made
under Part D of the Project  shall be determined by PFIs and shall
be variable and be adjusted by  PFIs in accordance with changes in
the Reference Interest Rate;  provided,  however, that the maximum
annual increase in interest rates shall be limited to 10%.
Page  7
     (c)  Interest on Sub-loans made  by PFIs to Micro-enterprises
under Part C (2) of  the  Project  shall be determined by PFIs and
shall be variable in accordance  with the changes in the Reference
Interest Rate; provided, however,  that  the sharing of the spread
among the PFIs, the  MGAs  and  the  funds established by the MGAs
under the Pilot Mutualist Credit  Guarantee Scheme shall be deter-
mined on the basis of recommendations  of the study referred to in
Section  2.10  of  this  Agreement  and  be  satisfactory  to  the
Association.
3.   Maturities
     (a)  Sub-loans under Part A  of  the Project for fixed assets
and free-standing working capital  shall  have maturities of up to
ten years and three  years,  respectively, including grace periods
of up to three years and one year, respectively.
     (b)  Sub-loans for  equipment  leasing  under  Part  B of the
Project shall have maturities of  up to ten years, including grace
periods of up to two years.
     (c)  Sub-loans for  fixed  assets  and  free-standing working
capital under Part C (2)  of  the Project shall have maturities of
up to five  years  and  two  years,  respectively, including grace
periods of up to 12 months and six months, respectively.
     (d)  For PFIs making equity  investments  under Part A of the
Project, the PFIs shall adopt  a flexible divestment policy satis-
factory to BOG and  the  Association.  The divestment policy shall
include a buy-back option for the enterprise owner to purchase the
PFIs' equity at its estimated market or pre-determined value.
4.   Repayments
     PFI Subsidiary Loans  and  loans  made  under  Part  D of the
Project shall be repaid by a  PFI  to BOG in accordance with fixed
amortization schedules.
5.   Pre-payment
     (a)  If a Sub-loan or a loan made under Part D of the Project
or any part of any such Sub-loan  or loan shall be repaid to a PFI
in advance of maturity or if a  Sub-loan or a loan made under Part
D of the Project or any part of any such Sub-loan or loan shall be
sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise  disposed of for value by
a PFI, the PFI shall promptly notify BOG and shall repay to BOG on
the next following interest  payment  date the amount withdrawn in
respect of any such  Sub-loan  or  loan  made  under Part D of the
Project or part thereof.
     (b)  If a PFI  divests  its  Investment  or sells, transfers,
assigns or otherwise  disposes  of  its  Investment, the PFI shall
promptly notify BOG and shall  repay  to BOG on the next following
interest payment date for the  Investment, the amount withdrawn in
respect of such Investment or part thereof.
     (c)  Any amount so repaid by the  PFI shall be applied by BOG
to the maturity or maturities  of  the  PFI Subsidiary Loan or the
loan made under Part D  of  the  Project  (as  the case may be) in
amounts corresponding to the  outstanding  amounts of the maturity
or  maturities of the Sub-loan  or  the  loan made under Part D of
the Project so repaid or disposed of.
B.   Conditions
1.   Each Participation  Agreement  shall  contain provisions pur-
suant to which each PFI shall continue to:
     (a)  be duly established and operating  under the laws of the
Borrower;
     (b)  maintain a sound  financial  structure,  a healthy port-
Page  8
folio, and the organization, management, staff and other resources
required for the efficient carrying out of its activities;
     (c)  conduct its  operations  and  affairs including interest
rate policies in  accordance  with  sound financial principles and
practices;
     (d)  maintain a lending  and  investment policy acceptable to
the Association and BOG,  and  suitable procedures and an adequate
number of suitably qualified staff to enable it effectively to:
          (i)  appraise  the  financial,  technical, environmental
               and economic feasibility of Investment Projects and
               to make Sub-loans  and  loans  under  Part D of the
               Project  and   Investments   to   Beneficiaries  in
               accordance with said  lending and investment policy
               and on the  basis  of  the criteria, procedures and
               principal  terms  and   conditions   set  forth  in
               Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
         (ii)  supervise, monitor and  report  on the carrying out
               by Beneficiaries of  Investment Projects or studies
               under  Part  D   of   the  Project,  including  the
               procurement  of  goods   and  services,  costs  and
               benefits therefor.
2.   Each Participation  Agreement  shall  also contain provisions
requiring each PFI to:
     (a)  exercise its rights in  respect of Sub-loans and Invest-
ments and loans made under Part D of the Project, in such a manner
as to protect the interests  of  the Borrower, the Association and
BOG and to  comply  with  its  obligations under its Participation
Agreement in order to achieve the purposes of Parts A through D of
the Project;
     (b)  undertake not to assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of
its agreements providing for Sub-loans  or loans made under Part D
of the Project or Investments or any provision thereof without the
approval of BOG;
     (c)   (i)  maintain records and  accounts adequate to monitor
                and record the operations, resources, expenditures
                and progress of  each  Investment  Project and the
                studies to be  carried  out  under  Part  D of the
                Project and withdrawals  from the Sub-accounts and
                to reflect in  accordance  with consistently main-
                tained sound  accounting  practices its operations
                and financial conditions relating thereto;
          (ii)  have   its   records,   accounts   and   financial
                statements (balance  sheets,  statements of income
                and  expenses  and  related  statements) including
                Sub-accounts  for  each  fiscal  year  audited, in
                accordance  with  appropriate  auditing principles
                consistently  applied   by   independent  auditors
                acceptable to the Association;
         (iii)  furnish to BOG as  soon  as  available, but in any
                case not later than  six  months  after the end of
                each  such  year:  (A)  certified  copies  of  its
                statutory financial  statements  and  accounts for
                such year as so  audited;  and (B) with respect to
                the Project,  supplementary  audited statements by
                said auditors of  such  scope  and in such detail,
                including   the   status   of   Sub-accounts   and
                compliance by  PFIs  with  eligibility criteria of
                Investment Projects,  as  BOG  or  the Association
                shall have reasonably requested;
          (iv)  within six weeks of the  end  of the first and the
                second six months of the calendar year, furnish to
Page  9
                BOG  Semi-Annual  Progress  Reports  outlining the
                progress of  each  Investment  Project and studies
                under Part D of the Project; and
           (v)  furnish to BOG monthly reports on the operation of
                the Sub-accounts.
3.   Procurement
     (a)  With respect to the procurement of goods and services to
be financed  under  Sub-loans,  Investments  and  loans made under
Part D of the Project,  each Participation Agreement shall contain
provisions  requiring  each  PFI  to  comply  with  the  following
procedures:
          (i)  Goods and services shall  be purchased at a reason-
               able price, account being  taken  also of other re-
               levant factors such as  time  of delivery and effi-
               ciency and  reliability  of  the  goods  and avail-
               ability of maintenance  facilities  and spare parts
               therefor and, in  the  case  of  services, of their
               quality and the competence of the parties rendering
               them.
         (ii)  Goods estimated to cost more than the equivalent of
               $75,000 per  contract:  (A)  may  be procured under
               contracts awarded  on  the  basis  of comparison of
               price quotations solicited from  a list of at least
               three  qualified  suppliers   from   at  least  two
               countries eligible under  the  Guidelines in accor-
               dance with  procedures  acceptable  to the Associa-
               tion; and (B) all contracts for such goods shall be
               reviewed by the PFIs prior to award.
        (iii)  Consultants shall  have qualifications, experience,
               and be  employed  on  terms  and  conditions satis-
               factory to the  Association. Such consultants shall
               be selected in accordance  with principles and pro-
               cedures  satisfactory  to  the  Association  on the
               basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
               by World Bank Borrowers  and  by  the World Bank as
               Executing Agency" published  by  the Association in
               August 1981.
     (b)  Each PFI shall  undertake  that  such goods and services
shall be used exclusively  in  the  carrying out of the Investment
Project or, as the case may be, Part D of the Project.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                Procedures for Terms and Conditions
                   of Sub-loans and Investments
A.   Terms and conditions
1.   No expenditures for goods or services required for an Invest-
ment Project shall be eligible  for  financing out of the proceeds
of the Credit unless:
     (a)  the Sub-loan or  Investment  for such Investment Project
shall have been approved by  the Association and such expenditures
shall have been made not earlier  than  180 days prior to the date
on which the Association  shall  have received the application and
information required under paragraph 2 (a) of this Part in respect
of such Sub-loan or Investment; or
     (b)  the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
a free-limit Sub-loan  for  which  the  Association has authorized
withdrawals from the  Credit  Account  and such expenditures shall
have been made not  earlier  than  180  days  prior to the date on
which the Association shall have received the request and informa-
tion required under paragraph  2  (b)  of  this Part in respect of
Page  10
such free-limit Sub-loan or  Investment.  For  the purposes of the
Development Credit Agreement and this Agreement, a free-limit Sub-
loan shall be a Sub-loan for an Investment Project in an amount to
be financed out of  the  proceeds  of  the  Credit which shall not
exceed the sum of $100,000  equivalent, the foregoing amount being
subject  to  change  from  time  to  time  as  determined  by  the
Association.
2.   (a)  When presenting a Sub-loan  or  Investment (other than a
free-limit Sub-loan) to  the  Association  for approval, BOG shall
furnish to the Association an application, in form satisfactory to
the Association, together  with:  (i)  a  description of the Bene-
ficiary and  an  appraisal  of  the  Investment Project, including
procurement procedures and a  description of the expenditures pro-
posed to be financed out of  the  proceeds of the Credit; (ii) the
proposed terms and conditions  of  the Sub-loan or Investment, in-
cluding the schedule of  amortization  of the Sub-loan or schedule
of payments of the Investment; and (iii) such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request.
     (b)  Each request  by  BOG  for  authorization  to make with-
drawals from the Credit  Account  in  respect of a free-limit Sub-
loan or Investment shall contain: (i) a summary description of the
Beneficiary  and  the  Investment  Project,  including procurement
procedures and a description  of  the  expenditures proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) the terms and
conditions of the Sub-loan  or  Investment, including the schedule
of amortization of the Sub-loan or the schedule of payments of the
Investment.
     (c)  Applications and requests  made  pursuant  to the provi-
sions of sub-paragraphs (a)  and  (b)  of  this paragraph shall be
presented to the Association on or before April 30, 1993.
3.   Sub-loans and  Investments  shall  be  made  on terms whereby
BOG shall cause each PFI  to  obtain, by written contract with the
Beneficiary or by other  appropriate  legal means, rights adequate
to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Association and BOG,
including the right to:
     (a)  require the Beneficiary  to  carry  out  and operate the
Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accor-
dance with  sound  technical,  financial,  environmental and mana-
gerial standards and to maintain adequate records and accounts;
     (b)  inspect, by itself  or  jointly, with representatives of
the Association if the  Association  shall  so request, such goods
and the sites,  works,  plants  and  construction  included in the
Investment Project, the  operation  thereof,  and any relevant re-
cords and documents;
     (c)  require that: (i)  the  Beneficiary  shall  take out and
maintain with responsible  insurers  such  insurance, against such
risks and in  such  amounts,  as  shall  be  consistent with sound
business practice; and (ii) without  any limitation upon the fore-
going, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisi-
tion, transportation and  delivery  of  goods  financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to  the  place  of use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder  to  be  made  payable  in  a currency freely
usable by the Beneficiary to replace or repair such goods;
     (d)  obtain all such  information  as  the Association or BOG
shall reasonably request  relating  to  the  foregoing  and to the
administration, operations and  financial  condition  of the Bene-
ficiary and to  the  benefits  to  be  derived from the Investment
Projects; and
     (e)  suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the
use of the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Beneficiary
to perform its obligations under its contract with the PFIs.
B.   Eligibility Criteria for Beneficiaries and Investment
Page  11
     Projects - General Procedures
1.   With the exception of  agriculture,  real estate and trading,
all SMEs, SSEs  and  Micro-enterprises  engaged  in other economic
sectors (including manufacturing, agro-related industries, mining,
quarrying, industrial  support  services,  equipment  leasing, and
other service activities  ancillary  thereto)  are eligible to re-
ceive Sub-loans and Investments from  PFIs to carry out Investment
Projects.
2.   Sub-loans and Investments shall  be  used by Beneficiaries to
finance rehabilitation and  expansion  of  existing enterprises as
well as for establishing new enterprises. In particular, Sub-loans
and Investments shall be used to finance:
     (a)  fixed assets  (including  machinery,  equipment, factory
buildings   and   related   civil   works),   technical  know-how,
consultancy services and training;
     (b)  permanent working capital  (including  initial stocks or
increases in stocks of raw materials, spare parts and components);
     (c)  free-standing working capital  (including raw materials,
spare parts  and  components)  to  expand  capacity utilization of
existing firms; and
     (d)  leasing of industrial and business equipment.
C.   Specific Procedures
1.   For Part A of the Project
     BOG shall ensure  that  PFIs  adopt  the following procedures
when processing Investment Projects:
     (a)  Beneficiaries  shall  contribute  at  least  25%  of the
Investment Project  cost  in  equity  or from internally-generated
resources.
     (b)  The equity participation of  a  PFI  shall be such as to
maintain at all times a minority equity holding in a Beneficiary.
     (c)  During implementation and for  five years after start up
of operations, Beneficiaries shall be required to maintain a total
debt to equity ratio of not  more  than 3:1; a current ratio of at
least 1.2; and a debt service coverage of at least 1.4.
     (d)  Appraisal of Investment Projects
          PFIs  shall  carry  out   the  appraisal  of  Investment
Projects in accordance with  procedures acceptable to the Associa-
tion which shall include the following:
          (i)  to calculate the financial rate of return (FRR) for
               all Investment Projects with  costs over Cedis 6.25
               million in constant 1988 prices;
         (ii)  to calculate the economic  rate of return (ERR) and
               FRR for  all  Investment  Projects  with costs over
               Cedis 75  million in constant 1988 prices;
        (iii)  FRR (after tax)  under  paragraph  (d) (i) and (ii)
               above and ERR under  paragraph (d) (ii) above shall
               each be at least  12%  in  constant prices for each
               Investment Project; and
         (iv)  to carry out  a  cash-flow  analysis for Investment
               Projects  with  costs  below  Cedis  5  million  in
               constant 1988  prices  and  for Investment Projects
               under Part C of the Project.
     (e)  Sub-loan Limits
Page  12
          (i)  The maximum size of a  Sub-loan under Part A of the
               Project shall be $500,000 equivalent;
         (ii)  the maximum size of a  Sub-loan under Part B of the
               Project shall be $350,000 equivalent;
        (iii)  the maximum size of a  Sub-loan under Part C of the
               Project shall be $10,000 equivalent; and
         (iv)  the maximum  financing  from  the  proceeds  of the
               Credit would be 70%  of  the  cost of an Investment
               Project made under Part A of the Project.
2.   For Part B of the Project.
     BOG shall ensure that PFIs  adopt the following procedures in
processing Sub-loans under Part B of the Project:
     (a)  The maximum pay-back  period  for leased equipment shall
be seven years, calculated on  the  basis of the installed cost of
the equipment and  the  estimated  annual  net cash flow generated
from the equipment.
     (b)  The maximum lease amount  financed  from the proceeds of
the Credit shall be 85% of the cost of leased equipment.
     (c)  The  overall  maximum  book  value  of  leased equipment
financed from proceeds of the  Credit and outstanding with respect
to a Beneficiary  or  a  group  of related beneficiary enterprises
shall be Cedis 87.5 million in constant 1988 prices.
3.   For Part C of the Project
     BOG shall ensure that PFIs adopt the following procedures and
criteria in processing Sub-loans under Part C of the Project:
     (a)  The PFI shall carry  out  a simplified form of appraisal
of the Investment Project; and
     (b)  MGAs should agree to fully guarantee the Sub-loan to the
Beneficiary and to  maintain  the  funds  established  by the MGAs
under the Pilot  Mutualist  Credit  Guarantee Scheme in accordance
with procedures and on  terms  and  conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
                            SCHEDULE 3
            Procurement and Consultants' Services under
                   Parts E and F of the Project
Section I:  Procurement of Goods
Part A:  Procedures
     Goods may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised  locally,  in accordance with pro-
cedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part B:  Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more,  the  procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix  1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such  contract  are  to  be  made  out of the Special
Accounts, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
Page  13
the Special Accounts in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of the Special Accounts, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies of the  contract  together  with  the other information re-
quired to be furnished to  the  Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall  be  furnished  to  the  Association  as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
     (c)   The provisions of  the  preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis of statements of  expenditure.  Such  contracts shall be re-
tained in accordance with Section 4.01 (a) (ii) of the Development
Credit Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
1.   In order to assist BOG in carrying out Part E of the Project,
BOG shall employ consultants  whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of  employment  shall  be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory  to  the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the  Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World  Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Association in August 1981.
2.   For the purpose  of  Part  F  of  the  Project, BOG shall, in
cooperation with the Secretariat  referred  to  in Section 3.04 of
the Development Credit Agreement, cause the executing institutions
to employ consultants in accordance  with the procedures set forth
in Section II.1 above.
