O\FICIAL
DOCUMENTS
CREDIT NUMBER 1996 GH
Development Credit Agreement
(Private Small and Medium
Enterprise Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                             , 1989


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1996 GH
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       CV O                  , 1989, between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Associationi).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the Bank of Ghana
(BOG) with the Borrower's assistance, and as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to BOG the proceeds
of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and BOG;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "BOG" means the Bank of Ghana, established pursuant to
the Bank of Ghana Act;


﻿-2-
(b)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and BOG, of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(c)  "Subsidiary Administration Agreement" means the agree-
ment to be entered into between the Borrower and BOG pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules supple-
mental to the Subsidiary Administration Agreement;
(d)  "Bank of Ghana Act" means the Bank of Ghana Act, 1963
(Act 182), as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(e)  "Participation Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between BOG and each Participating Financial Institu-
tion (as such term is hereinafter defined) pursuant to Section
2.02 of the Project Agreement for Parts A through D of the
Project;
(f)  "Sub-loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into by a Participating Financial Institution and a Beneficiary
(as such term is hereinafter defined) under which a Participating
Financial Institution agrees to provide a Sub-loan or an Invest-
ment for an Investment Project (as such terms are hereinafter
defined);
(g) "SHE" means a small and medium scale enterprise with
total fixed assets (excluding land) plus cost of the Investment
Project (hereinafter referred to as asset size of SME) not exceed-
ing Cedis 500 million in constant 1988 prices;
(h)  "SSE" means a small scale enterprise with total fixed
assets (excluding land) plus cost of the Investment Project (here-
inafter referred to as asset size of SSE) of more than Cedis 5
million but less than Cedis 25 million in constant 1988 prices;
(i) "Micro-enterprise" means an enterprise with total fixed
assets (excluding land) plus cost of the Investment Project below
Cedis 5 million in constant 1988 prices;
(j)  "Beneficiary" means an SME, SSE or Micro-enterprise
which is at least 51% owned by private individuals or private


﻿-3-
juridical persons and which operates in any economic sector (in-
cluding manufacturing, agro-related industries, mining, quarry,
industrial support services, equipment leasing, and other service
activities ancillary thereto) other than agriculture, real estate
and trading and which enters into a Sub-loan Agreement with
Participating Financial Institutions for an Investment Project;
(k) "FUSMED" means the Fund for Small and Medium Enterprise
Development, the unit established and maintained by BOG pursuant
to Section 2.08 (a) of the Project Agreement;
(1) "Cedis" means the currency of the Borrower;
(m) "PFI" or "Participating Financial Institution" means
each commercial bank, merchant bank, or any development bank or
specialized financial institution which shall,for the purpose of
the Project, be designated by BOG as a Participating Financial
Institution;
(n) "Sub-loan" means a loan, including lease financing, made
or proposed to be made by a PFI to a Beneficiary for an Investment
Project out of the equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit pro-
vided to it by BOG;
(o) "free-limit Sub-loan" means a Sub-loan, as so defined,
which qualifies as a free-limit Sub-loan pursuant to the provi-
sions of Part AJ1 (b) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
(p) "Investment" means an investment other than a Sub-loan,
made or proposed to be made by a PFI in a Beneficiary for an
Investment Project out of the equivalent of the proceeds of the
Credit provided to the PFI by BOG;
(q) "Investment Project" means: (i) a new specific develop-
ment project; and (ii) an expansion of an existing project, to be
carried out by a Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan
or Investment;
(r) "Special Account" means any of the accounts referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(s)  "GIMPA" means the Ghana Institute of Management and
Public Administration;
(t) "MGA" means a Mutualist Guarantee Association;


﻿-4-
(u) "NBSSI" means the National Board for Small-Scale
Industries;
(v) "WWBG" means the Women's World Banking Ghana Ltd.;
(w) "MDPI" means the Management Development and Productivity
Institute;
(x) "CSIR" means the Council for Scientific and Industrial
Research;
(y) "GEPC" means the Ghana Export Promotion Council; and
(z) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters, dated February 9, 1988, and
February 12, 1988, between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty-two million three hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 22,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) amounts paid (or, if the
Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by BOG on account
of withdrawals made by: (A) a Beneficiary under a Sub-loan or
Investment, or (B) a SSE or Micro-enterprise under a loan made
under Part D of the Project to meet the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Investment Project under Parts A
through C of the Project or a study under Part D of the Project in
respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is re-
quested; and (ii) expenditures made (or if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for Parts E and F of the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars two special accounts in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. One
of the accounts (Special Account A) shall be used for Parts A


﻿-5-
through E of the Project and the other account (Special Account B)
shall be used for Part F of the Project. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and out-
standing as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1996, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower and BOG of such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as
of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from a date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pur-
suant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each
year shall be applied as of the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.


﻿-6-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15
commencing August 15, 1999, and ending February 15, 2029. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on February
15, 2009, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and
each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such
principal amount.
(b) Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due con-
sideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtair'ed under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.


﻿-7-
Section 2.09. BOG is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or per-
initted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, shall
cause BOG to perform in accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement all the obligations of BOG therein set forth,
shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable BOG to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to BOG under a subsidiary administration agreement (the
Subsidiary Administration Agreement) to be entered into between
the Borrower and BOG under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association and which shall include that the
Borrower bears the foreign exchange risk.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Administration Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit and, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Administration Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for
Parts E and F of the Project and to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9,03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and re-
ports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be


﻿-8-
carried out by BOG pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Project
Agreement.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall continue to maintain the
SME Policy Committee and Secretariat in a form and with functions
satisfactory to the Association.
(b) The SME Policy Committee shall be headed by the PNDC
Secretary for Finance and Economic Planning and shall include as
members the PNDC Secretary of the Ministry of Industries, Science
and Technology, and the Governor of BOG. The SME Policy Committee
shall be responsible for reviewing policy recommendations made
under the Project.
(c) The Secretariat of the SME Policy Committee shall be
headed by a Deputy Governor of BOG and shall include as members
representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning,
Ministry of Industries, Science and Technology, the Executive
Director of NBSSI, the Director of the Development Finance Depart-
ment of BOG, and the Manager of FUSMED. The Secretariat shall: (i)
assist the SME Policy Committee in the exercise of its functions;
and (ii) be responsible for: (A) monitoring the implementation of
the Project, in particular the activities under Part F of the
Project; (B) coordinating and reporting on all Project activities;
and (C) formulating and recommending policy proposals to the SME
Policy Committee.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with sound accounting practices, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) ensure that all records (contracts, orders, in-
voices, bills, receipts and other documents) evi-
dencing such expenditures are retained until at
least one year after the Association has received
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the
last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made;
and


﻿-9-
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine
such records.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in para-
graph (a) (i) of this Section and those for the
Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; and
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall have reasonably requested,
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the pro-
cedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
withdrawals; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) BOG shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that BOG will be able to perform
its obligations under the Projelt Agreement.
(c) The Bank of Ghana Act shall have been amended, sus-
pended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the operations or financial condition of BOG or its


﻿- 10 -
ability to carry out the Project or to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower, or any other authority having
jurisdiction, shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of BOG or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and BOG; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Administration Agreement has been entered
into by the Borrower and BOG pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement;
(b) BOG has submitted to the Association FUSMED's opera-
tional policies and procedures satisfactory to the Association;
(c) BOG has issued a circular to the banking system satis-
factory to the Association, setting forth the conditions and pro-
cedures for the utilization of funds by PFIs under Parts A and B
of the Project; and
(d) BOG has signed Participation Agreements for Parts A
and/or B of the Project with at least two PFIs pursuant to Sec-
tion 2.02 of the Project Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional mat-
ters within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Con-
ditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Association:


﻿- 11 -
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by BOG, and is legally binding upon BOG in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Administration Agreement has been
duly authorized, or ratifie?,by, and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and BOG in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the PNDC Secretary for Finance and Economic Planning of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
PNDC Secretary for Finance and
Economic Planning
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
P.O. Box M 40
Accra, Ghana
Cable address:                   Telex:
ECONOMICON                     2205 MIFAEP GH
Accra
Rapifax
667069
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 12 -
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                        440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the partiqs hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
By   ISC.                .
Authorized.Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice.President
Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Sub-loans                                    100% of amounts
and Invest-                                 disbursed for
ments under                                 Sub-loans and
Part A of the                               Investments
Project and                                 under Part A of
Sub-loans                                   the Project up
under Part C                                to 70% of the
of the                                      total cost of
Project:                                    the Investment
Project, and
(a)   with respect      17,090,000)         100% of amounts
to SMEs                     )         disbursed for
)        Sub-loans under
(b)   with respect       1,490,000)        Part C of the
to SSEs and                 )         Project
Micro-                      )
enterprises                 )
(2) Sub-loans under           1,860,000         100% of amounts
Part B of the                               disbursed up to
Project                                     85% of the value
of the leased
equipment
(3) Pilot Studies               380,000         50%
under Part D
of the Project


﻿-14-
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(4) (a)   Consultants'         460,000         100%
services and
local and
overseas
training under
Part E of the
Project
(b)   Equipment and         80,000         100%
vehicles under
Part E of the
Project
(5) (a)   Consultants'         520,000         100%
services and
training under
Part F of the
Project
(b)   Equipment and         80,000         100%
vehicles under
Part F of the
Project
(6) Refunding of                70,000         Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(7) Unallocated                270,000
TOTAL                   22,300,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made:


﻿- 15 -
(a) in respect of a Sub-loan or Investment unless the Sub-
loan or Investment has been made in accordance with the procedures
and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
Schedules 1 and 2 to the Project Agreement;
(b) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement;
(c) in respect of expenditures under Category (5) unless a
small-scale industry expert has been employed by NBSSI in accor-
dance with the provisions set forth in Section II of Schedule 3 to
the Project Agreement;
(d) in respect of Sub-loans under Category (1)(b) relating
to Part C of the Project, unless BOG has prepared and submitted to
the Association a statement on procedures, satisfactory to the
Association, for the implementation of the pilot mutualist credit
guarantee scheme included in said Part of the Project; and
(e) in respect of expenditures under Category (3), unless
BOG has issued a circular to the banking system, satisfactory to
the Association, outlining the terms and conditions of, as well as
the procedures for, the pilot studies fund.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to assist in financing
such private productive activities, facilities and resources in
the Republic of Ghana as will contribute to the economic and
social development of the country; (b) to revive production and
improve the economic viability of private smal1-and medium scale
enterprises and enable them to become more competitive; (c) to
develop an effective mechanism to foster participation of PFIs
providing long term financing to small and medium scale enter-
prises; (d) to support a program of assistance to micro-enter-
prises; (e) to improve the availability of technical assistance,
extension services and entire entrepreneurial training for small
scale enterprises and women entrepreneurs; and (f) to improve the
policy and institutional support framework for SME development.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Line of Credit
Financing, through BOG and PFIs, of fixed investments,
services and working capital needs of private sector small and
medium scale enterprises.
Part B:   Equipment Leasing
Financing, through BOG and PFIs, of equipment leases of
private sector small and medium scale enterprises.
Part C:   Pilot Mutualist Credit Guarantee Scheme
1.   Establishment, through BOG, PFIs, and MGAs, of a Pilot
Mutualist Credit Guarantee Scheme.
2.   Provision of Sub-loans to eligible Micro-enterprise for
financing fixed investments and working capital, such sub-loans to
be guaranteed by MGAs.
Part D:   Pilot Studies Fund
Establishment and operation by BOG of a Pilot Studies Fund to
provide financing to SSEs and Micro-enterprises through the PFIs
on loan terms to enable such SSEs and Micro-enterprises:


﻿- 17 -
(a) to carry out pre-feasibility, feasibility and implemen-
tation studies; and
(b) to obtain expertise, services and management counselling
for the acquisition of technological know-how.
Part E:   Assistance to FUSMED
Strengthening of the technical and operational capabilities
of FUSMED through the acquisition of office and computer equip-
ment, software and vehicles and the provision of technical exper-
tise and training in order to enable FUSMED to:
(a) promote and administer tie lending schemes provided
under the Project and other SME development programs;
(b) carry out orientation seminars for PFIs;
(c) train PFI staff in term financing, sub-project
preparation, appraisal and supervision;
(d) develop policies and procedures for the pilot mutualist
credit guarantee scheme, including identification of appropriate
institutional participants; and
(e) carry out a study to develop the necessary policy frame-
work and regulatory measures for equipment leasing.
Part F:   Assistance to NBSSI, and other governmental and non-
governmental organizations
Strengthening of the technical and advisory capabilities of
the institutions referred to below through the acquisition of
equipment, vehicles and the provision of technical expertise and
training to carry out or coordinate the following activities:
1.   NBSSI
(a) Establishment of pilot small entrepreneurship develop-
ment advisory centers;
(b) continuation and evaluation of the Enterpreneurship
Development Program;
(c) development and implementation of training programs for
its staff in managerial and financial skills;


﻿- 18 -
(d) improvements in its office facilities, maintenance of
the SSE data base and marketing of services to SSEs;
(e) feasibility studies for, and subsequent establishment
of, three business incubators and a pilot growth center/sites and
services for SSEs; and
(f) an assessment of the regulatory and incentive environ-
ment for private sector development, including SSEs.
2.   WWBG
(a) Organization of training workshops in basic business
skills and project preparation and implementation;
(b) advice to businesswomen in preparing feasibility
studies, obtaining licenses and credits, and solving operational
problems;
(c) training of WWBG's staff in appraising, supervising and
monitoring projects as well as developing linkages between the
formal and informal financial sector;
(d) production and distribution of a quarterly newsletter;
and
(e) establishment of a branch office in Kumasi.
3.   MDPI and GIMPA
(a) Development and implementation of short-term training
programs in small business promotion and management for various
private associations and government institutions;
(b) training of the staff of MDPI and GIMPA in developing
SME training programs; and
(c) preparation of curriculum, teaching and workshop
materials.
4.   CSIR and GEPC
(a) A study of technology development in Ghana; and


﻿- 19 -
(b) A study of the feasibility of establishing a duty free
zone for export promotion.
The Project is expected to be completed by April 30, 1996.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of this Agreement, the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(2) The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
"15. The term 'Project Agreement' has the meaning
set forth in paragraph (b) of Section 1.02 of the
Development Credit Agreement."
(3) The words "the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such notice, such
amount of the Credit shall be cancelled" set forth at the end of
Section 6.03 are deleted and the following is substituted
therefor:
"or (e) by the date specified in Part A.2 (c) of
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement, the Association
shall, in respect of any portion of the Credit: (i) have
received no applications or requests permitted under
sub-paragraphs (a) or (b) of said paragraph; or (ii)
have denied any such applications or requests, the
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate
the right to submit such applications or approvals or to
make withdrawals from the Credit Account, as the case
may be, with respect to such amount or portion of the
Credit. Upon the giving of such notice, such amount or
portion of the Credit shall be cancelled."


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special, Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means: (i) with respect
to Special Account A Categories (1) through (4) set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(ii) with respect to Special Account B Category (5).
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, pro-
vided, however, that notwithstanding the provisions of Part A.1
(b) of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, payments for expen-
ditures to be financed out of the proceeds of free-limit Sub-loans
may be made out of Special Account A before the Association shall
have authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account in respect
thereof. Such expenditures, however, shall qualify as eligible
expenditures only if the Association shall subsequently ratify
such withdrawals; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equi-
valent to: (i) $2,000,000 for Special Account A; and (ii) $200,000
for Special Account B to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of a Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a) For withdrawals o.f the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.


﻿- 22 -
(b)   (i) For replenishment of a Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into a Special Account:
(a) if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any out-
standing special commitment entered into by the Association pur-
suant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.


﻿- 23 -
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of a Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Associa-
tion) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified.     Unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be re-
quired to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
(d) Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accor-
dance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including
the Peneral Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
F  S     E
FOR SECRETARY


