RESTRICTED
^"     C   ij                   Report No.  P-536
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
HASHEMITE KINGDOM
OF
JORDAN
April 20, 1967



INTERNATIONTAL DEVELCPtIENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOIMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
1.    I submit the follouing report and recommendation on a
proposed credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to
US $3 million to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan to assist in the
financing of the lending program of the Agricultural Credit
Corporation (ACC).
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.    The first request for a credit by the Association for ACC
was received from the Government in 1961. In the course of the
next two years substantial changes were introduced on the
Association's recommendation in ACC's policies and organization.
The first Association credit was made in 1963 to the Government
for relending to ACC in an amount of $3 million equivalent,
corresponding to a two-year lending program. During this time
ACC was expected to strengthen its staff and improve its pro-
cedures to cope with an increased volume of operations.
3.    In June 1966, an application for a second credit in the
amount of $5.8 million was received.   The project was appraised
in September/October, 1966. In view of the shortage of IDA funds,
negotiations were deferred until March 1967. Negotiations were
held in Washington between March 27 and April 4, 1967.   Dr. Najmeddin
Dajani, Acting Vice President of the Jordan Development Board,
represented the Government and Mr. Ibrahim Kaibni, Deputy General
Manager of ACC, represented the Corporation.



- 2 -
4.    The following is a summary statement of IDA credits to
Jordan as at March 31, 1967:
Amount (U.S. $ Million)
Year   No.   Purpose                       IDA       Undisbursed
1961  18JO   Amman water supply            1.5           0.7
1963  43JO   Water supply projects         2.5           1.0
1963  44JO   Agricultural credit           3.0            -
Total (less
cancellations)              7.0
of which has been repaid       -
Total now outstanding         7.0
Total undisbursed                           1.7
5.    Progress under the two credits for water supply has been
slow, chiefly as a result of delays in the    search for under-
ground water and in the engineering of urban distribution
systems. The Association recently cancelled part of the initial
amounts of both credits.   In the credit of $2 million (18JO) for the
Amman project an amount of $0.5 million initially allocated for
additional water treatment facilities was cancelled by the
Association as of January 1, 1967, as these facilities appeared
no longer necessary. An adequate water source has not yet been
ascertained for the town of Nablus, one of the four water supply
projects financed under the $3.5 million credit made in 1963(43Jo).
In view of the delays to be expected before the $1 million ear-
marked for this project could be used, this amount was cancelled
by the Association as of January 1, 1967. Further details on these
two credits are set forth in my report of January 19, 1967
(IDA/R67-1).
6.    The Bank is actively considering a loan of about $25 million
to assist in the financing of a project for the extraction of
potash from the Dead Sea. The Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Devel-
opment, the Agency for International Development and the Government
of Jordan would share in the financing of the project. Negotiations
are under way between the Arab Potash Co. and foreign firms with a
view to firming up the latters' participation in the equity of the
new company to be formed for the exploitation of potash and their



undertaking to assume a preponderant role in its technical and
commercial management.  IFC is considering an equity investment
in the project. It has no other investments under active con-
sideration in Jordan.
7.    Apart from the proposed credit for ACC no projects are
currently being considered for lending by the Association.
Should, however, the technical problems facing the Nablus water
supply project be satisfactorily solved, this project might
merit reconsideration.
PART II - DESCRIPTION CF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
8.     Borrower:      The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Beneficiary:   Agricultural Credit Corporation
Amount:        Equivalent, in various currencies, to
$3 million.
Purpose:       To assist in financing part of ACC's
lending program for up to four years.
Amortization:  50 years with no amortization during the
first 10 years. From August 1, 1977,
one-half of one percent of the principal
amount would be repayable semi-annually
for 10 years; and one and a half percent
semi-annually thereafter to February 1,
2017.
Service
Charge:      3/4 of one percent per annum on the
principal amount of the credit disbursed
and outstanding.
Relending
Terms:       The Government of Jordan would relend the
proceeds of the credit to the ACC and the
latter would undertake to repay the Govern-
ment over a period of 10 years after 10
years of grace with interest at 3¼4 percent
per annum.  ACC in turn would lend to
farmers at an interestrate of 6 percent per
annum and at maturities appropriate to the
individual projects.



- b -
PART III - THE PROJECT
9.    An appraisal report entitled "Second Agricultural Credit
Project - Jordan" (TO-586a) on the proposed project is attached.
10.   Agriculture remains the most important sector of Jordan's
economy as far as employment is concerned. It is estimated that
about one-third of the labor force is engaged in farming which
contributes 25 percent of GNP. In viewi of the climatic features
of Jordan, mith rainfall permitting only marginal production in
some years, the Government has systematically attempted to develop
irrigated farming through the comprehensive use of surface and
underground -water. Projects under may for the harnessing of the
Yarmouk river and for the use of smaller water sources mill sub-
stantially increase the present irrigated area of 73,000 hectares.
Most of Jordan's cultivated land (1.2 million hectares) will,
hoiever, have to continue to depend on erratic rains.   Crops with
relatively small -water requirements, especially tree plantations,
are therefore encouraged. Dry farming in marginal areas close to
the desert, where cereals can be grown -with satisfactory yields in
years of abundant rain, is being rapidly mechanized. Efforts are
also made to increase the protein production in a less haphazard
way than the traditional sheep and goat husbandry. A substantial
development of poultry supported by animal feed industries has taken
place in recent years; similar efforts in dairy and cattle farming
have not met with the same success because of the limitations
imposed by the climate and by the lack of fodder.
11.   In recent years ACC has played an important role in financing
agricultural projects of the types described above on which its
lending program for the period 1967-70 -will continue to focus.
Within this program, involving total lending of JD 5. million
(U.S. $15 million), IDA funds would be used for loans for
land reclamation and improvement, tree crop establishment, farm
water supply development, purchase of farm machinery and on-farm
development within Government irrigation schemes. The IDA-
financed project would involve loans to some 4,000 farmers, for
periods of 5-12 years, amounting in total to $5 million to which
ACC mill contribute from its own resources $2 million. In addition,
the funds expected to be available to ACC from loan collections and
profits would enable it to lend outside the project another $10
million. Most of this amount mould be used directly by ACC for the
financing of purchases of local cattle, sheep and draft animals, the
establishment of poultry farms and storage and processing facilities.



In addition, ACC would lend indirectly through the Central
Cooperative Union to meet short-term credit needs. The above
arrangements, whereby ACC would be relying for the major part
of its lending on its own resources, are designed to spur loan
collections to the maximum extent possible. In general, the
lending program is based on conservative estimates of the demand
for credit and of ACC's ability to process loans after adequate
appraisals. Further strengthening of the staff responsible for
appraisals might result in a larger volume of lending than fore-
cast and in the disbursement of the IDA credit in substantially
less than four years.
12.   Since the reorganization of ACC which took place prior to
the first IDA credit no substantial changes have been introduced
in the Corporation's structure. The Board, comprising an equal
number of Government and non-Government members, is appointed by
the Council of Ministers and functions effectively. The management,
consisting of the Chairman of the Board, who is at the same tirne
the General Manager of the Corporation, and the Deputy General
Manager, is highly regarded and runs the Corporation on a sound
basis. Staff has been increased to about 200 employees. Day to
day operations are conducted on a decentralized basis by fifteen
branchles which have the authority to approve small loans. Decisions
on larger loans as well as accounts and statistics are centralized
at the head office.
13.   ACC's capital, which is fully Government-owned, amounts to
JD 4.3 million ($12 million). Additional resources derive chiefly
from the first Association credit and from the operating surplus.
At the end of 1966 the loan portfolio reached JD 6 million ($17
million), about a fourth of which represented loans inherited from
predecessor institutions. ACC's operations have consistently shown
a net profit despite the increase in administrative expenditures
resulting from staff expansion. However, the level of profits varies
greatly from one year to another as loan collections are directly
affected by the level of agricultural production.
14.   While ACC's organization and procedures have now been tested
and performance found generally satisfactory, further improvement
is needed in two important aspects of the Corporation's operations.
First, apart from the necessary reliance on mortgages wihich gener-
ally secure ACC's loans, increased emphasis needs to be put on
appraisal methods in order to obtain a more thorough assessment of
the costs of projects, of the revenues which they will generate and
of the necessary amortization periods. For that purpose the
Association has obtained agreement from ACC that a farm production
economics expert be recruited to assist and train its staff in
appraisal methods based on the establishment of comprehensive farm



- 6 -
plans and, more generally, in the economic studies required to
maximize the benefits of ACC's lending to the country. The
second problem concerns collection of loans. ACC's record in
this respect over the past three years has been reasonably good
in view of the conditions prevailing in Jordan. During that
period collections for loans made under the IDA credit have
exceeded 90 percent of installments due.   However, the overall
collection rate of 50-60 percent reflects the existence in ACC's
portfolio of a large amount of inherited loans which are increas-
ingly difficult to collect. To improve collections foreclosure
proceedings have been started against a number of borrowers in
default. ACC has further agreed to enforce payment of loans in
default in accordance with the regulations and procedures applic-
able to the collection of Government taxes. It is expected that
these measures, coupled -with a more realistic assessment of
repayment possibilities for each project, would improve further
ACC's collection performance.
15.   ACC has agreed to raise its lending rate to farmers from
54 percent to 6 percent.   (In connection with the first credit ACC
agreed to an increase from 4 percent to 54 percent). Under the
relending agreement for the proceeds of the Association credit, ACC
will pay to the Government interest at the rate of 31¼ percent. The
resulting increase in the spread would allow ACC to accumulate sig-
nificant reserves against bad debts and to further strengthen its
staff.
16.   Purchases under the credit will be made through local commercial
channels among which there is considerable competition. International
competitive bidding uould be impracticable in view of the size of the
projects to be financed under the credit. The foreign exchange com-
ponent is estimated at 49 percent of the project costs (excluding
farmers' contributions) and at 82 percent of the proposed credit. The
Association will reimbuIse 60 percent of the project costs, slightly
less than the 67 percent provided for under the first credit.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUiMENTS AND AUTHORITY
17.   The Draft Development Credit Agreement between The Hashemite
Kingdom of Jordan and the Association, the Draft Project Agreement
between the Association and the Agricultural Credit Corporation, the
Draft Supplemental Letter on Relending to and lending Policies of the
Corporation, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 7 -
18.   The credit documents are substantially in the same
form as those for the previous credit to ACC and follow the
normal pattern of Association agreements for agricultural
credit projects. Attention is drawn to Section 5.02 (c) of
the Development Credit Agreement which provides as an
additional event of default that "a substantial change shall
have been made in the Corporation's legal framework without
the Association's consent". In the Project Agreement the size
of loans under the project requiring the Association's
approval has been set at JD 20,000 (equivalent to $56,000) and
over.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
19.   A report on "Current Economic Position and Prospects of
Jordan" was distributed to the Executive Directors on January 11,
1967. (R67-7).
20.   Economic growth in Jordan since the country took its
present form has been impressive. In recent years (1959-1964)
total GNP increased by 10 percent per annum and agricultural
output by 17 percent. Such growth was to a large extent made
possible by foreign assistance on -which Jordan has been dependent
since 1950. This aid has been given in the form of grants for
budgetary support or for development by the USA, the United King-
dom and Arab countries, and in the form of rations and services
by the United Nations for relief operations among the extensive
Palestine refugee population. The relatively high per capita
income (now nearing $250) is partly based on the high level of
aid received.
21.   Much has been done in the last fifteen years to establish
and build up the economy but Jordan continues to depend heavily
on external assistance. Given the political circumstances, the
limited natural resources and the need to establish infrastructure,
economic performance has been satisfactory. Exports have expanded
rapidly but still only amount to a minor fraction of imports and
even with the exploitation of limited mineral deposits and the
grotwth of tourist expenditure, a large deficit from external trans-
actions in goods and services must be expected if development is
to continue. Further improvement should be made in mobilizing
domestic resources for development. The first need is to improve
the budgetary position and raise domestic savings.



22.   The liberal amounts of foreign assistance have enabled
Jordan to build up foreign exchange reserves equivalent at
the end of 1966 to JD 71 million or some 14 months of imports.
The USA and the UK have announced a gradual reduction of their
untied grant aid which will be eliminated in the early seventies.
This is to be accompanied by an increase in loans tied to
specific projects and to a large extent also to procurement in
the donor country. This shift combined with the start-up of many
projects which have reached the implementation stage is expected
to entail a substantial reduction in foreign exchange reserves.
Political conditions in the area make it prudent, however, to
maintain them at a relatively high level. Jordan should in time
be able to dispense with external support for its current budget,
but development is likely to continue to depend on the provision
of external finance on concessionary terms.
PART VI - CCMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
23.   I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECCMMENDATION
2t.   I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Development Credit to The Hashemite Kingdom
of Jordan in an amount equivalent to U.S. $3,000,000
RESOLVED:
THAT the Association shall grant a development credit to
The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to three million United States dollars (U.S. $3,000,000),



- 9 -
to mature on and prior to February 1, 2Q17, to bear a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum, and to be upon such other terms and conditions as
shall be substantially in accordance with the terms and con-
ditions set forth in the form of Development Credit Agreement
(Second Agricultural Credit Project) between The Hashemite
Kingdom of Jordan and the Association, and in the form of
Project Agreement (Second Agricultural Credit Project) between
the Association andthe Agricultural Credit Corporation, which
have been presented to this meeting.
George D. Woods
President
Attachments
Washington D.C.
April 2 0, 1967



