CREDIT NUMBER 103 JO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 9, 1967


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 103 JO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 9, 1967


﻿AGREEMENT, dated May 9, 1967, between THE
HASHEMITE KINGDOM    OF JORDAN (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssocIATION
(herein.fter called the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower and the Agricultural Credit
Corporation, a statutory corporation of the Borrower
(hereinafter called the Corporation), have requested the
Association to assist in the financing of a lending program
for agricultural development;
AVHEREAs by a development credit agreement, dated
December 12, 1963, between the Borrower and the Associ-
ation (hereinafter called the First Development Credit
Agreement), the Association made a development credit to
the Borrower in an aggregate principal amount in various
currencies equivalent to $3,000,000 to assist in the financing
of the first part of such program; and
WHEREAS the Association is willing to make a develop-
ment credit available on the terms and conditions provided
herein and in a project agreement of even date herewith
between the Association and the Corporation;
Now TiiEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
Credit Regulations; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of Development Credit Regulations No. 1 of
the Association dated June 1, 1961, as amended February 9,


﻿4
1967, with the same force and effect as if they were fully
set forth herein subject, however, to the following modifi-
cations thereof (said Development Credit Regulations No. I
as so modified being hereinafter called the Regulations):
(a) Sections 6.01, 6.02 and 6.03 are amended by inserting
the words "or the Project Agreement" after the words
"the Development Credit Agreement"; and the words "or
the Corporation" after the word "Borrower".
(b) For the purposes of this Agreement, the term
"goods" as defined in paragraph 10 of Section 9.01, shall
include any easements or rights of way for irrigation
projects financed under the Credit.
SECTION 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
following terms, wherever used in this Agreement or in
the Regulations, shall have the following meanings:
1. "Project Agreement" means the project agreement of
even date herewith between the Association and the
Corporation and shall include any amendments thereof
made by agreement among the Borrower, the Corpora-
tion and the Association.
2. "Dinars" means dinars in the currency of the
Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to make available
to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions in this Agree-
ment set forth or referred to, a development credit in an
amount in various currencies equivalent to three million
dollars ($3,000,000).
SECTION 2.02. The Association shall open a Credit
Account on its books in the name of the Borrower and shall
credit to such Credit Account the amount of the Credit.


﻿5
The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Agreement
and the Regulations.
SECTION 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall be entitled, subject to the pro-
visions of this Agreement and of the Regulations, to
withdraw from the Credit Account:
(a) such amounts as shall have been expended for the
reasonable foreigin ..:.rrency cost of goods and services
required for carrying out the Project;
(b) the equivalent of a percentage or percentages to be
established from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower and the Association of such amounts as shall
have been expended for the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for carrying out the Project and nUot
included in the foregoing; and
(c) if the Association shall so agree, such amounts as
shall be required by the Borrower to meet payments under
each of the foregoing paragraphs;
provided, however, that no withdrawals shall be made on
account of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
SECTION 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn in semi-annual install-
ments payable on each February 1 and August 1 commenc-
ing August 1, 1977 and ending February 1, 2017, each


﻿6
installment to and including the installment payable on
February 1, 1987 to be one-half of one per cent of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent of such principal amount.
SECTION 2.07. The currency of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for
the purposes of paragraph (a) of Section 3.02 of the
Regulations.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of
the Credit to be applied exclusively to financing the cost
of goods required to carry out the Project described in the
Schedule to this Agreement. The specific allocation of the
proceeds of the Credit and the methods and procedures for
procurement of the goods to be finannced out of such pro-
ceeds shall be determined by agreement between the
Borrower and the Association, subject to modification by
further agreement between them.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project
to be carried out and shall cause the Corporation to conduct
its operations and affairs in accordance with sound agri-
cultural, engineering and financial practices and under
capable and efficient management appointed in consultation
with the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all
action which shall be necessary on its part to enable the
Corporation to perform all its obligations under the Project
Agreement and shall not take, or pcimit any agency of
the Borrower to take, any action that would prevent or
interfere with the performance of such obligations by the
Corporation.


﻿7
SECTION 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall re-lend the pro-
ceeds of the Credit or the equivalent thereof to the
Corporation on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.
(b) The Borrower shall make or cause to be made avail-
able promptly as needed all funds, services, facilities and
resources other than the proceeds of the Credit which shall
be required for the carrying out of the Project and all
other operations of the Corporation.
SECTION 4.03. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall
furnish to the other all such information as it shall reason-
ably request with regard to the general status of the Credit.
On the part of the Borrower, such information shall include
information with respect to financial and economic con-
ditions in the territories of the Borrower and the inter-
national balance of payments positions of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to
time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit and
the maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower shall
promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes with, or threatens to interfer, with, the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Credit or the maintenance
of the service thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity
for accredited representatives of the Association to visit
any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
SECTION 4.04. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
0s


﻿8
SECTION 4.05. This Agreement and the Project Agree-
ment shall be free from any taxes that shall be imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. (i) If any event specified in paragraph
(a) or paragraph (c) of Section 5.02 of the Regulations
shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days,
or (ii) if any event specified or referred to in paragraph
(b) or paragraph (k) of Section 5.02 of the Regulations
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower, then at any subsequent time the Associ-
ation, at its option, may declare the principal of the Credit
then outstanding to be due and payable immediately, and
upon any such declaration such principal shall become due
and payable immediately, anything in this Agreement to
the contrary notwithstanding.
SECTION 5.02. For the purposes of Section 5.02 (k) of
the Regulations, the following additional events are
specified:
(a) The Corporation shall have failed to perform any
of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b) Before the Project Agreement shall have terminated
in accordance with its terms, the Borrower shall have taken
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the
Corporation or for the suspension of its operations without
the consent of the Association.
(c) A substantial change shall have been made in the
Corporation's legal framework without the Association's
consent.


﻿9
SecTION 5.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby
agree that for the purposes of the First Development Credit
Agreement and this Agreement, respectively, an. event
referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 5.02 of the
Regulations applicable to one of the two Agreements shall
be deemed to be an event under paragraph (b) of Section
5.02 of the Regulations applicable to the other Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTIO. 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement
within the meaning of Section 8.01(b) of the Regulations:
(a) The execution and delive,ry of the Project Agreement
on behalf of the Corporation shall have been duly author-
ized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action.
(b) The terms and conditions for the re-lending of the
proceeds of the Credit, or the equivalent thereof, in accord-
ance with Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement shall have
been accepted and agreed upon by the Corporation and
the Borrower.
SECTION 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 8.02(b) of the Regu-
lations, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) That the Project Agreement has been duly author-
ized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of,
the Corporation and constitutes a valid and binding obli-
gation of the Corporation in accordance with its terms.
(b) That the re-lending agreement referred to in Section
4.02(a) of this Agreement is valid and binding on the
Borrower and the Corporation.


﻿10
SECTION 6.03. The date of August 10, 1967 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 8.04 of the Regulations.
SECTION 6.04. Upon termination of the Project Agree-
ment in accordance with its terms, the obligations of the
Borrower with respect to the Project shall forthwith
terminate.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be October 31,
1971 or such other date as may from time to time be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 7.02. The foll-ving addrt ses are specified for
the purposes of Section 7.u- of the Regulations:
For the Borrower:
Jordan Development Board
P.O. Box 555
Amman
Jordan
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
JODB
Amman
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
Indevas
Washington, D. C.


﻿11
SECTION 7.03. The Vice President or the Secretary Gen-
eral of the Jordan Development Board of the Borrower is
designated for the purposes of Section 7.03 of the
Regulations.
[N WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized have caused
this Development Credit Agreement to be signed in their
respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year Arst
above written.
THE HASHEMITE KINGDGM OF JORDAN
By /s/ FARHAN SHUBEILAT
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOIATION
By /s/ A. BROCHES
General Counsel


﻿12
SCHEDULE
Description of Project
The Project consists of:
A. ThJ use of the proceeds of the Credit augmented by
funds derived from the Corporation's own resources to
make loans to farmers totalling approximately $5 million
equivalent (about 1.8 million Dinars) for the following
purposes:
1. Land reclamation and improvement;
2. Tree crop establishment;
3. Farm water supply development;
4. Purchases of farm machinery;
5. On-farm development within irrigation schemes; and
6. Such other purposes as shall be agreed from time to
time between the Corporation and the Association.
B. The employment of technical experts and provision
of extension services to farmers to whom loans are made.
The Project is expected to be executed within a period
not exceeding four years from the date of this Agreement.


