CREDIT NUMBER 103 JO
Project Agreement
(Second Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
-a
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT CORPORATION
DATED MAY 9, 1967


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 103 JO
Project Agreement
(Second Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT CORPORATION
DATED MAY 9, 1967


﻿AGREEMENT, dated May 9, 1967, between the INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATIoN (hereinafter called the
Association) and the AGRICULTURAL CREDIT CORPORATION
(hereinafter called the Corporation).
WHEREAS by a development credit agreement of even
date herewith (hereinafter called the Development Credit
Agreement) between THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association,
the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower a development credit in various currencies equiv-
alent to three million dollars ($3,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement,
but only on condition that the Corporation agree to under-
take certain obligations to the Association as hereinafter
in this Project Agreement set forth; and
WHEREAS the Corporation, in consideration of the Associ-
ation's entering into the Development Credit Agreement
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations
hereinafter set forth;
Now   THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
SECTION 1.01. Wherever used in this Project Agreement,
unless the context shall otherwise require, the several terms
defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the
Regulations (as therein defined) shall have the respective
meanings therein set forth.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants of the Corporation
SECTION 2.01. (a) The Corporation shall carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and shall at all
times conduct its operations and affairs and maintain its
financial position in accordance with sound agricultural,
engineering and financial practices and under capable and
efficient management appointed in consultation with the
Association.
(b) The Corporation agrees to submit such information
as the Association shall reasonably request about any
proposed loan or loans exceeding in the aggregate the
equivalent of 20,000 Dinars to be extended by the Corpora-
tion under the Project for any individual farmer or for
any single scheme. The Corporation further agrees that it
will not make any such loans without prior approval of
the Association.
(c) The Corporation shall have its financial statements
(balance sheet and related statement of earnings and
expenses) prepared in a manner satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation and shall have its statements certified annually by
an outside accountant acceptable to the Association and
shall promptly after their preparation and not later than
four months after the close of the Corporation's fiscal year
transmit to the Association certified copies of such state-
ments and a signed copy of such accountant's report.
SECTInN 2.02. The Corporation shall lend the proceeds
of the Credit, or the equivalent thereof, for the purposes of
the Project on terms and conditions and in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association and, in granting
loans, the Corporation shall obtain rights adequate to
protect its interests and the interests of the Borrower and
the Association.
SECTION 2.03. Except as the Association and the Cor-
poration shall otherwise agree, the Corporation shall cause


﻿5
all goods and services purchased in whole or in part with
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively in the
territories of the Borrower in carrying out the Project.
SECTION 2.04. The Corporation shall maintain or cause
to be maintained records adequate to identify the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, to
disclose the use thereof, to record the progress of the
Project (including the cost thereof), and to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of the
Corporation and all financial transactions between the
Borrower and the Corporation with respect to the Project,
shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect
the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, all plants, farms, works, properties and equipment
financed by the Corporation, and any relevant records and
documents.
SECTION 2.05. The Corporation shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation all such information as the Association shall reason-
ably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Credit, the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds, the Project, and the administration, operations
and financial condition of the Corporation..
SECTION 2.06. (a) The Corporation and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall
furnish to the other all such information as it shall reason-
ably request.
(b) The Association and the Corporation shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
The Corporation shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes with, or threatens to inter-
fere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by the Corporation of its obligations


﻿6
under this Project Agreement or the obligations to be
performed by it pursuant to the provisions of the
Development Credit Agreement.
SECTION 2.07. The Corporation shall at all times charge
interest rates on all its loans such as to enable it:
(a) to cover all its operating expenditures and charges,
including taxes, if any, and interest payments on bor-
rowings;
(b) to build up and maintain a special reserve against
bad or doubtful loans; and
(c) to accumulate adequate general reserves.
SECTION 2.08. The Corporation shall take out and main-
tain, with good and reputable insurance companies,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with sound business practices.
SECTIOx 2.09. The Corporation shall not, without the
consent of the Association, contract any debt maturing
more than one year after the date of its incurrence.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
SECTIOX 3.01. This Project Agreement shall come into
force and effect on the Effective Date. If, pursuant to
Section 8.04 of the Regulations, the Association shall
terminate the Development Credit Agreement, the Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Corporation thereof and,
upon the giving of such notice, this Project Agreement and
all obligations of the parties hereunder shall forthwith
terminate.
SECTION 3.02. If and when the entire proceeds of the
Credit shall have been repaid by the Corporation to the
Borrower in accordance with the agreement entered into


﻿7
between them pursuant to Section 4.02(a) of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement, this Project Agreement and all
obligations of the Corporation hereunder shall forthwith
terminate.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
SECTION 4.01. Any notice or request required or per-
mitted to be given or made under this Project Agreement
and any agreement between the parties contemplated by
this Project Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at its address hereinafter
specified, or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
(a) For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
Indevas
Washington, D. C.
(b) For the Corporation:
Agricultural Credit Corporation
P.O. Box 77
Amman
Jordan
Alternative address for cablegrams and radiograms:
ACC
Amman


﻿8
SECTION 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any documents required or permitted to be
executed, under this Project Agreement on behalf of the
Corporation may be taken or executed by the Director
General of the Corporation or such other person or persons
as he shall designate in writing.
SECTION 4.03. The Corporation shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation sufficient evidence of the authority of the person or
persons who will, on behalf of the Corporation, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to
be taken or executed by the Corporation pursuant to any
of the provisions of this Project Agreement and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
SECTION 4.04. This Project Agreement may be executed
in several counterparts, each of which shall be an original
and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS AVITEREOF the parties hereto have caused
this Project Agreement to be signed in their respective
names by their representatives thereunto duly authorized
and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATION
By /s/ A. BROCHES
General Counsel
AGRIOULTURAL CREDIT CORPORATION
By /s/ FARHAN SIIUBEILAT
Authorized Representative


