DRwmnt o
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6713
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 679-BU)
April 10, 1987
Education and Manpower Development Division
Eastern and Southern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherw;se be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFCIAL U   ONY
THE WORLD SANK
Washtngton. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
0k* of DaKUV.CemaI
OpObafth EvAkIAt
April 10, 1987
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report: Burundi - First Education Project
(Credit 679-BU)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report: Burundi - First Education Project (Credit 679-
BU)" prepared by the Eastern and Southern Africa Regional Office. Under
the modified system for project performance auditing further evaluation of
this project  by the Operations Evaluation Department iss not baen made.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the perfonmace
of their offcia duties. Its contents may not othefwise be disebsed without World Bank wuthofitin.



FOR OmCUL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY
BER   Bureau d'Education Rurale (Rural Education Bureau).  Tie
semiautonomous department of the Ministry of Natonal Education
responsible for implementing the reform of primary education.
CFP   Centre de Formation Polyvalente (Multipurpose Learning Center).  A
six-classroom primary school with facilities for practical studies
and community training activities. The latter facilities are refered
to as "Centre Parascolaire".
Etude du milieu (Study of the Environment).  A conglomerate subject at the
primary level which combines elements of history, geography, biology
and related subjects and emphasizes the social and physical realities
of Burundi.
MOE   Ministry of National Education
BPE   Bureau Project Education.  The Project Implementation Unit
established by Presidential Decree on November 5, 1976 in MOE.
Centre Parascolaire (see CFP).
TTC   Practical Subject Teacher Training Center at Kamenge
FBU   Franc Burundi, local currency unit.
This document has a fesicted distribution and may be used by rcipients only in the performance
of their officiaf duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoration.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 679-BU)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
PREFACE   . . .. . 
BASIC DATA SHEET  *****     * *              . . .       *   *  ii
EVALUATION SUMMARY    . . . * * * * . . . . * * * * * * * * *  vii
I.   SUMMARY & RECOMMENDATIONS. . . . ... ...  . . . . . .    1
Project Objectives ct.............................   1
Project Content  .................                   1
Project Amendment   *...............    1
Project Implementation.....  *.......  *   1
Project Operating Outcome  . . . . . .......         2
Recomendations  . .. . a. . . .. .   a * a * a a a   4
Lessons Learned  * . . . .  .  .     6 * .  o... ea....   4
II.  INTRODUCTION          . . . . . . .     . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..  5
III. PROJECTBAKGROUND                                        ...................   6
Socio-Kconomic &ett ing .............. 6
Education Sector. . ..............  .                7
Project Identificatio n                          ..............    9
Project Objectives . . .  . .. ..... . .. . .   10
Project Content  .*...........................     10
ProJect Amendments d................                10
IV.  PROJECTIMPL3 ETTI       TION.................   11
General  .................* . ..    *               11
Project Administration . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
Civil Works  . .. a a a a a a a * a * a * a * *    12
Furniture and equipment  ... ............    14
Technical Assistance . ...  i....... .              15
Covenants  . o . * * a a a a a a a a     a  a*      16



Table of Contents (Cont'd)                                        Page
V.    PROJECT COSTS  . , . . . , . . . . . , . . . . . . . .       16
Capital  Costs   t . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..     16
Area per student place  . . . . . . . ... . .         18
Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         18
Recurrent Costs. . *. . . , . .       . . . . , ,     18
VI.    PROJECT OPERATING OUTCOME        . .. .. ... ... .          19
Background  . . . . . . . ...... ... . . .....        19
Operation Multipurpose Training Centers   . . .       21
Operation Printshop . . .                 . .....  .  ...  24
Operation TTC .*. .. .. .*   . . ...   *oe* e         25
Rural Education Office (BER)  . . . . . . . . .       25
VII.   BANK GROUP PERFORMANCE...... .....                          26
VIII.  CONCLUSION                                       ...        27
ANNEXES
I.   Progress Reports
II.   Staffing of Key Positions in the PIU
III.  Implementation Schedule
IV.   Technical Assistance for BER
V.    Information on Technical Assistance
VI.   Compliance with Credit Conditions
VII.  Costs tables
VIII. Places, Units and Areas of Physical Facilities
IX.  Man/Years & Costs in FBU, of Technical Assistance & Project
Administration.
X.    Data on CFPs.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 679-BU)
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report on the First Education Project
in Burundi, for which Credit 679-BU was signed April 28, 1977 for US$10.0
million equivalent. The Credit was completely disbursed in April 13, 1982,
about one year before the Closing Date.
The project completion report was prepared by Bank Group staff on
the basis of IDA files and missions to Burundi in May 1984 and January
1986. The valuable assistance provided by the Government of Burundi and
the PIU staff towards preparing this report is gratefully acknowledged.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
reporting, this PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED)
but the project was not audited by OED staff. The draft PCR was sent to
the Borrower and its agencies for comments in January 1987. A translation
of their cabled reply is shown as Attachment I.



- ii -
BURUNDI - FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT 679-BU
BASIC DATA SHEET
Item                                    Appraisal                Actual
Estimate
Total Project Costs (US$million)            12.5                 13.6
Cost Overrun (% in US$ terms)                -                    9.0
Credit amount (US$million)                  10.0                   10.0
Amount Disbursed (US$million)               10.0                 10.0
to   Cancelled                             -                    Nil
Physical Completion date                  9/30/1982           3/31/83 1/
Number of months since credit signed          65                  71  -
Proportion completed by above date (Z)       100                 100  2/
Proportion of time overrun (%)                -                   9
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
('US$ MILLION)
FY78   FY79   FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83
a) appraisal estimate           0.9    2.9    5.7    7.9    8.9    10.0
b) actual disbursements         2.0    5.4    7.2    10.0 3/10.0 4/10.0
c) b as Z of a                  222    186    126    134    112    100
I/ After April 1982 project completion was financed under Credit 976-BU
(para. 1.05).
2/ However, 60 rather than 100 CFPs were built under the project.
3/ 10.0 rounded from 9.98
1i/ Credit was fully disbursed in April 1982.



- iii -
Item                            Original                 Actual
First mention in files                                  12/20/73
Government Application                                  01/08/76
Appraisal Mission                                       02/03/76
Follow up Appraisal                                        07/76
09/10/76
Negotiations                     11/76                  11/12/76
Board Approval                                          02/08/77
Credit Agreement                                        04/28/77
Effectiveness Date             07/28/77                 09/01/77
Completion Date                07/30/82                 12/31/83
Closing Date                   03/31/83                 03/31/83
Borrower                        Republic of Burundi
Fiscal year of Borrower         January 1 to December 31
Follow on Projects           '  Second Education Project
(Credit No. 976-BU; US$15.0 million)
Third Education Project
(Credit No.1358-BU: US$18.0 million)
CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATE
Name of Currency:                     Franc Burundi (FBU)
Appraisal Year:                       US$ 1.0 - FBU 90
Completion Year:                      US$ 1.0  - FBU 90



-iv -
MISSION DATA
Type of mission    Sent by  Month/Year  No.of  No.of    No. of    Report
weeks  staff   staff wks   Date
Sector Study &
Identification     UNESCO   4-5/74         6      6          36     9/18/74
Reconnaissance     IDA       6/75          2      3           7     9/19/75
Preparation        UNESCO   11-12/75       5      4          20       12/75
Appraisal          IDA       3-4/76        3       5         15     1/21/77
Subtotal                               I      I           71
Supervision        IDA       4/77          1     2(EC,GE)    1      4/25/77
Supervision        IDA       6/77          1     1(A)         1     7/05/77
Supervision        IDA       10/77         1     1(EC,A)      1    12/23/77
Supervision        IDA       1/78          1     1(EC)        1     3/24/78
Supervision        IDA       5/78          1      1(C)        1     6/30/78
Supervision        IDA       10/78         1     1(A)         1    11/16/78
Supervision I/     IDA       5/79          1     2(GE1 A)    2      6/29/79
Supervision Z/     IDA       9/79          1     1(A)         1    11/14/79
Supervision        IDA       3/80          2     2(GE, A)    4      4/23/80
Supervision 3/     IDA       9/80          1     1(GE)        1    10/24/80
Supervision T/     IDA       4/81          2     3(GEsA*TE)  2      6/24/81
Supervision T/     IDA       12/81         2     3(GE)        1     2/01/82
Supervision 3/     IDA       7/82          2     3(GE,ECqA)  3      7/27/82
Supervision T/     IDA       11/82         2     3(GE)        1     1/03/83
Completion  7/     IDA        5/84         2     2(EC,A)      2     6/15/84
Subtotal                                21    <2           n
TOTAL                                   37     41        T1iT
Number of supervision missions:       14
Maximal interval between missions:    7 months
Minimal interval between missions:    2 months
Average interval between missions:  4.8 months
Legend: A - Architect
EC - Economist
GE - General Educator
TE - Technical Educator.
1/ combined with appraisal of second education project
/ combined with pre-negotiation discussions with the Government
on the proposed second education project
3/ combined with supervision of second education project
4/ combined with supervision of second and identification of a third
education projects
5/ combined with supervision of second and appraisal of third
education projects
6/ combined with supervision of second and post-appraisal of third
education projects
/ combined with supervision of second and third education projects.



ALLOCATION OF LTAN PROCEEDS
(US$)
Category                          Original                Actual
Allocation           Disbursements
1. Civil works                  5,750,000.00           2,742,926.69
2. Materials, furniture,
equipment, paper and
vehicles                    1,500,000.00           5,741,644.66
a) imported
b) locally procured
3. Technical aselstance          1,200,000.00            873,491.69
4. Salaries and other
operating expenditures
of the Project Unit           150,000.00             641,936.96
5. Unallocated                  19400,000.00                 -
Total                   10,000,000.00          10,000,000.00



- vi -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 679-BU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
The project was identified by an IDA mission in July 1975 and
prepared by the Government with assistance from a UNESCO team. Appraisal
took place in February/March 1976 and Board approval, in February 1977.
The Credit of US$10 million became effective on September 1, 1977 and was
fully disbursed by April 1982, eleven months before the closing date
(March 31, 1983). Inflation and design changes in one project component
caused substantial cost overruns which led to a 40% reduction in the size
of another project component (para. 1.05). Total project cost came to
US$13.4 million vs. an appraisal estimate of US$12.5 million, with the
Credit financing slightly less than 75% (instead of the envisaged 80%) and
the Government the remainder.
Oblectives and Proiect Content
The project aimed at assisting the Goverrment's education reform
efforts in one area, primary education, which encompassed quantitative
(enrollment expansion), qualitative (provision of learning materials) and
institutional objectives (increased GovernAment control of the school
system). To this end, the project provided for
(a) construction, furnishing and equipping of 100 multipurpose
learning centers (Centres de Formation Polyvalente - CFP),
i.e., community schools for children and adults;
(b) expansion of a Teacher Training Institute to include
facilities for training in practical subject teaching;
(c)  expansion of the Ministry of Education printshop;
(d) provision for safe storage of textbooks in about 400 schools;
and
(e) specialist services (15 man-years) and fellowships (7.5 man-
years) (paras. 1.01-1.02).



_ vi4 -
Implementation Experience
Implementation performance was generally good. Progress was
maintained in the face of considerable difficulties resulting from the
need, for political reasons, to change the mode of organization for the CFP
construction program (which required an augmentation of TA staff in the
Project Unit) and of a one-year disruption in the supply of imported
building materials due to the Tanzania-Uganda war. Experience from the
early phases of the building program was fed back into the design with the
aim of developing a more cost-efficient CFP package (paras. 4.03, 4.08-
4.10).
A major unforeseen change concerned the expansion of the Teacher
Training Institute (TTI) at Gitega to introduce practical subjects which
foundered on site constraints. Attempts of expanding another TTI were
frustrated by reported local resistance to the envisaged introduction of
coeducation. Eventually, construction of a new Training Center seemed to
be the only viable alternative. This decision, together with intermittent
inflation and a higher space allocation per CFP unit, increased total
project cost well beyond available funds and compelled the Government to
cut the CFP program in half, from 100 to 50 units (paras. 4.09, 4.12).1/
Implementation of the software aspects fared less well: the PCR
deplores that the original CFP concept was altered substantially, leading
to the administrative and educational separation of formal primary
education and non-formal training activities, and feels that the PIU ought
to have resisted this development.2/ It later on admits to some doubts
about the basic conceptual validity of the education reform and to the
adequacy of IDA supervision in this crucial area (paras. 4.05 and 6.11).
With hindsight, it could also be claimed that discussion of the project
within the Bank between project identification and Board presentation
focussed mostly on a secondary issue--equity considerations--at the expense
of assessing Government's commitment to the body of education reform
measures--a concern which should have come to the forefront when the
previous Government was overthrown, just prior to negotiations (paras.
6.05-6.06).
I1/ Another 10 CFP units were completed under the Second Education Project
but using in part inputs procured with funds from this project (para.
4.09).
P/ This critique seems too severe, given that it is directed at a group
with very limited influence whose key members were mostly expatriate
technical specialists.



- vi.i -
Results
At the time of the completion mission, the 60 CFP were in
operation but not at all grades and without the special features of the
reform (such as multi-grade teaching and automatic promotion) being fully
developed. Nevertheless, the provision of more than 16,000 places being
used in double shifts contributed significantly to the expansion of primary
educaticn. However, the Government had opted for emphasis on enrollment
expansion rather than on qualitative reform objectives, which was
understandable in view of the complex and multi-faceted nature of the
reform (paras. 6.07-6.09, Annex X, Table 1). Since double-shift teaching
required a reduction in the number of weekly curriculum hours (mostly in
practical subjects), the focus of practical subject teaching shifted from
integrated primary students to out-of-school youth, leading to the
establishment of separate Training Centers within each CFP, with an
additional complement of upto four practical subject teachers (paras. 6.07-
6.10).
Even more worrisome than this unforeseen institutional development
Is the limited community appeal of this practical training: the 1983
enrollment figures show a system in sharp decline. Enrollments in the
first year are 16% below the second-year levels and in 45Z of the first-
year courses, enrollments are five or less per course (para. 6.10; Annex X,
Table 6).
The development of the teacher training component has largely
paralleled that of practical teaching in primary schools: with an average
enrollment of 50 and seven teacher-trainers and boarding/dining facilities
for 60 students being used by 40 in-service trainees for one or two months
a year the center is clearly underutilized (para. 6.17).
The printshop has been off to a slow start, with only one-third of
the targeted number of textbooks being printed during implementation.
Paper shortages and an uneven flow of texts to be printed accounted for
most of this shortfall. Continued assistance under the Third Education
Project and a recent change in organization (from a Government Department
to a parastatal enterprise) appear to have improved the situation as evi-
denced by a 1985 textbook production in excess of initial targets. Another
commendable development are efforts to become financially self-sufficient.
This is done through moderate book-fees (FBU 100 or US$1.10 per text)3/
which cover two-thirds of present production costs (paras. 6.12-6.15).
3/ While this fee is modest, the high number of texts needed (an average of
seven per grade) certainly imposes a financial burd.en on families with
several children in school.



_ ix -
Sustainability
In a physical sense, the CFP appear well established in their
modified role of regular primary schools. However, the present situation
of the practical subject teaching elements of the project throws
considerable doubt on this key aspect of the educational reform. The
envisaged in-depth assessment of this area by the Ministry of Education has
high priority (para. 6.19).
Conclusions
The experience of this project points to the difficulties inherent
in major educational reforms and to the obstacles that stand in the way of
a "ruralisation' of primary education. It reconfirms the desirability of
developing compact and tightly focused projects, particularly in situations
where relevant institutional experience and the existing physical base are
limited. It also suggests that for countries with very low primary
enrollment levels, expansion of a basic conventional school system will
have greater political appeal than reforms of that system, regardless of
their educational merits (paras. 8.01-8.03).
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 679-BU)
I. SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Project objectives
1.01      The principal objective of the First Education Project was
to: assist the Government to implement the reform of its Education, but
only at the primary level, which included both quantitative and qualitative
improvement, increased enrollments and increased Lvernment control over
the sector.
Project content
1.02      The project as appraised consisted of:
(a) constructinF, furnishing and equipping of 100 multi-
purpose learning centers (CFPs) with a total of 24,000 places and expansion
of the Gitega Teacher Training Institute for boys, with a practical subject
teaching center comprising a classroom and a workshop;
(b) expanding the printshop of the Ministry of National Education
(MOE);
(c) providing textbook storage lockers to about 400 schools; and
(d) providing 15 man-years of technical assistance for BER and
eight man-years for project management and 7.5 man-years of fellowships
training for BER staff.
Project Amendment
1.03      The Credit Agreement was amended twice:  on May 16, 1978 to allow
for execution of civil works under force account procedures and on August
14, 1978 to permit the construction of the Practical Subject Teacher
Training Center (TTC) at Kamenge, instead of expanding the Gitega Teacher
Training Institute for boys.
Project Implementation
1.04      The project became effective on September 1, 1977 following
appointment of a project director and deputy director, and establishment of
a revolving fund of US$100,000 equivalent in FBU. The PIU carried out its
functions well. With regard to civil works, it did architectural and
engineering work as well as the actual construction work, the latter under
force account procedures. Construction of CFPs by religious missions as
envisaged during appraisal did not materialize, because relations between
Government and churches deteriorated soon after project effectiveness. The
implementation of the project took 71 months versus the expected 65
months. However, disbursements were completed in April 30, 1982, about 11
months before the Closing Date of March 31, 1983.



-2-
1.05      The cost of the project at appraisal was estimated at US$12.5
million, of which the Bank Group financing of US$10.0 million was to cover
80%.  As implemented, the final cost of the project was US$13.4 million, 71
higher than expected, with the Bank Group financing 751 and Government
251. Civil works had cost overruns mainly due to a substantial increase in
area of the Practical Subject Teacher Training Center and construction cost
increases due to delays caused by the Tanzania-Uganda hostilities, which
affected transport conditions (paras. 4.09, 4.10 and 4.12). To curtail
total project cost, the numb3r of CFPs was reduced to sixty. 1/ Furniture
and equipment costs were 7% above the appraisal estimate including
contingencies, despite a 40X reduction in the number of ClPs built under
the project. Overruns in this category are mainly due to an area increase
of TTC.
1.06      Sites are appropriate for project facilities.  Designs for
project components are satisfactory. Experience obtained from construction
of the first batches of CFPs was channelled back in improved and simplified
designs of later-built CFPs. Except for the BER printshop, which was
completed ahead of schedule project implementation was delayed by about one
year. Furniture and equipment are appropriate, with minor exceptions. The
technical assistance program has been successful in strengthening the PIU,
although virtually no local counterparts were trained. 2/ It has
strengthened the BER and the planning section of MOE. Eight local staff of
BER received training abroad. The Government fulfilled the covenants In
the Credit Agreement.
Project Operating Outcome
1.07      The project was to increase enrollments at primary level in an
equitably way, improve relevance and quality of education by introducing a
new curriculum including practical subjects and by providing schools with
textbooks and teacher aids, and by improving training of primary teachers.
1.08      During the last five-year period, enrollments have more than
doubled from 131,000 to 295,000. Of the 1251 increase, only about 91 is
attribuable to the CFPs in the project. Enrollment will increase when all
CFPs will be fully utilized and when double-shift teaching reaches all six
grades of primary education. Currently CFPs enroll only lower grades,
representing about 50% of capacity. The overall increase in enrollment is
1/ Initially, the number of CFPs was reduced to 50, later 10 CFPs were
added under Credit 976-BU in return for about US$1.0 million equivalent
transfered from the First to Second Project by way of building
materials and technical assistance.
2 The program did not include a training component.



-3-
mainly due to: (a) double shift operation begun in September 1982; (b)
opening of new schools or classrooms built by the Government and private
organizations, some with community assistance. In summary, quantitative
targets are being met. Enrollment ratios have gone from 21% to 43X and
equity has improved (para 6.07). 3/ However, qualitative targets have
only been partially attained. Provision of textbooks and teacher manuals
have improved teaching, but production and delivery of textbooks have been
slower than estimated. It produced and delivered 190,000 textbooks versus
a target of 225,000 (16X less than estimated). Two important elements of
the Reform tnat the project was supposed to support, Kirundization of
primary education4/ and introduction of practical subject in the
curriculum, have been only partly implemented 5/. French continues to be
the medium of instruction from grade three upwards. However officials are
still committed to use Kirundi as a language of instruction for the six
grades of primary level, and say that only the training of teachers and the
preparation of new curricula and education materials have slown down the
introduction of the reform. Double shift teaching has virtually eliminated
practical subject teaching from primary school curriculum. The focus of
practical subject teaching has shifted from primary school audiences to
out-of-school youth and replaced amultipurpose approach by specialized
trade training. The shift has serious implications: Instead of six
teachers and a principal catering for academic and practical subjects, CFPs
have now ten teachers, six teaching academic subjects and four teaching
practical subjects, one for each of the followi-g fields: masonry,
carpentry, agriculture and home economics. Because of limited employment
prospects, practical courses are underenrolled. Underenrollment, combined
with additional staff positions, result in excessive cost per trainee of
the centre parascolaire.
1.09      The practical subject training component also underwent drastic
changes. During appraisal, it was envisaged that the center could operate
in existing facilities of the Gitega Teacher Training Institute (TTI) for
boys and limited teaching space would be required at the TTI. However, a
new center was built in Bujumbura, comprising full boarding accommdation,
mainly catering for training of specialized practical teachers. The Center
is seriously underutilized (para 6.17). To make up for this
underutilization, the Center is now used as an in-service training center
for inspectors and teachers.
3/ Primary school age group represents about 15% of the total population.
4/ Kirundi is the national language.
5/ It appears that implementation of some of the earlier objectives of the
reform have been suspended in favor of a rapid increase of enrollment
ratios.



-4-
1.10      The BER received 9.8 man/years of technical assistance under the
project and 4.5 man/years from UNESCO (paras. 4.18 and 4.19). In addition,
eight fellows received training overseas, of which six work presently with
BER. BER has been instrumental in improving teacher training through
development of curricula and upgrading of teaching staff.
1.11      The performance of the PIU has been outstanding with regard to
implementation of physical aspects of the project, but weak with regard to
monitoring the educational aspects, especially in the early years of
project implementation.
Recommendations
1.12      The Government has been advised to prepare a plan of action on
practical measures to be taken to utilize effectively and efficiently the
CFPs, and to ensure the full utilization of staff and facilities of CFPs
and the Practical Subject Training Center. Until full agreement has been
reached on such plan of action, expansion of further practical facilities
at CFPs should not be undertaken. Recommended measures to be taken
include: a) use of the workshops and instructors planned for the practical
activities by primary school students during the morning or afternoon hours
when they have no classes because of the double shift system; b) adoption
of a new course content: instead of the current practical training
specialized in one of the four fields oriented towards employment and given
over a two-year period, development of shorter courses of a more
multipurpose character, and oriented toward self-employment and improvement
in subsistence farming; and c) use of the facilities, equipment and
instructors for the training of adolescents and adults of the community.
According to the latest informations obtained by the January 1986 Bank
Group education mission,,however, ,he Minister of Education is considering
transfering the responsibility of the utilization of CFP's practical work
facilities to other ministries, which would be requested to finance their
operations. The Ministry of Social Affairs, for example, could use some of
them as social centers to develop adult education programs. A final
decision on the use of CFPs practical facilities and instructors is still
to be taken. IDA should continue to promote Government action in
accordance with points (a), (b) and (c) above.
Lessons Learned
1.13      The project was designed to support the Government education
reform specifically at the primary level. However, during project
generation, most attention of IDA was absorbed by equity involving school
locations. The content and implication of the reform did not receive
adequate attention. The reform was ambiguous and its implementation would
have required the active involvement of several ministries and not just the
MOE. It entailed much change over a short period of time. Rather than
embarking on a massive construction program to implement the reform as done
under the project, a more cautious approach would have been to try out
reform ideas first in a small pilot project. Only after a careful
assessment of the pilot project, should further implementation of tested



-5-
and valid reform ideas have been undertaken. Studies by BER on automatic
promotion and double-shift teaching, added to the project after a
protracted exchange of memoranda during project generation between EAPED
and OPS, on issues of equity and replicability, were probably also too
hastily implemented without due consideration to BER's recommendation. It
is too early to assess full implication of the measures which are being
introduced gradually (one grade per year) since 1982. It is noted that
double-shift teaching virtually eliminates teaching of practical subjects
as recommended by the reform.
1.14      Besides equity consideration and school location, IDA has given
much attention to tooling up PIU's labour force to carry out construction
work. This was done with success and has benefitted implementation of the
Second and Third Education Projects. However, IDA has given inadequate
attention to educational aspects, notably with regard to educational
reform, despite the fact that educators participated actively in project
supervision missions and OPS had expressed concerns about appropriateness
of CFP concept at project preparation stage (paras. 6.05 and 6.11).
1.15      In summary, the main purpose of the project to expand and improve
primary level education can be considered as successful, abeit below
expectations; but considering the socio-economic difficulties (change of
Government), delays due to Tanzania-Uganda hostilities, etc), and including
the establishment of an excellent dialogue between the Government and Bank
Group on education matters, the project is deemed to have accomplished
significant objectives in both quantitative and qualitative improvement at
the primary level.
II. INTRODUCTION
2.01      This completion report is based on an evaluation report prepared
by Government dated April, 1984 and findings of a mission by Mr. A. Stam
(senior architect) and Ms J. Vial (senior economist) which was in Burundi
during May 10-24, 1984, followed in January 21-31, 1986 by a mission
composed of Messrs. A. Stam (Sr. architect) and J.C. Lair (Sr. educator).
Both missions concurrently supervised the Second and Third Education
Projects (Credits 976-BU and 1358-BU). The May 1984 mission visited five
CFPs,6/ the Practical Subject Teacher Center and the MOE printshop, and
compared actual implementation with appraisal estimates, and assessed to
what extent project objectives had been met.
2.02      This report is based on: (a) information obtained from records,
studies and data at World Bank Headquarters, particular supervision and
progress reports and the aforementioned evaluation report; (b) visits to
6/ Other CFPs had been visited during subsequent supervision missions.



- 6 -
project institutions; and (c) discussions with staff of the PIU and other
Government officials, principals, staff and pupils of the project
institutions and Bank Group staff familiar with the project. As noted
above, the Government provided an evaluation report which was also used in
producing this report.
III. PROJECT BACKGROUND
Socio-Economic Setting
3.01      Burundi is one of the poorest and most densely populated
countries in the world. About 95% of its population, estimated at 4.6
million in 1984, is settled on small land holdings scattered across hilly
rural areas, making a living from subsistence farming, tea and coffee which
are Burundi's main export crops.
3.02      The major constraints to Burundi's development have been (a) the
dependency of foreign exchange earnings on one major commodity, coffee,
which accounts for about 85% of export receipts; (b) general poverty
(US$240 GDP per capita in 1984); (c) a land-locked position dramatically
raising import transportation costs; (d) limited natural resources, in
particular a relatively small agricultural area; (e) rugged terrain
resulting in population dispersion and poor communications; and (f)
extremely low levels of education and skills7/ which preclude a more
efficient use of the limited natural resources of the country and
reduce possibilities for development projects. Moreover, Burundi is
confronted with such population problems as a current annual growth rate of
2.7 percent; rural-urban migration mainly towards Bujumbura, the only major
city in the country; and a very young population 8/, resulting in an
increasing dependency ratio and burden on the active population.
3.03      Since 1977, the Government has been committed to a development
policy to benefit the whole population. The major objectives of this
policy, reflected in the Third Five-Year Development Plan (1978-82), have
been to: (a) emphasize agricultural production to meet the needs for food;
(b) increase the rate of economic growth while providing greater employment
opportunities and more income to the poorest segments of the population;
(c) give the Government a more active role in mobilizing financial and
private sector; and (d) foster decentralization of economic and social
activity. A number of actions have been taken in particular to develop
7/ Three out of four adults are illiterate, and despite recent substantial
progress, primary and secondary enrollment ratios are still very low.
8/ Primary and secondary school age groups represent about 15% and 17% of
the total population, respectively.



- 7 -
rural areas and retain their population by improving their living
conditions and increasing their working efficiency and earnings. Among
these actions is the expansion of basic education, assisted by the Project.
3.04      Between 1976 and 1980, GDP growth averaged 4.5% per annum in real
terms, as compared with the revised plan target of 5%. Agriculture has
remained the mainstay of the economy and contributes 60% of GDP and
practically all exports of the country. However, the general productivity
in this sector has been low. Improvements have been sought through the
introduction of new crops and techniques, marketing procedures and land
preservation. However, the active participation of the farmers and support
of Government services have been limited by the low level of basic
education among the rural population, and by limited managerial, technical
and administrative skills in the public sector.
Education Sector
3.05   General.  Formal education9/ was introduced by Christian
missionaries and expanded under Belgian administration.  Until 1962, the
main emphasis was placed on primary schooling. Education was generally
based on European patterns with little relation to the local needs and
reached only a small percentage of the population. In 1962, primary
schools enrolled only 18 percent of the relevant age group. Since 1973,
the Government, with UNESCO assistance, has introduced a comprehensive
reform of the education system to adapt education to the local environment
and make it more responsive to the country's development needs (para.
6.03). Substantial progress has been made since then, in particular during
the period of the Plan and after the adoption of the double-shift system in
1982. As a consequence, the primary enrollment ratio is 52 percent of the
age-group (1985/86), but the literacy rate only 25 percent (1981). Private
non-formal institutions (the Yagamukama Centers) enroll an additional 30
percent of the age group. At the secondary education level, the enrollment
ratio is aaDng the lowesi in the world at 2.5 percent of the relevant age
group and is insufficient to provide an adequate base for middle-level
manpower training programs. The higher education ratio, at 0.9 percent is
quantitatively sufficient for the country manpower needs but higher
education is not oriented towards practical employment requirements.
3.06      Administration and Planning.  The Ministry of National Education
(MNE) is generally responsible for the development of education policies,
management of the education sector and coordination of vocational training
which is under the jurisdiction of other ministries. The implementation of
the primary reform and the supervision of the primary system has been
entrusted to the Rural Education Bureau (BER), while the reorganization and
reform of secondary education are being introduced under the responsibility
of the Secondary Education Bureau (BES) and Inspectorate. The Technical
Education Bureau (BET), which was created in 1977 within the Directorate
9/ Currently the structure of formal education system is as follows: six
years of primary, four years of jurior secondary (JS), three to four
years of senior secondary, and two to five years of higher education.



- 8 -
General of Secondary Education, is responsible for the development and
implementation of technical education reforms. Educational planning is
carried out by a Planning Unit established in the Ministry of National
Education in 1977.
3.07      Primary Education.  At this level, the 1973 reform emphasized the
use of the national language, Kirundi, as the language of instruction
instead of French which would be taught as second language from the second
grade up, and initiated courses in environmental sciences (etudes du
milieu) and practical subjects. The basic objective was to prepare
students for productive life in their environment, rather than for the next
level of education. Primary schools were to be progressively converted
into Multipurpose Learning Centers (Centres de Formation Polyvalente-CFPs),
i.e. community schools for children and adults. They wou'ld be focal points
for training, civic activities and rural development programs.
3.08      Secondary Education.  Secondary education comprises general
secondary education, teacher training, and vocational and technical
courses. General secondary education has been expanding at about 6 percent
per year between 1978 and 1981. In spite of the overall increase in
enrollment, admission to the first year of secondary education has
stagnated because of shortages of student places aggravated by a
substantial number of repeaters. Under the reform curricula of secondary
education were to be diversified. Primary teacher training courses enroll
JS graduates and last two years.
3.09      Technical Education.  Skilled worker and middle-level technician
training courses of two to four years' duration are given in woodwork,
electrical technology, mechanics, metal work and construction. In
addition, there are three agricultural schools, one school for public
works, and four paramedical training centers. Technical education has been
growing rapidly at about 13 percent per year over the last five years. The
output is sufficient at present to meet manpower requirements for
middle-level technicians, but is insufficient for semi-skilled and skilled
workers.
3.10      Higher education is provided by the National University of
Burundi which offers an adequate choice of options and applies
international quality standards. The Government is attempting to reduce
training abroad as the heterogeneous backgrounds and levels of education
obtained by students abroad create difficulties in the work place.
Enrollments almost quadrupled between 1974 and 1979. Entrants are now
strictly selected and Government fellowships have been reduced. This has
resulted in better control and stabilization of enrollments at the planned
level. In addition, orientation of students has resulted in better
matching of skills with labor market needs.
3.11      Non-formal education include: independent religious Yagamukama
centers and government-sponsored Social Centers and adult training courses
in the Multipurpose Learning Centers (CFPs). The Yagamukam centers teach
functional literacy and numeracy, crafts, health, nutrition, sanitation and



-9-
improved cultivation of fooderops to primary school age children and adults
who cannot be served by the government system. These programs have been
popular and effective considering the scarcity of resources available to
them. However, parents prefer public primary education, when available, as
it is the only program which can lead to secondary education. Since 1980,
the Ministry of National Education provides a two-year basic program for
adults and unschooled youths in the CFPs. The results of this program have
so far been rather disappointing (paras 6.07-6.10).
3.12      Manpower Needs.  It is estimated that 95 percent of Burundi's
Labor Force is involved in subsistence agriculture and that at least
one-third of manpower resources in this sector are underutilized. Better
education of the rural population is essential to increase agricultural
productivity and for the success of programs aiming at controlling
population growth (para.3.02). The modern sector, concentrated in
Bujumbura, employs only about 100,000 persons in construction, industry and
trade, of which 70 percent are in the public sector.
3.13      Education Finance.  Public education in Burundi is virtually free
for the users and financed from the Government budget, except for book fees
(para. 6.14). However, secondary and higher education students are
required to pay a small fee. More than 95 percent of Government financing
of education is through the MOE.  In 1981, total expenditures for education
averaged 15% of total Government expenditures, representing 2.8% of GDP.
The MOE capital expenditures over the last five years have ranged between
3% and 7% of total Government capital investment and are projected to
average about 5% during the remainder of the 1980s. The share of education
recurrent expenditures in the Government's budget decreased from about 22
percent in 1978 to 17 percent in 1984 and is expected to return to 22
percent in the late 1980s. While this is a heavy burden on the
Government's budget, it is similar to that of other African countries at a
comparable level of development. Current percentages would make it
difficult for the Government to reach UPE by the year 1990 as it intends to
do. Major cost savings measures already decided upon are implemented.
These measures include: (a) the introduction of double shifting and
automatic promotion at the primary level (para. 6.08); (b) the phasing out
of boarding at the secondary level; (c) an increase in secondary school
fees; (d) more careful screening of entrants and limitation of fellowships
at the university level.
Project Identification
3.14      The proposed project was identified by a Bank Group mission which
visited Burundi in July 1975, and prepared by the Government with the
assistance of a UNESCO team in November/December 1975. The project was
appraised by a Bank mission in February/March 1976. Negotiations were held
in Washington from November 29 through December 3, 1976. The project was
approved by the IDA Board of Directors on February 8, 1977.



- 10 -
Project Objectives
3.15      The project was designed to assist the ongoing reform of primary
education, to expand the capacity of the primary system and to help the
Government exert its control over the sector. The project would: (a)
substantially expand the number of places in primary education as well as
improve equity in access to educational opportunities; (b) provide
important technical and material assistance to the Rural Education Bureau
as the main institutional force behind the reform; (c) assist in enlarging
the production and distribution capacity of the Rural Education Bureau's
textbook-printing unit; and (d) enable the Government to undertake the
training of teachers in practical subjects related to agriculture.
Project Content
3.16      The project, as approved, included:
(a)  the construction and equipping of 100 multipurpose learning
centers (CFPs);
(b)  the expansion of the printing capacity of the Rural Education
Bureau's textbook-production unit; the provision of equipment,
vehicles, and 250 tons of paper for the unit; and the provision
of simple storage facilities (lockers) for about 400 existing
primary schools;
(c)  the construction and equipping of facilities for the training of
teachers in the teaching of practical subjects;
(d)  technical assistance, including (i) specialists' services for the
Rural Education Bureeau (15 man-years); (ii) specialists'
services for project implementation (8 man-years); and (iii) ten
fellowships for staff development at the Rural Education Bureau
(7.5 man-years); and
(e) operating expenses for project administration.
Project Amendments
3.17      The Credit Agreement was amended twice:  on May 16, 1978 to allow
for execution of civil works under force account procedures; and on August
14, 1978 to permit the construction and equipment of a new training center
for teachers in practical subjects at Kamenge instead of expanding the
existing teacher training institute at Gitega.



- 11 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
General
4.01      The Credit Agreement was signed on April 28, 1977 and declared
effective on September 1, 1977, about one month later than anticipated
because of delays in government ratification of the Credit and submission
of the legal opinion. The additional conditions of effectiveness,
appointment of the Project Director and Deputy Project Director, and the
establishment of a Revolving Fund of US$100,000 equivalent, had been met
since January 1, more than three months before credit signing.
Project Administration
4.02      The Project implementation Unit was established by Presidential
Decree of November 5, 1976 as "Bureau du Projet Education (BPE)" in the
Ministry of National Education. Its main duty, according to the Decree,
was to administer the project, especially the construction, furnishing and
equipping of 100 CFPs and to liaise with IDA.
4.03      Initially, the BPE was housed in rented facilities including a
warehouse for storage of building materials. The BPE staff consisted then
of a Burundi project director, an expatriate project architect, also deputy
director, a Burundi project accountant and about 30 support staff. Over
time BPE's duties expanded. When tender exercises for the Practical
Subject Teacher Training Center failed and the Government was reluctant to
assign the mission stations with the construction of the CFPs, the BPE was
directed to carry out the construction program, using Force Account
Procedures (para.4.08); therefore also its staff expanded (Annex 1). The
project included provision for three key staff: a project architect, a
project accountant and a project procurement officer. However, initially
the project architect/deputy project director handled also procurement
matters, because (a) he had expertise in this field, and (b) the bulk of
procurement concerned building materials. He was paid under Belgian
Bilateral Aid while the Burundi project accountant was financed by the
Government. Therefore IDA agreed to a Government request, that credit
funds could be used to finance three more architects/engineers. Later on,
as civil works progressed and project accounting and procurement became
more complex, expatriates were appointed as project accountant and
procurement officers. The first was financed under this project and the
second under the Second Education Project.  Two cf the earlier appointed
architects/engineers had by then completed their contracts and Belgium had
provided free of charge two architect/engineers to take their place. After
the closing of the Credit, the accountant and procurement officer stayed on
to work under the Second Education Project.
4.04      The director of the BPE was replaced in 1979.  The relation
between the project director and project architect, which in the beginning
had been good, had deteriorated to such an extent that one of the two had
to leave. After attempts by the Minister of National Education to



- 12 -
reconcile the two parties had failed, the Minister appointed Mr. Jean
Baptiste Ndikumana to project director. Annex 2 shows staffing of key
positions in the BPE during implementation of the project.
4.05      The overall performance of the BPE has been good, particularly
with regard to handling hardware aspects, including execution of
construction work under force account procedures. However, it has not
given enough attention to educational aspects. It did not take a strong
stand in maintaining and defending the original concept of CFPs (6.09 and
6.10) and it has not resisted pressures to increase the size of the
Practical Subject Teacher Training Center (4.12). Also little attention
was given to the administration of the printshop (paras 6.12 and 6.13).
Its progress reports were received regularly and on time, except for period
from April 78 to July 1980 (Annex 1). The reports focussed predominantly
on hardware aspects. Since 1980, the BPE has given increased attention to
monitoring software aspects. Its earlier emphasis on hardware reflects the
November 5, 1976 Presidential decree that established the Unit (para 4.02).
4.06      BPE as contractor.  Force account procedures have worked well.
The building up of the BPE to a departmental construction enterprise in
terms of staff, equipment and premises, has benefited not only the First
but also the Second and Third Education Projects. The First Education
Project was implemented on schedule. It is true that out of 100, only 60
CFPs were built (para. 4.09), but the achievement of the BPE is remarkable,
considering that (a) about US$1.5 million was required for plant and
equipment, representing the equivalent of about 13 CFPs (para. 4.14), (b)
funds used to cover the cost increase of the TTC were equivalent to another
15 CFPs (para. 4.12 and 6.16), (c) time was lost and costs increased
because of the Uganda/Tanzania war, and (d) increased areas of CFPs (para.
4.10) 10/. It should be noted that the bank Group emphasized in the Third
Education Project the use of private contractors and the gradual reduction
of the BPE role in construction.
Civil Works
4.07      The BPE played a crucial role in implementing the civil works
component. It carried out the architectural and engineering work as well
as the actual construction. It did both jobs well. Sketch plans were
completed as follows: for CFPs in September 1977, for the BER printshop in
June 1977, and for Practical Subject Teacher Training Center in January
1978. Before appraisal it was assumed that AIDR (Association
Internationale de D6veloppement Rural Outre-mer) would build the CFPs.
During appraisal it was found that AIDR was no longer in a position to
carry out the construction program and it was determined that Catholic and
Protestant mission stations would build the schools. Schools not located
in regions covered by those stations would be built by local contractors to
10/ Of the 40% reduction of CFPs built under the project, 28% is
attributable to (a) and (b) and 12% to (c) and (d).



- 13 -
be selected through LCB. Similar contracting procedures were to be
followed for the expansion of HOE's printshop and the construction of a
training center for practical subject teachers. However, as discussed in
paras 4.08-4.12, all civil works were executed by the BPE under force
account procedures. Schedules comparing actual and plans of implementation
of civil works are shown in Annex 3. The quality of design and
construction of facilities provided under the project is good. Buildings
require little maintenance.
4.08      The CFPs were not built by the mission stations but by the BPE
under force account procedures. Soon after Credit effectiveness, the
relations between Government and Catholic and Protestant missions
deteriorated drastically. The Government accused the missions of tax
evasion. The missions were still prepared to build the schools but under
the circumstances the Government was extremely reluctant to officially
request missions' assistance. The BPE did a survey on the capability of
the contracting industry in Burundi and found that the dispersed
construction program was suitable neither for Burundi's big (mostly
foreign) contractors nor for its mDre numerous small local contractors.
Therefore, it was agreed that the most feasible solution would be for the
BPE to carry out the CFP program under force account procedures.
4.09      The BPE commenced construction of 12 CFPs in 1977.  It planned to
complete about 20 CFPs per year, based on an average building time of 12
months per center. The BPE building targets were not attained. The first
12 were completed by about December 1980, 15 months later than estimated.
Delays were due to (a) difficulties in obtaining building materials, local
as well as foreign. The situation improved starting 1978 when the PIU was
authorized to directly import building materials and when it had obtained
trucks; (b) the Tanzania-Uganda war which caused a one-year work stoppage
because of suspension of cement supply, and (c) some tooling up of the
BPE. Delays entailed cost increases of around 10'to 30% per CFP. To
compensate for cost overruns, especially those related to the TTC (para.
4.12) and PIU premices (para. 4.14), initially only 50 CFPs out of 100
originally programmed were built. Ten more CFPs were built later under the
Second Education Project, utilizing in part about US$1.0 million worth of
building materials and technical assistance financed under the First
Education Project. The CFP program comprising 60 schools, was completed in
December 1983.
4.10      Experience obtained from building the first batches of CFPs was
channelled back in improved and simplified designs and reduced areas of
later built CFPs. The housing component was curtailed from two staff
houses per school for the first twelve CFPs to zero houses for the
subsequent 26 CFPs and to one house for the last group of CFPs. Staff
houses for the latter were built with sundried bricks at a cost of only
US$6,000 per unit. Houses of first batch costed about US$20,000 per unit.
Cost of the revised CFP without staffhouse were US$98,500 per unit (700
sqm); first phase of CFPs including two staffhouses were built for
US$140,400 per unit (980 sqm); the appraisal estimate of a CFP, including
contingencies, was US$81,875 (663 sqm).



- 14 -
4.11      Printshop.  Facilities were designed by the BPE in 1977.  In
August 1977 after a bidding exercise had failed, it was decided that the
PIU should build the printshop under force account procedures.
Construction started in September 1977 and was completed in June 1978 about
one and one half years ahead of schedule. During the construction, on
request of the Bureau d'Education Rurale (BER), a stockroom for paper
storage (100 sqm) was added to the printshop.
4.12      Practical Subject Teachers Training Center (TTC).  According to
plans conceived during preparation/appraisal, the existing boys Primary
Teacher Training Institute (TTI) at Gitega would be extended with a
classroom and a multipurpose workshop to train primary school teachers in
practical subject teaching. However, the BPE found that an extension of
the boys TTI at Gitega was difficult because of site constraints. Extension
of the girls TTI at Gitega was temporarily considered a better alternative
but adding coeducational facilities to either an existing girls or boys
school was resisted by their staff. In the end, neither solution was
chosen. Instead in 1978 it was decided to build a new Center in Kamenge
(Bujumbura) in the vicinity of an existing technical school and under force
account procedures. The Center would also house the newly established
department of Non Formal Education (departement parascolaire), and for this
department Bujumbura was a favourable location, close to the MOE to which
it belonged. The construction started in April 1978 and was completed in
November 1981. The construction was delayed one year by the Uganda-
Tanzania war (para. 4.09). The total cost of the center was US$1.8
million, considerably more than estimated at appraisal (Annex VII). The
area built is 2,310sqm, versus a total area of 290sqm. originally
anticipated. Increases are due to: additional administration and teaching
space, kitchen and dining; boarding; and ablution area.
4.13      Book storage.  Rather than providing lockers for books to about
400 schools, and after consultation with the Association, the BPE built
closets for book storage however at CFPs only.
4.14      Premises for PIU.  Initially the BPE was housed in rented
premises. As its activities and staffing expanded, the BPE requested and
the Association agreed, that it build new premises under the project. A
suitable site was found in Kamenge, near the Practical Subject Teacher
Training Center (para 4.12). The BPE facilities include: A technical
section and administrative and financial sections. In addition, a
warehouse and workshops were included for its building activities.
Construction of the new facility by the BPE started in April 1978 and was
completed in January 1980.
Furniture and Equipment
4.15      Furniture for all project schools was awarded on November 16,
1978 to a local firm, following ICB. However, the firm experienced
financial problems and could not met its obligations under the contract.
The plant had delivered about 60X of furniture when its contract was
cancelled. The BPE supplemented the delivered furniture with acquisitions



- 15 -
from the local market as necessary to complete furnishing of project
schools. The quality of delivered furniture is satisfactory but the BPE
had to mudify and reinforce the construction of some school desks and
benches. Delivery of furniture was in step with progress of construction
works.
4.16      Equipment.   As concurred with the Association, the BPE used
single source procurement for the BER printshop to match new equipment with
existing equipment. In a first round, contracts were signed with German
and French firms for the acquisition of an offset press and trimming
machine (total cost: US$46,000 or FBU 75,000). Following a trip to Europe
by one of the BER expatriate experts to visit potential suppliers,
equipment was supplemented by machines for sewing, binding and assembling
(cost: $95,000). Equipment procurement for the printbhop started in 1978
and was completed in 1980. Preparation of equipment lists for CFPs was
delayed because of late inputs from BER. BER, handicapped by a shortage of
operating budget (Annex VI), required additional time to determine
curricula for the CFPs. On basis of tentative lists for CFPs, basic
equipment items valued about US$200,000 were procured for the first 12
CFPs. To speed up procurement of those items, the Association concurred
that items would be acquired through competitive bidding and advertized
locally. Equipment including paper and vehicles for the remaining CFPs,
TTC and MOE printshop was procured through ICB at a cost of about
US$500,000.
4.17      Annex III shows estimated and actual furniture and equipment
procurement schedules. The quality and quantity of equipment procured
under the project is generally acceptable. The deviation of the original
CFP concept is reflected in acquisition of some specialized equipment such
as plumbing equipment.
Technical Assistance
4.18      The project included 23 man-years of specialists' services (15
ran-years to support the BER and eight man-years to support the BPE) and
7.5 man-years of fellowships. Specialists' services for the MOE were
provided under UNESCO contract by five expatriates for a total of nine
man-years and 10 man-months (5.2 man years less than appraisal estimate) in
the following fields: (a) in-service teacher training, two man-years and
four man-months; (b) evaluation, two man-years; (c) pre-service training,
two man-years; (d) education planning, three man-years; and (e) non formal
education, six man months. Specialists (a) to (c) assisted BER, (d)
assisted the planning office of MOE and specialist (e) the Department of
Non Formal Education. Annex V prepared by BPE summarizes the major
achievements under the technical assistance program. In addition, UNESCO
provided two experts: a printing specialist for 1.5 man-year and a teacher
aid production specialists for three man-years. They worked with the BER
printshop. The Government of Burundi provided a rural development
specialist for three years.



- 16 -
4.19      The specialists to support the BPE were recruited directly by the
Government. In total, about 11.3 man years (3.3 man years more than the
appraisal estimate) were financed under the Project as follows: Three site
supervisors for a total of 2.8 man-years; two architects for three
man-years; one engineer for 2.5 man-years; and one accountant for three
man-years. In addition, the BPI5 has received five man years of specialists
services under a Belgian bilateral aid program for architect and
engineering consultants (Annex II).
4.20      Eight instead of ten candidates received fellowships training
under the project. They followed training courses at the International
Institute for Education Planning in Paris for a total of about seven
man-years. Of the eight, six are working with BERR, one with the Ministry
of Labor as director of the department of vocational training and one with
the UNDP off1ee in Bujumbura.
4.21      Annexes III to V show planned and actual implementation of the
technical assistance program for the BER. The technical assistance program
has been successful in assisting the BPE to perform well, although
virtually no local counterpart were trained. It was less successful in
supporting BER, but local staff were trained in planning and evaluation of
education.
Covenants
4.22      Government fulfilled all covenants in the Development Credit
Agreement. Annex VI provides details on compliance of Credit Agreement.
V. PROJECT COSTS
Capital Costs
5.01      A comparison of appraisal estimates and actual capital costs for
physical facilities, furniture and equipment are shown in Annex VII. Total
estimated costs for the project including contingencies at appraisal were
FBU 1,126 million or US$12.5 million equivalent, The Association's
financing of US$10.0 million was to cover 80 percent of total estimated
costs including contingencies. As implemented, the final cost of the
project was PBU 1,207.5 million or US$13.4 million equivalent, about 7
percent higher than the appraisal estimate and with the Association
financing about 75 percent of the final costs and the Goverment covering
25 percent.
5.02      Detailed comparisons of appraisal estimates and actual costs by
categories and items are shown below and in Annex VII (pp.2 and 3).



- 17 -
COffPARISON OF ACTUAL PROJECT COSTS
INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES
By Project Component                Appraisal                  Actual
Estimates                 Costs             Z Diffe-
(in millions)           (in millions)           rence
FBU     US$   X of         FBU     US      2 of
Total                       Total
1. Mhlti Purpose Learning
Centers (CFPs)              848.7   9.43  75.4        647.4    7.20   53.6       -23.7
2. Rural Education Bureau
(BER)                        68.7   0.76   6.1         56.2    0.62    4.7       -18.1
3. Extension of Teacher
Training College             12.0   0.14   1.1         162.1    1.80   13.4   1,248.5
4. Furniture & Equipment
for PIU                       3.6   0.04   0.3         136.9 1/ 1.52   11.3   3,675.5
Sub Total                   933.0  10.37  82.9      1,002.6   11.14   83.0         7.5
5. Technical Assistance        164.1   1.82  14.5         103.7    1.15    8.6      -36.8
6. Project Administration
(excluding Tech.Ass.)        28.9   0.32   2.6        101.2    1.12    8.4      250.0
8. Total Project Cost        1,126.0  12,51 100.0      1,207.5   13.41  100.0         7.2
By categories of expenditures
1. Civil Works
Site Development             42.2   0.47   3.8
Academic & Communal         636.4   7.07  56.5
Staffhousing                 77.6   0.87   6.9
Sub Total (1)               756.9   8.41  67.2        815.0    9.06   67.5      7.7
2. Furniture                    41.9   0.47   3.8
3. Equipment                   134.2   1.49  11.9
Sub-Total (2) & (3)         176.1   1.96  15.7        187.6    2.08   15.5      6.5
Sub-Total (1) (2) & (3)   933.   10.37  V739        1,002.6   11.14   83.0      7.5
4. Technical Assistance        164.1   1.82  14.5         103.     1.15    8.6   -36.8
5. Project Administration
excluding T.A.               28.9   0.32   2.6        101.2    1.12    8.4   250.0
7. Total Project Cost        1,126.0  12.51 100.0      1,207.5   13.41  100.0       7.2
I/ Includes FBU 75.8 million for civil works (para. 4.14 and annex VII).



- 18 -
5.03      As compared with appraisal estimates including contingencies, the
categories of civil works, furniture and equipment had cost overruns. The
civil works increase of eight percent was mainly due to the increased area
of Practical Subject Teacher Training Center (para.4.12) and buildings
provided for the PIU (para 4.14). Increases in unit cost of CFPs were
offset by a reduction in the number of CFPs (para.4.08). Furniture, and
equipment were seven percent above appraisal estimates (including
contingencies). The total cost of physical facilities is FBU 1,003 million
(US$11.1 million equivalent) as compared with the appraisal estimate of PBU
933 million (US$10.4 million equivalent). Technical assistance had a cost
underrun of about 37%, mainly because of a reduction of number of man-years
of specialists services (paras 4.18-4.19). The cost of project
administration exceeded the appraisal estimate including contingencies by
250% (see para. 5.06).
Area per Student Place
5.04      The CFP is the only project component for which area per student
place were determined at appraisal. Annex VIII shows that gross area per
student place is 2.8 sqm and per student served 1.4 sqm., assuming that all
CFPs will operate two shifts. The appraisal estimate of gross space per
student place was 2.45 sqm. Increased workshop areas explain the
difference.
Disbursements
5.05      Disbursements were completed about one year before the Credit
Closing Date. Force Account procedures and advanced lulk procurement of
building materials are reflected in a high rate of disbursements.
Throughout project implementation, actual disbursements have been ahead of
the schedule (see page i of key data).
5.06      Another effect of Force Account procedures are cost overruns in
categories (2) and (4) (materials, furniture, equipment, paper and
vehicles; salaries and other expenditures of Project Unit), and cost
underruns in category (1), civil works (page iv). Appraisal estimates
assumed that civil works including labor and overhead cost of local and
imported materials would be carried out under contract. Under Force
Account, imported building materials were financed under category (2) and
labor and overhead cost and some labor cost for construction under category
(4).
Recurrent cost
5.07      At appraisal, it was estimated that the annual recurrent costs
per CFP student place would be about FBU 1,300 in 1970 constant terms or
less than two thirds of the unit costs in existing primary schools in
1974. The reduction would be the result of a combination of cost saving
and cost increasing measures. Expected cost savers were (a) elimination of
housing allowances for two teachers per CFP, to be housed in staffhouses
provided under the project; (b) an increase in the pupil:teacher ratio to



- 19 -
45:1 in CFPs. Cost increasing measures were: (a) establishment of a
seventh staff position for a resident director at the CFPs; and (b) fully
qualified CFP teachers. At the time of appraisal, only 55% of primary
teaching staff was qualified. It was estimated that in total the 100 new
CFPs would generate about FBU 35.1 million per annum (in 1970 terms)
additional recurrent costs corresponding with FBU 21.1 million for the 60
CFPs constructed under the project.
5.08      Total actual recurrent cost figures are not available, since CFPs
only enroll so far lower grades. Grades five and six would start
enrollment in September 1985 and 1986 respectively. In the meantime,
changes effecting the recurrent costs of the CFPs (primary schools and
centres parascolaires) have occurred as follows: (a) double shift teaching
introduced in primary school system since 1982; (b) changes in staff
positions. The seventh staff position has not been created, instead new
staff positions have been created for teaching of practical subjects (para
6.10); (c) of the sixty CFPs, only 12 have two staffhouses, 22 have one and
26 have none, corresponding to a total of 46 staffhouses, of which only 12
are used for the primary schools and the remainder by the Centres
Parascolaires. Houses accommodate often two to three bachelor teachers;
(d) at 37 CFPs offering practical courses in 1983/84, 124 instructors
conducted practical sessions for 1982 students in two shifts, representing
a student:teacher ratio of 8; and (e) revenues from produce and products
rarely cover costs of materials inputs.
5.09      It is estimated that the net effect of these changes will be a
40% reduction in the recurrent costs per student place for CFP primary
schools, compared with appraisal estimates. Double shift teaching does not
cut the recurrent costs in half because the number of students In two
shifts may be less than twice the number of students projected to be
enrolled in one shift, depending on catcbment area.
5.10      The recurrent costs of the Centres Parascolaires are high because
of low student:teacher ratios and outlays for consumable materials. Based
on average student teacher ratio of about 8, the annual recurrent costs per
student served amount to FBU 7,,306.00 per student, in 1970 terms, or five
to six times more than a regular primary school student.
VI. PROJECT OPERATIONAL OUTCOME
Background
6.01      The main objective of the project was to support the educational
reform. Plans for the reform had been prepared with assistance from
Unesco. The reform called for: (a) ruralization and Kirundization of
primary education (para. 3.07); (b) diversification of secondary education
(para. 3.08); and (c) strengthening of higher education (para. 3.10).



- 20 -
6.02      The Government requested World Bank Group assistance to support
and to implement the reform. It was disappointed when the Bank Group
indicated it was prepared to support the first but not the two latter
objectives in a first education project. The Government at the time of
project generation bestowed higher priority to secondary technical
education, but accepted assistance limited to primary education.
6.03      The ruralization of education as originally conceived comprised
the following: (a) introduction of Kirundi instead of French as language
of instruction throughout the primary education system; (b) French to be
studied as a second language, starting in grade 5; (c) schools would offer
six grades rather than seven or eight grades as previously. Entrance
requirement would be eight years of age; (d) "Etude du Milieu' was a topic
to be included in the curriculum. It would prepare students for rural life
and help them to improve it. It would cover social studies and practical
subjects in three areas: farming, rural home economics, and
farming-related carpentry and masonry. According to the original plan,
primary teachers were to teach both academic and practical subjects, and
teacher training curricula and programs were to be revised accordingly.
Schools would be provided with simple workshops for practical subject
teaching; (e) schools would be engines of (rural) development, and its
teachers "animateurs", schools would also cater for the learning and
training needs of out-of-school youth and adults. They would be community
schools; (f) in many ways, schools would be modelled after the mission-run
Yagamukama schools, but would provide the full primary cycle; and (d)
universalization of primary education by 1990.
6.04      To implement the reform, the Government was introducing the new
curriculum to existing schools. Schools were provided with school
gardens. The Government hoped that produce could be sold and cover part of
the running costs of schools. The Government also wanted to build new
school with workshops all over Burundi to serve as model schools for the
new curriculum. The Government requested Bank Group assistance to build
these schools. The Bank Group expressed interest but felt that further
study was needed and recommended that the Unesco Cooperative Program Group
undertake a sector survey mission, which would also identify priority
needs. However, the Government and a Unesco-financed "conseiller
technique" did not see a need for further review and study. The assistance
sought from the Bank Group was bricks and mortar to implement the reform.
The Government's major objective in requesting Bank Group assistance was to
shorten the time span to fully impletment the reform. Therefore, initially
the sector survey mission Unesco seni. to Burundi in April 1974 was not well
received by the Government. Its first ten days in the field were virtually
lost because the Minister of Education refused to meet with the mission.
The situation improved after the Bank's executive director for Burundi
intervened. A tentative agreement was reached on project scope and further
project processing. The Unesco conseiller technique, co-author of the
education reform, was removed from his job in May 1975 and some of the
special features of the reform were dropped. For example, the entrance age
for primary education was lowered from eight to six years and French was
reintroduced in curricula of third and fourth grades in lieu of the fifth
grade.



- 21 -
6.05      In the meantime around mid July 1974 a major disagreement arose
between OPS and EAPED on alleged discriminatory features of the proposed
project. OPS found the project costly and feared that it would mainly
benefit the minority Tutsi population of the country. At that time most
Government key positions were held by Tutsis. The argument not only lasted
but intensified during project preparation (Nov/Dec. 1975), appraisal
(Feb.76), up to negotiations (Dec.76). OPS considered the project elitist
and alleged that it would retard rather than accelerate universalization of
primary education. Despite proposed investment of US10.0 million, OPS
estimated that the average enrollment ratio would hardly improve. OPS did
not disagree with reform as such, but resisted the provision of workshops
and staffhouses to 100 11/ primary schools. Instead of six classroom
schools with single grade teaching, it suggested schools with a varying
number of classrooms ranging from one to four, depending on catchment area,
to be used for multigrade teaching in two shifts. Classrooms should be
designed to allow practical teaching. No separate workshops should be
provided and staffhouses should be elimiaated. RAPED disagreed with OPS
major comments. It felt that the average Burundi primary school teacher,
because of meager training, would not be able to handle multigrade and
double-shift teaching. RAPED did not change the size and composition of
schools but agreed to add studies to the project on introduction of double
shift teaching and automatic promotion to the project.  WAPED also hired a
school location expert to participate in the project appraisal and
supervision. OPS was not satisfied with EAPED's response. It continued to
raise its objections over the proposed project. It felt that the proposed
project was not eligible for Bank Group financing since it would not meet
Bank Group criteria for equity and replicability.
6.06      The matter was still under discussion in December 1976, shortly
before negotiations. (Negotiations originally scheduled for mid-November
were postponed by about one month because of a "coup d'Etat" in Burundi
around that time). The Bank Group decided to continue with the project as
appraised but to stipulate that 13 schools for which no location had yet
been determined, should be located in provinces with lowest enrollment
ratios.
Operation of Multipurpose Training Centers
6.07      At the time of the completion mission, eight years later, 60
schools were completed and in use. Total enrollment in primary education
had increased by 125%, or about 164,605 more than in 1975 (Annex X, Table
1). Of the increase, only about 9X is attributable to the CFPs included in
the project. The overall increase in enrollment is mainly due to: (a)
double shift operation which began in September 1982; (b) opening of new
ll/ The Sector Survey and Identification mission had identified 50
community schools; the Reconnaissance mission suggested financing of
80 schools but during appraisal the number was raised to 100.



- 22 -
schools or classrooms built by the Government with parents' and
communities' contribution and private organizations. The enrollment ratio
went up from 21 to 43% 12/ (Annex X, Table 3), but the target of universal
education by 1990 is unTfikely to be achieved, despite Minister of Education
current efforts to organize a round table on education to attract More
external contributions. We may conclude that quantitative targets are
being met and from an equity point of view, the situation has considerably
improved. Inequalities in access to primary education have been reduced
(Annex X, tables 2 and 4). However, qualitative targets have only been
partially met. Implementation of some of the earlier qualitative reform
objectives have apparently been suspended in favor of a rapid increase of
enrollment ratios.
6.08      Following recommendations of the study on automatic promotion and
double shift teaching, both have been introduced progressively, one grade
at a year starting in 1982. As a consequence of double shift operation,
the weekly time table was reduced from 33 periods to 25 periods. In
particular, cuts were made in the number of practical periods. Because of
automatic promotion, the student achievements are likely to vary
considerably, especially in the higher grades. In practice, higher grades
require multigrade teaching. So far only the lower grades operate in two
shifts, double-shift is expected to be applied at the six grades by the
academic year 1987-1988.
6.09      Another important change occurred in teaching of practical
subjects. According to understandings reached during project preparation
and appraisal, practical subject teaching was to be integrated into the
primary education curriculum. It was to be blended with academic teaching,
increasing the relevance of education to local conditions. Practical
teaching was to be multipurpose in nature and was to comprise agriculture,
simple woodwork and masonry related to agriculture, and rural home
economics, including simple nutrition, sewing and cooking. The overall
objective of integrating practical subject teaching with academic teaching
was to equip students with skills and attitudes conducive to improving
living conditions of rural Burundi, where mDst people engage in subsistence
farming, and to which the great majority of primary school leavers were
expected to resort, since there would not be places for them in secondary
education. The teacher training curricula were to be modified so that all
teachers could teach practical subjects. CFP teachers were to provide both
academic and practical subject teaching. The CFP was to cater primarily
for primary school children but was also to provide courses for
out-of-school youth and adults. Linkages were to be established between
the school and its environment through: (a) school cooperatives to
administer income from produce (and products); (b) parent-teacher
associations, and (c) liaison with rural extension agents on planting and
maintenance of school gardens. The CFP was to develop as a community
school and serve as model school for reformed primary education.
12/ In 1985/86 enrollment ratio amounts to 52%.



- 23 -
6.10      Although all 60 project schools are in operation, it is too early
to evaluate their performance and impact on improving living conditions in
(rural) Burundi. As yet, no school is operating all grades, and since
practical subject teaching starts at grade 5,13/ very little practical
teaching has occurred for in-school youth. The main beneficiaries of
practical subject teaching have been out-of-school youth. However, some
major deviations are surfacing:
(a) practical subject teaching is not integrated with academic
subject teaching; it is specialized rather than multipurpose
in nature and oriented towards employment rather than
providing simple skills useful for rural daily living (self-
employment). Students, so far only out-of-school youth,
enroll in one of the options for a duration of two years
(agriculture, carpentry, masonry or home economics). Courses
are under-enrolled (Annex X).
(b) Instead of six teachers teaching academics and practical
subjects and a headmaster, CFPs have now 10 staff, six
academic teachers and up to four practical subject teachers,
one for each of the four practical subjects.
(c) Recurrent costs are about 40Z higher than estimated at
appraisal,14/ mainly because of the increased number of
staff.  Revenues from produce of school gardens and products
of workshops fall short to purchase required material inputs.
(d) The CFPs do not function as community schools. They serve
often several small communities (collines) and are sometimes
located in none of them. No community owns the school. The
communities were only marginally involved in planning and
location of the schools. They see the CFPs as
government-owned and operated, which they are.
Parents expectations are that once their children have made
it through school, they will not have to resort to
subsistence farming. School were planned by Government to
prepare children better for rural life. Parents want schools
to prepare children for city life.
13/ It is feared, however, that preparation of fifth and sixth graders for
the National School leavers Exam and the National Concours for entrance
to secondary education, which focusses exclusively on French and Haths,
will limit the time actually devoted to practical subjects.
14/ However, for primary schools section the higher costs will be offset
by double shift teaching. The recurrent costs for the practical
subject training for out-of-school youths remain high.



- 24 -
6.11      In hindsight OPS' concern with equity aspects of project seems
excessive, but WAPED should have given more serious attention to OPS'
comments on school size and its doubts regarding usefulness of workshops.
It is regretted that protracted time consuming polemics between OPS and
EAPED have been of little benefit to the proJectl5/. With regard to the
deviations that have occurred during project impTeamentation in the concept
of CFPs, the following questions come up:
(a)  Was the original concept sound?
(b)  Should IDA have stopped disbursements when the CFPs broke up in
two centers and were staffed by ten instead of seven teachers?
There is no doubt that greater attention should have been devoted
by Bank missions to the educational aspects of the project.
Operation of printshop
6.12      The printshop built and equipped under the project has produced,
as of November 1982, 225,000 textbooks and 24,500 teachers' guides and
manuals. Appraisal targets were 680,000 textbooks (seven books per
students) and 9,000 teacher manuals (0.9 book per teacher). The schools
have received all teacher guides but only 190,000 textbooks.  Only 115 tons
of paper, instead of 250 to be provided under the project, have been
delivered.
6.13      The smaller and uneven output of the printshop was caused by
inadequate management of the printshop and erratic preparation of education
materials to be printed by the BER, Recently the situation has improved
drastically. According to recommendation of the SAR for the Burundi Third
Education Project, the printshop is now run as a parastatal enterprise
independent from BER. Its management is strengthened through the technical
assistance and fellowship program included in the same project. Last year
the actual production surpassed the set production targets.
6,14      The printshop is aiming to become financially self-sufficient.
At present, it needs about FBU 45 million or US$375,000 per year for its
operation. About a third of this amount is for consumables. Primary
school students are supposed to contribute FBU 100 per person per year for
books. Burundi has about 300,000 primary students; but not every student
pays tie book fee, and even if they did, there would still be a shortfall
of PBU 15 million. The remainder has to be provided by the Ministry of
National Education unless book fees are increased to about FBU 150.
6.15      Although it is too early to measure the effects the books have on
teaching at the primary level, the indications are positive. Books are in
15/ The dialogues were conducted in a formal way mainly through memos. A
more informal oral exchange of thoughts would certainly have been more
fruitful.



- 25 -
schools, also in the church-supported Yamagukama centers, and they appear
to be well used and facilitate learning. The book component representing
only 5X of project in mDney terms, has undoubtly contributed much to
improvement of primary education. However, further review should be
undertaken to determine the number of books actually needed by each
student, the current number (average of seven books per student) being
certainly excessive under the present financial constraints. A reduced
number of books could also be a solution to the current uncertain financing
situation of the printshop.
Operation of the Practical Subject Teacher Training Center (TTC)
6.16      Rather than providing additional facilities to the existing Boys
Teacher Training Institute in Gitega as projected during appraisal in 1975,
the Government proposed and the Association agreed, to a new facility for
Practical Teacher Training in Kamenge near an existing technical school
(see para 4.12). The change appears a material confirmation of the
separation of academic and practical subject teaching at CFPs. It is
unclear what led the Association to agree to the relocation, since it
represented a major departure from the earlier held principle of
integrating practical and academic teaching. One reason given is that the
Gitega College did not have room for the new facilities, and the staff in
charge did not want any girls. The Government had apparently proposed to
build new facilities to be used for comprehensive upgrading of teachers
and not just for practical teacher training. Another and probably more
important reason for the relocation of the center in Bujumbura is that the
newly established Department Para-Scolaire needed to be housed in the
capital. The TTC includes office space for this department.
6,17      Since it started operations early 1981, the Center has produced
only 229 graduates, of which 201 are CFP instructors* The Center has seven
full-time teachers training about 65 to 34 students in one-year courses,
representing an average student/teacher ratio of seven. The Center has
boarding and dining facilities for 60 students. Those facilities are used
only one or two months a year mainly for upgrading courses comprising about
40 trainees. The center has upgraded 322 primary education principals and
26 primary school inspectors. The principals were trained 45 days, spread
over a period of three years and the inspectors for 90 days, also spread
over a three-year period.
Rural Education Office (BER)
6.18      Of the 23 man years of technical assistance, BER received about
seven man years (para 4.19). In addition, six BER staff were trained
abroad under the fellowship program (para 4.21). BER has benefitted from
the technical assistance program. It has played an important role in (a)
developing of teaching materials for the primary schools and for the
primary teacher training institutes, and (b) upgrading of primary teacher
trainers, school inspectors and directors of primary schools (see para
6.16). Its role with regard to implementation of the educational reform
has been an advisory one. It did not monitor the reform. Therefore it



- 26 -
cannot be held accountable for the reported departures of original reform
ideas (paras 6.07-6.11). Since the break-up of the CPPs in 'formal"
primary schools and a non formal training center for out of school youth,
the BER only deals with the former.
6.19      A concomittant problem is that the curricula, prepared by BER at
the Teacher Training Institutes, do not match the actual situation at
CFPs. At EFI, teachers are trained in teaching academic and practical
subjects, almost disregarding the break up of CFPs in two centers, with
separate staff for teaching academic subjects at primary school and
practical subjects teaching at the "Centre Parascolaire". This matter was
extensively discussed with the BER and the Minister of National Education,
and agreo-*nts were reached that a study and assessment vould be undertaken
by the Ministry on the CFP as vehicle of the reform, the role of the
Practical Teacher Training Center at Kamenge and the EFI with regard to the
CPP.
VII. BANK GROUP PERFORMANCE
7.01      Project generation took about three years, which is long but not
abnormal for a first project. As shown on page (iii), about 78 man/weeks
were spent on missions related to project generation, more than three times
the number of staff-weeks spent on supervision missions. Although the
project was designed around the reform during project generation, IDA's
attention was drawn primarily to equity concerns. The content and
implication of the reform did not receive adequate attention (para 1.13).
7.02      The project was supervised by 14 Bank Group education missions
excluding the completion mission, and several visits by staff from the
controllers' unit in the Bank's regional office in Nairobi. The intervals
between the missions were two to seven months, averaging 4.8 months.
Average stay in the field was 1.3 weeks. The last eight missions were
carried out concurrently with appraisal and supervision of the Second and
Third Education Projects. General educators and architects participated in
eight missions, economists in five and a technical educator in one. Bank
Group staff should have more closely supervised the educational aspects.
More effort should have been devoted to change in the CFP concept (Chapter
VI). On the whole, however, Bank Group staff supervising the project
established and maintained good relationship with Government officials,
conducted a fruitful dialogue with the Government on education policies,
and helped with tooling up of Government ' planning and implementation
capability which prepared the way for preparation of follow up education
projects.
7,03      The Association showed flexibility in agreeing to two amendments
to DCA (para 3.17) and in allowing transfer of about US$1.0 million
equivalent worth of building materials and technical assistance to Credit
976-BU (Burundi Second Education Project) in return for US$1.0 million from
Credit 976-BU to Credit 679-BU. These funds were used to build ten more
CFPs under the project, raising total number of CFPs to 60.



- 27 -
VIII, CONCLUSION
8.01      The objective of the project was to assist the Government to
implement its educational reform, Increase enrollments in primary education
and increase Government control over the sector. Despite a cutback in the
number of CFPs from 100 to 60, the project has been successful in meeting
quantitative targets. BPE has done an outstanding job in carrying out
physical aspects of project in time, and at reasonable cost. The Staff
Appraisal Report in its risk section had discussed the problem of limited
experience of education sector in carrying out implementation of a sizable
project. However, because of effective leadership of the BPE director and
quality of BPE staff expatriate as well as national, this problem was
overcome. Physical implementation went well.
8.02      With regard to attainment of qualitative aspects also discussed
in SAR risks section, achievements are mixed. Primary education has
benefitted from printed learning materials but introduction of practical
subjects in the curriculum, an important component of the educational
reform, has not been attained as planned. Although the BER, the driving
force for the educational reform, received substantial material aid and
technical assistance under the project and a raise of its recurrent budget
as recommended in the SAR, it has not been able to adequately monitor the
reform. Attainment of qualitative reform objectives have been suspended by
the Government in favor of a rapid increase of enrollment at primary
level. Policy discussions between GOB and IDA being conducted in
connection with the proposed Fourth Education Project are addressing this
issue. The Government has been asked by IDA to prepare a plan of action
outlining practical measures to be taken to utilize effectively and
efficiently the CFPs and the TTC (para. 1.12).
8.03      Overall, the pz.ject has been successful in achieving its dual
objective. It has fully achieved its quantitative aspects including
improved equity. Qualitative aspects have been partially implemented.



-Q   H
,-4~~~~~~~~,
I
---r5



- 29 -
ANNEX I
PROGRESS REPORTS
Date Report    Period covered                    Staff
PIU   Stock R.  Workshop  Sites
2/6/78          - Dec.31, 77          29      12          -       345
11/21/78        Jan-March, 78         34      35          -       598
-            July-Sept,79 1/
-            Oct.-Dec,79          132                  -     794-1095
-            Jan-March,80         121                  -    1067-1219
8/6/80          Apr-Jun,80            97                  -    1120-989
2/9/81          Oct-Dec,80           112 - 105            -    1102-910
5/8/81          Jan-March,81         100 - 91                   864-810
10/28/81        Apr-Sep,81 2/         93 - 123            3     787-781
4/6/82          Jan-Dec,81           100 - 123           135    864-753
5/26/82         Oct 81-Mar 82        123 - 108          88-57   693-675
11/24/82        Apr-Sep,82           105-97             27-34   717-420
5/3/83          Oct,82-Apr,83         82-93             29-34   385-570
10/27/83        Apr-Sep,83            95-99             37-42   449-165
1/ No reports were received over period of April, 78 to July, 79. During
this period civil works came to virtual standstill because of shortages
of building materials caused by Uganda/Tanzania war.
2/ Starting September 1981, the PIU submitted semi annual progress
reports.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STAFFING OF KEY POSITIONS OF PIU
|Name        Position        From/to              ,_ Financed by
Gov.of Bur.   Belgium      IDA
Atale       Project
NTAHOBARI  director         1J77-9/21/79       X
Johan M.   Project
van der     architect
PUTTEN      deputy direct   1/77- 3/80                     X
Zacharie
WAKANA      Accountant      1/77-2/79          X
Paul Smile  Construction
IDURANT      Supervisor
(planner)      12/77-2/81                                 X
Alain       Construction
IGRAFF       Supervisor,
=            (procurement
specialist)    12/77-12/78                               X
Lambert     Construction
MOMMEN      supervisor      4/78-11/79
X
'Pierre     Construction
fURBAIN      supervisor      8/78-12/78                                X
Guy 0.
^ TARANTINO   Accountant     2/79-12/81                                8
Jean Bapt.    Project
NDIKUMANA     Director     4/21/79-12/80       X
Rene de     Architect        2/80-2/81
ILAUW       Deputy
Director                                                  8
Pierre     Architect      3/80-12/83                   X
FRANK
Philippe    Construction
| WERY        Supervisor    2/80-19/82                                X
I._._      ,_ __                    ..__   I _____  ._ _           ,_ I
Gregoire
GRAMMELIS   Architect     3/80-10/80                                IC
Paul
SPAEPEN    Architect      2/81-10/81                    X
Jean         Procurement .  .
DIAMANTO-    Officer      1/80-12/82   1           1            1
I    POULOS  l          l           l           l~~~~~~~~~



_31 -
ANNEX III
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.4e
<~~~~~0 "t                                                            3
e,:~~~~~                  ~    ~~~~~ 0X                     . -     3
~ ~~0    fg           0                    E      0          3       3
_               0E   0#                  E      0      0          ^      3
1.           03 g             0     0              0g  --           00      3R
S~~ ~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ O  E  f|  0  1 00b
KM   X'                            I                           I                  3 l " bO
jtn                 l                                       g      o    3 
0I 4            0^"                      l.g                 "      r 
d~~  ~~~                       0 . _                                   00 3ig gEtS       
I: i                                        N                     .4  .4.    4   $
"1   S.   ~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .4  .4. . ,.4. -f
,           0,                                                             |
|    il i5i"                                          - .fi  -5 -0i5



- 32 -
ANNEX IV
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR BER
Education Specialists
NAME         POSITION       MAN/YEARS    FRON/TO           FINANCED BY
Apr. Act.              UNESCO  IDA  GOV.of BUR.
Jean Claude  Printing                     12/78-
G. BOIS      specialist            1.5     6/80        X
Issa         In-Service
YENA         Teacher
Training        4    2.3    9/79-12/81          X
Specialist
Emmanuel     Evaluation
NAMSENE      Specialist       2    2      10/79-10/81         X
Asghar       Educational
HUSAIN       Planning
Specialist      2    3       1/79-1/82          X
Gerard       Teacher
BERNARD      Training
Specialist      4    2       5/80-5/82          X
G.           Non formal
HAUET        Education
Specialist     0.5   0.5    10/79-4/80          X
Roger        Teacher Aid
APE          Production       3    3      12/78-12/81 X
TOTAL MAN/YEARS:
Appraisal estimate:   15
Actual:                     14.3



- 33 -
Annex V
(p. 1 of 4)
INFORMATION ON TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
PREPARED BY BPE
B.        Experts and fellowships
Five experts have been financed by the project. Of these five, one
has been working mainly at the Planning Office and another with the Department
of Non-formal Education.
(i)       Expert A:  Specialist in in-service teacher training.  Within the
framework of research into and establishment of a policy for the in-service
upgrading and retraining of teachers in conformity with the goals of the 1973
reform, the continuing education expert has been assisting:
(a) with the design of a-traininx strategy geared to Burundi's true
situation:
The "cascade" approach to teacher training has been replaced by
"combination" training based on the optimal use of all existing
resources, the school principal being the cornerstone of the system.
(b) with organization of the in-depth training sessions for primary
school principals:
All primary school inspectors (26) and all primary school principals
(332) in Burundi are now armed to meet the practical requirements of
the 1973 reform. While it is still necessary to consolidate the
experiences gained during these stages and to enhance the D4
academic background, the stage system has succeeded in involving
the largest possible number of primary education personnel in the
education reform now in progress.
(ii)      Expert B:  Specialist in education planning.  His activities have
been in connection with:
(a) the development of a proposal to give an institutional structure to
the education planning process in Burundi;
(b) the school mapping pilot study in Kirundo arrondissement.
While the new procedures have not yet been set up owing to
difficulties of adaptation experienced within the administrative
structure, the school mapping operation has undergone some very
important developments.



34 -                          Annex V
(p. 2 of 4)
(iii)     Expert C:  Evaluation specialist.
In collaboration with the members of the evaluation workshop, the
expert has contributed:
-    to the evaluation of:  - practical agricultural work
- physical education;
-    to the establishment of a battery of exercises for the third year
and their evaluation (test No. 3 and test No. 4);
-    to evaluation of the fourth year exercise;
-    to the forward study of Kirundi;
-    to the survey of teaching materials produced and distributed by BER.
The expert has in particular made an effective contribution to the
feasibility study on double shifting and collective promotion.
The study took place in two stages:
(a) Performance analysis of primary education in Burundi, based on the
following data:
-    enrollment rate: 21.832
-    average delay in completing the primary cycle: 1.45
-    out of 1,000 students entering the first year, 129 reach the 6th
year of primary school without repeating, and 19 reach the first
year of secondary school without repeating.
Introduction of the double shifting system and collective promotion
will help improve the enrollment rate.
(b) The survey:
No innovation in the teaching field can succeed without the
endorsement of those who live the situation daily. On the basis of
this principle, the expert, with his colleagues from the evaluation
workshop, carried out a survey designed to record the opinion of
inspectors, school principals, teachers, and parents of students.
The results of this survey pointed up two contradictory positions:
-    the teachers were suspicious, reluctant to accept change, and afraid
of being downgraded;
-    the parents were in favor of any system that might bring about an
improvement in the enrollment rate; what mattered to them was not
quality, but simply having their children at least enrolled in a
school.



-35-                            Annex V
(p. 3 of 4)
This new national education policy came into force at the beginning
of the 1982/83 school year.
(iv)      ExPert D:  Specialist in pre-service teacher training.
In collaboration with the mewbers of the pre-service training
workshop, the expert has contributed:
(a)  to the design, preparation and testing of the new training system
for D6 teachers.
The principal objective of this training is to give an adequate
vocational profile to the goals of the 1973 reform.
In particular, in terms of program content and methodological
approach to program implementation, the emphasis is placed on the
acquisition of intellectual and, above all, manual skills, with the
aim of making the new teachers into people capable of bringing about
significant changes in both school and social environments.
BER's ongoing activities in the EFIs involve the validation of new
programs and teaching methods, training of teacher trainers, and
production of teaching materials for use by the trainers;
(b)  to the organization of several sessions in manual and technical
education within the framework of the activities of the Department
of Non-formal Education.
(v)       Expert E
This expert has been working for six months as a consultant with the
D'partement de l'Education Parascolaire. His study covers
evaluation of basic education in 60 primary schools and 60
Yagamukama centers run by the CARITAS CED (Centre d'Entr'aide et de
D6veloppement).
(vi)      Fellowships
The project has financed only eight fellowships out of the 10
proposed. The recipients of these fellowships are working at BER, except for
Mr. Th6ophile Girukwishaka, who has been promoted Director of the Vocational
Training Department within the Ministry of Labor and Vocational Training, and
Mr. Athanase Nzokirishiga, who has left the Planning Office and is working for
UNDP in Bujumbura.
What innovations have been made to the education system?
They revolve around three (sic] principal axes:
-    design of pre-service training programs:  D6 training, particularly
as regards educational psychology takes place on the basis of
renewed programs formulated in modules and learning units;



- 36-                       Annex V
(p. 4 of 4)
design of a retraining strategy, based on a conceptual approach to
the systems, starting with the school principals;
making the reform goals operational, thanks to the execution of
educational projects in the primary schools;
the double shifting system and collective promotion as an initial
stage in the generalization of basic education.



- 37 -
ANNEX VI
iege 1 of 3
DM UNI 115  EDUCATION PROJCT
,CDtST NO. 6?7,'U
Compliance with Covenants of Credit Agreement
Credit Aereemet                 St                     Status
4.04          Submission of preluiary      Assessment Report was received
*sessmet of the project       on April 16, 1984.
3.02 (^)     ItablUshest and staffing    TMe Pmoject tIpl_mentacton  nit
of Project 1tuit.             (MI) is adequately stafted and
operates satisfactortly. It also
plsemes Xte Second Eductiou
roject. St Includes a ostlonal
Project Director and seove expa-
twts spte*alsts: one accountit,
one pocur eMt * specilist, one
deputy project director (archtect),
eno eitl enganeer and the
arcitects.
3.02 (b)     Employment .1 the poere`-   TMe aCCoustant  erited ia Pebruary
ame  officer, ad the  -      1979, as reetabished sound
accoenta  by Jun  30, 1977. peatices. Mme Irocuremn speciliSt
toohk up his post In Deceber 1960.
3.03 (a)      Estsblisbment and            Te  sverAnuts initial CoUtribution
m*adten c  of a revolving    to she account ms the equivtlent of
account for the Ptoject Unit, of US$200,000. Sine then, the qovern-
meat be made quarterly payents to th
account, the amounts being based on the
mplemnstation schedule and budgetary
estiation  made by the Me In
Jany,  1981, the .0ovraent mad the
fi8a eounterpat paymnt to the
acont, naly FM 76 mlluon.
3.04         AWpointmet of qualifid        A qualftad director ts ou duty.
diretor for Project Vnit
3.05         ApIntmenst Of Other           Of dth  five speclsti listed in pert
quliied speLcalists.         3 of ew project, two posts  ve bees
redefined to better meet the needs of
re Somrover od the Credt Agreement
ha-sbeen amended accordingly.
Presenly al speciallsts are on duty.



- 38 -
AN        I
Page2o0  3
Side lettr  IT   Government assurance  to        Carie  out by the QS l .      441Sgs
(tint of 'two     exeotlaelteuost care 1L        aS  Cosamuctiou standards bave
dated 4/28/77)    cone roliag the costa of       recently beeu further refilo  to
construction of all ptiuarY   achIeve Chase g0o1s. Cost Coktrol
sloobla  to 'ensUTr  that     also Lproved through adequate
_mimu use of available         aceoustawy.
matearial is do fin school
coaostctieo", and to *develep
a cost mitsring s ".
Side letter v     Preparation of adult           The Winistry ofl Uncatio, hs
(first of two     education programs by          completed the two-y4  program
dated 4/28/77)    Deceuber 31, 1979.             in all. four subjects, namly agricl-
ture, woodwork, asoary ad bome
ecoomics.
3.06 (a)       selection of sites for         Disrootion of project Implementattio
the 100 C?'s according to    due to conflicts In neighboring coup"
criteria designed to beneftt  txi", and higher than expected
the educationally most        inflation have resulted in the coas-
deprived area.                tuction prograa being reduced to 37
C?e. The geographic distributlo  of
the 57 C?s I.s generally proportional.
to that of the originally envisaged 100
CYPs except for the districts of
)tyinga, Kirundo and, to a  "eser
extee,  aIvtzi Uhich are at a relative
disadvantage.
3.06 (b)       Seectio  of al 100 sites    Covenat supereded by aide
by Dece*er 31, 1977           letter to C.A. and also by pars.
3.06 (a) above.
Side letter i     Allocation of all primary     A final alocation wa
(seeos  of me)   schools among surni's I8   deteamned by Mr.  oud, school'-
dated 4/28/77     districts (aoadisents)   mapping consultant,folloving a mission
an  selection of actual       in October 1977 and subsequently
sites within the districts    accepted by the Goverment
by Apri 28, 1978
4.02 Cb)       Increas in the SEX'.          The Cove n1mnt has alloated
operating budget to           1w  10.4 mllion for I11,62.
J 15 million for M1977              14.4 million ha  been bdgeted
ad  each Ty thereafter.       for m1983 (FU 7.4 tIllon for private
coatract staff ad 7.0 million fog
Operating costs). In addition, a nam-
ber of posts are financed by the Civil
service for which an additionl 1W
21.0 mllion has also been budgeted Lor
1983. Moreover, the Hat provides
fuel.



-39-
A=X VI
!i~ge 3 of 3
4.03                    offfiXs .f project's  47 CI's an  operational. They are
.4oetiUaSl tfSitutitos        adequately staffed with primary tea-
Olth ssrlenSd a                es.  Prtly 109 practical subject
qualifted. pnt.eol La         lerteto@rs ase oerating La 28 CflP.
,^^^e bers.                   Ano er 34 are presetcly undet travinai
d0and ViU  JO    s addititonal 10 C)Ps
foueing their  taduaioin La January
1963. The Cit opeates below Its
capecity (60). Noveer, it viXI pro-
ide adequate staffing as all practical
coatom  have not ye bee  establlshed
is all Cu..  the main  hortage teains.
in agriculture and ssoony.
Uide loner ii   CowetinSSC asJcUtSM   to        A major effort h                to  XP
(first of two    chi          oal pri"          pry   pl          ,    c, be     1979
dated 4/28/77)   educati  io the  hbortest      and 1982,9 ha  Lreased by about
possible tun at the lolet   12S p.&. (from 146,000 ia 1979 to
blss    t eoe              20,000 La 1982). bveers the e*nol-.
mat ratio remaLns low (30:).
Side  lane:   iii  studies   em   double   shiftinA tomtic   pi-stios  end   double
(Side   ttm       ad es an dout,     e to       shiting have bees Int:oinced in*
dated 4/28/77   to be completed by reeaT   1962-43, folleuing the tac@ne r_a
3d4, 71 8.                     tiecs of the studes.



TOTAL COST IN FOU THOUSANDS OF PHYSICAL FACILITIES
PROJECT ITEM                       CIVIL WORIKS                       FURNITURE & EQUIPMENT                 TOTAL PHYSICAL FACILITIES
Appr.       Actual       Diff.in I     Appr.        Actual      Dlff.in 2      Appr         Actual      Diff.in 2
1. Multipurpose
Learning Ctrs.      737,850      576,989        -11.8      110,865        70,374       -36.5       848,715       647,361       -23.7
2. Rural Education
Bureau                8,770       11,122        +26.8       59,865        45,108        -24.7       68,635        56,230       -18.1
3. Extenslons of
Teacher Training
College              10,280      151,100       1,369.8        1,745       11,059        533.8       12,025       162,159       1,248.5
4. Book Lockers
5. Constructlon,
furniture &
equipment for PIU      -          75,800                      3,625       61,062       1,584.5       3,625       136,862       3,675.5
GRAND TOTAL            756,900      815,009         7.7        176,100      187,603          6.5      933,000    1,002,612         7.5                        l
o4C
wi



- 41 -
ANNEX VII
Page 2 of 3
COMPARISON OF ACTUAL PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORIES OP EXPENDITURES
WITH ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS EXCLUDING CONTINGENCIES
Appraisal            Actual        between
BEstimates           Costs        actual &
(in millions)      (in millions)    estimated
costs
FBU    US$      X of     FBU     US$   Z of
Total                   Total
Physical Facilities
1. Civil Works
Site Development             28.8    0.32      3.8
Academic & Communal         420.3    4.67    54.0
Staffhousing                 51.3    0.57      6.6
Sub Total (1)               500.4    5.56    64.4       815.0   9.06   67.5   62.3
2. Furniture                    30.6    0.34      4.0
3. Equipment                   100.8    1.12    12.8
131.4    1.46    16.8      187.6   2.08   15.5   42.8
Subtotal (2&3)               MU       7.02    81.2   1,002.6  11.14   83.0   58.6
4. Technical Assistance        124.2    1.38    16.0       103.7   1.15    8.6  -16.5
5. Project Administration
excluding T.A.               21.6    0.24      2.8      101.2   1.12    8.4  468.0
Total Base Cost             777.6    8.64   100.0
6. tjontingencies              348.4    3.87    -
7. Total Project Cost        1,126.0   12.51    -        1,207.5  13.41  100.0    7.2



- 42 -
ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 3
COMPARISON OF ACTUAL PROJECT COSTS BY PROJECT COMPONENT
WITH ESTIMATED COSTS EXCLUDING CONTINGENCIES
Appraisal               Actual             Between
Estimate                Costs             actual &
(in millions)         (in milllons)         estimated
costs
FBU     US$   % of       FBU     US$    X of
Total                     Total
1. Multi Purpose Learning
Centers (CFPs)             570.6   6.34  73.4       647.7    7.20   53.6      11.4
2. Rural Education Bureau
(BER)                       50.4   0.56   6.5        56.2    0.62    4.7     10.7
3. Extension of Teacher
Training College             8.1   0.09   1.0       162.1    1.80   13.4    1,900
4. Furniture & Equipment
for PIU                      2.7   0.03   0.3       136.9 1/ 1.52   11.3    4,907
Sub Total                  631.8   7.02  81.2    19002.6   11.14   83.0      58.6
5. Technical Assistance       124.2   1.38  16.0       103.7    1.15    8.6   -16.5
6. Project Administration
(excluding Tech.Ass.)       21.6   0.24   2.8       101.2    1.21    8.4    468.1
Base Cost                  777.6   8.64 100.0
Contingencies              348.4   3.87   -
7. Total Project Cost       1,126.0  12,51           1s207.5   13.41  100.0      7.2
(including taxes)
1/ Includes FBU 75.8 million for civil works (para. 4.14)



PLACES, UNITS AND AREAS OF PHYSICAL FACILITIES
PROJECT ITEM                     NO. OF SCHOOLS
(STUDENT PLACES)                     NO. OF STAFFHOUSES               GROSS AREA OF NEW CONSTRUCTION
___________________   Appr.          Actual      Diff.in X      Appr.        Actual      Diff.in Z     Appr.        Actual       Diff.in Z
1. Multlpurpose
Learning Ctrs.
(Centre de
Foreation            100           60             40        200            46            77         66,300      45,360          -32
Polyvalente-CFPs)  (27,000)1/  (32,400)2/        (20)                                                (663)      (750) 4J
(2.45)     (2.58) /
2. Rural Education                                                                                      (2.45)     (1.40)6/
Bureau (Bureau
d'Education
Rurale, BER)           _            _              _                        - _                        100          200          100
3. EFtenslons of
Teacher Training       1            1                                      2            -             290        2,310          696                     4-
College               (-)          (-)
4. Book Lockers          400          400  3/
5. Project
Ad-inistration                                                                                         -         3,031          -
TOTAL                    100           60                          200        48             77        66,690       50.901        -23.7
44,900
1/ Single shift
I Double shift
3/ Space for book storage Included in area of CFPs.
4/ Gross area per CFP
/ Gross area per student place
6/ Gross area per student served



NOU YEAS AND COST IN FW THIOUSADS
OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE & FIOJCT AMNISTRATION
PROJECT ITEM                  HaN lEARS                TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE       PROJECT AID)INISTATION                TC_TAL
Dliff.                        DiLff .                     Diff.                          Diff.
_ _________________     Appr.   Actual  in X. _      ppr.   Actual   in Z        Appr.   Actual  In Z         App?.     Actual   in Z
Techn. Assist.
Expert Services
BER                  1S       9.8      -40        98,137   60,843   -38.0
PIU                  18      14.5      -14.5      52,38S   34.815   -33.8
Subtotal Expert S.   T        - 4.3     -26.4     150,722    S-,058    -36.9
Fellowships            7.5       8       +6.7      13,378    8,682    -35.0
Subtotal TA                                       164,100  103.740   -36.8                                   164,100    103,740    -36.8
Project                                                                           28,900   101.168             28,900    101,168   +25.0
dministration
GIAND TOTAL                                         164.100   103,740   -36.8   28,900   101,168   250.0    193,000   204,908    6.2



- 45 -
ANNX X
INIOLLMtNT DATA
Tables 1 to 7 are copied from the BPE's evaluation report on First
Education Project (Cr. 679-BU) issued, in March 1984.
~vouow oS UrVOCIM RE L'ENSUIOENEN  PnIxMA
s          s           s  WWUTATION  a PAtT DES C.F.P. t
ARRDDIS9E EWT  1976-1077  1963-1984 *                 1                 s
2               :           3          s        :   5    s        :    5   a
g  ~       ~     ~~   :            :        *        S        :       a
I i. mjAaA ZA       3614  :10 341  a 6527:1n.13:    462:  12.4:
s2. CIUITOXS         4 654  :  14 305  : 95O1f  s    56 s      03:  11l5s:
3.S  WUJS BWRA   :  13747  :  21 467  s 7720:  5616:    102: 0s,74
:4. MISALP.    :   9 759       1 599    a 608O: 90,56:   225 :  1l8s
: . WA=awR    515 728  :  35 247   19*1 s 124.10            695s   4,42s
2~~~              S                :            S    *       3
;6.XAKAWA           3 S347  a10 920    7 *       25$2~6,26   678: 300,2
s7. DJKIRAAZ         a 8 104  s  18505  s,t0461 :129,90:   610    7,53:
3 ~   ~                S           t        S       S                :t
:8G fGA T           10 246     17 753    7    :  73,28   121        11,60:
a               S          *       '      S     :a              
s3 YA-lX        S   3 891      10 002,: *11aUl       150  2    :    14.62:
:               S      *.   2          S        :       S        S 
s10. bWUUfVYA    :      6  :   14 921  s 6053t 66,26:   762:  8,g9:
3               a          3           s        a       *        :        a
I1I. SlARO      :   6 459  *  1723  :13 254   204,68:    136:  2,10:
a               2          *           s        3       :        2        3
s12. XIAO            4367      16 0   :10633:01,64:    US:  18,43
sI3. MIIMA      :   s71      16 041   10 330  180,8.   53* 10,21:
14. KAYIJIZA    s   9 018  *  20 0 6    :     71  129,42   1 404:  15,57:
:1. Nam         s   7 340      17 50   :10 21 :.139,21ts 1 064 :  14,90 :
$16. CAKIWZO    :   C758  s  11 '37  s 49 3       04,S3      210:  3,13s
W17. 0I  MA     s   396   a 07 *         6  011:16 ,61,   3o    17,30s
a               :          a           :       :        *        s:
s1. RUYSIO           2 303  :  12099  a7 6G2  145,13 s        0:  12,.99
:  t     A L    : 133 33  s 2 M 94^' :164 0W.  125,33 t 11457 W     672:
* D       pawlw.irec



- 46 -
IVOLUTION DES SAL&BS tiE CLASS o  LA FM  tiS C.F*P.
s  2       s           s AtlhSIATION   : PAT DES C.F.P. s
A AO:ISSNT  1976-19l: 1003.418* :.                      :_s
25                   :                 :   :       :            :s
:               :          s           ;       |        a s*         %   s
a              :*_ :_:_2_:_____   2 
S                    :                :    :   *                S        :
1. l)UMMA s         117    s   1864        67: G7,26:  10         8 ,8s 
2 a. CITOXI  :    126   :    257   :   131:104.0:   7   : 556 s
$          ~     ~    ~~:  :      :        :       :        :  
3. WML TIA  :    350    S   349   :   -I-0,28            1   :0,28:
a 4. IVSML     :    275    .   335    :   60: 21,81:   1   : 0,35  :
t~~ ~ ~       ~    ~     ~     ~~~~ .  :a      :         :        s
:5. URUR             394:       602:    208: 5279:   9 :2,28
; 6. tWAXA     :      87        184   :    97: 1U49t  11   :12.64:
4~~              ~    ~~ s        :        s       :        : a
S 7. 5UItRh3AS=:    224         33    :    102S 49,33       9   :4,04:
: . GI tOA     :    291         319:    20: 9,62   20   :6,7:
:9 . ARUZI    :    1            192:        66:52,38:           : 6,35:
s~~~~~~~ :        *   :           :        :       :3 
:10. KJRA4WA   :    249   :    260   s   11:  4,42:  16 :    6.43  :
l11l. MAO            174        334:    180  91.95:    2:  1 51:
:12. K XRUIDO  :    lb5  :    282   :   127 s  1,9t:  15    9,68  :
Is:. NVt5A    :    10             S 285   s   104: 57.49*   8  *4,42  :
14  AYMZA   :    29             39    :   102:    ,       2    a :  7,61 S
:              : *                   :        :                 :       : 
15. NGOZ1      :    241   :    360   :   119: 49,3:  20  :s.030  s
:16. CANo      :      21        211   :  - 10  -4,52       4   S 1,6   S
S }7~~~~*        S     01    f  "    , 
S17.RITAIA    S      12         1 :        7::         S6,96  9   :8    S
s 18.ft ~  2t  s           :160  251   2    71   35,44:  10   s8,55  s
:     * T A                       *       : 701  S as:I SU    40*23   182 4:11
*   T                      2      @          1    : 1  a:* ,"      e :   * 9



- 47 -
ANNEX X
Table 3
Tableau 3
TAUX BRUT DE SCOLARISATIOtt PAR AIERONDISSEKENT 1984
;               ;  POPULATION      POPJLATI/Oi SCOLaRISEh:  TAUX BRUT DE
: ARRONDISSIMET: *:
: SCOLARISAsLE    (Effestie d461&ves   : SCOLARI$ATION  %
1. BUSNZA    :   25 8;S               10 341                 40;02
: 2. 3UJU!DURA       27 912             21 467            :    76,91
:                *                       ; 
3. StUIIRASAZI :   40 260            1a 565            :    46,12
4. BU'RUURI       61 t98       :      3 247            :    57,22
5. CAF'KUZO    :   19 .1s      :      11 037                 57.1s
:6. CIDITOKE   ;    2 30        :      14 ^05           :     44,21:
*       :                ;                       :                   *~~* 
7 . IT3G,a    : G.3 764              17 7'F3                40,57
: 8. KARUSI      :   28 69              1) 002           ;    35,01          :
*  ~                         :                       . 
5;KAYAMZA    :   73 252              20 645                 28,18
10. KIRUMIDO       S it 6d0           16 200                 29,63:
11. oJABA    ;   2J 224         :     10 920                 37,37
12R. ARANWA   :   31 408              14 921                 47,51
13. KUVINGA    :   37 135             16 041:    43,13
*               :                :                                           C
1AI KWARO      :   23 105       :     to '23                 59 ,8s:
:1s. MwI3AL: .       403a        :      16is tS          :     3,49
*6                              3.o41
:. 5. :GOZI    :     #7 60:            17 540           :    30,4;
17. RUTAKA     :   19 :78              9 576                 49,42
:12. f.UYIGI    2: G605         :     1. 999                 4,688
*               :                ,                       : 
:..nsemble du Pays:   'S9 :-8 (1)  ;    2X5 881   (2)          42,86
(1) ; taux de crotsea.c S 3 %
(2) : donnM6 provlsoires



- 48 -
ANNEX X
Table 4
ics s   REPUZOWITATIVIt 1/
a               s    INDICEOK        :                   sD sicDE
AROIZSSENW    REPRSE lATIVITE       RPRgSETAIlVI     AUGsTATION  S
a               :   3976 -           397     1 M  -19P   s 4
1. IRWIDO    s        0,1:                 0,71         a      0,20      a
: 2. KAMM       :      0, 64                0,77         s      0913      t
s 3. LAN        :      0,65 b               0.05                0 0       8
4    MIM        :      0,67                 0 0,95              0.26      a
S . NOO                0,76                 0,69         a   -0,09 
S ^.   w   :  0,7a   ~~  t    s.o          s     o,aa      a
:0. I4AJ4A    s        0,978        s        ,0t                0,22 
7 iS. CKIRASAZI:       0,97 9               1,07         t      0,28      s
S . CIaITOicE :       0,93         a1,0O4               a     0,11 
: 9.WTA         :      0,94         :       1,10               0,16       s
z10. S Z               0,  *                1S07               0,00 
a11. IiJRAW.   s       1,02         3       0,17         a   -0,05
s     Z.GUEGA          1,09         :       0,90         *   -0,16       s
s13. :ISALE            1.21        *        0,95        -      0,26 s
1 14. KWA3                                  1,40               0,12
8 15. UJ     a         1,40                 I g,o        t   -0,34
:S.M, BUZ              1,41         :       1,55               0,14 
; 17. WJA    :         2.13         s       1,52               0 -0,61   3
: is. CMZ              2990                 1,37        S   -1,5w        S
1/  Less than one means enrollment ratio (ER) is below country average (CA);
more than one means ER is above CA; and one means ER.equals CA.



- 49 -
ANNEX X
Table 5
UKPA47TION O8 C.F.P. PAR REoXt0 ST PAR PROJST
:,         ~ ~~s :_              :_            s:,
aALRMOtISDUIIIT  0 OU0  ZDUCATIOiIE 3   DUCATION U1 : DUCATION III :TOTAL:
s . :UN            2 :   2          s           O        0   
s2. CIK7X&         5  s      3             I             I          
:3. AWUWbU   s   0:         I      s       O            0         
4. tSStSALZ       3        I 1    s                     3       s 4:
sEl. D'RUM:   4:            4      s       O            0             4:
s , M.JAKANA       a          4    s       0            2        s 6s
s               :    :          ,    :             :____s______:__
s7. WIUAAZI     6  s        3              I            I                 5:
s1B5I~          :      :         :          0      s      0        :   2
s 8.                      : 44 
92. XA13 1Os   7.:            3     s       3      s      1            6 :
:              : a            :            .:              :              s
s0. DWURA As    0: 24               s0                   0            4  s
:               :      s             :             s              s       a
:II1. UtAR           3        1                          2 0  .  s -   4:
s12. IUUSlNOO     1 3  s     5      t                   4        ;12s
s 13. M       :   9  s      3      s      3             2 2      :   8  s
s14. VAYJAU :     14 s       8      s                   3            1   4:
s55JtI         s    4:              s                   s         s    4:
15Xg. NCOU    :   9  z      5      :      X      :      3            9 s
s,.AIAW         :    6:             : 3s                          :    6:
:716. CAIAM:O         : 2            :      1      s                   I s:
:G17  RTA:   5  s            4      s       0      3     0        s   4:
31. 15 3                            :             .   3               7 
:T  S          S TA t  00   60      s      U            24        s i   :
;1.IUD  *         13 s        :        s           :              :      s 2



50                                   ANNEX X
Table 6
Page 1l of 5
MCT1F DM  CANDIDATS DES CnTS DE VOiUinTI
POLYVALWM3 RIN XLOITAZo  - 1983
*       .              . .
c~~~~~
PROVINCE'   CE1TRE         ECT.rS  . SZCTI0.IS  s SECtINs 
O  t        XISTANTIS   WPPRI   .14&2&mTOT
: WSANA .. CIYA          : Kenuiseris: Konsulrte:         -     : 13  20 : 33
*:  Mcgonnerie: 4agonz.erie:    -       15  22 : 37
:*conode FiP:  O eone P:        -        : 12:  17:
:AgroPasto:               :Agro-Psato:  -:  -:   - 
:        : 2. GATAGUR!: 1ernUis*rioe Ns.uieorlo:          -     : 9: ll: 20:
* agnonerie: flagonnr1e:        -     :13: 10: 23:
:  :conoaio   EconomieT:        -     : 3:  5:   8:
:        :               : Agro-Pato                 P      to:   -:  -:   -:
CIBITOKS: 3. RUJA       : Menulserle: heluserie:        -      : 3: 16   19:
s:gonzerie: Nagonrie:                 :S: 8:  13:
:        :tconor nteT:EorAmteF:                                 : 5:10: 15:
::Agp-Pasto: Aro-Pasto:               :3:  7: 1 :
A4. dUS080    : connerie  Waqonnerie:        _      : 5:2l0s 15:
:::co* i*e r :3oonomiut:       -     : 3:  6:   9:
:Agro-P.sto: A$r*-Pato:         -     : -:6:   6s
5. tWTAkIO    :t4ewlserie tHe tnuiie         -      : 6  7:  13:
:;aonnrie sMepornerie:          -     :10 :a :       :
:Econrmo1!: Eeor omoF:          -     : 7:  6:  13:
;tro-Pasto:  Agr-Pauto:         -       :4:  E:   9:
GITEGA    6. BUGRUIDtlAA: .trtuiserie: Mauaiseori:      -      : 4: 13:  7 s
::.aonnerl:  Agonnerie:               :3: 16:  19:
:        :               : EconomLe F:  oonomeF:          -     : 4: 11   s5:
:Ar:-Poto  Agof to:             -     :3:  5    8:
:   :    :                         :           ~     ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~: ::
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



- 51 -
ANNEX X
Table 6
Page 2 of 5
:7. wM4GA       : miu"arerle:Uuta,wl,:    _           :      4   12 :
:ahoiWrie ? MKaonnerio :            : 4   10 :l4S
:;Sconomi- F: Economle F:    _           *   9   14
: Aro-Pasto: Agro-Pasto:    -            -  10   10
;         ; 8. BUHUNJA    : Nonuiserle : kenuiserie :    -        15 : 22   37:
: 4c:onneriIa;onnerie;                 :15  22 :37:
: coNmle F :eonol F:    -              : 4 :22t 26:
:ASro-Pasto   Agro-Pasto:    -         : 5:14:  19:
:9. ITABA      : Menulserle:s Mo srie:         -       : 8 :22:  30:
: MaSonneri: Magonnorle:       -       : 6 :14: 20:
:  Econmio    Bonomle F:       -       : 7   13: 20:
:   :            : Agro-~~~pasto :Agro-Paoto :   -      :-:1   
:   :   :            :            :            :   ~~~~: :     :
:10. KIBERE     : de4nuiserle : Bcnuiserie :    -      : 4 : 18 : 22 :
;a;onnerio : Kagonneri :    -        : 6 :18: 24:
:Economie F :conomieF:    -            : 2 :16: 18:
.II. VYUYA     : Menuiserie : Menulserie       -      s -   7:  7:
Maeonnerie : Noaonnerie       -      : 15 :13: 28
Kfconomie F :EonomleF          - i12  12    24
:Zgro-Pasto:            :Agro-Posto: -    -:   -
: URURI                 :                    :                  :    :   :
:12. GATETE    ; ttenuilerie : Monuiseric :    -      : 7   -       ? 7
:Magonnerie: oonnwri.:         -      : 8    -:   8:
: conomie F :conomie F         -         5   - 
Agro-Pasto  Agro-Pasto ;    -        : -:  -:   -:
-         -    _. ....   ,    i ._   .   ,  ,     ._                  __
;13. BUHIGA        nuiserlo   euiserie         -         6 : 6 : 12
:4agonnerie: Nagonnrie         -      : 9   4 4    13
:Kconomla F:              ;Economiee F    _       -
: A6o-Pastot Agro-Pasto                       a :   6
:NGOZI   :
;14. MARAMVYA    Nmuis.rto Me:nuserie         -        15  18s 33
U ooralwi@  Magonnrldw        -        16  20: 36
8conomietBcogloeF            -        8:s 1: F  26
Ap-ftPasto  Aajr..Pasto;    -        :9   18   27
*        :            s            :            :    : 



52 -
ANNEX X
.-                   4
Page 3 of 5
:15. NUSW4*A    ;)Menuluer :lo :enut.rie:       - _     4 ; 9:  i n
:               :                          ~u,aconnerl   : Mannerie : 3 : 8 s  1
:* onomie P   Economle  F             :: 3:  8:  11
:Agro-Paotv: Agro-Pasto         :   -      :10:  10:
s:1.. VYMIWA    : tenuiseria; Monuiserie :      -      : - : 12 : 12
::Magoinerie : Magonnirie :    -     : -:12:  12s
::conomieo:       - I       oonamieF:  - :  -I    
s        :               : Agro-Paftt  : Agro-Pasto :     -     : -:3:   3
:        :17. RWEGURA    : leruiserle ; Menu$eerie :      -     : 3 : 4 :  7
:Magom.erie :Megonneri*:        -     : 2:   6:   7 :
:Roonoie F :Econoloe f:         -       : 6.  4 :  10 :
:Agro-Pasto:              :Agro-Pato: -:  -:   -:
:18. REMRA      : enuicerie:  enuisriso:        -       : S: 10: 15:
:: tcannerie :NagonnerLe.       -           -:9 :  9 :
R;:Qnomie F ;Sconomie   :      -     :12 :  0 : 12 :
AVo-Pasto : Apro-Pato :       -      :4:10: 14 :
:19. 3USIGA      Menuiserie : genuisorle :      -     : 18 : 13 : 31 :
KAYAN7.A               a: Nonnerie  MSaonnerie :       -      : 16 : 16 : 32 :
:        :               : EconomisF: Economne F          -     :11 : 10: 21 :
Agro-Pasto :            : Agro-Pasto   - : - :  -
:        :               :            t            :            :        
:20. RUGAZI    : Menuiserio :  nuluorle :       -     : 9 : 8 a    17 :
Aa;onnerie : kagonnerie :         -  :7:12 :19 :
:        :               :ESconomie r  Zconomic F:        -      :   :10:  l8:
:Agro-Pasto tAgro-Pasto:        -     : -:10    10:
:21. RYIRSNGEYE : 4enuiseri* :Menui3erie :      -     : 6 : 11 : 17 :
:::aonneri: Naq60nnerie :           -  :       83:17:  Z2:
:Sconomie F :Economie,F:        -     : b:10: 15 :
s:ro-Pasto sAvro-Pasto:         -     : -:11:  1 :
...................



- 53 -
Page 4 of 5
s :22. NYA!WIA A :enUlUi@ asorNie erto : -o : _   19 s 35 s
:        :               :                                     aLacmnerie : bsonnerie :  8 :9   27
:        :               :EconomleF :EnmlF :            _          : 10   : 20 
A: o-Pneto ;           : Agro-Pasto : - : - :  - s
: KCARU': :              :            ;           :                           3  
: ;23. CANZRIIRO  : Menuiserle : Menulserie                      l a 18 : - : l 
: M*Sonneroia:           : gaNunnerie s -: -s  -s
:Agro-Pauto-: Agro-Paeto :            : 19:-   19 :
:24. 3UDAhUNCA   Menuiterie :lonulserile s     -     s 6 :     s 13 
:tagonMrtew:raSOnrl@:          -      : -:8: 6    6:
s  :           ;oonameF r aEcemiF:             -     s 5:  5:  10:
s:Aro-Pasto :Agro-Pato;         -     s 4   7:  11 :
*  :. N.KENDO    : Magonnerle : Kagonnerie :   -     : _ : 12 s 12 s
s:  onmlo F :Ecnomlot:          -       -:  4:  4 :
::Aro-Pe to :Asro-Pasto:        -     : -:12   12: 
:26. MUGINA    :      Menulserte s Nemalsrie s  -    s 7 :   I t o. :
:   : Magonnerie . Magonner-          : -:  73   7:
.KIRUNDO :               :Roono.ie i :ooaiomtF:          - F     9:  7   168
:        :               :*qtro-Pasto :Agro-Pacto        -     :10: 3 : 13:
s      :      ~       :            s                             a s   3 
:        :27. ..A0I8OZI  s Nenuiaelrie            s      -*miar  : 9   7 s 1o
* 2a9onnerie : Magonnorle s           :1110 : 21 :
:        :               : Agro-Pa4to      -      :Agro-Pa.to: -:  -s  -:
:   :             ~~~: Ioonomle?:    -      S Kc@omtedo:  -;  -3s  -:s
:   :             :~~~~~Eon i   t           son    i    s I       I     s
:        :20. RUSARAAI   : Usnuiserlo :a knuvtrle :      -     : O : 12 : 10 :
: Maqonnael :Magonnerie:       -      :   : 14   19 :
s: ZcorAmis F 2 cnomie F              : 4 :13   17 :
: Atro-Pasto  Agro-Pasto:             s -: 12   12 :
;NURANVYA :29. iXCARIZA   : ftenutserl; Mbauiserie s     -     : 8 s 14 s 22 :
: Magonnrwios :auerie s        -      : 23:13 : 3B :
::oonmiF: sFoonomdoFs         - I      7  10 l: 27 :
:        S               S           S            S            t    :   a  



- 54 -
;.4NEX X
Table 6
Page 5 of 5
s  30. aJOKZl    : Meulwerie : NonuSleerc I          : 2s7 : 18 : 35 
*:Hawonner1eto sAenner1s              :13 : 13   26: 
*conoio   F: Econol F:    -           : 14: 14:  20: 
;        :               : AgroPnsto: J8Aro-Pasto:AVrO..ft:  -  : 4 s  :   4 :
31. ?IYAMI)W,O; llenuiserie : lmonuisuie:    -     : 10 : -:  10 :
: maeonnerle: MaqonrteS    -          : 0: -: 10: 
s        :               : Agrop-ato s Ao-Pasto:        -      s 7:  -  17:
:              :SEommib F:I Xconomle          -      s 7:  -:   7:
s   s  ~       ~     ~     ~      ~~~ : s  s:   
2        : 932. MyjYvCm6 S Me      s   rlicer te:      - r       7:   -s 17 t
3              *Magonnerie: Nsoo@ri.:    -           :17:        17:
;Kconome F s EclmoF:    -              13S   - s 13 :
:Agr-:Pesto : Agro-fo:    -          : 11   :
:33.KIUC8 :Xlu.rl.we,le:Kmute  s    -                : 10:   - is   s
CANIPfO                :  llaeoonnrl: Nagonnrle s    -       s 11 : - :  10 s
:~~____________s,_________ .             s     ss :_s_s_s________:, 
S 34. :AA    O omiser               rl* S     - S      13:  - : 13:
t Maqonn.rie: Naqonrle:       -      s13:  -s 13:
* :.: Agr-Pasto I                         Agro-fsto s -: -:  -
:  35. NYAIZA4AC: Oenulserri : Ifrlsrie :    -      s 44    :  4 :
:Magonnerie: 1t1eonneries    -       :5s-s 4.
s   :          : leorsozBconom 7: oml7 s    -      :At -: s  5
A sromPato  Aofto             -      : 
*  : *      s 30. KTA}A M    :en%aulsrie:  nulserle:    -        s11s -: s1:
s   :          :Ms9cnnerte:I s lllo:         -      : 1  S:  -:S1:
s  A&r a-Pasts  : Agzo-Pastc~ :    -  : 10      : 10 :
: 37. KAYOVE    : Nenuisere : Menuisrlo:    -       : 15:  :  15S
::  or.nerle:  aooraerl.    -      : 1B s -   16 :
Mt    :_                                                        to"W:,  :  t   ::
s >St.L                       s            s                        sS a  *  1 



- 55 -
ANUEXI
ZmcIVS Des NsTRIES PRATI3 7043
AU C.FJ(.P. DE KCASE
3 ~  ~     ~                   _
2             :          :                        :           :St-Dcs
X   :    s            t           s          ~~~~~~ ~~~~~st46 "st 
s 88CTION       1979-198: 19W-1981  : 19W-1982 : 192-193                 3 TOL 
*           2 :__s                             1 1983
IAOMRISt   11    I    16              S    12    2    10    I    a    S 57
: .N  ESWE?    10    S    1i s             10    s    11           5    s54s
: ~                  a            3 _    .   s  s         _ 
.:ShB C0:E  s 11               i      t    11    s .   1      25   157 0
:4.RAM-    :   11    :         13           9 9    i    9          6        4 AS:
a   PATRA:               s                                   3          2 
TTA            :_ S              S__ .t S3       3    4                  2      t
s SOTSA L   :   43    s    65         .    42    s    45    J   34  s:229:s
_             2                                                             



cn     I
I
z       v:     l
D 0 



- 57 -
CUEEMTS FROM THE BORRQWER                                     ATTACHNENT I
Translation of Telex dated March 5. 1987
OEDD1
INTBAFRAD BUJUMBURA, BURUNDI, MARCH 5, 1987
FOR GRAHAM DONALDSON, CHIEF, AGRICULTURE AND HUMAN RESOURCES DIVISION,
OPERATIONS EVALUATION DEPARTMENT.
RE YOUR LETTER OF JANUARY 20, 1987, REGARDING PCR FOR CREDIT 679-BU,
FOLLOWING CLOSE REVIEW OF REPORT, EYE FIND IT IN GENERAL AGREEMENT WITH
VIEWS ALREADY EXPRESSED TO STAFF OF REGIONAL EDUCATION DIVISION. YOURS
VERY TRULY, JEAN-BAPTISTE NDIKUMANA.



