Document of
The World Bank                     I            t    ç0;;
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1262-BU
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
EDUCATION PROJECT
IN BURUNDI
January 21, 1977
Education Projects Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1            =         FBu 90.0
FBu 100                   US$1.11
MEASURES
1 Meter (m)              =          3.28 Feet
1 Square Meter (m2)    =           10.76 Square Feet
1 Kilometer (km)         =          0.62 Miles
1 Hectare (ha)           =          2.47 Acres
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
AN EDUCATION PROJECT IN THE REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
GLOSSARY
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS                                        i - xi
I.   ECONOMIC pEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES ................        1
Geographic and Socîo-Economic Situation      ............   1
Development Trends                                          2
Manpower Requirements ....e ....C  . *O .............       2
II.   THE EDUCATION SECTOR 4................*et**                      4
Background   .. ...... .... ......... * ............        4
The Education System  ..............................        4
The Education Reform            .......       .......      14
Education and Equity  ..............................       17
Education Finance                ...............           21
Strategy for Education Investment                          23
Annex II-1:  Comparative Education Indicators
Annex II-2:  Primary Enrollments by Province,
Inspectorate, and Sex
Annex II-3:  Structure of the Rural Education
Bureau
Annex II-4:  Structure of Formal Education
since the Reform
Annex II-5:  Classroom Provision:  The Districts
Compared
Annex 11-6:  Education Pyramid
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
the Republie of Burundi in February/March 1976. The mission consisted of
Messrs. D. Klaus (mission leader and economist), H. Scheffold (economist/
educator), R. Welter (architect), and J. Maas (evaluation specialist, CPS)
from the Bank Group and Mr. W. Gould (school mapping expert, consultant). The
project was further reviewed in the field by Mr. Welter in July 1976 and by
Messrs. Klaus and Scheffold in September/October 1976.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



-2
Page No.
III.   THE PROJECT ...................... e e ee ...........e...........e .    34
Project Objectives  and Content ..e.ee..............             34
Project Items ................ e.e... ......... . e  ...         34
Annex  III-1:  Original Representation Indices
Annex III-2:  Option A:  Allocation of the 100 CFPs
among the 18 Districts
Annex  II-3:  Effect of Option A
Annex III-4:  Option B:  Allocation of the 100 CFPs
among the 18 Districts
Annex III-5:  Effect of Option B
Annex III-6:  Agreed Allocation of 89 CFPs among the
18 Districts
IV.   COST OF THE PROJECT, FINANCIAL PLAN, IMPLEMENTATION,
PROCUREMENT, AND DISBURSEMENTS  .....e..................               48
Cost Estimates  ee.e........e. ..e      ..e...        .....      48
Financial Plan       ....................................        51
Project Implementation   ............................            53
Procurement ..........  56
Disbursements ..................... ................             56
Annex IV-1: Summary of Estimated Project Costs
Annex IV-2: Project Implementation Schedule
Annex IV-3: Key Indicators for Supervislon
Annex IV-4: Forecast of Disbursements
V.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION   ........ ...................               62
Benefits ................................                        62
Risks ............                                               63
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ...............                  64
Related Documents and Data available in the Project File.              65
MAP: IBRD 12260



REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
BASIC DATA
General (1975)
Area                                                     27,834 km2
Population                                               3.7 million
GNP per capita                                           US$100 equivalent
Adult literacy rate (estimated)                          10%
Education (1974-1975 school year)
Enrollment in primary schools
(Grades 1-6)                                           130,000
- as % of 6-11 age group                                 21%
Enrollment in secondary schools
(Grades 7-13)                                          13,600
- as % of 12-18 age group                                2.5%
Enrollment in the University of Burundi                  1,000
- as % of 19-22 age group                                0.5%
Education Finance (1974)
Recurrent expenditures of the Ministry
of National Education                                  FBu 603 million
- as % of total government recurrent expen-
ditures                                                21%
Government recurrent expenditures on educa-
tion and training                                      FBu 633 million
- as % of total government recurrent
expenditures                                           22%
Total national expenditures on education and
training as a % of GNP                                 3%






GLOSSARY
Arrondissement             District.  Burundi is divided into 18 districts.
BER                        Bureau d'Education Rurale - Rural Education Bureau.
The semiautonomous department of the Ministry of
National Education responsible for implementing the
reform of primary education.
BES                        Bureau d'Enseignement Secondaire - Secondary Education
Bureau. A department of the Ministry of National
Education established in September, 1976, with
Belgian material and technical assistance, to
develop and implement the reform of secondary-
level education.
Candidature                Lower university degree at the end of two years of
studies.
CFP                        Centre de Formation Polyvalente - Multipurpose
Learning Center. A six-classroom primary school
with facilities for practical studies and community
training activities.
Colline                    Burundi's smallest administrative unit.  The
country is divided into 2,427 collines.
Concours                   Selection examination at the end of the primary course
for access to secondary school.
D4                         Associate primary teacher with four years of train-
ing after primary school. A D4 is qualified to
teach only the lower four grades of primary school.
D6, D7                     Full primary teacher with six or seven years,
respectively, of training after primary school.
The D6 or D7 is qualified to teach at any grade of
the primary course and often functions as director
of a central school.
Ecole Centrale             Central school.  A primary school with all six
grades and its own director.
Ecole Succursale           Branch school.  A primary school, often with less
than six grades, depending on a central school and
administered by the central school's director.
Etude du milieu            Study of the environment.  A conglomerate subject
at the primary level which combines elements of
history, geography, biology, and related subjects
and emphasizes the social and physical realities
of Burundi.



-2-
FED                        Fonds Europeen de Developpement - European
Development Fund.
Licence                    Upper university degree given at the end of four
to six years of studies.
MINEDUC                    Ministere de l'Education Nationale - Ministry of
National Education. Following the coup d'etat of
November 1, 1976, the responsibility for cultural
affairs was transferred from this to another
ministry.
Palier                     Cycle.  Upper secondary education after the tronc
commun (q.v.) is divided into two paliers of two
years each.
RI                         Representation Index.  A numerical way of expressing
whether a district is educationally better or less
well provided than the national average.
Tronc Commun               Common basic level.  The first three years of
secondary education, which are the same for all
secondary students, regardless of their later
specialization.
UNB                        Universite Nationale du Burundi - National Univer-
sity of Burundi.
UPRONA                     Unite et Progres National - Unity and National
Progress. The political party of Burundi.



BURUNDI
APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
The Education Sector
1.        Formal education was introduced to Burundi early this century by
Christian missionaries who in 1925 were entrusted by the colonial administra-
tion with organizing primary education throughout the country. Institutions
of secondary education were established much later, and higher education
has been an achievement mainly of the days since Independence (1962). Although
the Government's standard curricula have been introduced at the primary and
secondary levels, missionary groups remain the legal owners of the majority
of educational institutions at these levels, and the Government has found it
difficult to introduce new curricula which give more emphasis to the social
and physical realities of Burundi.
2.        Until 1973, the recommended language of instruction throughout the
system was French, although the use of that language was never very successful
at the primary level because most primary teachers did not themselves have a
thorough knowledge of the language. The primary curriculum emphasized French
and mathematies and was principally a preparation for secondary school,
although only about 5% of primary-school leavers could hope to find a place in
secondary school. The primary curriculum thus succeeded only in alienating
the remaining 95% from their rural environment, although they could not expect
to find jobs except in agriculture. Similar problems existed at the secondary
and higher levels.
3.        The growth of education since Independence has been severely limited
by financial constraints. The Government itself allocates 22% of its total
recurrent budget to education, and over one half of the education budget is
for primary education; these percentages cannot realistically be increased a
great deal. For this reason, foreign assistance has been financing a large
part of the cost of education. In 1974, over half of the total recurrent
expenditures on education and training were contributed by bilateral and
multilateral aid agencies. Yet education has never reached a very large
percentage of the population. Even in the school year 1975-1976, enrollments
at the primary level were estimated to comprise only about 21% of the notional
age group; at the secondary and higher levels, they comprised only 2.5% and
0.5%, respectively. Burundi's education system thus suffers from serious
deficiencies in both qualitative and quantitative terms.
4.        To improve Burundi's education system, the Government began in 1969,
with UNESCO help, the elaboration of a major reform. In 1973, with UNICEF
financing and UNESCO technical assistance, a draft reform was presented and,
after minor changes, accepted by the Government for immediate implementation.
The reform's main elements are



- ii -
(i) the "ruralization" of primary education, in view of the
fact that more than 90% of all primary-school leavers will
have to make a living in agriculture. The primary-school
curriculum is being given greater agricultural content and
orientation, to reflect better the social and physical
environment of Burundi. New importance is being given
to school gardens, and in the higher grades (5 and 6),
agricultural subjects will be complemented with elementary
skill training related to agriculture (e.g. tool repair-
ing, basket making, and rudimentary home economics);
(ii) the "Kirundization" of primary education, with Kirundi,
the national language, replacing French as the
official medium of instruction;
(iii) the gradual transformation of primary schools into com-
munity schools with facilities and opportunities for adult
education and civic activities;
(iv)  the shortening of the primary course from seven to six
years and its gradual transformation into a self-contained,
terminal course;
(v) the reorganization and reorientation of secondary educa-
tion in order to make it more relevant to the needs and
realities of Burundi; and
(vi) the consolidation of the National University of Burundi in
order to avoid duplication and competition among the three
higher-level institutions formerly existing.
The central part of the reform is related to primary education, to which the
proposed project is directed.
5.        In educational terms, the reform to date has been successful.  Re-
sults have shown.that children learn faster and more effectively when taught
in their native language; teaching is easier as well. The ruralization is
visible in the well-maintained school gardens which exist throughout the
country. These gardens have become important outdoor classrooms where rela-
tions between theory and the physical environment of the region can easily
be established. Curriculum development is well advanced, and several grades
have received their first supply of textbooks and other learning aids.
Teachers likewise have received the first edition of teaching aids.
6.        Yet, several critical constraints have become apparent which
threaten to hinder the continued progress of the reform. Given the present
low level of enrollments and the rapid growth of population, even if the
primary intake were increased by 5% per year, it would be possible to reach
an enrollment ratio of only about 60% by the end of this century. Financial
projections indicate that the Government would be able to absorb the growth



- iii -
in recurrent costs related to such an expansion but that it would be dif-
ficult to find the resources to build the corresponding number of pupil
places with even the most austere standards. The Government is aware of these
limitations and is determined to hold down both capital and recurrent costs
as much as possible. In particular, in order to maximize the quantitative
impact of investment in education, the Government has agreed to (i) use local
construction materials to the extent possible and (ii) study the desirability
and feasibility of introducing two measures to increase the efficiency of the
primary educational process, namely automatic promotion and double-shifts.
Automatic promotion would reduce the drop-out and repeater rates and the
resulting wastage. Double-shifts, if possible, would maximize the use of
educational facilities and thereby reduce the burden of education expansion on
the capital budget. A thorough study of these measures is required because
their implementation would call, inter alia, for changes in curricula, teacher
training and administrative practices. In any case unless economie conditions
improve drastically, Burundi will have to be content with the level of educa-
tional development it can afford and must take a pragmatic stand vis-a-vis the
generally accepted higher UNESCO targets for educational development on the
African continent, which call for attaining universal primary education well
before the year 2000.
7.        In addition to the lack of primary places, facilities for the
teaching of the practical subjects foreseen by the reform do not yet exist.
Rural practical subjects will have to be taught in temporary facilities or
even in the open air when first introduced, but such precarious arrangements
are not feasible on a permanent basis, nor are they suitable for adult-educa-
tion activities. Likewise, primary-teacher training does not include training
in the teaching of rural practical subjects and in the organization of adult
classes and community activities, nor does a specialized facility for the
training of teachers in the teaching of practical subjects yet exist.
8.        The implementation of the primary reform and the supervision of
the primary system has been entrusted to the Rural Education Bureau (Bureau
d'Education Rurale), a semi-autonomous department within the Directorate for
Primary Education and Teacher Training of the Ministry of National Education.
Its main task is to reshape the primary curriculum and to prepare teachers for
the effective application of the new curriculum. In spite of a serious lack
of qualified personnel, curriculum development is progressing according to
plan, but limited printing and distribution capacity is hampering the timely
introduction of the reform throughout the country. In an attempt to make up
for delays, most learning aids are distributed prior to adequate testing in
pilot classes.
9.        Another complication stems from the existing pattern of primary-
school placement. Historically, primary schools have been opened first with-
in and subsequently near mission stations. This has led to an unbalanced
distribution which has not permitted equal access to primary schooling through-
out the country and has created a wide range in the quality of instruction.
As a rule, central schools (within missions) have better facilities, equip-
ment, and teachers than the branch schools which were set up through self-help
arrangements in more remote areas. Over time, these distributional short-
comings can be overcome through the proper location of additional schools.



- iv -
The Project
10.       The proposed project was identified by a Bank mission which visited
Burundi in July 1975 and prepared by the Government with the assistance of a
UNESCO team in November/December 1975. The project was appraised by a Bank
mission in February/March 1976. Negotiations were held in Washington from
November 29 through December 3, 1976. The delegation from Burundi was led by
Mr. Atale Ntahobari, Counselor to the Minister of National Education and
director-designate of the Project Unit which has been established for the
proposed project.
11.       The proposed project would assist the Government in continuing and
consolidating the reform of primary education as well as in increasing the
Government's control over the primary system. The project is designed to
address the problems outlined in paras. 6-7, so that its impact would be
both qualitative and quantitative.
12.       The project would: (i) substantially expand the number of places in
primary education as well as improve equity in access to educational oppor-
tunities; (ii) provide important technical and material assistance to the
Rural Education Bureau as the main institutional force behind the reform;
(iii) assist in enlarging the production and distribution capacity of the
Rural Education Bureau's textbook-printing unit; and (iv) enable the Govern-
ment to undertake the training of teachers in practical subjects related to
agriculture. More specifically, the project would include:
(a) the construction and equipping of 100 multipurpose
learning centers (Centres de Formation Polyvalente);
(b) the expansion of the printing capasity of the Rural
Education Bureau's textbook-production unit; the provision
of equipment, vehicles, and 250 tons of paper for the
unit; and the provision of simple storage facilities
(lockers) for about 400 existing primary schools;
(c) the construction and equipping of facilities for the
training of teachers in the teaching of practical subjects;
(d) technical assistance, including (i) specialists' services
for the Rural Education Bureau (15 man-years); (ii)
specialists' services for project implementation (8
man-7ears); and (iii) fellowships for staff develop-
ment at t7ne Rural Education Bureau (7.5 man-years); and
(e) operating expenses for project administration.
Detailed Features
13.       The 100 Multipurpose Learning Centers would provide 27,000 new pupil
places representing an increase of 21% over the primary capacity existing
in 1974-75. Additional Government investment in primary education as well as



self-help schemes organized by Burundi's political party, UPRONA (Unite et
Progres National - Unity and National Progress) and by the various missions
will continue to add further capacity at a more moderate rate. The new
Centers would be located in accordance with criteria which would favor those
areas which at present are least well provided in terms of educational oppor-
tunities (Section 3.06(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The
choice of locations has already begun, according to a two-step process. Under
the first step, the Government and the Association have already agreed on the
allocation of 89 of the 100 Centers among 17 of Burundi's 18 districts (all
except Bujumbura, the district containing the capital). This allocation was
made on the basis of three different goals which the Centers are intended to
achieve, namely, to provide a demonstration effect, to reach the most popula-
ted areas, and to favor the educationally least well provided districts. The
remaining 11 Centers will be allocated within a year from the signing of the
Credit Agreement on the basis of the latest statistics and the need for
schools for agricultural or rural development projects. Under the second step
of the location process, the Centers allocated to each district will be
located in areas within that district which do not as yet have primary schools,
but which have school-age populations of sufficient size and density to fill a
primary school. The Government has already chosen 41 such locations in five
districts, and has agreed to select the remaining 59 locations by December 31,
1977 (Section 3.06(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
14.       The Centers would provide 4,500 places for the teaching of agricul-
tural and related rural practical skills, which now are taught in only a few
mission schools and without a satisfactorily systematic approach. The teach-
ing of practical subjects is intended to complement the ruralization of
primary education. These facilities, once established, would require only
limited capital outlays (sets of simple tools, cooking implements, etc.), and
recurrent expenditures (for wood, leather, etc.) could be kept to a minimum.
In order to assure an optimal utilization of these facilities, neighboring
schools would be invited to share them, and adult education programs would be
organized during free periods and school vacations.
15.       High teacher turnover at remote schools is a major cause of the poor
quality of teaching at many such schools. Since most of the new Centers would
be built in remote rural areas, the project would provide an average of two
staff houses per school in order to attract and retain qualified teachers and
to ensure the presence at the school at all times of at least one teacher to
serve as custodian of the facilities and at least one teacher to serve as
coordinator of adult education activities.
16.       The proposed project would provide vital assistance to the textbook-
production unit of the Rural Education Bureau. The annual requirements for
first-grade textbooks are, at present, on the order of 40,000 copies. Some
170,000 textbooks per annum are required for all primary grades, and teachers
now require about 2,200 teacher guides per annum. These quantities will
increase over the coming years; therefore, an additional offset press, other
equipment for the finishing of textbooks, and a modest expansion of the
printing unit's existing building are essential. An initial supply of 250



- vi -
tons of paper would ensure the production of necessary textbooks for a five-
year period. In addition, about 400 of the least well equipped primary
schools (of the 570 existing schools) would receive simple but solid lockers
for storage of the new textbooks, teacher guides, and other teaching aids.
Six additional vehicles for the Rural Education Bureau would ensure the timely
and general distribution of all materials produced as well as regular super-
vision and in-service training of teachers. Since the present budget of the
Rural Education Bureau has no allocation for the operating costs of these new
vehicles, the Government has agreed that beginning in 1977 the Rural Education
Bureau's budget will be increased to reach at least FBu 15 million per annum
(Section 4.02(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement), the minimum
necessary for its efficient operation.
17.       The center for the training of teachers in the teaching of practical
subjects within the Higher Teacher-Training School for Boys at Gitega would be
used in the beginning for the in-service training of teacher trainers and for
the training of a first group of teachers in the teaching of the new rural
practical subjects. Later, the center would be used for the retraining of all
teachers in the teaching of these subjects. Following curriculum changes in
the teacher-training course, it is expected that all teacher-training institu-
tions will provide preparation for the teaching of practical subjects, and the
Government has provided the Association with a program for such training.
18.       Burundi lacks the highly specialized manpower needed to implement
the reform. For this reason, the proposed project includes substantial
technical assistance to the Rural Education Bureau, including curriculum,
production, and evaluation specialists (15 man-years) needed to expedite the
implementation of the reform, and 7.5 man-years of fellowships for in-service
training of local staff of the Rural Education Bureau in African countries
where reforms similar to those in Burundi are being implemented. The project
would also include financial assistance to hire an accountant (5 man-years)
and a procurement specialist (3 man-years), both to be recruited interna-
tionally. The Government has agreed that all technical-assistance specialists
would be selected and appointed on the basis of terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Association (Section 3.05 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
19.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$11.7 million
equivalent, net of taxes and duties estimated at about US$0.8 million. The
foreign-exchange component is estimated at US$8.75 million equivalent, or 75%
of the total project cost net of taxes. The proposed Credit of US$10.0
million would meet 85% of the total project cost net of taxes and duties,
including $1.25 million equivalent of local cost. As explained in Part I,
local cost financing is justified by Burundi's poverty. Project costs and the
financial plan are summarized below:



- vii -
BURUNDI
EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED COST PER PROJECT ITEM
% of
Total     % of
FBu (millions)             US$ (millions)           Basic    Foreign
Project Item                   Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total    Cost         Exchange
A.  Multipurpose Learning
Centers (Centres de
formation polyvalente - CFPs) 194.40   376.20   570.60   2.16         4.18      6.34      73.4        66
B.  Rural Education Bureau
(Bureau d'education rurale -
BER)                             2.70    47.70    50.40   0.03       0.53      0.56       6.5       95
C.  Extension to Teacher-
Training College                  2.70      5.40     8.10   0.03      0.06      0.09       1.0        67
D.  EquiprFrent and Furniture
for Project Unit                  0.90     1.80      2.70   0.01      0.02      0.03       0.3        67
Sub-Total                  200.70   431.10   631.80   2.23        4.79      7.02
E.  Technical Assistance             25.20    99.00   124.20   0.28        1.10     1.38      16.0        80
F.  Project Administration            8.10    1.3.50    21.60   0.09       0.15     0.24       2.8        62
(excluding Technical
Assistance)                   ____                                 _____
Total Base Cost (A-F)      234.00   543.60   777.60   2.60        6.04      8.64    100.0
(October 1976)
C.  Conti'gencies
rPIysicaI Tncreases (8%)    1.9.(0    43.20    62.20   0.21       0.48      0.69--
Price Increas,s (371%)      85.50   200.70   286.20   0.95        2.23      3.18
Sub-Total. (Gr)            104.50   243.90   348.40   1.16        2.71      3.87
Total Project Ccst              338.50   787.50 1,126.00   3.76       8.75    12.51
(in(luding tares)                     =                           __________



- viii-
(US$ Millions)
Government           IDA
of Burundi          Credit        Total
1.   Civil Works                           0.83              4.73           5.56
2.   Furniture and Instrue-
tional Equipment                    0.10              0.84           0.94
3.   Printing Equipment,
Paper, Vehicles                      -                0.52           0.52
4.   Technical Assistance                  0.06               1.32          1.38
5.   Project Administration
(excluding Technical Assistance)    0.06                0.18            0.24
6.   Contingencies                         1.46              2.41            3.87
Total                            2.51             10.00           12.51
of which Taxes                   0.75               -              0.75
The Government has provided satisfactory financial projections showing how it
will meet its share of the capital expenditures for the proposed project.
As to the capacity of the Government to provide the recurrent costs for the
proposed expansion of the sector promoted by the project, projections up to
1985 show that on the basis of an expected GDP growth rate of about 3.5
percent p.a. the recurrent cost of education would not exceed 25 percent of
the government's budget. This proportion is similar to that prevailing in
other African countries at the same level of development.
20.       Construction cost estimates are based on simple standards with maxi-
mum use of local materials. Space allocations in the Centers and the staff
houses would be the minimum acceptable for accomplishing the educati nal ob-
jectives. The unit construction cost for the Centers is about $80/m equiva-
lent, which compares favorably with the median value of unit c5sts for similar
schools in other Bank Group-financed projects which was $138/m equivalent in
1974-1975. Appropriate maintenance procedures for all buildings to be built
under the project would be developped (paragraph 3(i) of Schedule 4 to the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Project Implementation
21.       The project should be implemented in about six years with a
proposed Closing Date of March 31, 1983. A Project Unit, which has been
established in the Ministry of National Education, would be responsible for
the implementation and financial and administrative control of the project
and for liaison with the Association (Section 3.02(a) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). The Unit would comprise a director, an assistant director
(architect), a procurement officer, an accountant, and adequate supporting



- ix -
staff, including two construction supervisors. The director and assistant
director have been nominated and must be formally appointed as a condition of
Credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment). The director is a senior official of the Ministry of National Educa-
tion; the assistant director (architect) will be provided and financed by the
Kingdom of Belgium under its bilateral assistance program to Burundi. The
Government has agreed that the procurement officer and accountant will be
appointed not later than June 30, 1977 (Section 3.02(b) of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement). The director, assistant director, procurement officer,
and accountant would all be appointed on a full-time basis and on the basis of
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association (Sections 3.02, 3.04 and
3.05 and Schedule 4 to the draft Development Credit Agreement). Within three
months of the Closing Date of the project, the Project Unit would prepare and
send to the Association a report with a preliminary assessment of the project's
operational results and benefits, and of the lessons learned during implementa-
tion (Section 4.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
22.       It is unlikely that private building firms would be interested in
undertaking the construction of many of the Centers due to their small size
and dispersed locations. In those parts of the country where the mission
stations are equipped to undertake an additional construction program, the
most economic and efficient method of construction would be by negotiated
contract with these stations, which continue to construct the majority of
schools, churches, and dispensaries in the interior. The mission stations
would be supervised in this work by the Project Unit. Contracts acceptable
to the Association would be negotiated between the Government and the mis-
sions to build the Centers in those parts of the country where the missions
are willing and able to undertake construction. Small local construction
firms would build the remaining Centers as well as the teacher-training
facilities and the extension to the textbook-printing unit.
Procurement
23.       Contracts would be awarded as follows:  (i) The 100 Centers (US$5.6
million equivalent) would be constructed either on the basis of negotiated
contracts between the Government and parties acceptable to the Association, or
on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with
local procedures satisfactory to the Association; (ii) contracts for the
extensions to the Teacher-Training School (US$75,000 equivalent) and to the
textbook-production unit (US$65,000 equivalent), as well as contracts for
furniture, equipment, and vehicles costing less than US$50,000 equivalent
each would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally
and in accordance with local procedures satisfactory to the Association; and
(iii) contracts for furniture, equipment and vehicles costing more than
US$50,000 equivalent each would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank Group's guidelines for
procurement.
24.       Standardized sketch designs, draft tender documents, and master
lists of furniture, equipment, vehicles, and paper, indicating proposed



x -
grouping for tender, would be reviewed by the Association. Items would be
grouped to the extent practicable to encourage competitive bidding and to
permit bulk procurement. Review of tender evaluation documents by the Asso-
ciation prior to award would be required only for contracts above US$50,000
equivalent for equipment, furniture, vehicles, and paper. Domestic manufac-
turers of furniture and equipment would be allowed a preference of 15% or the
existing rate of import duties, whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. price of
competing foreign suppliers.
Disbursements
25.       Disbursements would be on the basis of (a) 85% of total expenditures
for civil works; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures for imported construction
materials, furniture, instructional equipment, printing equipment, paper,
and vehicles; or 85% of local expenditures, if procured locally; (c) 100% of
foreign expenditures and 80% of local expenditures for technical assistance;
and (d) 75% of total expenditures for salaries and operating costs of the
Project Unit. All disbursements would be fully documented except those for
project administration.  Disbursements for project administration would be
made against a certificate of expenditure, documentation of which would not
be submitted for review but would be retained by the Borrower and would be
available for inspection by the Association in the course of project supervi-
sion. Auditing would be required on an annual basis for expenditures incurred
by the Project Unit for project administration. Any funds remaining upon
completion of the project would be used for project-related items subject to
agreement between the Government and the Association. Retroactive financing
in an amount not exceeding US$200,000 equivalent is recommended for expendi-
tures incurred by the Project Unit after August 1, 1976, for project preparation.
26.       A revolving fund would be established within the Project Unit, with
an initial contribution of US$100,000 equivalent from the Government, from
which the Project Unit will procure those materials, services, and mobilization
advances which would not be disbursed by the Association directly. The
Government would seek reimbursement from the Association for expenditures
incurred, following normal procedures, with the Government maintaining the
fund at about US$100,000 equivalent throughout the project implementation
period. The establishment of the revolving fund is a condition of effectiveness
of the Credit Agreement (Sections 3.03 and 6.01(a) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
27.       Productivity at the level of individual small-holdings should
increase significantly if a larger proportion of Burundi's population achieves
basic literacy and numeracy and learns improved agricultural techniques. In
recognition of this fact, the Government has introduced an education reform of
major proportions. The proposed project would provide critical material and
technical assistance to this reform, thus helping to improve the quality of
primary education and increasing its relevance to the country's development
needs, as well as providing a substantial quantitative increase in the number
of primary places and helping to augment the Government's control over the



- xi -
sector. In addition, the proposed project would aid institution building
within the Ministry of National Education in the areas of curriculum develop-
ment, teacher upgrading, evaluation, textbook production and school design.
All primary-school children in the country would benefit from the project
through the provision of textbooks; moreover, as a result of the proposed
project's siting procedures, the expansion of the capacity of primary education
by about 20% would benefit particularly the educationally least favored of
Burundi's children, namely, those who live in rural areas where per capita
incomes are estimated to be only about US$40 equivalent.
28.       The principal risks are those of implementation.  Arrangements made
to reduce these risks include (a) a tight supervision schedule; (b) a conser-
vative six-year implementation period; (c) the use of the already existing
apparatus of the missionaries for a large part of the construction in the
rural areas; and (d) technical assistance. Another risk is whether or not
the Rural Education Bureau will be able effectively to continue its work in
the expansion and generalization of the reform of primary education; should
the Rural Education Bureau not be able to carry out its functions, the effect
of the Centers would be merely quantitative (limited to the provision of
primary-school places). The substantial material and technical assistance
to the Rural Education Bureau is designed to minimize this risk.
Agreements Reached and Recommendation
29.       Agreement was reached with the Government on the following principal
points: (a) studies on automatic promotion and double-shifting procedures;
(b) locations for the Centers; (c) budgetary appropriations for the Rural
Education Bureau; (d) selection and appointment of specialists and of other
staff; and (e) duties and responsibilities of the Project Unit.
30.       Prior to credit effectiveness, the Government should provide the
Association with the following: (a) evidence of the establishment of a
US$100,000 equivalent revolving fund for the Project Unit; and (b) evidence
of the formal appointment of the Project Unit's director and assistant
director.
31.       Retroactive reimbursement in an amount not exceeding US$200,000
equivalent is recommended for expenditures incurred after August 1, 1976,
for operating expenses of the Project Unit.
32.       Subject to these conditions, the proposed project is recommended
for an IDA Credit of US$10.0 million equivalent.






I. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND HUMAN RESOURCES
Geographic and Socio-Economic Situation
1.01      Slightly smaller than Belgium, Burundi lies astride the Zaire-Nile
divide at the center of Africa. Except for a narrow coastal plain along Lake
Tanganyika in the west and marshy lowlands in the north and east, the country
is composed predominantly of hills. These hills (collines) are the country's
smallest administrative unit. Over 95% of the country's 3.7 million
population in 1975 lived on small-holder plots scattered across the
hills. The 2,427 hills are grouped into 78 communes, which themselves form
18 districts (arrondissements) further grouped into eight provinces. Burundi's
climate is equatorial5 rainfall is adequate in most areas, and owing to
diversified ecoclimatic conditions depending mostly on rainfall and altitude,
a wide variety of agricultural commodities could be produced in quantity,
including tea, cotton, quinquina, sugar, and livestock. Yet, little progress
has been made in diversifying into crops other than traditional foodcrops and
coffee, partly because of the physical isolation of the population and also
because of widespread illiteracy and the consequent unawareness of the tech-
niques and benefits of diversification.
1.02      Economically, Burundi is one of the poorest of the-least-developed
countries; per capita income was less than US$100 equivalent in 1974. The
country's economy is dominated by agriculture.- In 1974, food crops accounted
for fully half of GDP, and other crops (of which coffee remains by far the
most important) for a further 10%. Yet agricultural productivity is low, due
to the absence of modern inputs and the low skill level of the population at
large. In 1974, agriculture accounted for 95% of commodity exports; coffee
alone accounted for 84%. Industry contributed only 8% of GDP in that year,
and the processing of agricultural products represented almost three fourths
of the country's industrial activity.
1.03      In Burundi, there are two principal ethnic groups, the Tutsis and
the Hutus, of different historico-geographic origins, who, in spite of cen-
turies of living together, have each maintained separate sets of socio-cultural
values. The country's development has been hampered by periodic civil strife
between the two groups. The most recent upheaval, in 1972, caused high migra-
tion and a temporarily reduced population growth rate. Now, however, it
appears that Burundi may look ahead to a period of internal stability, and
population is expected to grow at about 2.5% per annum again. This will
cause increasing pressure on the laMd in a country where population density is
already relatively high (142 per km ). The high birth rate will also contri-
bute to maintaining a high dependency ratio in Burundi's population in the
medium and long terms. At present, children below 15 years of age constitute
44% of the population. Only about 21% of the children of notional age, how-
ever, are able to attend primary schools; the task facing the Government in
the expansion of primary education is therefore enormous.



- 2-
Development Trends
1.04      Over the period 1970-1974, GDP is estimated to have grown at an
average annual rate of only 2%, and since most of the growth was in the
modern sector, rural incomes probably remained unchanged or even feil.
Food production is estimated to have increased at about the same rate as
population, although in 1974, a late rainy season caused poor yields and food
shortages in some areas. Coffee production has also been sensitive to climatic
fluctuation and civil unrest. Export earnings from coffee have been affected
by the disruption of the major trade route through Tanzania and by fluctua-
tions in the world-market price of coffee, both factors over which Burundi had
no control. The industrial and tertiary sectors have grown largely in response
to the growth of incomes from coffee; in 1974, the sharp increase in coffee
incomes caused an 11% growth in output of textiles and clothing, a 9% growth
of the food industry (mainly beer), and extensive hiring of additional staff
in the Government. Other sectors, however, grew only modestly.
1.05      Burundi faces serious constraints to economic development. Due to
the hilly nature of most of the country's terrain and the poor condition of
the national road network, communications are difficult and expensive. The
country's small size and the poverty of its people limit the domestic market
and make increased agricultural exports the only alternative for increased
investment in industrial capacity. Yet high external transport costs limit
the possibilities for exports to commodities with high value relative to their
weight.
1.06      The recent discovery of nickel deposits could, in the long run,
improve these pessimistic growth prospects, but feasibility studies are
incomplete and no investment decisions have yet been taken. It has been
estimated that an initial capital investment of about US$800 million would be
needed to put nickel production on stream. Under the best hypotheses, the
nickel industry would not begin to have a major impact on Burundi's economy
until the late 1980s. Until 1985, then, GDP can be expected to grow by no more
than 3.5% per annum.
Manpower Requirements
1.07      Opportunities for wage employment in Burundi are extremely limited.
Out of a total labor force of 1.9 million, only 115,000 or 6% are wage
earners. The Governnent is the largest employer, with about 20,000 civilian
employees, and much of the employment in other sectors has developed in
response to the demand created by the incomes of public servants. In 1974,
the Government's economic optimism (based on a record coffee crop) led to
large recruitment, saturating the public sector. Lower economic expectations
for 1975 and 1976, however, caused the Government to adopt a policy of
austerity which entails only a slight growth of employment in the public
sector. The industrial sector is working at less than full capacity because
of limited export possibilities and because of the low level of purchasing
power of the population in general. Under most favorable assumptions, not
more than 500 new jobs per year will be created in industry over the next



- 3 -
five years; yet there are some 80,000 new 15-year-olds who join the working-
age group each year. Most will not find jobs except in agriculture, since
only limited opportunities exist for replacing expatriates in industry and
commerce. The expansion of employment in the modern sector thus depends
directly on the augmentation of the purchasing power of Burundi's population;
in turn, since 95% of the people are dependent on agriculture, this augmenta-
tion is dependent upon the development of the agricultural sector.
1.08      At present, Burundi has some 1,100 agricultural extension agents and
about 90 animal-husbandry technicians. It is estimated that in 1980, 1,200
agricultural extension agents and 300 animal-husbandry technicians would be
needed for a coverage of Burundi at a ratio of one agent per 550 farmers.
These needs could easily be met by existing training facilities, which at
present are underutilized (para. 2.13), mainly because the difficulties of
life in rural areas are not conducive to attracting students into pre-
service training for agricultural and extension work. In addition, financial
constraints and the Government's austere hiring policy make it unlikely that
the above targets for the hiring of extension personnel will be achieved.
With regard to the training needs of the rural population in general, the task
ahead is enormous. lI addition to the 21% of the primary-age population which
attend primary school, another 45-50% participate in catechism centers operated
by mission stations (para. 2.07), but since onlv two hours per week, on the
average, over a period of three or four years are devoted to the teaching of
reading and writing, it is doubtful wthether functional literacy is really
achieved. Burundi's rural aduilts have, over the years, devised agricultural
techniques which are optimal, given their minimal resources and basic level of
technology; however, the illiteracy of most of the rural population makes it
very difficult to introduce new crops and techniques which could lead to
higher levels of productivity.
1.09      In summary, Burundi faces severe constraints to economic develop-
ment. Nickel mining may eventually help the country to break out of its
underdeveloped situation, but in the short term, and possibly also in the
long term, agricultural development is the only solution. Crop diversifica-
tion and higher levels of productivity depend on modern inputs; they also
depend on higher literacy rates and skill levels among the rural population.
The development of Burundi's education system is therefore indispensable if
the country is to achieve further development. Since the educational task
to be accomplished is a long-term one, it must be undertaken as soon as
possible.



-4-
Il. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Background
2.01      Formal education was introduced to Burundi by Christian missionaries
around 1900. In 1925, the Belgian administration decided that all primary
education should be undertaken in approved mission schools using a unified
curriculum. Until shortly before Independence (1962), the main emphasis was
on primary schooling; however, most schools offered only the first two or
three years of the primary course. In 1940, primary education was extended to
six years, and in 1946, French was adopted as an official medium of instruction
along with Kirundi. Until recently, the primary course was divided into a
three-year basic and a four-year advanced cycle; the purpose of the advanced
cycle was to prepare pupils for secondary education. In 1956, secondary
education received further impetus as several new secondary institutions were
opened.
2.02      At present, the Ministry of National Education (Ministere de
l'Education Nationale - MINEDUC) supervises and coordinates almost all edu-
cational activities, including agricultural and vocational education organized
by other ministries. The day-to-day activities of the MINEDUC are coordinated
by a Director General, who is assisted by a Planning and Statistical Unit, and
executed by five departments. Schools are grouped in three categories:
(1) official government schools;
(2) subsidized schools where all teachers' salaries and
a major share of administrative expenses are paid by
the Government; and
(3) non-subsidized or private schools.
Missionary (mainly Catholic) institutions participate intensively at all
levels of education: 93% of primary enrollments, 70% of teacher-training
enrollments, and 65% of general secondary enrollments are in schools owned by
missionary institutions. However, almost all the missionary institutions now
are part of the subsidized category and are required to implement prescribed
curricula.
2.03      In 1973, after considerable preparation and with UNESCO assistance,
an education reform was introduced in an effort to make the education system
more responsive to the country's development needs. This reform, the main
element of which relates to primary education, is discussed in paras. 2.18-
2.26. The proposed project has been developed in support of this reform.
The Education System
2.04      The full primary course consists of six years, beginning at age six.
Some 20% of all primary pupils, however, are either under- or overaged, and
the de facto age distribution is between 5 and 17 years. Attempts by the



- 5 -
Government to raise the entry age from six to eight years in order to increase
the productivity and efficiency of the system by admitting more mature children
met strong resistance from the parents. It is estimated that about 145,000
children were regularly attending primary schools in the school year 1975-1976.
With 4,154 primary teachers under contract, the pupil-teacher ratio was 35:1.
Excluding those teachers entirely occupied with administrative functions, the
effective pupil-teacher ratio was 38:1 (Annex II-1). The efficiency of the
primary system is not satisfactory: repeaters block 25% of available places
and the overall dropout rate from grade one to grade six is about 70%.
2.05      According to statistical records, primary enrollments grew at the
rate of 6.5% p.a. from about 135,000 in 1964 to a peak of over 180,000 or 35%
of the notional age group in 1969/70 (Annex II-2). Enrollments then declined
steadily until 1973/74, when they rapidly began to rise again. The following
are the main reasons for the statistical decrease over the period 1970-1974:
(i) before 1970, many children attending catechism centers
(para 2.07), which ultimately did not qualify as official
primary schools, were included in primary-school enroll-
ment statistics. This method of reporting resulted
in inflated total enrollment figures and was not corrected
until 1970; and
(ii)  also in 1970, the Government initiated a policy of
adding the upper grades to the country's many incomplete
primary schools. This policy replaced the Government's
earlier policy of expanding the primary system at its
base (grades 1 and 2).
The decrease was temporarily exacerbated by the civil disturbances of 1972.
At present there is strong pressure, particularly in rural areas, for increas-
ing primary education opportunities. Limited technical and financial ability
to expand capacity is the most serious impediment to an enrollment explosion.
For the coming six to eight years, it is estimated that primary intakes could
grow at an average annual rate of 3% to 5%, by making best use of existing
facilities, continuing the policy of completing schools, adding new schools,
and implementing the proposed project, of which the main component would be
100 new complete primary schools.



-6-
PRIMARY ENROLLMENTS BY GRADE
(selected years)
GRADE         1969/70         1972/73         1973/74         1974/75
Ist          48,940           27,768          25,363          27,098
2nd           38,987          25,761          22,695          22,082
3rd          32,852           24,989          23,686          22,819
4th           23,931          20,947          20,394          20,723
5th           19,966          17,633          18,248          19,546
6th           13,961          14,060          16,338          17,780
7th            5,769           5,814
TOTAL        184,406         136,972         126,724         130,048
SOURCE:  Ministry of National Education.
2.06      In the school year 1975-1976, Burundi had some 570 primary schools,
scattered throughout the country, with about 3,900 classrooms. These schools
were of two types:
1.   central schools (ecoles centrales), usually well
established and complete, and located at or close
to the more important mission stations or settlements;
and
2.   branch schools (ecoles succursales), each depending on
a central school.
The director of a central school is usually also in charge of one or more
branch schools. The distance between branch schools and their central
school usually varies from to 3 to 8 km, but in some extreme cases may be
up to 45 km. The quality of buildings and teaching equipment at branch
schools is generally lower than that at central schools, and at many branch
schools the upper grades have not yet been opened. However, Government efforts
to upgrade branch schools in order to enable them to offer the full primary
course have been generally successful and are continuing.



2.07      Along with the formal primary-education system, there exists a
widespread network of catechism centers sponsored by missionary institutions.
The alleged participation is about 300,000 children and the program consists
mainly of religious instruction. At many places, there are attempts to teach
reading and writing, basic numeracy and some history, but the informal (rather
than nonformal) nature of the movement and the irregular schedule of instruc-
tion does not provide participants with permanent functional literacy and
numeracy. These catechism centers cannot be considered a substitute for or
even a complement to existing primary schools. Catechism centers are usually
housed in unsatisfactory facilities. Recurrent costs are defrayed in part by
the parents (usually unwillingly) and in part by contributions from private
foreign-assistance groups. The instructors are primary-school leavers who
have received additional training in church-operated training centers. Most
are able to teach only one or two days a week; the remaining days are used
for complementing their meager incomes through subsistence farming or other
gainful activities, if available. When one considers Burundi's low primary
enrollment ratio, the thought of linking catechism centers to the existing
primary system is tempting but not viable. The missions themselves would
not be willing to reduce the religious content of instruction at the centers
and are not in a position to assume more financial or educational responsi-
bilities than the minimum being provided at present. Furthermore, there
is little uniformity in the catechism centers' physical facilities and peda-
gogical approach and no cooperation between centers belonging to different
religlous denominations. It is estimated that it would cost as much to
upgrade existing, mostly dilapidated catechism centers as it would to build
new schools, and the Government, which has been exceptionally successful in
improving primary-teacher qualifications, would have to accept the burden of
coping with a large new group of grossly underqualified teachers whose up-
grading would be extremely time-consuming and expensive. Finally, the Govern-
ment is determined to become less dependent on the churches as regards primary
education.
2.08      Secondary education is free and composed of a common basic level
(tronc commun) of three years and an upper level of four years, divided into
two cycles (paliers) of two years each. Enrollments in secondary education
totalled about 13,600 students in the school year 1975-1976. Admission to the
secondary level depends on a pupil's ranking in a nationwide selection exami-
nation (concours) taken after completion of the primary course. For boys, a
50% score in the concours is the minimum entry requirement; the minimum for
girls is 40%. Lower requirements for girls were introduced in 1966 in order
to increase secondary-education opportunities for them. In 1975/76, about
17,500 grade-six primary pupils competed for some 2,500 student places at the
secondary level, resulting in a transition rate of about 14%. In the school
year 1975-1976 there were 12 complete general (literary and scientific)
secondary schools with about 4,800 students (25% of whom were girls). Sixteen
institutions with about 2,500 students (32% of whom were girls) offered only
the common basic level (tronc commun). In addition, there were nine complete
teacher-training schools with 3,100 students (31% of whom were girls), ten
lower teacher-training schools with 2,200 students (54% of whom were girls),
and 12 secondary schools offering technical, health, agricultural, or social-
worker courses with a total of about 1,000 students (only 7% of whom were



-8-
girls). In all secondary schools the student-teacher ratio is very low as a
result of (i) the fragmentation of courses in the various streams; and (ii) a
hitherto comparatively plentiful supply of teaching personnel provided by the
missions and bilateral and. multilateral aid agencies. In teacher-training
schools the ratio is 16:1, in the general secondary courses about 20:1, and in
technical schools only about 8:1. However, since 35% to 40% of the qualified
teachers are entrusted exclusively with administrative functions, effective
student-teacher ratios are considerably higher. Teacher quality, in compari-
son with that of other East African countries, is satisfactory, but the share
of expatriate teachers remains high (30% to 60%, varying according to the
level and specialization of schools). The qualifications of national teachers
are constantly improving. About 50% of all secondary teachers are qualified
to teach at their level; most of the others are trained teachers, but under-
qualified for the level they are teaching. The rapid increase of enrollments
in the Institute of Education at the University of Burundi will allow for the
gradual replacement of expatriate teachers, but there will be a need to retain
expatriate science teachers and teacher trainers for about another decade.
2.09      In the school year 1975-1976, Government-operated schools repre-
sented 27% of general secondary enrollments, with 40% in subsidized schools
and 33% in private schools. Productivity at the secondary level remains low:
only about 40% of general secondary school entrants reach the last grade of
the full secondary cycle.
GENERAL SECONDARY ENROLLMENTS BY SEX
1971/72 - 1975/76
1971/72         1972/73         1973/74         1974/75       1975/76
Boys          3,302           3,024           3,493           4,043          4,401
Girls           612             720             937           1,204          1,219
TOTAL         3,914           3,744           4,430           5,247         5,620
Source: Ministry of National Education.
2.10      Primary-teacher training is given  at two levels.  Ten lower-level
teacher-training schools (Ecoles Moyennes Pedagogiques - EMPs) prepare
students for certification as associate primary teachers or D4s (the number
indicates years of secondary education after completion of the primary course).
Nine higher-level teacher-training schools (Ecoles Ncrmales - EN) prepare
students for certification as full prim-ary teachers (D6s or D7s). EMP enroll-
ments in the school year 1975-1976 totalled 2,180 students. The 1976 intake
is estimated to have been 10-15% higher than that of 1975 because of ever-
increasing social demand for secondary education and limited emrployment
opportunities in other sectors.  EN enrollments in the school year 1975-1976



- 9 -
were 3,100. The 1976 intake is also estimated to have been 10-15% higher than
that of 1975. Since the D7 qualification provides access to higher education,
most graduates hope to proceed to higher studies or, because of the lack of
qualified teaching staff at the level, teach lower secondary classes (tronc
commun in particular) instead of primary classes. In the school year 1975-
1976, there were only 136 teachers (3.3% of the total) with D6 or D7 quali-
fications in the primary system, acting mainly as directors of central schools
and doing little or no teaching at all. There is, however, a rapidly increas-
ing number of D7 teachers available for the primary level, partly because an
ever-increasing number of secondary teachers is freeing the D7s now teaching
at the secondary level for employment at the primary level, and partly because
employment opportunities are lacking in sectors other than teaching, with the
result that trained D7s are increasingly eager to accept teaching posts, rather
than looking for jobs elsewhere. The output of EMPs and ENs in quantitative
terms is satisfactory and sufficient to sustain the Government's program of
gradually replacing those teachers with unsatisfactory qualifications, of
adding upper classes to incomplete branch schools, and of expanding the
primary system in general. In the school year 1975-1976, about 56% of all
primary teachers are qualified teachers (D4 and above). The quality of D4
primary teachers is not yet fully satisfactory but is improving. Before the
reform, limited active knowledge of French prevented many from making full use
of existing teaching aids and from communicating effectively in class. Even
since the introduction of the reform, teacher guides continue to be written in
French and teachers are reluctant to familiarize themselves with the new
syllabi. Classroom teaching has greatly improved with the "Kirundization" of
primary education (para. 2.18), however. In the school year 1975-1976, some
42% of all primary teachers and 47% of the D4 teachers were women.



- 10 -
PRIMARY AND ASSOCIATE-PRIMARY TEACHER-TRAINING ENROLLMENTS
1971/72 - 1975/76
1971/72       1972/73       1973/74        1974/75       1975/76
Primary Teacher Training (D7 or D6)
Boys           1,439         1,275        N.A.            2,240        2,222
Girls            207           427         N.A.             908          974
TOTAL          1,646         1,702         N.A.           3,148        3,196
Associate-Primary Teacher Training (D4)
Boys            862           655        N.A.              891          908
Girls           921           827        N.A.            1,039        1,271
TOTAL         1,783         1,482         N.A.           1,930        2,179
N.A. - Not available
SOURCE: Ministry of National Education.
2.11      Primary-teacher training, in spite of the reform, follows an aca-
demic pattern. New concepts such as the "ruralization" of the primary curri-
culum are not yet included in the teacher-training program, and therefore new
teachers have to participate in reorientation training (recyclage). This is
an inefficient and costly procedure which can be changed only by giving the
reform of the teacher-training curriculum the highest priority. The fact that
almost 90% of the teacher-training institutions belong to the missionary
system is the main reason for the slow implementation of a new teacher-training
program. Even though the MINEDUC has supervisory power over all educational
institutions in the country, group interests persist and it appears that the
missionary teacher-training system to date has not responded actively to the
Government's appeal to reorient its program along the lines of the reform. On
the other hand, missionary institutions still carry the heavy load of formal
education (except at the higher level) and render vital support without which
the educational system in Burundi would not be operational. Teacher-training
schools show a far better progression rate than other secondary specializations
(57% as compared to only 40% in general secondary education), and about 78% of



- il -
all D4 graduates and 50% of all D7s have started teaching. There is evidence
that these percentages are increasing; however, after the replacement of
unqualified teachers and the consolidatLon of primary enrollment growth, the
risk exists that there will be substantial overproduction of both categories
of primary teachers as a result of distortions introduced by the rigid
"professionalization" of secondary education.
2.12      Secondary teachers are trained at the University Institute of
Education, which recently incorporated the hitherto autonomous Secondary-
Teacher-Training College (Ecole Normale Superieure - ENS). In the school
year 1975-1976, enrollments numbered about 300, although capacity was con-
siderably higher. Admission to higher teacher training, formerly regulated
by a selection examination (concours), is today obtained by acquiring the
Secondary-School Leaving Certificate in the pedagogical specialization.
After two years of training and one year of practical teaching, graduates
are certified as teachers for the tronc commun, or after four years, as full
secondary teachers qualified to teach all grades of the upper secondary cycle.
Of the teacher trainers, 60% are expatriates supplied under foreign assistance
agreements, mainly with Switzerland, France, and Belgium.
2.13      Agricultural education is primarily the responsibility of the
Ministry of Agriculture, but the MINEDUC pays the salaries of the general-
subjects teachers and provides some supervision. Since 1965, the Technical
Agricultural Institute of Burundi (Institut Technique Agricole du Burundi -
ITAB) at Gitega has been training agricultural and animal-husbandry techni-
cians in four-year courses at the upper secondary level. The Institute is
housed in excellent facilities which are not fully utilized and partly oc-
cupied by another secondary school of paramedical specialization. Over the
ten years of its existence, the Institute has only produced 88 graduates, all
of whom found employment within the Ministry of Agriculture, mostly as exten-
sion supervisors. While the graduates enjoy a good reputation for their
technical knowledge, reports are less favorable with regard to their ability
to communicate with extension agents and rural leaders and their general
attitudes towards the constraints of rural life. At the lower level, the
Vocational School of Agriculture (Ecole Professionnelle Agricole - EPA) at
Karuzi trains agricultural field assistants. Practical training, vital at
this level, is almost nonexistent, however. While generally able to communi-
cate with the farmers because of their own farm backgrounds, the graduates
often fail in the application of wliat they have learned to the reality of
their nation's agriculture. At the post-primary level, the Extension Train-
ing Center in Rutegama (Centre de Formation Acceleree de Rutegama - CFR)
forms farm demonstrators.



2 
ENROLLMENTS IN AGRICULTURAL TRAINING INSTITUTIONS
Maximum
1973/74    1974/75    Capacity
Technical Agricultural Institute
of Burundi (ITAB)                           69           78           250
Vocational School of Agriculture (EPA)    114             116          120
Extension Training Center                     25          24            30
at Rutegama (CFR)
SOURCE: Ministry of Agriculture.
2.14      Technical and vocational education is offered in Il schools of
different levels; the most important is the Technical Secondary School
at Kamenge. In the vocational section five specialities (general
mechanics, welding, bodymaking, woodworking, and bricklaying) are taught
in three-year courses at the post-primary level. Technical secondary
courses of four or seven years' duration, leading to a technical certifi-
cate or technician's diploma, respectively (the latter allowing access to
higher technical education), are conducted in electrical technology, elec-
tronics, electromechanics, general mechanics, automobile mechanics, and
construction.  The other vocational schools have less comprehensive programs,
and their efficiency and productivity remains doubtful. Introduced by
missionary institutions, technical education in Burundi is heavily dependent
on expatriate teaching staff sponsored by bilateral and multilateral aid
agencies.  National teachers are only available for general courses.  For
several years to come, the system will not be in a position to satisfy its own
demand for qualified specialized teachers. In addition, higher-level ard
highly specialized courses do not find the minimum enrollments necessary for
economic operation. The quality of graduates is very critically evaluated by
experienced employers who train, mostly on the job, their own specialized
labor; this alternate source of supply reduces the already very limited job
opportunities for graduates of secondary vocational training institutions.



- 13 -
ENROLLMENTS IN SECONDARY TECHNICAL EDUCATION
BY TYPE OF TRAINING
1971/72 - 1975/76
1971/72      1972/73       1973/74      1974/75      1975/76
Vocational Training       417         390           414           563        779
Technical Education       608         507           474           151        122
Social-Worker Training    50           42            65            62         60
TOTAL           1,075        939           953           776         961
SOURCE: Ministry of National Education.
2.15      Paramedical education is organized and carried out in a fashion
similar to that for agricultural education. In the lower cycle (four years
following completion of the primary course), health assistants and assistant
nurses are trained. The upper cycle (an additional three years) leads to the
qualification of medical technician or nurse. There are a total of five
paramedical training centers, all of which work with limited budgets and lack
qualified teachers and equipment. At present over 60% of all medical doctors
in Burundi are expatriates. Projected shortages of medical personnel are
particularly significant with regard to the supply of medical technicians and
nurses, but the existing system, with improved utilization of facilities,
should be able to supply the manpower needed.
2.16      Until 1975, higher education in Burundi consisted of the Official
University of Bujumbura, founded in 1964, and of two autonomous higher-level
institutes, the Secondary Teacher Training College (para. 2.12) and the
National School of Administration (Ecole Nationale d'Administration - ENA).
These three entities have now been consolidated into a new single institution
called the National University of Burundi (Universite Nationale du Burundi -
UNB). The inception of a national university was considered an important
symbol of self-determination as well as a necessity in view of the very low
graduation rates of students sent abroad on scholarships for higher degree
courses. Over the past years, only 28% of assisted students in social and
human sciences and just 15% of the students in exact sciences obtained degrees
abroad. In contrast, the performance of students at the UNB over the same
period appears to have been considerably better: roughly 55% and 40%, respec-
tively, achieved their targeted degree (candidature - lower academic degree).



- 14 -
The validity of the comparison, however, remains weak, since no analysis of
examination requirements has been made. At present, there are seven interdis-
ciplinary university institutes: Law, Economics and Administration (which
includes the old ENA), Medicine and Public Health, Social Sciences, Science
and Technology, Education (the old ENS), and Agriculture. Most of the Insti-
tutes offer four-year courses. The highest degree conferred so far is the
licence (after four to six years of study). University institutes are each
headed by a Dean, and the whole university is supervised by a Rector. The
university disposes of adequate and modern facilities, including boarding for
students, and continues to receive substantial assistance from a multitude of
private, bilateral, and multilateral aid agencies. Most of the professors are
expatriates, made available under technical-assistance arrangements.
2.17      Other than the catechism centers (para. 2.07), there are few non-
formal educational activities in Burundi. Attempts by the churches, mainly
the Catholic Church, to organize adult education activities have met with
no significant results. Courses for women are offered in a system of social
centers located throughout the country. Since the end of 1957, 63 centers
have been in operation with occasional courses in gardening, cooking, sewing,
ironing, and other domestic activities. Lack of funds severely limits the
opening of social centers at new locations, and activities in existing centers
are often dormant for long periods for the same reason. With very few excep-
tions, the centers are ill-equipped or have no adequate permanent accommoda-
tion. The total number of participants during 1975 was 6,150. Other non-
formal education activities are organized within agricultural cooperatives,
and the extension service organizes a series of farmer training activities
connected with rural radio. School radio has not been able to attract a
regular group of listeners because of poor technical reception, lack of
program variation and low quality of programs. The Government plans to
increase school radio's air time to four 30-minute programs per week in the
future and to offer a more diversified program. A radio program for teachers
has been broadcast since early 1975 and will be expanded. It foeusses on
inservice training, pedagogical assistance, and general information for
teachers. The Government is very keen on fostering adult education, and
Burundi's political party, UPRONA (Unite et Progres National - Unity and
National Progress), has been invited to accelerate its organizational effort
in this respect. As the first step of a more systematic approach to adult
education, the concept of the community school featured by the reform will
open primary schools for extracurricular and nonformal activities. Teacher
and extension-worker training will, over the years, be modified to include
sections on learning how to undertake adult-education activities. The Govern-
ment, however, is not in a position to present a comprehensive adult-education
plan before the reform of the formal system is consolidated.
The Education Reform
2.18      The education reform was introduced in 1973 after several years of
UNESCO-assisted preparation. Its main elements are:



- 15 -
(i)  The "Kirundization" of primary education.  Kirundi, the
national language spoken by almost everyone in the country,
is being introduced as the only medium of instruction
throughout the full primary course, replacing French.
(ii)  The "ruralization" of primary education.  The primary-school
curriculum is being given greater agricultural content and
orientation, the better to reflect the social and physical
environment of Burundi. In addition, the school garden
movement is being strengthened. In the higher grades (5
and 6), agricultural subjects will be complemented with
elementary skill training related to agriculture (e.g.,tool
repair, basket making, and rudimentary home economics).
(iii)  The transformation, over the long term, of all primary
schools into "community schools," making them centers
for adult education and civic activities.
(iv)  The shortening of the primary course from seven to six
years and its gradual transformation into a self-contained,
terminal course;
(v) The reorganization and reorientation of secondary education.
The former primary grade 7, which served as a preparatory
bridge to lower secondary schooling, has been transferred
to the lower secondary common basic level (tronc commun).  A
Secondary Education Bureau (Bureau d'Enseignement Secondaire -
BES), was established in September 1976 with Belgian
material and technical assistance to implement the reform
at the secondary level.
(vi)  The consolidation of the former Official University
of Bujumbura and the two higher-level institutes into the
single National University of Burundi (para. 2.16).
2.19      The reform's most important vehicle of change at the level of
primary education is the Rural Education Bureau (Bureau d'Education Rurale -
BER), a semiautonomous department within the Directorate for Primary Education
and Teacher Training of the MINEDUC. The BER's task is to introduce the
reform of primary education over a six-year period and at the same time to
enhance the quality of teaching. In particular, the BER is responsible for
curriculum development, upgrading of and assistance to teachers and inspectors,
and education-evaluation activities. Its internal structure consists of five
divisions (teaching methods and techniques; teacher training and retraining;
rural curriculum development; production of teaching and learning aids; and
evaluation) (Annex II-3), each containing several specialized working groups
(ateliers) for implementing the most important items of the reform. At
present, the BER has a total staff of 70 persons, including 25 expatriates
sponsored by bilateral and multilateral development agencies.



- 16 -
2.20      One of the main tasks of the BER is to elaborate the new curriculum
in Kirundi. Since over 95% of the population was living in rural areas out-
side the reach of the French language, the Government decided that the prîmary
course should be taught in the language most widely spoken and understood.
At present, an important difficulty is that there do not yet exist well-
established rules of orthography and pronunciation for Kirundi, nor is there
a dictionary of the language. Nevertheless, the results of two years of prac-
tice demonstrate that the Kirundization is successful in spite of some minor
shortcomings. Children appear to be learning all subjects, including arith-
metic and environmental studies, far more quickly and effectively than before.
French is now introduced as a foreign language in the third grade in order
to leave an element of preparation for the secondary course (which, for the
moment, is still taught in French). For teachers who for the most part
were not and are not sufficiently articulate in French, the Kirundization îs
providing relief and encouragement, even though teaching guides and aids for
most grades are still available only in French. The Kirundization of the
primary curriculum is proceeding a year at a time: each year, new teachîng
and learning aids for one additional grade are prepared and distributed.
Materials for both pupils and teachers have been already produced for selected
subjects and are already in use in grades one through four.
2.21      History, geography, biology, and related subjects are combined in a
conglomerate subject best translated as "understanding the environment" (etude
du milieu). It covers many topics, starting with the most elementary percep-
tions of the child like "the home," "the animals," "the country around us,"
"the human body," etc., and advancing with the years, through the full primary
course, to more sophisticated analysis and explanations. One of the BER's
working groups is preparing syllabi and aids for the use of teachers, as well
as the corresponding textbooks for the pupils. The first results of the
utilization of these new materials in classes are very encouraging.
2.22      Almost all existing primary schools in Burundi already have school
gardens. Often endowed with plots of two or three hectares, the gardens
usually include a variety of food and cash crops and an orchard. From their
gardens, moast schools draw a moderate income which is used for purchasîng
consumable items like chalk or paper for which government allocations are
minimal. All pupils are scheduled to work two hours weekly in the school
garden, and parents are expected to help with the heavier work. Unfortunately,
thefts of crops are frequent and during vacations school gardens do not always
get proper care. The proceeds of the school garden are adminstered by the
school cooperative. Staff from the BER visit all schools in the country on
a regular basis to provide assistance wîth these gardens and cooperatives.
2.23      The reorganization of teacher in-service training is another im-
portant element of the reform. At present, the 24 school inspectors are the
main agents of in-service training. They regularly offer training and advice
to the 250 directors of central schools who then repeat the exercise with
the rest of the teachers. The lîmits of this indirect method are obviously
determined by the quality and motivation of the instructors, and much in-
formation is lost as it is transmitted down the line.



- 17 -
2.24      The textbook-production unit of the BER is responsible for the
layout, printing and distribution of the new rurally oriented primary-
school textbooks in Kirundi, guides for primary teachers, and various other
documents. Assisted initially by UNICEF, the work of this unit has been
impressive, in spite of the fact that it has always been hampered by the lack
of materials, transport, and equipment, but it cannot continue to function
indefinitely under present conditions.
2.25      The BER, after a satisfactory beginning, may have a more difficult
future. The reform has the strong commitment of the Government and should be
further accelerated if it is not to lose momentum. There is still a great
deal of improvisation in the BER and a lack of coordination between the
different working groups. The materials produced, up to now, in spite of
precautions, continue to be influenced by European perceptions and methods,
and a clear handicap of many methods/curriculum specialists is their lack of
teaching experience. Without the BER, however, the reform would have little
chance of success.
2.26      The first task of the Secondary Education Bureau will be to undertake
a major curriculum reform. At the secondary level as well as at the primary
level, the MINEDUC intends to "Africanize" courses in history and geography
and to give Kirundi increased importance relative to French and English.
Science is also.to receive more emphasis. Furthermore, there will be a
greater professional diversification of the system than before, in line with
the manpower needs of the country. Instead of five streams at the upper
secondary level, there will be six: general humanities, general science,
primary-teacher training, technical education, agricultural education, and
paramedical education (Annex II-4). Eventually, all secondary-school diplomas
will be made equivalent. The selection examination (concours) for entering
higher education will be abolished and admission to the University granted on
the basis of secondary-school achievements and the specialization chosen at
the secondary level. The common basic level (tronc commun) will remain a
gradual preparation for the upper secondary level, compensating for the
shortcomings of the primary level. In particular, the tronc commun is ex-
pected to offset the reduction of French language training at the primary
level.
Education and Equity
2.27      Historically, schools were built within or near mission stations and
not necessarily in relation to population settlements. Today, therefore, two
children from two neighboring hills may have very different chances of obtaining
a place in a primary school, especially if topological conditions add further
obstacles to school accessibility, as frequently is the case. Compared with
those of other countries of Eastern and Southern Africa, Burundi's distribu-
tion of primary-school facilities and enrollments among districts is one of



- 18 -
the most uneven. For comparison, the Gini coefficients 1/ of a selected group
of countries are as follows:
Burundi      Botswana        Kenya      Ethiopia        Tanzania
0.23          0.13          0.11        0.27          0.14
The district Representation Indices (RI) 2/ for Burundi show the expected
variations in classroom availability between urban and rural districts as well
as significant variations among certain better and less well provided rural
districts (Annex II-5).
1/   A measure of inequality ranging from 0.00 (perfect equality:  each
district has its proportionate share of school places) to 1.00 (perfect
inequality: one district contains all school places).
2/   The RI is defined as the percentage in any given district of the national
total of a scarce resource (e.g., classrooms), divided by the percentage
of the total population (or total school-age population) in that district.
An RI greater than 1.0 indicates an oversupply, relative to the national
average; less than 1.0 indicates an undersupply, relative to the national
average.



EDUCATION PROJECT
DIFFERENCES AMONG REGIONS IN TERMS OF ACCESS TO, RETENTION AT, AND PERFORMANCE IN PRIMARY SCHOOLS
Candidates
Classroomsl/        Pyramid         for Final          Success on
Districts        Population       (Grades 1-6)           Ratio 3/      Examination        Examination
%            %        R.I.2/       %               R.I.1                R.I.27
Bubanza              3.2           3.4       1.04         67              0.69                 0.82
Cibitoke             4.0           3.8       0.95         61              0.27                 0.29
Bujumbura            6.2-          8.8       1.42         99              2.71                 4.56
Mwisale              6.4           7.9       1.23         59              1.71                 1.51
Bururi               6.6           9.5       1.45         80              2.54                 2.54
Makamba              2.8           2.2       0.80         53              0.9                  1.82
Bukirasazi           6.3           5.1       0.81         60              0.99                 0.79
Gitega               6.6           7.2       1.10         64              1.05                 1.02
Karuzi               4.1           2.7       0.60         72              0.74                 0.52
Muramvya             4.5           6.4       1.43         76              1.75                 1.84
Mwaro                5.1           6.7       1.30         83              1.01                 0.82
Kirundo              7.8           4.0       0.52         65              0.33                 0.63
Muyinga              6.2           4.3       0.69         58              0.35                 0.49
Kayanza             12.3           8.1       0.66         64              0.8                  0.36
Ngozi                9.2           7.3       0.80         70              0.74                 0.27
Cankuzo              2.0           6.0       2.97         56              1.19                 1.01
Rutana               2.7           2.6       0.96         37              0.71                 0.68
Ruyigi               4.0           4.0       1.00         44              0.68                 0.56
100.0        100.0       1.00                         1.00                 1.00
1/  Classrooms were used as a proxy measure for enrollments for the following reasons:  (1) Population
statistics are available by district; (2) Enrollment statisties are only available by inspectorate;
(3) Although the districts and the inspectorates have the same names, they don't represent exactly
the same areas; (4) Population statisticts (by district) and enrollment statistics (by inspectorate)
are therefore not fully comparable; (5) Classrooms statistics are available by district; (6) Population
statistics and classroom statistics are therefore more comparable (although classrooms don't always
have the same number of pupils and therefore don't represent exactly the enrollments in the various
districts).
2/ (See definition on preceding page.)
3/  The pyramid ratio is defined as the ratio of the available sixth-grade places in any district to the
available first-grade places in that district. It îndicates the chance a child has of completing
the full primary course, as determined by the purely physical limitations (lack of school places in the
higher grades) of the primary system.



- 20 -
Nine districts, including Cankuzo, Bururi, Muramvya, Bujumbura, and Mwaro, are
oversupplied with classrooms, relative to the national average, while nine
other districts, including Kirundo, Karuzi, Kayanza, and Muyinga, are under-
supplied. Cankuzo may be considered an anomaly because of primary-school
building activities for refugees from Rwanda undertaken in that district by
the UN ligh Commission for Refugees.  Of the remaining three best-provided
districts, Bujumbura is the capital, and Bururi, Mwaro, and Muramvya are
in the central highlands, a region ideally suited to a cattle economy. Since
the central highlands have a relatively high proportion of Tutsi inhabitants
(relative to the proportion of Tutsis in the national population), the
conclusion is occasionally drawn that better educational provision in that
area may have been the result of a strategy by this ethnic group. This
view, however, is overly simplistic. It is quite possible that in the short
period in which Western-style formal education has existed in Burundi, one
group earlier recognized the advantages of modern formal education, which may
have influenced the school distribution pattern. But many other factors, now
difficult to single out, probably have had equal or similar effects. At
present, it is the expressed intention of the Government to plan its primary-
school expansion program in order to promote the growth of opportunities in
those areas which are at a disadvantage, in terms of educational opportunities.
With a total primary enrollment of only 21% of the notional age group, many
children of both ethnie origins are excluded from access to schooling. Equity
will therefore tend to increase as more schools are built and become
operational.
2.28      Not all pupils at the primary level are exposed to the same quality
of education. In branch schools, teacher quality is often lower than that in
central schools, and the equipment available and teaching technologies applied
are less efficient. Disparities also exist between the branch schools, on the
one hand, and the central schools, on the other, in terms of retention of
pupils in school (from the first grade through to the sixth) and performance.
Except for Cankuzo, the areas mentioned above as being oversupplied in terms
of available classrooms also have the highest pyramid ratio, an indication of
a high retention rate. The relatively undersupplied areas also generally have
high rates of attrition.
2.29      In the past, the more advanced districts and the wealthier parents
sent a disproportionate number of students to secondary schools. This situa-
tion, however, has been changing since 1968, when secondary schooling was
made free. The techniques for evaluating the results of the entrance exami-
nations to secondary school are the same as those of other francophone coun-
tries elsewhere in Africa. All secondary schools have boarding facilities in
order to be able to admit students from all over the country. At the time of
taking the entrance examination to secondary school, each candidate may
express a preference as to stream and is finally assigned to a location as
close as possible to his or her place of origin if a vacancy in the desired
stream is available.
2.30      Traditionally, girls have had less access to all levels of schooling
than boys (Annex II-6), even though special measures have been adopted to
facilitate their entry into secondary education. At the primary level, girls
account at present for only 38% of total enrollments, but the proportion is
rising. At the secondary level, 31% of all students are girls, and the



- 21 -
proportion is likewise increasing. At the higher level, the participation
of girls remains low.
Education Finance
2.31      Education in Burundi is financed by the Government, by substantial
foreign assistance, and by private sources (primarily parents and religious
groups). Total expenditures for education in 1974 are estimated to have been
as follows:
(millions of (millions of
current FBu) current US$) 1/ %
Recurrent expenditures by the MINEDUC                 602.9         7.7        35.0
Recurrent expenditures by other Ministries             30.3         0.4         1.8
Capital expenditures by other Ministries                2.5         0.0 2/      0.1
Recurrent expenditures by private donors               28.6         0.4         1.7
Capital expenditures by private donors                 37.6         0.5         2.2
External assistance (excluding private
sources) for recurrent expenditures                 957.3        12.2        55.6
External assistance (excluding private
sources) for capital expenditures                    62.0         0.8         3.6
1,721.2       22.0       100.0
Almost 60% of the expenditures on education in Burundi in 1974 were made by
foreign bilateral and multilateral aid agencies, and capital expenditures on
education, as in the past, were financed almost completely by external assist-
ance and by private donors. The Government has, however, recognized that in
future years it must reserve higher allocations for investments in education.
1/   At exchange rate of 1974, US$1.00 = FBu 78.35.
2/   Less than US$50,000 equivalent.



- 22 -
2.32      In 1974, recurrent expenditures on education by level are
estimated to have been as follows:
Other      Private    Foreign
MINEDUC    Ministries   Sources   Assistance        Total
US$ millions (of 1974) 
Primary      3.6 (47%)       0.0 1/      0.0 i/       1.2          4.8 (23%)
Secondary    3.2 (41%)       0.3         0.1          3.6          7.2 (35%)
Higher       0.9 (12%)       0.1           -          5.9          6.9 (33%)
Non-Formal      -             -          0.3          1.5          1.8 ( 9%)
TOTAL   7.7 (100%)      0.4         0.4         12.2        20.7 (100%)
1/   Less than US$50,000 equivalent.
2.33      Considering only the expenditures of the MINEDUC, unit recurrent
costs in 1974 were about US$29 equivalent per student year at the primary
level, US$291 equivalent at the secondary level, and US$1,122 equivalent at
the higher level. Comparative figures for Burundi and four nearby countries
are given in the following table:
Primary    Secondary    Higher
US$ equivalent -------
Burundi (1974)                   29         291         1,122
Rwanda (1973)                    13         117         1,275
Tanzania (1973/74)               22         248         1,242
Zaire (1973)                     18          86         1,620
Zambia (1973)                    56         516         3,192
External assistance is not reflected in the figures for any of the countries
in the above table.  Except for Zambia, where teachers' salaries cause high
unit costs throughout the system and where per capita incomes are higher than
those of the other countries in the table, the unit costs in nearby countries
are generally comparable to those in Burundi.  The main reason for Burundi's
high unit cost at the secondary level is the very low student-teacher ratio
mentioned above (para. 2.09). For higher education, Burundi's unit cost is
lower than that of any of the other countries, probably reflecting the high



- 23 -
proportion of higher-education expenditures financed by external assistance in
Burundi. If expenditures from all sources were included, Burundi's recurrent
unit costs would be US$38 equivalent at the primary level, US$656 equivalent
at the secondary level, and as much as US$8,700 equivalent at the higher
level.
2.34      Over the period 1965 to 1971, the recurrent expenditures of the
MINEDUC grew at an average rate of 3.9% per year, in real terms. Over the
period 1971 to 1974, however, they decreased at an average rate of 6.6% per
year, in real terms, reflecting internal disturbances and budgetary stringency.
In the period 1970-1974, these expenditures varied between 2.5% and 3.2% of
GDP, and between 21% and 30% of the Government's total recurrent expenditures.
In the future, the MINEDUC can expect to receive about 3% of GDP and 25% of
the Government's total recurrent budget. The MINEDUC's recurrent budget is
expected to grow about as fast as GDP, at average annual rates of about
3.5%.
2.35      In the years 1970 through 1975, most of Burundi's own capital ex-
penditures for education were channeled through the Ministry of Public Works
and the Ministry of Agriculture. In 1976, the MINEDUC was allocated FBu 100
million (US$1.1 million equivalent) for rehabilitation of existing schools,
construction and equipping of two secondary-level laboratories, and construc-
tion of new boarding facilities.
Strategy for Education Investment
2.36      In qualitative terms, the reform of primary education is progressing
satisfactorily with the help of expatriate technical assistance. The low
primary enrollment ratio, however, remains a concern. Government targets for
primary education given in the Second Five-Year Economic and Social Development
Plan (1973-1977) aim to increase the primary enrollment ratio from 20.42% in
1973/74 to 22.93% in 1977/78. This modest increase, because of rapid population
growth, would mean an intake in 1977 which would be 66% higher than that of
1972, and the number of available pupil places would have to be increased from
130,000 to 167,000. This target will probably be reached through (i) better
utilization of existing capacity, (ii) the restoration of those schools
damaged during the civil strife, and (iii) the addition of new capacity
through self-help programs, continued missionary activity, and Government
investment in new schools. The proposed project would add another 27,000
places over the six-year period beginning in 1976; self help, continued
missionary activity, and new Government schools may provide another 8,000
new places during the same period. Based on these calculations and present
primary capacity, there will be some 200,000 primary places available at the
end of the project period (1982), which would allow for an enrollment ratio
of 27-28%. Given the limited economic potential of Burundi and its very low
present enrollment ratio, this increase, in both absolute terms (new pupil
places) and relative terms (higher enrollment ratio) is considerable. In
order to maximize the quantitative impact of investment in education, the
Government has agreed to study the desirability and feasibility of introductng
automatic promotion and double-shifting procedures in primary schools. The
terms of reference of these studies will be reviewed by the Association.



- 24 -
2.37              As the following table of projections shows, the Government should
be in a position to provide the necessary recurrent funds for this expansion
of the primary system. Existing teacher-training capacity would be sufficient
to produce the additional qualified teachers needed.
_   BRUNDJ_     _       _ _    __-__            _ -          _____
LDUCATION PROJECT
RECURRENT EXPENDI-URES FOR LItICATION,
1970-1974, AND PROJECTIONS TO 1985
PROJECTIONS
1970       1971       1972       1973       1974         1975       1980        1985
2/          2/
I.  GDPO/                            17,445    18,154    18,139    18,325    19,074           19,500    23,100        27,400
II.   Government Recurrent             1,855       1,935      2,204      2,191      2,287        2,340      2,772       3,288
Expenditure, I/
- as % of                            il         il         12          12         12          12         12           12
III. Ministrv of Nationial
Educatio01 Recurrent
Expenditures 1/                     522        577        520        505        470          538        693          822
- as % of I                           3          3           3          3          3           3           3           3
- as Z of II                         28         30         24          23         21          23         25           25
IV.   Recurrent Fxpenditures              317        332        298        251         220         242         312         370
on Primary Education 1/
- as % of 111                        61         58         57         50          47          45         45           45
V.  Pririary Entroilments 3/             183.5      181.1      165.6      133.7`    127.8         145.0      203.9        262.0
VI.  Unit Recurrent Cost
per Primary Place 4/             1,725      1,834      1,.797      1,877      1,721       1,669       1,530       1,412
V11.   Pupil-Teacher Ratio                  37          36         35         34         32           33         36          39
I/  In millions of constant 1970 FBu.
2/ Assumes 3.5% real growth per annum, 1975 - 1985.
3/ In thousands. Primary enrollmente by school year have been sdjusted in order to correspond
to the fiscal (calendar) year.
4/  FBu per pupil-year;  decreasing unit costs reflect higher pupil-teacher ratios and no real increase in teachera'
salaries.
AUGUST 1976



- 25 -
2.38                 The following projections indicate that during the lifetime of the
project the Government's estimated counterpart obligations would always be
less than one half of the total funds available for investment in education
and that therefore the Goverument might well undertake an additional primary-
school-building program of its own:
BURUNDI
EDUCATION PROJECT
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES FOR EDUCATION.
1970-1974. AND ESTI1ATES TO 1982
ESTIMATES______________
1970       1971       1973       1973       1974          1975         1976          1977          1978         1979        1980
1/                                                                                      2/           3/            2/            31           2/          2/         2/         3]
I.   GDP                        17,445     18,390    19,155    20,927    24,491           29,879        35,108       40,550        46,835        54,094    61,397    69,685        79,093
II.  Govervment Cagita1                                                                            3/            3/
Expe.dit.res1!                108.3       90.5        96.9      145.1      252.2        522.3       1,890.4      2,028         2,342        2.705       3,070      3,484       3,955
- as X of I                     0.6        0.5        0.5         0.7        1.0           1.7          5.4           5            5             5          5           5          5
III, Departm-ot of National
Edunatio. Cavîta1                4/         6/          _/         4/          /            3/._         V
Eopenditureo-                   O          O           O          O          O             °         100            101          117           135        154         174        198
as   ofI                      0          0          O           0          0            °            0.3            0.3          0.3           0.3        0.3        0.3         0.3
-a:s % oi II                    O          C          °           O          °            O            5.3            5            5             5          5           5          5
IV.  Government couuterpart funds required
by the proposed proj..t 1/                                                                                          8.8          65.3         63.7        49.1       U4.7         3.3
- ns 7. if III                                                                                                       9            48           47          32         26           2
1/ In sillitos of ourrent FBu.
J Assu=es follo.1 ing grosth patteron:
1975    1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981    1982
Inflation            20I   147.   127    127%   12%    10X    10%           10%
Real GCmvi           2%    3.5X.  3.5%.  3.5%.  3.5         3.5%   3.5%    3.5%
Cusrent Gro-th       22%   17.5%  15.5%  15.5%  15.5%  13.5X   13.5X   13.5X
3/ A.n.sot  budgeted,
4/ Substantial expenditures for education and training were sade by other miniatries.



- 26 -
2.39      It appears justified that the Government devote an important part
of its capital budget for education to the primary level over the lifetime of
the proposed project, since capacities in secondary and higher education have
expanded rapidly in recent years vith the help of a number of foreign agencies
such that both levels are not in critical need of further investments. In
addition, technical assistance at these levels is abundant. Given this situa-
tion, the most pressing needs are in primary educatîon, and the Bank's strategy
should be to assist the Government în the implementation of the primary reform
and the expansion of the primary system.



- 27 -                                                           A~nEX II-1
Page i of 2
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS
DFCEMBER <4, 1976 
t      NP6/ t % GNP   tS TOTALt   OFD PUBLIC  t               t                     pRi.  tAV.PR!..                  t        îSEC   a         t
t    CAPITAI  OEVOTEDIPUBLIC  t EDUCATION    tLITER.    PRI. SCOM4PLE-  ZSTUJ  iSCM4.TEACH4mPROGRES3-i SEC. iSTU.  t                            i
o   t  AT   o TO EDU.z  EXP.  t RECURRENT    SACV               tENROLLOTION         goENTStSALARY INUION RATE  :ENROLLUDENT8tHIGHERî
t M&RKETz (PU8L0C:DEVOTEDsEXP AI.LOCATEO:   RATE &RATIO tRATE FITRaPER   aRELAT!flN îFROM PRI.sRATIO tPER   tENROLLt
s POP. IPRICESI  EXP.    s  TI)                TOI        .02 0F   g NET   SPRI.SCH.oTEACH4:  TO GNP/ aTO SEC.   t NET   tTEACM- RATIO:
YPR(0001  t (US$): ONLY)            EDU. sPRI. SEC. Hl.oADULTS):  <0)   :CYCLE<X%):ER    t CAPITA                    M <2        (0    tER       (0)   t
(1    : (2) t  <3)    t (44)   a        <5)       a <6)    i <7)   O    8)    g (9) t  <10)    a (11)              1<12)   1CIS)  9<14) 
ADVANCED
AUSTRIA      ~~~~73    7,5  3, 9t10    l '. 3   9,9      497   290   200    99         98         93        26        2. 0        99         5 1      1 9      8.0 0
CANADA            7?  22.ID 9, 4S0D         7 .7    19,9 .4   b     38    1 9     98        89        98         24        2.0         99        82       1 7      9.00
GERMANY F.REP.72   6 1.440 9, 3200          fi.2    1 4.2     . ..   74** 26      99        91        99         33        . .         99        9 1      22      17.0O1CV
JAp4'N            7  108 . 30  3,630D       f '. 3    20.7    39    38    12       99       990       99C        29C       2 .0        99C       94D      20C    28. 000
NET4iERLAN4YS    72   13.'4D 41,3300       8.5    19,10    12   >49    19         99        95        95        29         3.0         97        73       20      11.00
NEW ZEALA4JD    73    2.9   3,680           9.2    *. .       39    29    29      99        99        99        26         .           99        67       19      24.00
NORWAY            72    3,9D 4,660D         7.0    45,2       58    23    13      99        99        98        20         1.9         99        76       14      11,00
SWEIOE'           73~     8.1   9,910       8.9    16.4       36    14    1 3     99        99        99         17        . ..        90        89       1 0     30. 00
U.K.              72   q5.40  3. 0640f      6. 3    1 2.7     26    39    22      98        99        . ..      26         2. 0        .         63      i17      11 .0 0
U.S.A.            72 210.40D 6,200>0        6.44    19.4       .    73** 21       99        99        99        29U        2.0         ..        93       19U    29.00
EUROPE
GR-EEiC E         74    8 .90 1,87o0        2.?        1. 1   94V   ?9V   14v    82A        99V       . ..       32V      ..           704>      58V      43V    1 1. 00
IRELAND           72    3.00 2. 1 501      5. ,1    13.9D    43V   411   14V    98         97         99A       39        ..          95A        75      1I9       7.00(0
PORTUGAL          7?    9.OD 1,410D0.                                              ..      910V       ..         ..        . ...                 650V    ...       7.60V
SPAIN             7 1   34.70 1,710D        2.:48   I9,2A    49V   22V   15V    94(0        914       .          39 A     ...          . ..      29A      3 0      6.00OA
AFRICA
AL ERIA           79   09.7      778A       7 .               410   320   180    30         76        62E       42E        6.0OG       49E       1 7      25       4. 00
BENIN             7 3    '0q      110       9.3    32. 0      47    23    1 0      il1      32X8      708       SUR       29.08        4 38       78      398      0.44cV
BOUTSWANA         74    »,.7     lot)       9. 0    2( . >    38    20    1 5      29       70X       79        I9         9.0         24        13X      18a       0.30V
BIJOUND 1         714   3. 6       92       2,5      Q9,90    47R  41R   129    1 0         200       30?       38        Io0.0        1 4        20      18a       1,.0
CAMEROION         73-    6 .2    290        9 .9    20.0      38V   29V   17V       .       7 4         . .     S1DY    ...    ..                 9       23CY    0.9OCV
C.A.».            7il   1.7o     46(0       4.O6   240 5Ql6    tg          ..9       .      64OCY     29         69CY    . ..          18         5CV    278V    0.07V
CHAO              75    4.00      Bon       3.o    1 4.0u     78    ?2      -       5       2908V    30         698V    19.0            8         200V   30        0.018V
Ct)NrOC0)         711   1. 3     450)       6.44    19.3      44>   32    2 1     90?    1330         63       à61         6. 0        148       330      22       3.40
EGYP')            7a  36.4       280        5.3      ..       29    36    24       40       74X       49        40        ...          64        39X      28      11,00
ETHI40PIA         73   26. 5      9(4       3.41   20.»u      42    29    18        7       17C       42        90         3. 0        63         2       30       0.20
GABON>            73    »  ,5  3,31o0       5. t    2( .6     25     9    1 )      ...    184087    25ec        46E        9.0         184       20C      ait      1.ROcV
C,HANA4           71   9.30    3(400        '4.7    24.408   38Q   159   230    ...         960CV    62         3OCV    ...            14        iII      I6CV    0.748V
I0007  CO4AST    72    9.80    38440       6 .3    24.7       27BY 338V  13Y        9A     52         57A       46        ..            .         0       25        .208V
KENyA             73   12.0      1744       6.146   27.0      63    14.   il       40       73        ...        (00       8.0         14,       12       23        1.:038V
LESOT4<>          79,   1.2      II0N    12.'(P  23.0         49    18    20       40       89        944        92        7.0ON      81         10       26       1.00
LIBERIA           79v   1. 5     4410       2. l    1 3.2     27    OS    2 0      7 3      98        . ..       35        2.0         . ..      1 2      26       1 1 0 AY
MADAGASCAR        711»   8.6     1 5440     3. 2    22.1      5,1    24    29      40       680       30        6 1       19.0         48         90      26       1.0 0
MALAW,I           74    '4.80    lion0    3.1    20.9....... 29                             560       60        94>        7.0         40         40      20       0.26CY
MALI              7>4   5.30       700      4.6N   32,3       368   928   128    toc        18*       22A        ADA      14. 08       37(0       4(0     174      0.O6AV
MAURITA4I,A      7>)   1.20    2000O    14.5    21t. 0.......                     10       190       ...        22        . ..        ...        3       24
MAUR4ITI IJS      7?    0.80    4400t       3. 7       1 .700   7 1    Io   4      80       86        99        30         ..           .        31       30        Z.7CV
MOR4OCCO          7>4  15,.9     320l       1 5.C 1t 6, .     44   147      9      26?      540       2>         3 7       ..1                   130      2 1      2 .00
NIGERIA           71  71.20    21440        3.2N   ..         400   24A  20A    ...         390CV      .         34EV      . .          .         4       2OCV    0.37CY
RWANDA            7 3    3.90      7440r    3.?C   284. D     ..     ..    .. 23           92        ...         1        ...         . ..       2       1 3      0.23CY
SENFYTAL          7 1    04.00    28>0D    44.'))   22.9DR  38A  424    SA    1 0           380       .. .      46         1. ..                 lx       25       1.71CV
SIERRA LEOJNE   73    2.7        16>4       3.14   23.4       31    36    30       19?      34X       45        12         4.E         8         13X      21       0.538Y
SOMALIA           7 5    3. 2    4>44'      3.70   1 0,80    490   16Q   1 90    50?        340       86        39;       14i. 0      60          3       1 5      0 .100
SUDAN             72   17 .4>0    13,40     f 4. 4,13 .2      43    29    28       1 9      38        75        49         4 0        25         il1      2 0      1,23V
SW4AZILAND        79   4u4>    114>4       14.4>    19.il    37    31    13        90       70        90        38         3.0        84         19       22       2,00
TANZANIA          7»t  13.2<    IIoc        5.IN   17.0       36    .. .  12       63       440       ...       49         ...7                   2       21<      0,30
TUNISIA           7 3    5,. '>47    460(O  6 .3    23 . L    3 7    4 3    18 a   9        72        8 1       4 1        6. 0       31t        1 4      2 1      3,.0 0
UGANDA            7>4  1U.80    49440    5,.2N   17,6CR   '440G  220   259    290           481CV    ...         6         .           14A0       4XCV   21        0.58BV
UPPER VOLTA    72    5.70          700r)    i >.44t   23.Q    69    ID1     6       4       14 (       ..       4i5       1 . 0       20          2       2 3      0.018V
ZAIRE             73   23.»      14>4>      q,2CN  21,3C    SOC   1iC   29e    OS           63        38        40»        6.0        43          8       24       0.9681
248804            74i l 4.7      >482       53    t14. 2      3»    la    16    t43         88        81        4 7        9.0        20         1 3      22       1 . 00
CENTRAL AME8ICA AND0 7>HE CARIO4IEAN
COSTA RICA        h    1.80    7 1( f       9 ,. 2    22.7    5i7    295    1 2    8 9      86CV      6 5       29         1.,0       58         22CY    2 5      12. 11CV
D»MINICAN REP,72    '4.140    ,240D         3 .44    î3.9     42    24    22       51       80        1 7       954        3.00       63         13.9    24        7 .0 0
EL SALVADOR    7'(    3.7n    354401        3 .6    23.8      61      S    22      608      65C       ...       39C1'      *..        39         130<    21CY    4.35BY
GUATEMALA         73   5,. 1     500        4 .9    1 6 .     55S   23    14       47       64        26        39         3. 0       69          8       25       4,09V
HAI70             72    4, 40    1 340      44,9     6.60    61    Il       8     208       22        29?       45~        5.0        50          3       23       1,.00 ?
H4ONDURAS         72    2.70    32440       3,9    26,90    0(4    13    18        52       810       18        37         6.0        75         140      14       3.00
JAMAICA           72    1.90    9940D       6.-,yV  >9,7      33V   22Y    7V    86       1060V       ...       952        ..         ..         32XY    19        4.79V
MEXICO            7>4l  56.>(ID    8900)    2.6      9, 3     514   24    1 2      76       71        31        46         30         6          1 9      23       à .3?CY
NICARAGU»>        701   2.00    9>lion      2.5    t4.2       61    13    13      97        65        21        37         2.0O       93         1 7      24       7 .0 0
TRINIOAD & T. 71    1.00  1, 31440         5.      î8.9       SI    27    12      90       990        87        39         L 4.0      4.9        49       25       2.56VY
SOUTH AMERICA
BULIVXA           76    9 .8     31 58      l 5.0f     >7.5 .F....                 38       178       290       2»         98F.                   48      18D
BRAZIL            7 4 1 0 1,10D   76440     4 3        o,c    (02    20     37    79        800        .        27CV        .          .         188      ISCV    6,008
CHILE             72   10.20    7200        4.6V   10.6A0   36V   144V   361    ...       10107        .        37BY       ,.          .         4800V ..
COLOMBIÂ         7>4  22. 50    440D0       1 4.>   1 0.9     39    1,    20z      73      67         24>       36        4. 0        90         1 7      1 4      4,Oo
ECUADOR           72    6.7D    3800        3. 7    27.7E     490Y 4101  100V   69         72         . ..      38         ....                  18a      1        4A,978Y
GUYANA            74    u .7     '4 10 D     .BN   14.7Q    47    315    1 4      83*      920        39        33        6.           9         620      29       1.00
PARAGUAY          74    2,40    374         1 .8    >1,10     ,95    1 3    22    8 1      82         26        3 0       1 .9        6 5        1 7      1 2      5 0o
PERU              7 1   14.50    62440      >4.5    24.0 ID  90    22    195    72         8 0        38        390V      3.»O        7 0        3 0      230V   12 .0 0
VENEZUELA         7 9   1 1.2   1,630       >41.6   î9.>4     340   280   350    774       81         ...       33        2 . 4.                 33       . ..    î2.63cy



- 28-                                                        ANNEX II-].
"Om PARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS             01CONTag    2    f 
C  ECEM1BE8 14, 17 
i GNP/A  X 2GNPE IXUTOTALX   0FPUBLIC                                           ;    PRO.  :AV,PRI.   I                     5îEC 
S CAPITA   OEVOTEDIPUBLIC ;%EDUCTON    tLITER-    PRI, ICOMPLE.  :STU-  .ScM.TCMoPROGRESS-1 SEC. ISTU 
t   t  AT  t~~~ TO ED.    EXP. t RECURRENT    tAS               , OLLt7I0N          SDENTSISALAReY ONtION RATE  îNOLDNSUGIR
t        tMARKETs (PUBLICCSEVOTEOiEXP ALLOCATEOt   RATE SRATIO tRA7E F0R:PER   tRELATION  tFROM PRO.cRATZO #PER   tENROLLi
t POP.  :PRICESI  EXP.    t  TII    t          TO:        t(X OF   t NET   IPRI.SCH.:TEACHt  TC GNP/ :10 SEC.   i NET   sTEACH- RATIOs
SOtCOOO0)  t(USS)t ONLY)   t  EDU.  tPRI. SEC.  s,tsAOULTS)t  (K)   SCYCLE(X)gFR    t CAPOTA   t  (2)                        t (2)   tES        <1 z%     
o   1t:  (2) t  (3)    t  (4)1             (5)        t (6)    t (7)   t  (8)    o(9)  t  (10)    s (11)               1(12)1  (13)  S(14) 
AS10 AND0 OCEONIA
AFGANJISTAN    71    163          90                          9P   23P   16P    10         26X       24.       11         110         78         8X      21       1 .0 0
BANLAES H     7 3  7 (1.0      80       0       2(.2        .       .      .   23       560        .         1          ,           .        23!      2 8
CHINA(TAIWANi 7 3   I11.<        66 i      3.2    51 1.0      2      1    22      8 2      981        94         0       11.04                   61       2 6     20.0OC
11NDIA            7 1 ';AI.9D    1200      2.6v5          .     .. .. . ...       29       79X        . . .     0311       ..          .         28X      2005    4 0005
INDONESIA         75 1241.11     1300      1 .8    Il1. >    63    23    14       62       63        li0        32         10         91         12       16       2.0 0
IRAN             73  32. 1       87 (      3. 3    1 2. 6    5 08   188   1 28   5,0       77         74A       32           OB.0     806        24       32       4.32CY
IRAQ)            7 2   10.40    8500       6 .7    16.3DR.        .     .         26       61C5       . ..      22          ...                  260C5   26        6 28Cy
JORDAN            73    2.5i    3'10       7 .11    8.8       52    1      1      59       910        76        38         5.          4         sI!      22       4.0 0
KOREA             73   32.9      40(1      2. 9    20.t       64    26      8     92       97         90        115        3, 0       71         116      37       6.0 0
LEBANON           72    2.90    q400       3.59   18.0        39    110    10     68       86         69        19         2. 0       63         26U      25      23.0 0
MALAYSIA          74   1 1.7     670       6 .11    28 .0     44    31    il      60C      96F        90        32        14,00D      83F        44F      27F      3,00F
OMAN1             72    0.60    81100       1.7N1   3.8e    96       -            20       240        99        33         7 .0        ..         .11!     9
PAKISTAN          75  66.20    12110        1.6    1 6.2      115   25    1 8     21       47!        st)       39         2, 0        ..        17X      18       60
PAPuA N.G.        75    2.6      010       5i. 6    1 6. 1    38    16à   24      32       57?        73P       3 1       1 1. 0      90         12X?    24        0.90?
PHIILIPPINES    74   4 0.20    2800        2.5    1 4.9      73    15    1 2      87      11140       . ..      34       1 11.0        . ..      46!      . . .    21 .0 0
SINGAPORE         72    2.20  1,83)0       3. 1    1 6. 2    44    3 1    1 5     75A      9611       72A       33         . ..       996        57Y      24       8.25Y1
THAILAND          73  39.'(      270       0. ONF 20.7F    615       9    1 5     82       87X        q31       32        3.0  J      91C        20!      24       2.0 0
TUJR<EY           72  37.90    60(10        ...    13.ODR          .      .     .         1 050(5     . . .     3410V        .                   2205    2705    5.31BY
YEMEN             73    6 .3     10(1 1    0.11     4.0      115P  21xP   23P    1 0        11!       1 8       36          ,0        7120                1 9      0.:0 585
YEMEN P.D.R.   72    1.50    1 1 1D        2.311   1 2.6     79    1 2      -     1 0      700        3 1       20       1 0. 0       99         12X      20       0.0865
NUMBER 0F COUNTRIESt                       75      72       69    68    68       7 0      78        541        77           112      50        7 8       70        73
RONGE:                                  (<(.-   (3.8 -   ( 25- (4-   (0-.  ( 5-         (10-      (17-      (19-        (1,.8-    C7-        (,0      <9-      (.1
12.11P )  32,3)   96    92)   40)    98)          1840x)    99         651        25.01    99)         75.01   43)        23.01
QIJAO(ILEStUPPER  t                       1. 2    22 .1    115    3 1    22     75       87        711,       4 6          8        8 0       291      2 6      6. 0
MEDIANt                     1. 0    18.0      115   23    1 5      50       7 1       11)        3 8          S        63        1 6      231      2.0 0
LOWER                       3 .11    j3,9     38    16    12       21       52        30)        33           3        25         9       20         .9
SYMMOLS:...  DATUS  UNAVAILOBLE       01970~~~;=L;;   OR BE ORE      M:CURRN   PR CES8 SURCES
-MAGNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE 8=1971                                  N(-GDP----
?  QUESTIONA8LE                        1:1972                          P:INCLUOING FOREIGN AID                       COLUMNOtI14AND 2 WORLD BANK1 ATLÂS
I NCLUDES PART-TIME STUDENTS 0Z1973                                  Q=CENTRAL GOVT. 011LY                                              OR I8RD MISSIONS
** COMBINEO  WITH PRIMARY             E=1974                         R'MINISTRY 0F EDUCATION  (MO0E) O11LY                     3 TU  14 IBR0  MISSIONS
F=1979                         S'MOE AND0 STA7E GOVT. ONLY                                         AND0/OR UNESCO
s=1976                         T=EXCLUOING CENTRAL. GOvT.                                         STATISIICAL
U=PUBLIC ONLY                                                      YEAR800K
V=INCLUDING PRIVATE EXPENDITURE
XzINCLUDING OVERAGED STUGENTS
Y=UNESCO SOURCES
COMPARATIVE  .DIJCATIDN DATA ARE USEF UL IN1 THE EVALUATION 0F VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS A110 ONALYSOS 0F RELÀTIVE STAGES 0F EDUCATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT BETIIEEN VARJOUS COUN7RIES. HOWFVER,ON THE B05I5 0F THE PRESENT DATA,CPOSS-11ATIONAL COMPARISON SHOULO BE APPROACHED WIOTH
GREAT CAUTIOIN. DATA PRESENTED IN1 TUE ABOVE TABLE HOVE BEEN COLLECTED LARGELY 8BY TUE 0A1K MISSI0ONS FROM GOVERNMENT SOURCES, THE
REMAINDER ARE STAFF ESTIMATES OR 041A FRItM UNESCO. EFFORTS 14AVE SEEN MODE TO STANOAROIZE DEFINITIONS AND0 MITHlN LIMITS, TO) CHECK THE
OCCURACY 0F TUE DATA. NEVERTHELESS,SUCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFEC7 ON SEVERAL RESPECTS 41N0 TUE 801N1 15 WORKING TI) IMPROVE THEM
PROGRESSIVELY ON THE nccASION 0F I7S OPERAOTIONAL *0RK. ON TUE USE 0F TUESE DOTA, THE FOLLOWI11G QUAOLIFICATIONS SHOULD BE BORNE ON
(I)'EOUCATInN' OS DEFINEO IN TUE TABLE INCLUDES ALL. EDUCATION AND TRAINING, FDRMOL 0AN0 NON-FORMOL?
C11)'PRIMA9Y EDUCATInlN REFERS TO EDUC0TION AT TUE F0037 LEVEL AND0 SECONDARY- E0UCOTIO<N REFERS TO ALL. EDUCATION AT TUE SECONOARY
LEVEL RFGAORLESS 0F TYPE (E,G. GENERÂL, TECHNICAL, AGRICULTURAL) 
Ç3)"LITERîCY R0TF5'(COt..6) ARE OFTEEI OBTAINED FR01M COUNTRY CENSUSES. ON MANYCOIUNTM!ES THEY ARE ONLY APPROXIMAIITONS AND0 IT OS
DnuYTFIIL THAI ANY UiNIFORM TIEFINITION 0F 'LITERATE' HA45 BEEN FOLLOWEO CONSISTENTLYe
Cs1"PUSLIC EXPENDItIRF IN1 EDUCÂTION"(COLS.3,1141AND 9) REFER TO ALL CAPITAL  AND0 RECURRENT EXPENDITURES DEVOTEO  70 EDUCATION BY
PU9LIC OND ikSIfS-P1]BLIC AGENCIES;
(S)'E'4RLLLMENT R0100!" (COLS 7, 12 AND0 1411 REFER TO SCH$OOL YEAR 0110 MEAN THE PERCENTAGE TF ELGO8ILE CrIlLDREN E-NROLLED FULL-TIME
ON THEf OPPROPRIÀTE SCHUDL, PUBLIC AND PRIV4TE 8Y LEVEL, 1HEY ARE OFTEN SUBJECT TO A 0)0E MARG!N OF CRR09 IN THE DEVELOPING
COUINTRIES rYI,Nr TO vARTATIn1N IN THE ACCUMACY 0F BASIC DATA(!.E. orE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS). ENROLLMENT FIGURES
FREQUENTLY ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER (IF STUDFNTS ACTUALLY ON SCHOOL. OVERAGEr< STUTENTS WHOSE INCLUSION OS INDICATED 8Y
FOOITNOTES ALSO CON INFLATE TUE RATIOS.



BURUNDI
PROP'OSED EDUCATION PROJECT
( PROJET EDUCATIF PROPOSE )
PRIMARY ENROLLMENTS BY PROVINCE, INSPECTORATE, AND SEX
(EFFECTIF PRIMLAIRE PAR PROVINCE, INSPKCTION ET SEXE)
1967/68 - 1974/75
Province                  1967/68               1968/69             1969/70              1970/71            1971/72             1972/73             1973/74             1974/75
District/Arrondis- Total (Boys/Garcons rotal(Boys/Garco.s Total(Boys/Garcons Total(Boys/Garcon! Total(Boys/Garcons rotal(oys/Garco sTotal(Boys/Garct n Total(Boys/Garcons
sement            (Girls/Filles       (Girls/FilLes       (Girls/Filles       (Girls/Fillef       (Girls/Filles    (cir19/Filîer         (Girls/Fille        kGirls/Filles
(10,791             (11,325             (11,769             ( 9,821             ( 9,500                                ( 5,380            ( 5,467
Bubanza                14,190 ( 3,399      15,046 ( 3,721      15 729 ( 3,960      13,738 ( 3,917      13.458 ( 3,958                          8,068 ( 2,688      8274 ( 2,807
Bubanza                  8,882                9,532               9,875                7,553               6,665                                 3,992               3,897
Cibitoke                 5,308                5,514               5,854                6,185               6,793                                 4,146               4,377
(17,136             (19,041             (19,186             (19,856             (19,571         N                      (13,719            (14,612
Bujumbura              26,249 ( 9,113      29,129 (10,157      29,363 (10,177      30.673 (10,817      30.364 (10,793                         23,157  ( 9,418    24188   9,576
Bujumbura                14,077              16,025              15,974               17,586              16,668             t                  13,352              13,937
M'wisale                 12,172              13,173              13,389               13,087              13,696                                  9,785             10,251
(20,063             (22,481             (23,389             (23,632             (23, 346        a                      (10,051            (11,119
Bururi                 26,i   ( 6,614      30.230 ( 7,740      33,057 ( 8,668      3L2519 ( 8,887      32 436 ( 9,090          v              14,752 ( 4,701    16.551 ( 5,432
Bururi                   18,719              21,431              22,921               23,860              23,644                                 12,325             13,534
Makamba                   7,958               8,799                9,136               8,659               8,792             a                    2,427              3,017
(20,027             (20,639             (21,208             (20,624             (18, 792        b                      (12,808            (12,967
28.328 ( 8,301      29,481 ( 8,842      30,585 ( 9,377      30.544 ( 9,920      28 409 ( 9,617         e               21455  ( 8,647    21,289 ( 8,322
Gitega                   13,526              14,027              14,251               14,054              12,473            __                   10,296              9,517
Bukirasazi                9,069               9,375               9,887               10,383              10,187                                  7,481              8,104
Karuzi                    5,723               6,079                6,447               6,107               5,749             n                    3,678              3,668
( 9,836           (10,137              ( 9,826             ( 9,672             ( 9,523         n                      ( 6,174            ( 6,026
Muvinga                 14_363 ( 8,301    15.065 ( 4,928       14,901 ( 5,075       15.010 ( 5,338      14,852 ( 5,329         d               9.989 ( 3,815       9,628 ( 3,612
Muyinga                    7,747              8,072                7,713               8,449               8,145              i                   5,592              5,045
Kirundo                    6,616              6,993                7,188               6,561               6,707             P                    4,397              4,593
P
(12,660            (12,932             (12,515             (12,015             (11,956         o                      ( 9,557             ( 9,933
Muramvya                18.835 ( 5,175    19_416 ( 6,484       19,178 ( 6,663       18.675 ( 6,660      18,631 ( 6,675         ri              14.960 ( 5,403    16.218 ( 6,285
i
Muram=ya                  11,385             11,377               11,324              11,299              11,546             b                    9,120             10,384
MwSaro                     7,450              8,039               7,854                7,376               7,085                                  5,;340             5,834
e
(16,218           (16,240              (15,575             (14,575             (13,865                                (10,602             (10,864
Ngozi                   24.369 ( 8,151    24.617 ( 8,377       24,276 ( 8,701       23,205 ( 8,630      22 594 ( 8,729                        18.093 ( 7,491    18,753 ( 7,889
Ngozi                      9,342              9,873               9,723                9,346               9,259                                  7,811              7,945
Kayanza                   15,027             14,744               14,553              13,859              13,335                                 10,282             10,808
(13,080            (12,915             (11,906             (11,720             (11,803                                ( 9,302             ( 9,934
Ruvigi                  18,859 ( 5,779    18.477 ( 5,562       17,317 ( 5,411       17.394 ( 5,674      17,621 ( 5,818                         14.228 ( 4,926    15,137 ( 5,203
Ruyigi                     6,312              6,626               5,739                5,797               5,757                                  4,391              4,720
Cankuzo                    8,579              7,396               7,369                7,725               7,696                                  6,857              6,932
Rutana                     3,968              4,455               4,209                4,072               4,168                                  2,980              3,485            >
(119,811           (125,710            (125,374            (121,915            (118,356            (87,403            ( 77,593            ( 80,922      X
Total                  171.870 ( 52,059  181.530 ( 55,820   184,406 ( 58,032   181.758 ( 59,843   178,365 ( 60,009  136,972 (49,569    124 682 ( 47,089  130 048 ( 49,126               >
~~~~~~~~~~~__                                                             __   ____ __                         .           ___.___
Source:  Min istry of Nat      Edat I d   mcatiio/Mini:tre dle 1 Edulcarl on Nationale, l976                                                                                              -
june/Juin 1976



BURUNDi
EDUCATION PROJECI
STRUCTURE OF RURAL EDUCATION BUREAU
(BUREAU D'EDUCATION RURALE -- BER)
SECRETARIAT                                                                      PRINCIPAL
DOCUMENTATION               DlIRECTOR                                            TECHNICAL
ADMINISTRATION                                                                   ADVISOR
_. _~~~~~~~~ ___________
COMM ITTE E
OF
COORDINATION
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TEACHER                                                                          RURAL                PRODUCTION OF
EVALUATION               TRAINING                  TEACHING METHODS AND TECHNIQUES                      CURRICULUM              TEACHING AND
AND RETRAINING                                                                    DEVELOPMENT             LEARNING AIDS
AVE   = Evaluation                              AIP   = Practical Subjects                                 AAR   =  Rural Development Activities
AFI   = Teacher Training                        ACA   = Arithmetic                                         ARA   = School Radio
ARS   = Teacher Training by Radio               AFR   = French                                             ATI   =  Field Work
AFC   =  In-service Training                    AEP   = Physical Education                                 AAG   =  Graphic Arts
AKI   = Kirundi                                 ADE   = Art                                                APH   = Photography
AEM   = Environmental Studies                   AMU  = Music                                               AIM    = Printing
3    = 1  Working Grnups
World Bank 16332
June 1976



BURUNDI
EDUCATION PROJECT
STRUCTURE OF FORMAL EDUCATION SINCE THE REFORM
PRIMARY LEVEL                                          SECONDARY LEVEL                                               TERTIARY LEVEL
COMMON LOWER                      UPPER CYCLE                    UNIVERSITY DF BURUNDI    IHIGHER DEGREES ABROAD
CYCLE                     (Professionally oriented)
HUMANITIES, SOCIAL SCIENCES
GENERAL HUMANITIES COURSE           LAVV, ECONOMICS, ADMINISTRATION
o  = Examinations                                                   PRIMARY TEACHER TRAINING            EDUCATION, SECONDARY TEACHER TRAINING
=Short orientation courses=
- Entry into practical life
GENERAL SCIENCE COURSE
=To be established                                                
SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY
TECHNICAL COURSE
MEDICAL COURSE                      MEDICINE, PHARMACY
AGRICULTURAL COURSE                 AGRICULTURAL, VETERINARY SCIENCES
---X--'0'''~~m--m.. aL.
GRADES  1       2       3      4      5      6          7      8      9             10      il     12    13             14      15    16       17
AGES    6       7       8      9      10    il          12     13    14             15      16     17    18              19     20      21     22
SOURCE: Ministry of National Education, 1976
WorId Bank-16136



ANNEX 11-5
EDUCATION PROJEC
CLASSROOM PROVISION: THE DISTRICTS COMARED
I                                                                                                                MAY 1!..............
t                                                                                                                        t............. 
t                                                         e...            ..,*I . 
*                                                                 ....... .. .....  ...... .................... x."Il,,
I                                                          *X.g** ....*....O   -                                         I  ....",,,, 
I                                  ,s.                                        _."........fl.... ,,I 
I                                                         t.....  .... ,.*.. -e ,  , ........   S                        I
I .                                                      4- *... x*.- ..*......*C x
I                                                        ***.,*.*  Ie , s*.............                                 t
I                                                        *0e.*. .-* ... - S** 
t      **s . sZ. . ...*.                                 . ,., "."..,X............. ...**   Xt:
t      gaS *8.af..S..                                     ..fl*.. ,- .. .$$.,. ",,.",, x x   X1....... x
t      *m.u.aua,a.s.,                                  ts  "",.".",., xxxxxxx xxxxx                                      t
*      S s u..S S S u u u u a g.*                      XXXIXX. ..,. . .. . . .  X X X X X X X X I I                      e
t    *Iusa.u.. *.sa...XXS XXXXsXXXeX   .. XXXXXXXXX.XXXX.                            X .
nessa  *usag"æ es.gs                         XXXX XXIXXXIXIXXXXX  XIIXXXIXXXXXIXXIII                                  t
£   saaua.s.........sg.s"@   GXSxXXXXSXXXXXX XX îXîXSIXXXXXXXîî.  XX..... XX. XX.XX..                                    t
t     *SUSUSSSSUUSSSBX*  liii XXlXIXXIXXIXIIX XIXIXXXXXXIXXIXXXXXIX XIXxXIXXXXIXXXXX                                     t
I      *sSUU8UU8u|ei  iaeiOai XXXXIXXXXIXXXXXXX ttXIXXXS e XXXXXXXXXX XJXXIXXXXXXXXXX                                    t
s        *u-*SSBisgs* 5ii55ne XI^XXIXIXXXXSXXI  XXXXXXXXIXIXIXIXIXX        XXIXXXIXXXXX      neii              -  
2          UU*S*-SSUMB   inenni tXIXXXtXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXIXIIXXXIX   IIXIXX IXX5XîXXXXXX imitim                          I
s t--* SSUSDS iigîiî  lXXXII I XXXXXX XIXXXXXXXXXXXX  yxxIxIxx  XXXXXXXXXXX nnciiiii ne                  ieene      
2                   HOUeS.    nneeeniCSi  XXXXXIXXXIXIXXX ZIXXIXI  XIXXXXX  xXIXIXXXXXXIXII iuiqi                        S
I                   siiiiiiiiiii  XXIXIXXXXXXXXIXII    XXXII IXXXXXXXXXXS IXXXXXXXX  *iimiimumiuiiiuiiê                  t
*                  eI    SuuiiSisuiSu  tXIIXXXXIXXxXXXX  CXl@  XXIXXXXXXIII IIIIIXIX  CUiiiiiiCCiOiiCiiiuig§             ;
t                iiiiiiimihii5iim  i  tXIXXXXXXXXX Cieeneiie XXSXXIXXXXX   XXXSXX iinennii  7 eneeenenim                 ;
t               Uiemeemssuseesses  mnnee  XîXXXX  enneee ei XXXXXXXXXXXXXIXX *  eenei  nnneenee  eeee              sUi 
s               iueiiiuiiiiuiiUit uiuiiiii        isieiOCUC* IXXXXXXXXIXIXXX  us..  iuiuuiiîihuîuuiiîiimuu               I
Z               5.iOissse         assis§@ z| îîîsîîesassa.sie  îixxxxxxxxr  *-"-a----.  i8iiuiiiii*ii,iil                S
e                   Sie         iiiiimiiii*iiiiiisee it iiiii   XXIXXXXXX  *u-s-esossuef    iiiliuiuii.i                 Z
*     Z       mmi    mi   eses iiihiiie mes  jo usaie tXIXI   *Z*aZ"su-s ...s.....ss. ................................... isuismuie . 
t                     01110 5885055  iii uiC  mmii  assois@@ ixe ee |-"---" .SUBe...OS....U..USE....8. ........
I                     eente  eee sxxxxxxuxxxxxxm *--sîsmîmmîm  mss- m--  .S..SU....S....U...U............................. S
I                      iUiiSsi55555  en neniie      IXXXXXIXXXXXXXX 15055.BSBBS---UC-6......................................... +
t                      *iiim.sssi  ie imiiii  .XXIXXXXXXXXIXXX *u.sSuuSSSSSa.................................................... t
*                      i55i5555555  iii  SXXXXiiiiii*ii  XXXXXXXXXIIIXXXX  SUUU*............................................. 
t                      55555558  iii5iii  eSZ  XXXIII LtXXXIII  OmEsse        Isses ..............................................
! @ @||~~iisfimii@| mîmmse   ii  XIIXXXXXXII  S5gSSggags3-u*@ ............................................. z
1 iiiiiiiiii5iiiiiiii5i  Ia XXXX  *-1---1111-sZ  U....SS.U.SUU............................................ 3
g                 l@||||@|||iiimii5iiiiiiiiii* ,X Si XXXIX SUwSCSCUUSUSU*SBSUU  *Z
I                       siuuiiiiiiuiiiiuiii       iii III *-Ssm  I. smusa.ssu                                           I
1                          iiiiiiiiiiiiiii *XCI S XXXI  SX   BSUSSU                                                     I
I  îîîîîîmîîîmsîmîm ZXXu XaXXti XXXX  *                                 I CIassroot      
*                           iiiiiiiiiiS5iiiii  XIXXXXIXXXIXIIXXIIX  111111                          i SIJiAiZ           Z
*                             iiiiiiiiiiiii   XXIXXXIXXIIXXXIXIXXXIIXXIXX                            I ISYSMîX          i
t                              iiiiiiilii   *XXXYXXXXX5XSXIXXIXXIXIXI:                              i NOOZI             £
Z                               iiiiiii  IxXIXIXIXXIXXXIIIIXIXXXXIX                                 5 %LJIU.OG          Z
I                                iiii  XIXtXIIIXXXXIXXXXXXXXXXXIX                                   b UÇJYZOE           t 
t                                     IXtXX^XIX1 Xl XXIXXXXIIIXX.X                                  t CACaUZO           I
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                 - Much  above  thenational*averag
i                                  *IZxX*IXIXIXXXIXIXXXXXXXIXXXX                                    * *^UYIÇX
t                                  SIXXtXX^XIIXXXIXXXIIXXXXXXXl                                    S@ 'Aluil            Z
X~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  - Somewhatxxxxx                                             abov    thesz   naioa
Z                                   SXXXXXXXIXtXUXlXXXXXXXI                                         là NUiUACV*         t
t                                   IXXIIXIXXIISXIXXXXI                                            Il îuu.ttisê         z
t                                      XXIXXIXXXXXII                                               13 *UZSI.I&t         7
4                                                                                                  beluw  th   nati
t                                                                                                                       I
.ite+^-w--fl-I .e.eee*fl5.*---sfl*ts.ee.i ..ce.ia.ae.I.£..-----1
Educational (c1assroom) provision:
1 - nuch above the national atoerage
s   1.                                             2 - Somewhat above the national
*-l-e.-§-§    *--w---------es----l------e                     $       average
iiiimiS i,ii i iQei,e dia            * 'ts6t                                                      na.....i.o.,îîîg....
*e Ze *X s  as  X -- -z  t  www   -                    3 - Sllghtly above the national
tmo.a.    e e""@@ ...ui.. ...........   t                                . average
ttt{L~~                    i '                       S                4 - Slightly below the national
'Orors'ondi.ns Pnprescntation  C¢   S   ,                                         average
5155-uP     1,lS      I.»X     j.A        *.if      s..m      *.m           5  -  Somewhat bebow   the  national
5AIIu      15*i,   1*iC         1.11      '.8       5 @&- 5                       avrerage
6 - Huch belawr the nationxal average



BURUNDI
PROPOSED EDUCATION PROJECT
EDUCATION PYRAMID
1975/76
-rotai             % of
Age                                                                                                                                                                                 Enroliments        Age Grou,
Grade    Age    Group
17      22      51,330                                                                                                                                                                       T
E
16      21      52,253                                                                                                                                                                        1        1,000             0.5%
15      20      53,585                                                                                                                                                                       A
14      19      55,030
13      l8      56,161                                                                                      583    97
12      17      6 6,440                                                                                       74     ,g,                                                              Upper  S          5,825            2.2%
11      16      69,522                                                                                    907        48                                                              Level  C
10      15       81,430                                                                                 1,19          971                                                                     N
A
9       14      92,849                                                                               2,078           834                                                          Commn  RA
8       13    104,714                                                                               2,127             884                                                         BLave      Y         9,072            2.9%
7      12     113,382                                                                              2,268    _         81
6       11    116,600                                      13,307                                                                         6,855
5      10     116,302                                    13,830                                                                              7,780                                           R
4       9    116,523                                        13 33                                                                              8,175                                         M     144.964               21%
3       8    116,717                                    14,111                                                                                  R8,649                                       R
2       7    116,717                                  14,640                                                                                        9,780                                    Y
1       6     115,617                                                                                                                                              13,800                __
25,000           20,000           15,000            10,000            5,000               °               5,000            10,000            15,000
SOURCE  Miristry of National Educaton 1976
Worid Bank-16382



- 34 -
III. THE PROJECT
Project Objectives and Content
3.01      The proposed project is designed to assist the ongoing reform of
primary education, to expand the capacity of the primary system, and to help
the Government increase its control over the sector. The project would
consist of:
(a)  the construction, furnishing and equipping of 100
multipurpose learning centers (Centres de Formation
Polyvalente--CFPs);
(b) the expansion of the printing capacity of the BER's
textbook-production unit; the provision of equipment,
vehicles, and 250 tons of paper for the unit; and the
provision of simple storage facilities for about 400
existing schools;
(c) the construction and equipping of facilities at the
Higher Teacher-Training School for Boys at Gitega for
the training of teachers in the teaching of practical
subjects;
(d) technical assistance, including (i) specialists' services
for the BER (15 man-years), (ii) specialists' services for
project implementation (8 man-years), and (iii) fellowships
for staff development at the BER (7.5 man-years); and
(e) operating expenses for project administration.
Project Items
3.02      Multipurpose Learning Centers (CFPs).  The most pressing needs
of Burundi's education system are evident at the level of primary education
(para. 2.39). The country's primary enrollment ratio is very low in comparison
to those of other African countries, and the Government is at present unable
significantly to raise its allocations to the educational investment budget.
Most existing primary schools were built by the mission stations (missionaries,
and parents under their guidance) and a few have been recently built by
parents organized by Burundi's political party, UPRONA. A number of schools,
however, were damaged or destroyed during the civil strife of 1972. Thus an
urgent need of the primary system is simply for additional places. Moreover,
only a few schools have the specialized facilities and equipment to teach the
new rurally oriented reform curriculum. The major component of the proposed
project is therefore designed to provide a substantial increase in primary
places as well as an important impetus to the educational reform. The 100
proposed CFPs would provide a total of 27,000 new student places (an increase
of about 21% over the number existing in 1974-75).



- 35 -
3.03      While preparing the reform, UNESCO and UNICEF specialists (as well
as Bank Group staff) explored various ways to reorganize the primary system so
that it would be more productive than at present. In particular, these teams
investigated the possibility of upgrading the present central/ branch-school
system (which is similar to the "nuelear system" in other countries) with
material inputs.  It was found, however, that:  (a) social demand for admit-
tance to higher primary grades would require investment for new central schools
far in excess of what Burundi could afford, since the long dis ance between
branch and central schools would make the building of boarding facilities
mandatory; (b) since there are many types of branch schools, with varying
numbers of grades and pupil places, their upgrading would be very costly and
would require construction expertise not available in Burundi; and (c) the
nuelear system would increase inequality of educational opportunities, already
a sensitive issue in Burundi. Furthermore, as part of the reform, the primary
course was shortened by one year to six grades, and it ls the firm intention
of the Government to complete all primary schools (almost all schools at pres-
ent have at least four grades). A period of six years of primary schooling,
in the context of Burundi, is considered the minimum necessary to equip
children with ensured literacy and numeracy. With regard to the conventional
methodological/organizational proposals (double-shifting procedures, automatic
promotion, and multigrade teaching), a general introduction at the present
time was not considered feasible for reasons of cost and scheduling as well
as teacher quality, which would not allow their quick and easy introduction.
Nevertheless, the Government intends to study the future desirability and
feasibility of introducing some of these measures (para. 2.36).
3.04      With the CFPs, the Government intends to increase the number of
complete primary schools which are owned and controlled by the Government.
The project would thus serve to equilibrate the strong preponderance of
mission schools.
3.05      The CFPs would be located in educationally disadvantaged areas ac-
cording to a two-step selection process devised on the basis of school-mapping
criteria designed to improve equity in educational opportunities. The present
pattern of locating primary schools is the result of various historical factors
of which the most important appears to be the random manner in which the mis-
sionaries established their stations (para. 2.27). Under the present pattern
of primary-school siting, inequalities within districts (arrondissements) are
greater than those among districts; i.e., in any given district, some areas
are relatively well provided with primary schools whereas others have none.
The location process was designed to allocate the new schools in such a way
as to alleviate inequalities both within and among districts.
3.06      The first step in the location process is to apportion the 100 new
CFPs among Burundi's 18 districts. At the outset, the district of Bujumbura
(the capital) was excluded (i.e., will not receive any of the new CFPs), since
it is already overly provided with primary schools relative to the rest of the
country. Three criteria, corresponding to three different goals which the CFPs
are intended to fulfill, were used in making the initial apportionment among
the remaining 17 districts:  (i) a demonstration-effect criterion, (îi) a
population criterion, and (iii) an equity criterion. These are discussed
below.



36 -
3.07      Each of the 17 districts (the 18 with the district of Bujumbura
excluded) wi'll receive two CFPs in c-`=r to provide a demonstration effect.
In each case, the CFPs will be located at easily accessible places in the
district in order to enable them to demonstratc the new reform activities to
surrounding primary schools.
3.08      Of the 66 remaining CFPs, nine will be distributed on the basis
of population density. Thus, a third CFP will be allocated to the nine
districts with the largest populations, based on the latest administrative
counts available from the Ministry of the Interior.
3.09      The 57 CFPs still to be distributed would serve to reduce the
existing pattern of inequity among districts as measured by their repre-
sentation indices (para. 2.27 and Annex III-1). These 57 CFPs would permit
an increase of about 11% over primary capacity existing in 1975-1976. Eleven
districts would receive those numbers of CFPs shown in Annex III-2; and with
this allocation, the greatest number of districts would be able to achieve
enrollment ratios above the present national enrollment ratio (about 21%).
3.10      Annex III-2 presents the final result of allocating the 100 CFPs
among the districts on the basis of the above three criteria. This allocation
has been called Option A. According to this allocation, the nine least weil
provided districts of Annex III-i would thereafter all have higher represen-
tation indices (Annex 111-3) and the project would be clearly beneficial from
an equity standpoint, as well as providing a demonstration effect and addi-
tional educational resources to the most heavily populated districts.
3.11      Option A, however, would allocate two thirds of the new CFPs to
only six of the 18 districts (Kayanza, Kirundo, Ngozi, Muyinga, Bukirasazi,
and Karuzi), which would heavily tax the construction capacity in these six
districts.  In addition to implementation difficulties, the Government would
probably find it politically inappropriate to concentrate the major portion
of the project in only a few districts. Option B (Annex III-4) was devised
to give the Government a more feasible alternative. Under Option B, ten CFPs
have been reallocated from the districts most favored under Option A to those
least favored (omitting the six districts with the highest original Represen-
tation Indices from the reallocation). Option B would not have quite as pro-
nounced an impact on equity as would Option A, but the overall resu't woild
still be favorable, as shown in the after-project Representation Indices
(Annex III-5).
3.12      During the period in which the appraisal report was being written,
two additional factors were introduced which will influence the final allo-
cation of the 100 CFPs among the 17 districts:
(i)  Agricultural or rural development projects.  The Government
expressed a desire to include some of the CFPs as components
in integrated agricultural or rural development projects
currently being implemented or at an advanced stage of plan-
ning. Since several such projects will create new population



- 37 -
concentrations, the request was deemed reasonable and
acceptable; therefore, notwithstanding Option B, the Gov-
ernment may reallocate some CFPs from some districts to
other districts where such projects are planned or underway.
(ii)  New Statistics.  Since the population and enrollment statis-
tics on which Option B was based are outdated, the Govern-
ment has agreed (as specified in a supplementary letter to
the Credit Agreement) to reconsider, within a year from the
signing of the Credit Agreement, the allocation of Il CFPs
in districts where the existing statistics are most outdated.
At the present time, therefore, an allocation of 89 CFPs among the 17 districts
(Annex III-6) has been agreed with the Government; this allocation is based on
Option B. The remaining Il CFPs will be allocated on the basis of new statis-
tics and planned or ongoing rural projects.
3.13      The second step in the location process is to choose the loca-
tions of the CFPs within any given district, once it has been determined how
many CFPs that district would receive under the first step. The basic pro-
cedure is to find areas within the district which do not as yet have primary
schools, but which have school-age populations of sufficient size and density
to fill a primary school. This task has been begun by the MINEDUC's primary-
school inspectors, of whom there is at least one for each of the 18 school
inspectorates (the inspectorates correspond roughly to the 18 districts).
Once the first step (the allocation among districts) is accomplished, the
inspectors can locate the CFPs proposed for their districts fairly rapidly.
The Government has already located 41 CFPs and has provided the Association
with maps of five districts showing these locations, selected on the basis of
the criteria outlined above. The Government has agreed that the remaining 59
locations will be chosen on the basis of the above criteria by December 31,
1977.
3.14      The CFPs would be the first primary schools in Burundi to provide
adequate facilities for the practical subjects foreseen by the reform. Since
the reform is now in its fourth year, the teaching of practical subjects in the
fifth and sixth grades has yet to be introduced, and the BER has only recently
begun detailed development of the syllabi for practical activities. In general
terms, the reform would introduce simple woodworking and techniques cf repair
and maintenance of farm implements. The girls, in addition, would be taught
the rudiments of cooking, hygiene, nutrition, and sewing. These activities
would require very inexpensive capital outlays (sets of simple tools, cooking
implements, etc.), and recurrent expenditures (for supplies of wood, leather,
etc.) could be kept to a minimum. When classes are not in session, the work-
shops could be used for adult training activities or by other Ministries
(Health, Agriculture, Interior, etc.) for the in-service training of lower-
level staff.
3.15      The CFPs would be similar to existing primary schools in the
following respects:



- 38 -
(i) The reform curricula in use would be taught in the
CFPs.
(ii) Each CFP would have a school garden. Local rural
extension agents would aid in the establishment
and maintenance of these gardens and would assist in
teaching simple agricultural techniques.
(iii) The pupils would form a school cooperative which
would administer the income from the sale of the
produce of the school gardens. These funds would
be used to defray the costs of the CFPs' mainte-
nance and supplies.
(iv) The pupils' parents would be encouraged to be
involved to the fullest extent possible in the
activities of the schools, including the upkeep of
the buildings and garden, through the formation of
a Parent-Teacher Association at each CFP.
It should be emphasized that the reform of primary education has already been
introduced in the majority of existing primary schools, and school gardens,
cooperatives, and Parent-Teacher Associations have been established in most
schools already. In addition, it can be expected that many missionaries and
parents' groups will add simple workshops to their schools similar to those
built at the CFPs under the project, in view of the proximity of at least one
CFP (para. 3.07).
3.16      Although the MINEDUC attempts to assign teachers to areas near their
place of origin in the hope that they will be able to find housing locally, the
difficulties encountered are often so great that teachers are unwilling to accept
posts in certain areas. Schools near the mission stations are usually popular
posts, since adequate housing (and other modern infrastructure) is available.
However, since the CFPs would be built in educationally disadvantaged areas1
and given the dispersed settlement pattern of Burundi's population, it is
unlikely that sufficient housing for all teachers will exist at the locations
of the new CFPs. In order to attract and retain the required number of
teachers, the project would therefore provide an average of two staff houses
at each CFP, one for the director, ensuring that the person primarily respon-
sible for the school would live adjacent or very near to it to watch over the
school and garden in order to reduce vandalism and theft, and one for the
teacher responsible for the maintenance and use of the work area during
non-school periods. A maximum of 200 houses would be provided under the
project.
3.17      It should be emphasized that the CFPs and the staff houses would
be of austere and simple standards in order to minimize costs and to ensure
maximum replicability. Space standards in the classrooms would be the minimum
acceptable (1.2 m2 per pupil place). Gross areas for staff houses would be
only 54 m2 for directors' houses and 44 m2 for teachers' houses, and maximum
use would be made of local materials. The buildings would be designed and
constructed to provide maximum durability at minimum cost and with minimum
maintenance.



- 39 
3.18      Assistance te the Rural Education Bureau (BER). The textbook-print-
ing unit of the BER functions at present with one fiat offset press, a limited
amount of paper furnished by LNICEF, and a technical director from UNESCO.
The small capacity of the unit has been a chronic constrair.t to the accelera-
tion cf thbe  ari Textbooks -nd ot'ee  r_adng materials in Kirundi have
been published for grades 2nQ tbircUgh four as the reform has progressed, but
they have not lad very durable eco,ers because of the paper constraint.  Texts
for arithmelcz, enirr o      al etudies, Frenen as a foreign language, and
other primary subjects have been prepared or are at an advanced stage oL
development, but they have not yet been. mass-produced due to the lack of
paper and the ltmlLad -rinting capacityO  The poor quality of paper available
gives the existing textbooks a liLetime of only about one year. The exist-
ing printshop is overloaded, which has led ta delays in the distribution of
textbooks and teacher guides. Printing overseas would be impractical because
of the language (Ki4rundi) of the textbocks and the higher costs (textbook pro-
duction abroad would be three times as expensive).
3.19      Some 40,000 copies of each first-grade textbook are presently
needed, and the dem.nd will in'erease over the coming years, with the ex-
pected rise in e-rrlzr-t-st  in erder to provide each primary pupil with
textboeks and eac. prlmary -,eacher withb guides, some 170,000 textbooks and
2,200 teacrer guides   su..»    re;uered a nual y; these figures would increase
to some 215,000 books and 2,700 guides p0ae  over the next six or seven years.
To praduce this vwlume,  we- flaC  offset presses are needed.  The proposed
project would therdeosr provide fer a minimal expansion of the present facil-
ities to houas  a second oress as well as other equipment (ie., cutting,
assembl±ng X bind.g, eut and0rcef machinery) a» required for the production
of textbocks in. the quantity needed.  About 250 tons of paper would also be
included for the oroduction of textboeks and teacher guides.  Finally, to
assist in exten "¾.2  the lifetime cf books and teacher guides, the project
would inelude about 400 cimpla  leckers for distribution to existing schools
(especial±y branch schcolsc  that noTpi lacx the most elementary storage faci-
lities. With improved finisk. paper sùupp±y, and sterage facilities, the
average llfem2e cf a tex.book could be expanded to an estimated three years
and that cf a teacher guide Ce about five years; these estimated lifetimes
wkere usea ce encuweting tte ernual needs sscut iîoned above.
3.20      Zecause s3fsn a ec  se-oD--3 rcage cf transport, textbook distribution
at present is haphazard, difficult to plan, and uncertain. The proposed proj-
ect would provide six vehL.cles to the BER for the distribution of textbooks.
These -e_-'ces rouit al-o Lbe ustd by tLe rofing teacher-retrainîng teams of
the BER.
3.21      S-.7--- ttc presetz"rlùt cf e tc,Er lias no allocation for the
operating cost.3 of      'er ve'-ii,½ces, the  eovernsent has agreed that begin-
ning irL 1977      7               71  'inre3sse  ta a mi4nimum of FBu 15 million
p.a. 9 ttc h N.-,  -    s-'  ce- n   s effifcienrt operation.
3.22      Limn.t e` cscor  Of tte Higher Teacber-Training School for Boys at
_Itaet    7r½              -r           » _eaI s'ujec.ts, the prososed project



- 40 -
would include financing for the construction and equipping of facilities
within the existing Higher Teacher-Training School for Boys at Gitega for the
training of teachers in the teaching of practical subjects. The School for
Boys was chosen because it has an available site, but the facilities would of
course be used for training teachers of both sexes. These facilities would
initially be used for the in-service training of teacher trainers and for the
training of a first volunteer group of experienced teachers in the teaching of
the new practical subjects; later, they would be used for the upgrading of all
teachers in the teaching of the practical subjects. The BER has begun work on
the syllabi for the fifth grade, where the practical subjects will be intro-
duced (para. 3.14), and on the relevant changes in the teacher-training
course. Eventually, the training in practical subjects will be included in
the regular teacher-training course. In addition, teachers in the new course
will receive basic training in how to organize adult-education activities.
The Government has provided the Association with details of the new program
for the training of teachers in the teaching of the practical subjects.
3.23      Technical Assistance.  About twenty-three man-years of international-
ly recruited specialists' services and eight years of fellowships would be
provided under the project. Fifteen man-years of specialists' services would
be provided for the BER (of which two would be for evaluation) and eight man-
years of specialists' services would be provided for project implementation.
The Government has agreed that all technical-assistance specialists will be
selected and appointed on the basis of terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association.
3.24      The project would provide specialists not likely to be sponsored by
or available from other multilateral or bilateral sources, including:
(i) one specialist in teacher in-service training, for
four years;
(ii)  one specialist in rural community development, for
two years;
(iii) one didactical specialist acting also as itinerant
pedagogical adviser, for four years;
(iv)  one specialist in the production of teaching aids,
for three years; and
(v) one specialist in evaluation, for the equivalent of
two man-years.
3.25      The first three specialists would be active in the program for the
training of teachers in practical subjects described in para. 3.22.  The
fourth specialist would contribute to preparing syllabi and other teaching
aids.  The fifth specialist would assist the evaluation working group of the
BER, thereby strengthening the efforts of the BER to build up an evaluation
capacity. With respect to the proposed project, the redistributive effects of
the new CFPs would be monitored to follow upward shifts in the Representation
Indices of the educationally least well provided districts. If the BER needs



- 41 -
further information as the reform progresses, the evaluation process might
also include the monitoring of dropout and retention rates over time, among
districts and among types of schools, as well as followlng variations in
student performance and disparities in learning.
3.26      Evaluation of overall project implementation would be Gonducted
by the Project Unit to be established for implementation of the project (para.
4.10) in cooperation with MINEDUC staff. The Government has agreed that
within three months from the Closing Date, a report will be prepared and sent
to the Association with a preliminary assessment of the project's operational
results and benefits, of the lessons learned during implementation, and of the
Association's role in connection with the project. Among other things, the
report will compare the project and its original expected benefits with its
results as they can be seen when the project is nearly complete.
3.27      For prolect implementation, the following specialists would be
recruited internationally and financed by the project:
(i)  an accountant, for five years; and
(ii)  a procurement specialist, for three years.
3.28      The proposed project would also provide about ten fellowships, each
for a period of about nine months, to personnel presently working in the BER.
Nine fellows would be assigned to African countries, such as Niger, Cameroon,
the Ivory Coast, and Senegal, where educational reforms similar to that in
Burundi have been introduced and where institutions equivalent to the BER
exist. A tenth fellow would attend a course in educational planning at the
International Institute of Educational Planning in Paris.



- 42 -                                                  ANNZX II-1
BURUNDI
EDUCATION PROJECT
ORIGINAL REPRESENTATION INDICES
(based on the existing pattern of school provision)
(1)         (2)                (3)                 (4)                 (5)             (6)                   (7)
Number of Exist-    Percentage  of                         Percentage  of      Representation
District       ing Classrooms2/   National Total        Population-3-    National Total           Index hl
18       Kirundo                144                4.05              241,102            7.81                 0.52
17       Karuzi                  95                2.67              126,953            4.11                 0.65
16       Kayanza                288                8.09              378,352           12.26                 0.66
15       Muyinga                153                4.30              192,455            6.24                 0.69
14       Ngozi                  260                7.31              28Z,185            9.15                 0.80
13       Makamba                 80                2.25               86,733            2.81                 0.80
12       Bukirasazi             182                5.12              195,521            6.34                 0.81
11       Cibitoke               137                3.85              124,655            4.04                 0.95
10       Rutana                  92                2.59               83,210            2.70                 0.96
9       Ruyigi                 141                3.96              121,746            3.95                 1.00
8       Bubanza               120                 3.37              100,013            3.24                 1.04
7       Gitega                 257                7.22              202,464            6.56                 1.10
6       Mwisale               281                 7.90              197,735            6.41                 1.23
5       Mwaro                 238                 6.69              158.251            5.13                 1.30
4       Bujumbura              314                8.83              192,091             6.23                1.42
3       Muramvya               226                6.35              137,147            4.45                 1.43
2       Bururi                 337                9.47              202,186             6.55                1.45
1       Cankuzo5/              213                5.99               62,301             2.02                2.97
3,558              100.00            3,085,100          100.00
1/      The districts ranked 1 through 9 are districts which are over-provided relative to the national
average, as judged'by the Representation Index; the districts rankedlo through 18 are under-
provided relative to the national average.
2/      Source: Catalogue of Teaching Establishments, 1972-73.  The distribution of classrooms, used in
calculating the Representation Index, is judged not to have changed a great deal since 1972-73.
3/      Source: Latest administrative count of the Ministry of the Interior.  The population was
estimated to have been 3.6 million in 1974; therefore, the figures given represent serious under-
counting. Nevertheless, the distribution, used in calculating the Representation Index, is
judged to be the best estimate of the presently existing situation.
4/      Column 4 divided by Column 6.
5/      Cankuzo's high level of provision is the result of the establishment of a refugee camp at Mugera
(in the district of Cankuzo) in 1964 for refugees from Rwanda. The United Nations High
Commission for Refugees built schools in the refugee settlement such that almost all of the
refugee children could go to school.. Elsewhere in the district, however, the provisl"n of
schools is less complete.
NOVEMBER 1976



BURUNDI
EDUCATION PROJECT
OPTION A:
ALLOCATION OF THE 100 CFPS AMONG THE 18 DISTRICTS
Total no. of classrooms
per district after
Demon-                                                 Total No.      Project (existing class-   Percentage
stration                               Allocation         of new      rooms from Annex III-1+   of National
Districts    Effect        Population    Equity        of CFPs       Classrooms    new Classrooms)                    Total
Bubanza          2                            1             3              18                   138                     3.32
Cibitoke         2                            2            4               24                   161                     3.87
Bujumbura         0                                                                             314                     7.55
Mwtsale           2              1                          3              18                   299                     7.19
Bururi           2               1                         3               18                   355                     8.54
Makamba           2                           2             4              24                   104                     2.50
c'    Bukirasazi        2              1             5            8              48                   230                     5.53
Gitega           2               1                          3              18                   275                     6.61
Karuzi.          2                            5             7              42                   137                     3.29
Muramvya          2                                         2              12                   238                     5.72
Mwaro             2              1                          3              18                   256                     6.16
Kirundo           2              1           12           15               90                   234                     5.63
Muyinga           2              1            7           10               60                   213                     5.12
Kayanza           2              1           14           17              102                   390                     9.38
Ngozi            2               1            7           10               60                   320                     7.70
Cankuzo          2                                         2               12                  225                     5.41
Rutana           2                            1            3               18                  110                      2.65
Ruyigi           2                            1            3               18                  159                      3.28
TOTALS        34               9           57          100             600                 4,158                   100.00%
AUGUST 1976



- 44 -
BURUNDI                          ANNEX III-3
EDUCATION PROJECT
EFFECT OF OPTION A
Representation Indices            Change in the
Before the        After the        Representation
Districts                    Project            Project             Index
Bubanza                       1.02                1.00             -0.02
Cibitoke                      0.93                0.94             +0.01
Bujumbura                     2.13                1.82             -0.31
Mwisale                       1.21                1.10             -0.11
Bururi                        1.41                1.28             -0.13
Makamba                       0.78                0.87             +0.09
Bukirasazi                    0.79                0.85             +0.06
Gitega                        1.08                0.99             -0.09
Karuzi                        0.64                0.78             +0.14
Muramvya                      1.40                1.26             -0.-14
Mwaro                         1.28                1.18             -0.10
Kirundo                       0.51                0.71             40.20
Muyinga                       0.67                0.80             -0.13
Kayanza                       0.65               0.75             +0.10
Ngozi                         0.78                0`.81           +0.03
Cankuzo                       2.90                2.63            - 0.27
Rutana                        0.94                0.96            +0.02
Ruyigi                        0.98               0.95             -0.03
AUGUST 1976



BURUNDI
EDUCATION PROJECT
OPTION B:
ALLOCATION OF THE 100 CFPS AMONG THE 18 DISTRICTS
Total No. of
classrooms per
district after
Increase/Decrease               New                 Total No.             Project (existing                %
Allocation of CFPs            in number of CFPs             Allocation               of                   classrooms from                 of
according to                with respect to                of CFPs               new                   Annex III-1 +               National
Districts                  Option A                     Option A                  (Option B)           Classrooms              new classrooms)                Total
Bubanza                         3                                  + 2                  5                      30                       150                      3.61
Cibitoke                        4                                  + 1                  5                      30                       167                     4.02
Bujumbura                                                                                                                               314                      7.55
Mwisale                         3                                                       3                      18                       299                      7.19
Bururi                          3                                                       3                      18                       355                      8.54
Makamba                         4                                  + 1                  5                      30                        110                     2.65
Bukirasazi                      8                      - 1                              7                      42                        224                     5.39
Gitega                          3                                  + 2                  5                      30                        287                     6.90
Karuzi                          7                       - 1                             6                      36                        131                     3.15
Muramvya                        2                                                       2                      12                        238                     5.73
Mwaro                           3                                                       3                       18                       256                     6.16
Kirundo                        15                       - 2                            13                       78                       222                     5.34
Muyinga                        10                       - 2                             8                      48                        201                     4.83
Kayanza                        17                       - 2                            15                      90                        378                     9.09
Ngozi                          10                       - 2                             8                      48                        308                     7.40
Cankuzo                         2                                                       2                      12                        225                     5.41
Rutana                          3                                  + 2                   5                     30                        122                      2.93
Ruyigi                          3                                  + 2                  5                       30                       171                     4.11
TOTALS                 100                      -10         +10                100                     600                     4 158                      100%
AUGUST 1976



46 _
BURUNDI                            ANNEX III-5
EDUCATION PROJECT
EFFECT OF OPTION B
Representation Indices           Change in the
Before the        After the        Representation
Districts                   Project            Project             Index
Bubanza                      1.02                1.09             +0.07
Cibitoke                     0.93                0.94             +0.01
Bujumbura                    2.13                1.82             -0.31
Mwisale                      1.21                1.10             -0.11
Bururi                       1.41                1.28             -0.13
Makamba                      0.78                0.92             +0.14
Bukirasazi                   0.79                0.83             +0.04
Gitega                       1.08                1.02             -0.06
Karuzi                       0.64                0.75             +0.11
Muramvya                     1.40                1.26             -0.14
Mwaro                        1.28                1.18             -0.10
Kirundo                      0.51                0.67             +0.16
Muyinga                      0.67                0.76             +0.09
Kayanza                      0.65                0.73             +0.08
Ngozi                        0.78                0.78              0
Cankuzo                      2.90                2.67             -0.28
Rutana                       0.94                1.06             +0.12
Ruyigi                       0.98                1.02             +0.04
AUGUST 1976



- 47 -
ANNEX III-6
BURUNDI
EDUCATION PROJECT
AGREED ALLOCATION OF 89 CFPS AMCNG THE 18 DISTRICTS
District                          Number of CFPs
Bubanza                                     2
Cibitoke                                    5
Bujumbura                                   O
MwisaLe                                     3
Bururi                                      3
Makamba                                     5
Bukirasazi                                  6
Gitega                                      4
Karuzi                                      5
Muramvya                                    2
Mwaro                                       3
Kirundo                                    il
Muyinga                                     7
Kayanza                                    13
Ngozi                                       8
Cankuzo                                     2
Rutana                                      5
Ruyigi                                      5
89



- 48 -
IV.  COST OF THE PROJECT, FINANCIAL PLAN, IMPLEMENTATION,
PROCUREMENT, AND DISBURSEMENTS
Cost Estimates
4.01              The total cost of the project is estimated at US$12.5 million
equivalent including US$0.8 million equivalent of taxes. The estimated costs
and foreign-exchange components of the various categories of expenditures
are given in Annex IV-1 and summarized as follows:
BURUNDI
EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTTIATED COST PER PROJECT ITEM
% of
Total       % ai
FBu  (millions)                 US$  (millions)              Basic      Foreign
_ oject  Item           ~           Local    Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign    Total            Cost       Exchange
A.   Multipurpose Learning
Centers (Centres de
formation polyvalente - CFPs) 194.40    376.20    570.60    2.16                  4.18       6.34       73.4          66
B.   Rural Education Bureau
(Bureau d'education rurale -
BER)                                  2.70      47.70      50.40    0.03        0.53        0.56        6.5         95
C.   Extenaion to Teacher-
Training College                        2.70       5.40       8.10    0.03        0.06       0.09        1.0          5,
D.   Equipment and Furniture
for Project Unit                       0.90        1.80       2.70    0.01        0.02       0.03        0.3          67
Sub-Total                       200.70    431.10    631.80    2.23           4.79       7.02
E.   Technical Assistance                 '23.20       99.00    124.20    0.28         1.10       1.38       16.0          30
F.   Project Administration                 8.10       13.50      21.60    0.09        0.15       0.24         2.8         62
(excluding Technical
Assistance)                                               _
Total Base Cost  (A-F)          234.00    543.60    777.60    2.60           6.04       8.64      100.0
(October 1976)
G. Contiagencies
Physical Increases  (8%)         19.00      43.20       62.20    0.21        0.48       0.69
Price Increases  (37%)           85.50    200.70    286.20    0.95           2.23       3.18
Sub-Total  (G)                  104.50    243.90    348.40    1.16           2.71       3.87
Total Project Coast                  338.50    787.50 1,126.00    3.76            8.75      12.51
(including taxes)



- 49 -
BURUNDI
EDUCATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED COST BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
Percentage
FBu (Millions)              US$  (Millions)         of Total
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total  Base  Ccst
1.  Civil Works
(a)  Site Development             9.90    18.90    28.80       0.11      0.21      0.32        3.8
(b) Academic and
Communal                   146.70   273.60   420.30       1.63      3.04      4.67       54.0
(c)  Staff Rousing               18.00    33.30    51.30       0.20      0.37      0.57        6.6
Sub-total (1)              174,60   325.80   500.40       1.94      3.62      5.56       64.4
2.  Furniture                        12.60    18.00    30.60        0.14      0.20      0.34       4.0
3.  Equipment                        13.50    87.30   100.80        0.15      0.97      1.12      12.8
Sub-total (1, 2, 3)             200.70   431.10   631.80        2.23     4.79      7.02       81.2
4.  Technical
Assistance                       25.20    99.00   124.20        0.28      1.10     1.38       16.0
5.  Project Administration (exclud-
ing Tecnnical Assistance)         8.10    13.50    21.60        0.09      0.15     0.24        2.8
Total Base Cost (1-5)           234.00   543.60   777.60        2.60      6.04     8.64      100.0
(October 1976)
6.  Contingencies
(a)  Physical Increases (8%)   19-00    43.20    62.20         0.21      0.48      0.69
(b)  Price Increases (37%)       85.50   200.70   286.20       0.95      2.23      3.18
Sub-total (6)                   104.50   243.90   348.40        1.16      2.71     3.87
Total Project Cost                   338.50   787.50 1,126.00       3.76      8.75    12.51
(including taxes)



- 50 -
4.02      Cost estimates for construction, furniture, and equipment were based
on a survey of schools which had been recently constructed by various groups
including mission stations, the A.I.D.R. (Association Internationale de
Developpement Rural Outre-Mer - International Association for Rural Develop-
ment Abroad, a private Belgian rural-development foundation), and the European
Development Fund (FED). The estimates of costs for construction are based on
economical building standards, and emphasis would be given to the maximum use
of local materials and traditional building technology. The unit construction
cost for the CFPs is about US$80/m2 equivalent. This figure is higher than
the unit cost of similar schools being constructed in Ethiopia by a rural
projects agency at about US$50/m2 equivalent but compares favorably with the
unit cost of schools built in the Sudan (US$107/m2 equivalent) and those of
other primary schools in Bank-Group-financed projects, as follows:
1962-71       1971-73       FY74-75    Burundi Project
Projects      Projects      Projects  (Oct. 1976 Prices)
Median value        138            86            138             80
(US$/m2 equivalent)
The proposed schedule of accommodations is functional. The gross area per
pupil place in a CFP (2.1 m2) reflects the austerity of the proposed facil-
ities and compares with those of other Bank-Group-financed primary-education
projects as follows:
1962-71       1971-73       FY74-75       Burundi
Projects      Projects      Projects      Project 1/
Median value                4.3             3.1          5.0           2.1
(m2)
4.03      Customs Duties and Taxes.  In accordance with the normal practice
of the Government of Burundi, all items specifically imported for the proposed
project would be exempt from custom duties and taxes, as would the remunerations
of the technical-assistance specialists.  It is expected that the bulk of the
building materials to be used in the construction work and some furniture and
equipment would be acquired on the local market and would accordingly be
subject to customs duties and/or taxes which have been estimated at US$0.8
million equivalent.
1/   Facilities also to be used for in-service and nonformal training of
adults.



- 51 -
4.04      Contingency Allowances.  For physical increases, 8% has been added
to the base cost of civil works, furniture, and equipment, 10% to proiect admin-
istration, and 5% to technical-assistance costs. Estimated price increases are
based upon the following annual rates of price escalation over base costs of
October 1976 in accordance with the implementation schedule (Annex IV-2):
Furniture, Equipment.    Technical Assistance,
Year       Civil Works           Paper, Vehicles         Project Administration
1976            14t%                    10%                        7.5%
1977-82         12%                      8%                        7.5%
Total contingencies represent about 45% of the estimated base cost, with 8%
representing physical increases and 37%, price increases.
4.05      The foreign-exchange component has been calculated as follows:  (i)
civil works, 65%; (ii) furniture and project administration, 60%; (iii) in-
structional equipment, 75%; (iv) printing equipment, paper, and vehicles,
100%; and (v) technical assistance, 80%. The foreign-exchange component for
civil works is high for the simple and modest buildings proposed, but local
materials and imported items including cement are very costly, reflecting,
inter alia, the extremely high transportation costs since Burundi is a land-
locked country. Including contingencies, the foreign-exchange component is
estimated at US$8.8 million equivalent, or 75% of the total project cost net
of taxes.
Financial Plan
4.06      The Financial Plan provides for IDA assistance of US$10.0 million
equivalent (85% of total project cost net of taxes), as follows:



- 52 -
BURUNDI
EDUCATION PROJECT
FINANCIAL PLAN
(US$ millions)
Government            IDA
Category           of Burundi          Credit           Total
1.   Civil Works                     0.83             4.73            5.56
2.   Furniture and Instruc-
tional Equipment              0.10              0.84            0.94
3.   Printing Equipment,
Paper, Vehicles                -                0.52            0.52
4.   Technical Assistance            0.06             1.32            1.38
5.   Project Administration          0.06             0.18            0.24
(excluding Technical
Assistance)
6.   Contingencies                   1.46             2.41            3.87
TOTAL                        2.51            10.00           12.51
including taxes of          0.75              -              0.75
The total government contribution would be US$2.5 million equivalent (includ-
ing about US$0.8 million in taxes) spread over a period of six years with
a maximum contribution of about US$0.6 million equivalent in any one year.
The Government attaches high priority to the project, and the capital coun-
terpart funds are within its capability. The Government has provided the
Association with satisfactory financial projections showing how it would meet
its share of the capital expenditures.
4.07      The project can be implemented only if local contractors and the
missions are paid promptly and receive advances for mobilization. It is
therefore essential that a revolving fund be established within the Project
Unit with an initial contribution of US$100,000 equivalent from the Govern-
ment, from which the Project Unit would provide mobilization advances. The
Government would seek reimbursement from the Association for expenditures
incurred, following normal procedures, with the Government maintaining the
fund at about US$100,000 equivalent throughout the project-implementation
period. The establishment of the revolving fund is a condition of Credit
effectiveness.
4.08      The construction of all 100 CFPs is expected to be completed in
June 1982, with all CFPs operating at full capacity beginning in the 1987-88
school year. In terms of recurrent costs, it is expected that the new CFPs
would be more cost-effective than the average existing primary schools. The
main cost-saving factors would be the following:
(i) The housing allowances of two teachers would be
eliminated by furnishing two staff houses per CFP; and



- 53 -
(ii) The planned pupil-teacher ratio in the CFPs, 45;1,
would be 40% higher than that of the school system et
large in 1974. The present ratio can not be increased
in many existing schools due to their small and uneco-
nomical size.
The main cost-increasing factors in the CEPs would be the f ollowing:
(i) Each CFP would have its own director, whereas at
present, less than half of the existing primary
schools have resident directors (para. 2.06);
(ii) Practical subjects related to agriculture would be
taught in the fifth and the sixth grades at each
CFP; and
(iii)  All teacbers in the CFPs would be quialified; at
present, only about 55% of the primary teaching
force is qualified.
In the final analysis. the cost-saving factors predominate, ard the estimateG
unit recurrent cost per pupil-year in the new CFPs would be about FBu_ 1,300 îi
1970 constant terms, less than two thirds of the unit cost in existing schocis
.n 1974. In total, the 100 new CFPs would generate additional recu-rent costs
of about FBu 35.1 million p.a. (in 1970 constant terms).  This is aDout 5% of
the projected recurrent budget of the MENC for primary education ia 1987`.  The
27,600 new places provided by the proposed CFPs would represent about 16^% Df
the total number of primary places projected for that year.
Project Implementation
4.09      The project would be implemented in about six years after Credit
effectiveness (Annex IV-2) with a proposed closing date of MIarch 31, 1983.
September 30, 1982, is the expected completion date. This estimate takes into
account the conditions of Burundi including limited administrative capacity
and the building industry's constraints. Key iîndicatcrs  tor p roject super
vision are included as Annex IV-3.
4.10      Administration.  By Presidential decree, a Project Unit was estab-
lished in the MINEDUC which will be responsible for the implementation and
financial and administrative control of the proposed project and for liaison
with the Association.  In addition te its other duties, the Project Uhnit wvi
develop appropriate miaintenance procedures for the CFPs and other buil dings to
be built under the proposed project.  The Project Unit will comprise a director
(a senior MINEDUC official), an assistant director (arch-itect-), a procuirement
officer, an accountant, and adequate supporting staff, including two construc-
tion supervisors.  The director. assidstant orec:cr, procurement offiser, and
accountant will be appointed on a fuil-time basis and on the basis of terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association. The Project Unit's director



- 54 -
and assistant director have been nominated and must be formally appointed as
a condition of Credit effectiveness. The assistant director (architect) is
to be provided and financed by the Kingdom of Belgium under its bilateral
assistance program to Burundi; he should begin his work in Burundi in early
January 1977. The procurement officer and accountant should be appointed
within six months from the date of the signing of the Credit Agreement. These
arrangements have been agreed by the Government. Due to lack of experienced
local specialists, it is likely that the accountant and the procurement
officer will have to be recruited internationally, and about eight man-years
of specialists' services have been included in the project for these positions
(accountant, 5 man-years, and procurement specialist, 3 man-years) (para.
3.27). The proposed Credit would provide US$200,000 equivalent for retro-
active financing of expenditures incurred after August 1, 1976 for operating
expenses of the Project Unit. During project implementation, operating costs
of the Project Unit would be financed under the project.
4.11      Physical implementation of the project would consist mainly of
three elements: (i) design and construction of 100 CFPs; (ii) expansion and
equipping of the textbook-production unit of the BER; and (iii) construction
and equipping of facilities for the training of practical subjects teachers
within the Higher Teacher-Training School for Boys at Gitega.
4.12      Designs and Construction Standards.  The project architect has al-
ready developed preliminary designs and construction standards for the CFPs
(including staff houses) and would also prepare the designs and tender
documentation for the teacher-training facilities and for the extension to
the textbook-printing unit. Since the CFPs and the teacher houses are to be
of the utmost simplicity and would make maximum use of local materials (paras.
3.16 and 4.02), the designs would include a basic set of guidelines indicating
specific areas to be built, construction methods, and costs, but allowing
certain freedom in the selection of finishes, roof framing, and other details
to utilize the availability of local materials and individual ingenuity of
builders. Construction standards would be reviewed by the Association in
order to ensure maximum durability at minimum cost and with minimum main-
tenance (para. 3.17). For the extensions to the textbook-production unit
and the Teacher-Training School, standard detailed drawings and tender
documentation would be prepared.
4.13      The Building Industry.  Only four medium-sized construction companies
are presently registered with the Ministry of Public Works, and all are based
in Bujumbura. Medium-sized companies are owned principally by expatriates and
are qualified to undertake work up to US$500,000 equivalent in value. Unit
construction costs b! private contractors are about US$175/m  for primary
schools and US$300/m for secondary schools, which are high even though the
schools are conventional and simple to construct. Much of the modern infra-
structure in the interior of the country has been done by the mission stations,
which continue to construct the majority of schools, churches, and dispensaries
presently being built in the interior. It is unlikely that the private



construction firms would be interested in un=erta1ing the construction of very
many of the CFPs due to their smaiL size and dis.rersed locations. The most
economic and efficient method of con-structieDn, would therefore be by negotiated
contract utilizing the services of the mission stations in those parts of the
country where they are equipped to undertake a  additiona1 construction
program. Burundi is divided into six Catholic dioceses, and projects are
overseen in each diocese by priests who are architects (one in each diocese),
who in turn are responsible to a central organizatior in Bujumbura.  The
Catholics have indicated that they could undertake the construction of a large
number of the 100 CFPs; several Protestant missions have also indicated their
willingness to participate. Construction would therefore be undertaken by the
mission stations under the supervision of the Project Unit in all those parts
of the country where the missions are willing and able to undertake construc-
tion. Contracts acceptable to the Association would be negotiated between
the Government and the missions to build these CFPs. When completed, however,
the CFPs would be government-owned and -operated. In those parts of the
country where the missions are not eq T-pped to undertake construction, it
would be accomplished by local private construction comuanies on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally foollowing Government procedures that
have been reviewed by the Association and are satisfactory to the Association.
Competitive bidding advertised locally w!,,ould also be used to construct the
extensions to the textbook-production unit and to the Teacher-Training School
at Gitega, due to the avaîlability of small local firms which could success-
fully carry out this work.
4.14      Management and Suoervision D- Constructi-on.  In each of the Catholic
dioceses in which constructlon Vould be undez-taken by Catholic mission stations,
the architect priests would he in cb2arge of thpe construction of the CFPs
through direct management and sun-er-ision oL field teams.  Private firms would
undertake and supervise construction else;'here. Overall supervision would be
provided by the project architect aided by twQ construction supervisors (para.
4.10).  Construction would be in three phases of approximately 1> months each,
representing an average of f ive or six con.etruction sites per phase, which is
within the capability of existing construction capacity.  In those parts of
the country where the Catholic missio s .eo.ld undertake construction, cost
estimates by the missions in zach diocee v7ould form the basis of the nego-
tiated contract between the  èoernet and the missions.  Progress payment
certificates would be submitted to the Pro-ect Unit for veriLication before
government reimbursement to the missions. The Project Unit would be respon-
sible for the supervision and final insuection. and acceptance of each CFP.
For work awarded through competitî.'7e $iddîra , the progress of works and
certificatlon of DaYene r   uoul`' e ed.-ysred    the Project Unit.
4.15      Site2   S. tisf:    sl~ tF        d    desigsnated in the locations
selected as described lu p--rtncgaa e  !    ±3e  Ali sites wvould be on land
owrned by the Governrment  no ar-Dlee ar  en isaged in obtaining satisfactory
sites at no cost ta the a



- 56 -
Procurement
4.16      Contracts would be awarded as follows:
(i) The 100 CFPs (US$5.6 million equivalent) would be
constructed either on the basis of negotiated contracts
between the Government and the mission stations or other
parties acceptable to the Association, or on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance
with local procedures satisfactory to the Association;
(ii) Contracts for the extensions to the Teacher-Training
School (US$75,000 equivalent) and to the textbook-
production unit (US$65,000 equivalent), as well as
contracts for furniture, equipment, and vehicles
costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each would
be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding ad-
vertised locally and in accordance with local pro-
cedures satisfactory to the Association; and
(iii) Contracts for furniture, equipment, and vehicles costing
more than US$50,000 equivalent each would be awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with
the Bank Group's Guidelines for Procurement.
4.17      Standardized sketch designs, draft tender documents, and master
lists of furniture, equipment, vehicles, and paper, indicating proposed group-
ing for tender, would be reviewed by the Association. Items would be grouped
to the extent practicable to encourage competitive bidding and to permit bulk
procurement. Review of tender evaluation documents by the Association prior
to award would be required only for contracts above US$50,000 equivalent for
furniture, equipment, vehicles, and paper. Domestic manufacturers of furni-
ture and equipment would be allowed a preference of 15% or the existing rate
of import duties, whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing
foreign suppliers.
Disbursements
4.18      Disbursements (Annex IV-4) would be on the basis of:
(i)  85% of total expenditures for civil works;
(ii) 100% of foreign expenditures for imported con-
struction materials, furniture, instructional
equipment, printing equipment, paper, and
vehicles; or 85% of local expenditures, if
procured locally;
(iii) 100% of foreign expenditures and 80% of local
expenditures for technical assistance; and



- 57 -
(iv) 75% of total expenditures for salaries and operat-
ing costs of the Project Unit.
4.19      All disbursements would be fully documented except those for
project administration. Disbursements for project administration would be
made against a certificate of expenditure, documentation of which would not
be submitted for review but would be retained by the Borrower and would be
available for inspection by the Association in the course of project supervi-
sion.  Auditing would be required on an annual basis for expenditures incurred
by the Project Unit for project administration. Auditing procedures and in-
formation required by the Association have been agreed upon by the Association
and the Government. Any funds remaining upon completion of the project would
be used for project-related items, subject to agreement between the Government
and the Association.



-  5B  -                                                            8iNNFX  IV-I
c          o            o,                     0>   -t   a                     -0   >0 -
c-             c       c        c     c           c_                -                      
Oc             o           o       o              c    c    c    c                c    c      o r    0
vo                                                                 °              oo  -r I -0 c '  0      O
C        V                                 o-    o          ot O>    -    N 
- ~ ~ ~ r                                       c  r, o          N °                  c °     o<
O 5u            o       o,    -Oo<                                          
E. o, o°                                                           -o
t ::s .ffiO  >                                                >-                                    i         -    r,    N 
NO             °                                                  N                                N     
OOc                                             c     c '      C0                      C     r,
V0               Zt    o-                                                r,,  C      o-
z            ,       c    o                             c              r,   r,    r   N  .'e,    c 
*" 0=    o-       o-       oO   ",                            r,             r, cC  .   ,      r,
OON.          N                       N                             0             >0    ,    r,    Ot



BURUNDI
I/
EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
First Year          Second Year           Third Year           Fourth Year           Fifth Year           Sixth Year
Quarter:    3    4    1    2    3    4    1    2-   3    4    1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4
1. 100 CFPs
a. Phase I (3U5-
civil works                         PPP  PPP                  XXX  XXX  XXX  XX  XXX  XX
furniture and equipment                       LLL  ppp  TTT              DDD  DDD  DDD  DDD
b. Phase II ( 35)
civil works                                                                                    XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX XXX
furniture and equipment                                                             LLL  ppp  TTT              DDD  DDD DDD
c. Phase III (35)
civil works                                                                                                         i##        XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  XZX  XXX
furniture and equipment                                                                                             LLL  ppp        TTT        DDD  DDD  DDD
2. B.E.R.
civil works                                              PPP  PPP  TTT  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  VVV  VVV  VVV  VVV
equipment                                                           ppp  TTT             DDD                                                                                           'c
3.  Extension to Teacher-Training
College
civil works                                                        Pppp  ppp  TTT  XXX  XXX  XXX  XXX  VVV  VVV  VVV
equipment                                                                LLL  ppp  TTT              DDD
4.  Technical Assistance                               111  111  222  222  666  666  777  777  777  777  777  777  555  555  444  444  333  333  333  333  111  lii
5.  Proiect Administration                  eee  eee  AAA  AAA  AAA  AAA  AAA  AA   AA  AA  AAA  MA  MA  AAA  AAA   AA AA  AA  MA  MA  MA  MA  AAA  AAA  AAA  AAA
1/  Date of Effectiveness
LEGEND:  e  Establishment of Project Unit                                              X  Construction
#  Survey of sites                                                            V  Guarantee period
P  Development of prototype designs and Specifications for CFts.             CD  Delivery and installation/distribution
Design and specifications for BER and workshops.                         1-7 Manmonths of Technical assistance
L  Preparation of furniture and equipment lista                               A  Project Administration
p  Preparation of tendering documents and contracts
T Tendering and contract award
Source: Bank Grouyr staff



- 60 -
ANNEX IV-3
BURUNDI
EDUCATION PROJECT
KEY INDICATORS FOR SUPERVISION
% of Expendi-
ture Foreseen
at appraisal
FBu Expended to Date             for this com-
(related to items on Im-          ponent at
Physical Indicators          plementation schedule)             this time
Design
Construction
Furniture
Equipment
Educational Indicators
Accomplishments by            Planned Accomplish-
Date of Supervision           ments at Appraisal/
Mission                     Negotiations
Number of Pupil
Places added (CFPs)
Number of textbooks
printed and distributed
Number of teachers
in in-service
training in the teaching
of practical subjects
Number of technical
assistants in place at
BER
Number, duration, and
places of fellowships
awarded
Noted improvements in
educational performance
Evaluation activities
undertaken
June 1976



- 61 -
ANNEX IV-4
BURUNDI
EDUCATION PROJECT
FORECAST OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US $'000s)
Total
Quarterly              Accumulated             Undisbursed
Quarter 1/           Disbursements            Disbursements               Balance
1                                                                    10,000
2                     -                        -                     10,000
3                    50                       50                      9,950
4                    60                      110                      9,840
5                   280                      390                      9,560
6                   390                      780                      9,170
7                   750                    1,530                      8,420
8                   840                    2,370                      7,580
9                   510                    2,880                      7,070
10                   330                    3,210                      6,740
il                 1,020                    4,230                      5,720
12                   640                    4,870                      5,080
13                   830                    5,700                      4,250
14                   840                    6,540                      3,410
15                   520                    7,060                      2,890
16                   310                    7,370                      2,580
17                   500                    7,870                      2,080
18                   430                    8,300                      1,650
19                   640                    8,940                      1,010
20                   610                    9,550                        400
21                   300                    9,850                         100
22                   110                    9,960                          40
23                    30                    9,990                          10
24                    10                   10,000
1/   Starting from the date of Credit effectiveness.



- 62 -
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Benefits
5.01      Burundi's future prospects depend to a large degree on the develop-
ment of its agricultural sector (paras. 1.05 and 1.09), specifically, on crop
diversification and greater productivity at the level of individual rural
smallholdings. These developments, however, will only be possible if a larger
proportion of Burundi's population has an opportunity to achieve basic literacy
and numeracy and to learn improved agricultural techniques. In spite of
formidable obstacles, the Government has undertaken to reform its entire
education system in order to make it more responsive to these development
needs. The proposed project would provide critically needed material and
technical assistance to the ongoing reform, thus helping to improve the
quality of primary education and increasing its relevance to the country's
development needs. In addition, the proposed project would greatly aid
institution building within the Ministry of National Education through its
technical-assistance component to the BER, giving that department a permanent
capacity to undertake curriculum development, teacher upgrading and evaluation.
5.02      In quantitative terms, the proposed project would provide 27,000
new primary-school places, representing an increase of 21% over the primary
capacity existing in the school year 1974-1975. The facilities for practical
subjects to be provided under the proposed project would benefit, for a start,
as many as 7,000 youths and adults p.a. The expansion and equipping of the
textbook-printing unit at the BER and the provision of paper would allow all
primary-school pupils to receive new textbooks during the project period.
5.03      After project completion, the activities of the Project Unit in
terms of the designing of new schools and the administration of school construc-
tion would be continued by a division of the MINEDUC, which would therefore
acquire a permanent capacity for undertaking school construction. It is
estimated that the surveying of sites and the construction of the CFPs would
create some 3,200 man-years of employment during the project period. In
addition, the technical advice and assistance provided through the project
would generally improve the quality of construction at the local level through
on-the-job training of craftsmen and unskilled laborers. After the project
period, the 100 CFPs would provide continuing employment to some 700 people,
mostly teachers.
5.04      As a result of the proposed project's location procedures (paras.
3.05-3.13), the CFPs would benefit the educationally least favored of
Burundi's children. Since the CFPs would be in rural areas, they would
benefit the poorest stratum of Burundi's population, the average annual
income of which is estimated at only US$40 equivalent.



- 63 -
Risks
5.05      Burundi is one of the poorest of the least developed countries
The human resources, especially the national ones, required for project
implementation will be extremely scarce and not readily available. In addi-
tion, there is only limited experience in the education sector in handling the
transactions required for the implementation of a project of this size. A
tighter supervision schedule may help to reduce this risk. Major difficulties
may also be expected as construction is undertaken in predominantly rural
areas and at places where even the missions have only a weak basis. Project
implementation would be spread over a conservatively long six-year period in
order to reduce these difficulties as much as possible.
5.06      As has been mentioned, the driving force for educational change
in Burundi is the BER. Until now, the BER has been able to keep operating
with the help of a variety of human and material inputs provided by various
external-assistance agencies. Such arrangements were feasible during the
period of preparation of the reform but not during its generalization to all
schools in the country. Teaching and learning aids have to reach teachers and
students in sufficient quantity and on a regular basis; the experience in
application of the new didactic materials should be evaluated formatively,
using findings fed back to improve the system. The administrative structure
has to be consolidated and can no longer suffer from constant turnover. The
"Burundization" of the BER must be well planned and sufficiently funded in
order to provide continuity. Finally, the BER must receive the financial
allocations necessary for its proper operation. The proposed project would
attempt to ensure the successful institutionalization of the BER through its
substantial technical assistance and material aid. Should the BER not be
fully operational, the effect of the CFPs would be only quantitative (limited
to the provision of primary-school places).
5.07      In spite of these risks, the project is to be recommended.  Even
its merely quantitative impact would be extremely important in a country where
such a small percentage of the children attend school (paras. 1.03 and 2.27)
and where limited government resources for investment will continue to be
the principal constraint to the expansion of the primary system. Given
the long implementation period, frequent supervision, and the substantial
technical-assistance component, the risks can be minimized, and the project
would have a substantial qualitative, as well as quantitative, impact, pro-
viding critical support to the country in its efforts to make its education
system relevant to its development needs.



- 64 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      Agreement was reached with the Government on the following principal
points:
(a)  studies on automatic promotion and double-shifting proce-
dures (para. 2.36);
(b)  locations for the CFPs (para. 3.13);
(c)  budgetary appropriations for the BER (para. 3.21);
(d)  selection and appointment of specialists and of other
staff (paras. 3.23 and 4.10); and
(e)  duties and responsibilities of the Project Unit (paras.
3.26, 4.10, and 4.19).
6.02      Prior to Credit effectiveness, the Governnent should provide the
Association with the following:
(a)  evidence of the establishment of a US$100,000 equivalent
revolving fund for the Project Unit (para. 4.07); and
(b)  evidence of the appointment of the Project Unit's director
and assistant director (para. 4.10).
6.03      Retroactive reimbursement of a sum not exceeding US$200,000 equiv-
alent is recommended for expenditures incurred after August 1, 1976, by the
Project Unit for project preparation activities (para. 4.10).
6.04      Subject to the conditions outlined in para. 6.02, the proposed
project constitutes a suitable basis for a credit of US$10.0 million equiva-
lent to the Republic of Burundi on standard IDA terms.



- 65 -
Related Documents and Data available in the Project File
A. General Reports and Studies relating to Education
1.   UNESCO.  Burundi.  Developpement de l'Education:  Analyse et
perspectives. Education Sector Study. Paris: UNESCO,
December, 1974.
2.   University of Burundi, University Institute of Education Sciences.
"Numero special sur la Reforme du systeme educatif au Burundi,"
Liaison, Cinquieme Annee, No. 10 (March, 1974), pp. 1-55.
Bujumabura: Centre de Recherche et de Documentation Pedagogigues,
March 1974
3.   Greenland, Jeremy.  "The Reform of Education in Burundi:  Enlightened
Theory Faced with Political Reality," Comparative Education, Volume
10, No. 1 (March, 1974), pp. 57-63.
4.   Greenland, Jeremy.  "Education in Burundi:  An Assessment --
October, 1975." (Mimeographed.)
5.   Lemarchand, Rene, and Jeremy Greenland (ed.).  Les Problemes du
Burundi. Papers presented at an international conference in
Brussels, December 27-28, 1974. London: Minority Rights Group
Press, 1975.
6.   Belgian Embassy in Burundi.  Minutes of the meetings held by the
Sous-Commission Technique Mixte Burundo-Belge pour l'Enseignement.
Bujumbura: Belgian Embassy, June 8-10, 1976.
7.   Republic of Burundi, Ministry of National Education.  Placement des
eleves en septieme annee pour l'annee scolaire 1975-76. Bujumbura:
Ministry of National Education, 1975.
8.   Republic of Burundi, Ministry of National Education.  Concours
d'admission en septieme. Bujumbura: Ministry of National
Education, July, 1975.
9.   Republic of Burundi, Ministry of National Education.  Repartition des
Centres du Concours national d'acces a l'enseignement secondaire et
mise en place du personnel. Bujumbura: Ministry of National Educa-
tion, May, 1975.
10.   Center for Mutual Aid and Development.  Enrollment statistics by
sex, center, district, and province in catechism centers. Bujumbura:
Center for Mutual Aid and Development, 1975.
11.   Republic of Burundi, Office of the President, Bureau of Technical Studies.
Plan Quinquennal de Developpement Economique et Social du Burundi,
1973-77. Bujumbura: Office of the President, 1976.



- 66 -
12.   Republic of Burundi, Mi-nistry of Economy and Finance.  Government
recurrent and capital expenditures, 1971, 1972, 1973, and 1974,
and budgets for 1975 and 1976. Bujumbura: Ministry of Economy and
Finance, 1972, 1973, 1974. 1975, and 1976.
13.   UNDP.  Country Programme, 1972-76.  Bujumbura:  UNDP, August, 1974.
14.   UNDP.  Annual Report, 1973 and Annual Report, 1974.  Bujumbura:
UNDP, 1974 and 1975.
15.   Van Espen, Ph.  Situation economigue du Burundi et aide au developpe-
ment: Criteres pour une programmation de l'aide belge. Tome I: "La
Situation Economique"; Tome II: "L'aide au developpement." Bujumbura:
Belgian Embassy, December, 1975.
16.   ILO.  Etude des systemes et des besoins en matiere de formation pro-
fessionnelle. Geneva: ILO, 1974.
17.   ILO.  Evaluation et planification de la main-d'oeuvre:  Resultats de
projet et recommandations en decoulant. 2 vols. Geneva: ILO, 1975.
18.   Republic of Burundi, Ministry of Social Affairs and Labor, Department
for the Promotion of Women. Rapport annuel, 1975. Bujumbura:
Ministry of Social Affairs and Labor, 1976.
19.   Republic of Burundi, Ministry of National Education.  Personnel
Enseignant de l'enseignement primaire par inspection, sexe et
qualification, 1973-74. Bujumbura: Ministry of National Education,
1975.
20.   Republic of of Burundi, Ministry of National Education.  Personnel
de l'enseignement normal et de l'enseignement moyen pedagogigue par
nationalites et par qualifications, 1973-74. Bujumbura: Ministry of
National Education, 1975.
21.   Republic of Burundi, Ministry of National Education, School Statis-
tics Service. Repertoire des Etablissements d'enseignement primaire,
secondaire et superieur, annee scolaire, 1972-1973 and 1974-1975.
Bujumbura: Ministry of National Education, 1974 and 1976.
22.   Republic of Burundi, Ministry of National Education.  Total general
des salles de classe par Inspection, 1975-1976. Bujumbura: Ministry
of National Education, 1976.
23.   Republic of Burundi, Ministry of National Education.  La Reforme de
l'education. Bujumbura: Ministry of National Education, 1974.



- 67 -
24.   Republie of Burundi, Ministry of National Education, Department of
Primary Education and Teacher Training, Rural Education Bureau.
Statut-type d'une cooperative scolaire d'ecole primaire commu-
nautaire au Burundi. Bujumbura: Ministry of National Education,
1975.
25.   Republic of Burundi, Ministry of National Education.  La Decentrali-
sation au Ministere de l'education nationale et de la Culture.
Bujumbura: Ministry of National Education, 1976.
26.   Republic of Burundi, Ministry of National Education.  Maps of each
district, showing existing primary schools, 1973-1974 or 1974-1975.
Bujumbura:  Ministry of National Education, 1974 and 1975.
B. Reports and Studies relating to the Project
1.   Republic of Burundi,  Ministry of National Education.  Requete
adressee a la Banque Mondiale. Bujumbura: Ministry of National
Education, December, 1975.
2.   Protestant Alliance.  Information on Protestant schools in Burundi
and primary education statistics at such schools. Bujumbura:
Protestant Alliance, 1976.
3.   Secretariat of the Episcopate of Burundi.  Les Dioceses et Paroisses au
Burundi. Map. Bujumbura: Secretariat of the Episcopate of Burundi,
1975.
4.   Republic of Burundi, Ministry of National Education, Rural Education
Bureau. Conseils Pratiques pour la creation et le fonctionnement
d'Associations Parents-Maitres dans les ecoles primaires du Burundi.
Bujumbura: Ministry of National Education, 1975.
5.   Ndiaye, Souleymane, and others. Une Evaluation du Bureau d'Education
Rurale.  Paris:  UNESCO, 1976.
6.   Republic of Burundi, Ministry of National Education, Rural Education
Bureau.  Various new textbooks and teacher guides. Bujumbura:
Ministry of National Education, 1975 and 1976.
7.   Republic of Burundi, Ministry of the Interior and Public Administration.
"Grades et Baremes des Cadres de l'enseignement," Bulletin Officiel
du Burundi, 8eme annee, no. Il/bis 69. Bujumbura: Ministry of the
Interior and Public Administration, November 15, 1969.
8.   Republic of Burundi, Ministry of National Education. Budget request
for 1976. Bujumbura: Ministry of National Education, 1975.



- 68 -
9.   Republic of Burundi, Ministry of National Education.  Nombre d'Ecoles
Centrales et Succursales par Inspection. Bujumbura: Ministry of
National Education, 1975.
10.   Republic of Burundi, Population Department.  Tableau Recapitulatif
de la population du Burundi en 1974. Bujumbura: Population Department,
1975.
11.   Republic of Burundi, Ministry of National Education.  Total General
du Personnel Enseignant par Inspection, 1974/75. Bujumbura: Ministry
of National Education, 1975.
12.   Republic of Burundi, Ministry of National Eduation.  Repartition des
effectifs par Inspection, 1974/75. Bujumbura: Ministry of National
Education, 1975.
13.   Republic of Burundi, Ministry of National Education.  Reforme du
Systeme de l'Education au Burundi. Bujumbura: Ministry of National
Education, 1973.
14.   Republic of Burundi, Ministry of National Education.  Enrollment
statistics: cycle d'orientation, 1975/76; enseignement moyen
pedagogique, 1975/76; enseignement normal, 1975/76; enseignement
secondaire general, 1975/76, enseignement technique, 1975/76;
ecoles privees, 1975/76. Bujumbura: Ministry of National Education,
1976.
15.   Ndiaye, Souleymane, and others.  Programme de Formation des maitres
destines a l'enseignement pratique des Centres de Formation Polyvalente.
Bujumbura: Ministry of National Education, October, 1976.
16.   Republic of Burundi, Ministry of National Education.  Requete
adressee a l'UNICEF par le Government du Burundi en vue de preparer
les cadres de l'Enseignement Primaire a la Mise en Oeuvre de la Reforme,
a sa Regulation et a son Animation. Bujumbura: Ministry of National
Education, January 15, 1976.
17.   Republic of Burundi, Ministry of National Education.  Addendum a la
requete du 15 Janvier 1976 adressee a l'UNICEF par le Government du
Burundi en vue de la Mise en oeuvre de la Reforme de l'Enseignement
Primaire. Bujumbura: Ministry of National Education, March 5,
1976.
18.   Republic of Burundi, Minîstry of National Education, School Statistics
Service. Maps of five districts, showing existing primary schools and
proposed locations for 41 multipurpose learning centers. Bujumbura:
Ministry of National Education, 1976.
19.   Republic of Burundi, Supreme Revolutionary Council.  Decret No.
100/258 du 5/11/1976 creant le "BUREAU DU PROJET D'EDUCATION AU
BURUNDI", finance par la Banque Mondiale. Bujumbura: Supreme
Revolutionary Council, November 5, 1976.



- 69 -
C.   Selected Working Papers of the Project (Dated August 25, 1976)
1. Architectural Worksheets
2. Estimated Recurrent Costs of CFPs
3. PopuLation Data in Burundi
4. The Burundi School Map
5~ Implementation of the School-Mapping Program
6. Foreign Aid to Education, 1974
D.   General Reports and Studies relating to Burundi
1.   Republic of Burundi, Ministry of the Interior.  Recensement de la
Population: Repartition par sexe et group d'age, annee 1974.
Bujumbura: Ministry of the Interior, 1974.
2.   Republic of Burundi, Department of Statistics.  Principales Donvees
Demographiques disponibles en 1970. Bujumbura: Department of
Statistics, 1970.
3.   Republic of Burundi:  Ministry of Social Affairs and Labor.  Requete
d'Assistance du Fonds des Nations Unies pour les Activities en matiere
de Population au Burundi.  Bujumbura:  Ministry of SociaL Affairs
and Labor, February, 1976.
4.   UNDP/ILO.  Project for Manpower Planning and Evaluation.  Bujumbura:
UNDP, July 24, 1974.
5.   UNDP.  Programme des Nations Unies pour le Developpement au Bur,undi:
Document de Travail. Bujumbura: UNDP, April, 1973.
6.   Zrimec. Stane, and Anis K. Maitra.  Republique du Burundi:  Recensement
General de la Population -- Rapport de mission a Bujumbura.  New York:
U.N. Economic Commission for Africa, African Census Program, November,
1975.
7.   Giry, R.H., and O.S. Knowles.  La Cooperation sous-regionale, facteur
essentiel du developpement economique du Burundi. Geneva: UNCTAD,
Novmber, 1975.
8.   UNICEF.  Burundi:  Project of special assistance for children and
mothers. Project Summary. New York: UNICEF, 1976.
9.   FAO/World Food Programme. Burundi:  Secondary school feeding.  Project
summary. Rome: FAO, Committee on Food Aid Policies and Programmes,
August, 1976.



- 70 -
10.   Republic of Burundi, Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, Burundian
Institute of Agronomic Sciences (ISABU). Rapport Annuel de l'ISABU
pour 1974. Volume I.B.: Rapport Technique pour les Projets.
Bujumbura:  Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, June, 1975.
11.   Episcopal Assembly of Burundi.  Police d'Assurance de responsabilite
civile: Assurance en faveur des ecoles secondaires du Burundi.
Bujumbura: Grand Seminaire St. Cure d'Ars, September, 1975.



29'                              29' 30'                              0
EBURUNLDï 
ADMINISTRATIVE DIVISIONS                             R    W                                               A 
-n~~~~~~~-
,    i0-~ -  -               `muebonoo  O  h30r C 9t S< C' 00I~~'r                   ' ' -vt              -                  -
#S :i g~oerac%ieoO> 3rFqboundone    Mo5; to rci-ï'oJ,  (ww s  @            - -      -       .-
Y j~~~~~~~~~-
~~~~~-P~s                                                                W  t--       \Awl  1,,;.,rs}i
0    t    R S' G D 3 n   0  g;   * *  g<~~~~~NI)7' 
0  ;:  f S B _ G A M] 2 'j-<tçU-\                                             V           /<    -                   4
i 0?  ' '  -    bitoke  Kciyonza                             k        d                   I         -
i X ;50                                            '-j-- YUZA
0~~~~-'-                                                        -        0AJNE         y   C 0 \           -              _  - :i::;0 ;i« 0g00::}0   
I~~~~~~~~~Xr :N ::                                tk/d ;                        't--'' : 
AN~~~~~AGX'                 "--N 
m 'i l                      A-1 'N 
'NOGA"  ~~~~~~~~~~~~T                  A
'--'R~~~~~~~~~~~ig                  A2/'' P 
R0kk
uranci~~~~~~~~~~~Cnk~o                 s'- ~k
3 u R p   u~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~A 'R                                 -
N A N. A- ~   ~         ~         *      i     o      P   '       ~        <
iJ p  5 g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
t k
'N~~~~~~~~~~~~~



