RETURN TO
REPORTS OESK                                              RESTRICTED
WITHIN                                                Report No.  PA-48a
ONE WEEK
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
PUNJAB AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
INDIA
May 27, 1970
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1             Rs 7.50
s 1          =   US$0.13
z 1,000      =  US$133.33
Rs 1,000,000 =   US$133,333
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Yetric System
ABBREVIA-TIONS
ARC  :  Agricultural Refinance Corporation
GOI  :  Government of India
LMB  :  Punjab State Cooperative Land Mortgage Bank
PAIC :  Punjab Agro-Industries Corporation
RBI  :   Reserve Bank of India



INDIA
PUNJAB AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . .i
I.       INTRODUCTION .                                             1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
II.       BACKGROUND OF AGRICULTURE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
A.   India  .   .   .  .   .   .   .  .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .  .   .  .  .   .  .   .  2
B.  The State of Punjab  .........  ..  ...  .   3
Area and Population . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
Ecology ............. .. .3
Agricultural Structure  . . . . . . . . . . .  3
Irrigation .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
Crop Production.                                4
Agricultural Services and Inputs.               4
Farm Mechanization  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
Current Situation  . . . . . . . . . . .  5
Tractors ..........  ....  . .   5
Tractor Implements . . . . . . . . . . .  6
Punjab Agro-Industries Corporation . . .  7
Farm Labor  ..............  ..  .   7
Credit Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
III.     AGRICULTURAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS INVOLVED IN THE PROJECT  8
A. Introduction ..                                        8
B.  Agricultural Refinance Corporation . . . . . . . .  9
Organization and Management . . . . . . . . .  9
Lending Policies and Operations . . . . . . .  9
Operational Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
C.  Punjab State Cooperative Land Mortgage Bank  . . . 10
Organization and Management . . . . . . . . . 10
Lending Policies and Operations . . . . . . . 11
Operational Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
D.   Commercial Banks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
IV.       THE  PROJECT   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   13
A.   Brief Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
This appraisal report is based on the findings of a mission which visited
India in November/Decembe; -196 and was composed of Messrs. C. E. Eugenio,
K. Berg, C. H. Walton (IDA) and R. A. Crofts (FAO Consultant) who all con-
tributed to the report.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)      - 2 -
Page No.
B.  Detailed Features  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Imported Tractors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Tractor Implements  . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
Harvesting Machinery  . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Spare  Parts   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   15
C.  Cost Estimates ......          .......    15
D.  Financing  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   16
E.  Procurement    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   17
F. Disbursements   ..19
V.       ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Introduction .19
Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC)  . . . . . . . 20
Punjab State Cooperative Land Mortgage Bank (LMB) . . . 21
Punjab Agro-Industries Corporation (PAIC) . . . . . . . 21
Lending Policies and Procedures . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
VI.      PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND FARMERS' BENEFITS . . . 23
Production   ..23
Markets   .    .    .  .    .    .    .  .    .  .    .    .   .  .    .   .    .  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    25
Prices  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .    25
Farmers' Benefits   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   26
VII.     BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
VIII.    RECOMMENDATIONS ................... . 28
ANNEXES
1.  Farm Mechanization
--  Appendix 1-1 - Punjab Model Farms:  graph and table
--  Appendix 1-2 - Tractor Production and Imports
--  Appendix 1-3 - Tractor Services Network in Punjab
2.  Punjab Agro-Industries Corporation
--  Appendix 2-1 - Condensed Balance Sheets
3.  Agricultural Refinance Corporation
--  Appendix 3-1 - Comparative Statement of Net Income
--  Appendix 3-2 - Projected Statement of Net Income



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)          - 3 -
--   Appendix 3-3 - Condensed Balance Sheets
-- Appendix 3-4 - Projected Balance Sheets
4.   Punjab State Cooperative Land Mortgage Bank
--   Appendix 4-1 - Primary Banks' Operations 1966/67 - 1968/69
--   Appendix 4-2 - Comparative Statement of Net Income
--   Appendix 4-3 - Projected Statement of Net Income
-- Appendix 4-4 - Condensed Balance Sheets
-- Appendix 4-5 - Projected Balance Sheets
5.   Commercial Banks Operating in Punjab
6.   Project Cost
--   Appendix 6-1 - Detailed Estimates
--   Appendix 6-2 - Implement Requirements and Costs
7.   Tractor Procurement
8.   Present and Proposed Interest Rates
9.   Farm Incomes and Financial Rates of Return on Investments
--   Appendix 9-1 - Yield, Cost and Price Assumptions
--   Appendix 9-2 - Farm Models (Under Present Price Assumptions)
--   Appendix 9-3 - Financial Rates of Return to the Enterprise
10. Economic Rate of Return
MAP






INDIA
PUNJAB AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The report appraises a Project to help finance an agricultural
credit program for farm mechanization in the State of Punjab for which an
IDA credit of US$27.5 million is proposed.
ii.       In recent years Punjab has made great advances in its agricultural
sector (on which 70% of the State's population depends) and has become the
most important State in India's "green revolution". Apart from meeting its
own overall food requirements it materially contributes to food supplies of
the other States. Its yields of food grains are not only the highest in In-
dia but are also high by world standards.
iii.      This progress has been based on a relatively extensive irrigation
system, the introduction of new high-yielding seed varieties, fertilizer
use and farm mechanization, the last being more advanced in the Punjab than
in any other State. While further progress in all three aspects can be ex-
pected, additional investment in farm mechanization is particularly impor-
tant as the means to obtain timely and efficient cultivation and thus permit
greater cropping intensity. Hitherto, mechanization has been restricted by
insufficient tractor supplies and the lack of adequate credit facilities.
iv.       The Project consists of a two-year lending program to finance on-
farm investments and is estimated to cost US$40 million equivalent. Of this
total, the equivalent of US$26 million would be for imported tractors,
US$9.4 million for certain tractor machinery components, US$1.4 million for
specialized harvesting machinery and US$3.2 million for related spare parts.
The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$27.5 million or 69% of total
Project cost and this amount would be financed by IDA. Farmers would pro-
vide at least 25% of the finance for tractor and 20% for other investments.
The remaining finance would be provided by the Punjab State Cooperative Land
Mortgage Bank (LMB) and participating commercial banks while the Agricultur-
al Refinance Corporation (ARC) would be the channel for IDA finance. ARC, a
corporation in which the Reserve Bank of India is the mnajority shareholder,
is expected also to be the channel of other agricultural credit projects un-
der consideration for IDA finance: one of these, for Gujarat, has recently
been approved.
v.        The IDA credit to the Government of India (GOI) would be made
available to the ARC repayable after 9 years and at an interest rate of
4-3/4% per annum: GOI would carry the exchange risk. ARC would supervise
and refinance at 6-1/2% per annum, the lending operations of the LMB and
such commercial banks that would meet criteria laid down by ARC. Loans to
individual borrowers would bear interest at 9% per annum and would be re-
payable over periods up to seven years.



vi.       Tractors to be procured under the project would be sold to farm-
ers through existing commercial channels and orders ;-ould be based on in-
dividual farmers' preferences and bulked in order to obtain quantity dis-
counts. In addition, licenses would be granted to foreign manufacturers'
local representatives for the necessary imports of tractor implement com-
ponents, harvesting machinery and spare parts.
vii.      Of the Project's annual incremental production, 87% would comprise
200,000 tons of food grains, about 3% of present Punjab production. This in-
creased output would eventually be sold in other Indian States with food sup-
ply deficits.
viii.     ARC and LMB have competent management and are in sound financial
condition. The financial rates of return on tractor and tractor implement
investments would be 22 to 23%.  The rate of return to the economy is esti-
mated at about 14%. Appropriate Project assurances have been obtained and
accordingly, the Project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$27.5 million.



INDIA
PUNJAB AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
I. Introduction
l.01      In November/December 1968 an IDA mission, with assistance of the
FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program, reviewed agricultural credit institutions
and farm investment requirements in selected parts of India in order to
identify high priority agricultural credit projects. Together with Gujarat,
for which another agricultural credit project has recently been approved,
Punjab State was given priority for an agricultural credit project because
of PunJab farmers' response to technological changes and because of the
State's agricultural development potential. This Project would extend farm
mechanization in the State through institutional credit and enable farmers
to obtain increased yields and benefits from the new high yielding seed
varieties, fertilizer use and extensive irrigation facilities which hither-
to have provided the base for agricultural growth. Punjab's agriculture
has now reached a stage of development where a further increase in cropping
intensity on many Punjab farms is beyond the scope of bullock power and can
only be attained by tractor mechanization.
1.02      Past Bank group lending for Indian agriculture, totalling US$180
million, the majority of which has been lent in the last ten years, has
centered on water development projects and, in continuation of this, three
other irrigation projects are under appraisal. This does not include a
credit of US$ 23 million signed in 1966, the Beas Equipment Project for
equipment imports in connection with the development of Indus tributaries
arising out of the Indus Treaty. In response to GOI's new agricultural
strategy, however, the Bank Group is now giving increased emphasis to proj-
ects having a more direct impact on farm investment. The first of these,
the Tarai Seeds Project, was signed in June 1969. Of a series of six agri-
cultural credit projects, that for Gujarat was approved in May 1970, this
Project for Punjab is the second under consideration while one for Andhra
Pradesh is now being appraised. Other agricultural projects under ap-
praisal are an agro-aviation project and a grain storage project.
1.03      This Project was appraised in November/December 1969 by Messrs.
C. E. Eugenio, C. H. Walton. K. Berg (IDA), and R. A. Crofts (FAO consul-
tant) and this report is based on this mission's findings.



II.  BACKGROUND OF AGRTCULTURE
A.  India-/
2.01      With 70% of the labor force engaged in agriculture and half of GDP
originating in the sector, Indian planners have stressed the importance of
agricultural development since Independence. Until recently, however, per-
formance has been disappointing with farm output barely keeping pace with
population growth and severe food shortages occurring in years of adverse
weather. Policies favored industrial development over agricultural while
cheap food received priority over incentives to farmers.
2.02      Beginning in 1965 the Government of India recognized this short-
coming and gave highest priority to agricultural development. Since then
a major effort has been made to accelerate the introduction of new agricul-
tural technology, increase the availability of inputs and provide economic
incentives to farmers. The results of the new agricultural strategy have
already been very encouraging. The rapid spread of new high-yielding
varieties and the marked increase in the use of fertilizers and other in-
puts have significantly increased farm production.
2.03      The impact of technological advance in Indian agriculture has,
however, involved only a small number of farmers - perhaps as little as
10Z of the rural population. These have been mainly the better-off farm-
ers with the knowledge and capital to adopt new farming technology. There
are, however, many more farmers who could take advantage of the new tech-
nology if helped with credit. To maintain the forward momentum of Indian
agricultural production, it is important that attempts are made to help
this group.
2.04      The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) estimates that total net medium-
and long-term credit requirement (gross funds needed less funds from collec-
tions) during the six-year period ending 1973/74 would be of the order of
Rs 3,000 million (US$400 million) annually. It has also estimated that
short-term agricultural credit requirement would rise to Rs 20,000 million
(US$2,667 million) by 1973/74, or a yearly increase of 14% as against only
8% annually during 1962/63 to 1966/67. For all types of credit for agri-
culture, incremental net needs would grow five-fold, from an average in-
crease of Rs 1,000 million (US$133 million) per annum in the first half of
the 60's to Rs 5,000 million (US$666 million) per annum by 1973/74. If
these substantial credit demands are to be met, India will need to mobilize
more of its own, particularly rural, savings and increase external borrowings.
1/   A detailed discussion of the present situation and prospects of agricul-
ture in India is given in "Economic Situation and Prospects of India,"
Report No. SA-13a, April 24, 1970.



B. The State of Punjab
Area and Population
2.05      Punjab lies in the northwestern corner of India and since the
State's boundary revision in 1966, it has an area of about 50,000 km2, or
1.5% of all India. Over 70% of the population, presently estimated at 13
million, depends on agriculture.
Ecology
2.06      Apart from the foothills on its northeastern boundary with Himachal
Pradesh, Punjab consists of plains with deep alluvial soils, drained largely
by the three tributaries to the Indus: the Sutlej, Beas and Ravi. Sandy
loam soils predominate, with a general decrease in fertility towards the
southwest. The climate is of continental character, extremely hot in sumer
(1150F), and near freezing in winter. The average annual rainfall is 745 mm
ranging from 1,000 mm in the northeast to 250 mm in the southwest. Most of
this falls in the June-September monsoon and if late, may cause flooding.
While relatively light, the winter rains from December to January are of
great value and essential for the spring wheat harvest.
tgLricultural Structure
2.07      Out of the entire State area (5 million ha) 4.1 million ha, or
83% are used for agriculture. About 1.3 million ha are sown more than
once annually giving a total cropped area of 5.4 million ha.
2.08      As part of the mass movement of population that followed parti-
tion in 1947, Sikhs were resettled in the present Punjab and as a result
of this and subsequent land reform, most farms are owner-occupied and the
average size is relatively small. There are 70,000 farms (9% of holdings)
of more than 12 ha but together they represent 1.1 million ha (27% of all
agriculturally used land) while 180,000 farms of 6-12 ha total 1.6 million
ha (or 39%); the balance of 1.4 million ha comprises about 470,000 holdings
of less than 6 ha each. In practice, however, operational holdings are
frequently larger, since several family holdings are often farmed as one
unit.
Irrigation
2.09      About 2.3 million ha or 56% of Punjab's farm land is irrigated,
the most important source being .rfr. e water, though supply from the
canal system is not always reliab.ae. A_ oresent, about 12.2 billion m3
of canal water are used annually and no suostantial increase in the area
irrigated by surface water is expected. Irri .,tion from groundwater at
present provides 3.3 billion m3 annually a.d is considered capable of con-
siderable expansion. Of about 100,000 tubewells now existing in the State,
some 40% have been financed by farmerr from their own resources while the
Punjab State Cooperative Land Mortgage bank (LMB) has played an important
part in financing much of t;.e balance.



-4-
Crop Production
2.10      The relative uniformity in soil and climate conditions is re-
flected in a common pattern of farming. At the onset of the monsoon rains
in June, the Kharif (wet season) crops of rice, maize, bajra (millet), cot-
ton and groundnuts and sugar cane are planted. After the Kharif crops are
harvested from September to December, the land is re-sown with Rabi (dry
season) crops of wheat, pulses and barley.
2.11      Of the 5.4 million ha cropped in 1967/68, 62% were under food
grains, of which wheat was by far the most important single crop (36% of
total cropped area), other food grains being pulses (10%), maize (6%),
rice (6%), and bajra (4%). The balance of 38% was divided among cotton
(8%), sugar cane (3%) and other, mainly subFistence crops. During the last
12 years, wheat's share in the cropping pattern has increased by 4%, rice,
baJra and maize have gained slightly, while in contrast, pulses have drop-
ped by 12%. These changes reflect the growth of irrigation facilities and
the availability of high-yielding seeds and fertilizers which together have
made Punjab the center of India's "green revolution". Its food production
overall is well beyond its own requirements and it therefore materially con-
tributes to the food supplies of other states. Total food grain production,
which climbed from 2 million tons in 1950/51 to 3.2 million tons in 1960/61,
and 4.0 million tons in 1964/65 spurted, after the drought years of 1965/66
and 1966/67 to 6.3 million tons in 1968/69. For all major crops, Punjabi
yields are at or above all-India average levels; yields of bajra, maize,
wheat and cotton are the highest in India and compare favorably with other
developing countries. As yields and production records show, the Punjab
farmer has already achieved considerable results and demonstrated his re-
sponsiveness to changing opportunities.
Agricultural Services and Inputs
2.12      Responsibility for agricultural research and education is vested
in the Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, which was founded with
USAID assistance. The University has made an important contribution to the
development of Punjab agriculture and is now placing particular emphasis
on all aspects of farm mechanization including implement testing and design
for which it has already made a start. At the farm level it organizes a
variety of educational programs which supplement the extension staff of the
State Department of Agriculture. Together, the University and the Depart-
ment provide an integrated research, educational and extension service.
2.13      Recent years have brought about a considerable increase in
the supply of improved seeds and fertilizers. In 1968/69 supplies of im-
proved wheat varieties were sufficient to meet over 90% of total irrigated
land requirements compared with only 5% in 1966/67; increased supplies of
improved rice, hybrid maize and bajra varieties are also becoming available.
In two seasons (from 1966/67 to 1968/69) Punjab fertilizer consumption in-
creased threefold to 860,000 tons. Although India is not self-sufficient
in fertilizers, the supply position in Punjab has been generally satisfac-
tory through GOI's policy of giving priority to irrigated areas.



- 5 -
2.14      Distribution of fertilizers was, until recently, almost entirely
through the cooperative movement but improved supplies have led to private
distributors being permitted a share of their sale. Nevertheless, cooper-
atives remain the primary channel for the distribution of inputs, partly
because of the close association of supplies and short-term credit.
Farm Mechanization
The Current Situation
2.15      Because there is little remaining uncultivated land in Punjab,
increased agricultural production depends on an extension of double cropping,
made possible by the already extensive irrigation facilities. Its effective
realization however, depends on speedy Rabi crop land preparation and
planting within about 30 days from the Kharif harvest. Delay beyond this
period results in a progressive falling off of yields, particularly with
the new planting varieties. More bullock power can achieve a limited in-
crease in double cropping, but at about 160% intensity, the point is reached
where a further expansion of cropped acreage is increasingly difficult to
achieve because of the amount of land lost to crop production to maintain
draft animals. In practice, however, this and other physical factors (bul-
lock and labor shortage) combined with economic factors (the maintenance
of large numbers of draft animals for a short intensive work period) have
made the Punjab farmer turn to farm mechanization at lower levels of crop-
ping intensity. Thus a substantial demand for tractors has developed, en-
couraged by a number of other factors such as the prestige attaching to
tractor ownership and LMB 's easy credit terms for tractor loans. A waiting
period for the more popular makes of two to three years, the high level of
used tractor prices, substantial "black market" premia for new tractors
(up to Rs 8,000 on one model over the official price of Rs 22,000) and the
readiness of Punjabis to travel widely in order to purchase tractors, all
attest to the strength of current demand (Annex 1).
2.16      Tractors.  In the current Punjab conditions, it is particularly
difficult to establish reliable estimates of tractor demand. The Punjab
authorities have recently estimated the State's demand over the next two
years at 21,500 units annually: this is about 43% of an estimated current
all-India demand of about 50,000 annually, a figure which is expected to
increase to around 100,000 by the mid-1970's. The Punjab estimate, how-
ever, was not based on any assessment of prospective economic use; the
genuine demand of farmers who would be able to make full economic use of
tractors would certainlv be much lower and probably in the range of 10,000
to 12,000 annually.  This would conform with Indian manufacturers' rough
estimate of present Punjab demand at one quarter of the all-India total.
2.17      Hitherto supplies have come from 'ndian manufacturers and from
Eastern European imports, imports f:omn western sources having been ne-
gligible since the early 60's. Output from the five existing tractor
manufacturing plants in India has grown slowly to an estimated 18,000
units in 1969, of which about 4,000 units went to Punjab.  The bulk of



- 6 -
India tractor production falls witliin the 30-50 hp range and though not
of the latest design, all models are equipped with hydraulic systems.
All five manufacturers collaborate with overseas manufacturers (three
from Bank member countries, Eicher, Federal Republic of Germany, Interna-
tional Harvester, U.S.A; Massey Ferguson, U.K.) and to meet the rapid in-
crease in demand, GOI has encouraged the setting up of new plants. As of
November 1969, GOI had approved plans for an additional two plants in colla-
boration with manufacturers in Bank member countries (Deutz, Federal Republic
of Germany and Ford, U.S.A.) while another four proposals were under GOI con-
sideration. These were from companies in West Germany (2), France and U.K.
Consideration was far advanced on one of the German proposals. The addi-
tional plants together with the expansion of existing manufacturing units
will considerably increase India's tractor manufacturing capacity, but a
substantial gap between this supply and all-India demand will still remain
for the next few years.
2.18      The import of tractors under trade arrangements with East European
countries (mostly from USSR, Czechoslovakia and East Germany) has also in-
creased in recent years from an average of about 3,500 annually in the period
1961 to 1968 to about 18,000 in 1969 (Appendix 1-2). The distribution of
these imports is controlled by GOT through the Agro-Industries Corporations
(para 2.21) and Punjab's share in 1969 was estimated at about 2,000 tractors.
Together with about 4,000 locally manufactured tractors therefore, Punjab's
supply of new tractors is currently about 6,000 units annually and Punjab's
total tractor population is estimated to be about 20,000 units.
2.19      After-sales and repair services (Appendix 1-3) are provided
through the private dealership networks (for Indian produced models) and
by the Punjab Agro-Industries Corporation (PAIC) (for tractors imported
under trade arrangements) supplemented in both cases by a multitude of
small-scale village and town workshops, which do more than half the repair
business. Despite their rudimentary facilities, they have been a major
factor in keeping many tractors in the Punjab operating long after the
end of their normal life.
2.20      Tractor Implements.  At the moment, the tractor is being used
almost entirely as a substitute for those operations previously performed
by bullocks (tillage, sowing and transport). In order to utilize its full
potential, therefore, it is important that farmers be encouraged to use
tractors for other operations including spraying, planting and particularly
harvesting. The introduction of mechanized harvesting (which pilot schemes
have shown to be well suited to Punjab conditions) could be particularly
beneficial in reducing the significant crop losses which now occur with
manual labor. In order to widen the tractors use, however, more emphasis
has to be given to research and development to evolve suitable farm machin-
ery, encourage quality production and assist farmers in their choice of
implements. Local production of tillage and sowing implements, such as
plows, harrows, cultivators and seed-cum fertilizer drills is adequate in
quantity but variable in quality and more recently a start has been made
in the manufacture of tractor-drawn harvesters. With the growth of mech-
anization of other operations, however, there is already a need for the



- 7 -
development and production of more sophisticated implements and machines.
With implement production in the Punjab in the hands of numerous small-
scale and scattered units, steps should be taken as soon as possible to
promote performance testing and the establishment of quality standards.
Accordingly, discussions are being held with GOI with a view to appro-
priate measures being taken on these matters.
2.21      Punjab Agro-Industries Corporation.  Partly with a view to
accelerating the pace of farm mechanization, GOI adopted a policy of es-
tablishing in each State an Agro-Industries Corporation (AIC) with share
capital in each case equally divided between GOI and the State Government
concerned. The Punjab Agro-Industries Corporation (PAIC) (Annex 2) was
thus established in 1966. While it has wide powers, it has concentrated
its activities on the assembly of tractors imported under barter agreements
and their subsequent sale and servicing. More recently, it has made a
small but useful start in providing farm custom services, including mech-
anized harvesting, and it distributes some components and materials to im-
plement manufacturers.
2.22      PAIC carries out the assembly of tractors imported in a partial-
ly knocked-down condition under fairly rudimentary conditions under guid-
ance of manufacturers' representatives. GOI has divided the respon-
sibility for such tractor assembly among a number of State AIC's and
PAIC (which mainly assembles tractors of USSR and East German make) sup-
plies a proportion of the tractors which it has assembled to neighboring
states receiving from them in return, assembled tractors of other makes.
In 1968, the PAIC assembled 300 tractors and 2,200 in the first ten months
of 1969. 1,400 of the latter being distributed outside Punjab.
2.23      PAIC sells the finished tractors to farmers and arranges short
courses for them in tractor and implement use. With only a limited number
of service workshops, much of the tractor servicing has been done by mobile
units and PAIC carries stocks of spare parts for these tractors. Tractor
sale and servicing represented over 80% of PAIC turnover and 85% of profits
in 1968/69.
2.24      PAIC is anxious to improve and extend farm mechanization in Punjab.
Apart from the increased contribution which it could make to farm custom ser-
vices and for which there is considerable scope, it has acquired experience
in dealing with farmers' tractor requirements and in procurement and could
thus play an organization role in a farm mechanization project. Its distri-
bution network could also be useful to a tractor manufacturer lacking repre-
sentation in the State, though in the event of PAIC being chosen for this
purpose it would be important to ensure that there was no conflict of in-
terest with a wider organizational function. PAIC could thus supplement the
network of manufacturers' private distributors already established in Punjab.
Farm Labor
2.25      The development of farm mechanization in the Punjab, already re-
markable, is likely to quicken. Up to now, increased cropping intensity



- 8 -
and larger harvests have resulted in seasonal labor shortage despite a 45%
rise in daily wage rates over the last five years, and there is no evidence
to suggest that this situation will change in the near future. In due
course, mechanization will save more labor, but resulting labor displacement
will have new employment opportunities in the rural areas from the growth of
services such as processing, transport and maintenance associated with the
higher agricultural output.
Credit Services
2.26      As elsewhere in India, most of the Punjab institutional credit for
agriculture comes from the cooperative movement, with the commercial banks
providing a relatively unimportant, though growing contribution. Within the
cooperative sector, short- and medium-term loans are provided by the primary
credit societies with the State Cooperative Bank as the apex instit.tion;
medium- and long-term loans are made by the Punjab State Cooperative Land
Mortgage Bank (LMB). The State Cooperative Bank is mainly refinanced by the
Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the LMB obtains its funds from the Punjab
Government, the RBI and in the case of special schemes from the Agricultural
Refinance Corporation (ARC).
2.27      Increasing prosperity and unwillingness to be involved in cooper-
atives has led many Punjab farmers to open commercial bank accounts and ob-
tain loans from their bankers. Twenty-one commercial banks are represented
in Punjab and through a network of branches, provide a comprehensive bank-
ing system with increasing experience in agricultural lending. Their growth,
together with the expansion of lending through the cooperative system, has
helped to reduce the role of private moneylenders; the latters' activities
are, however, still significant among the smaller farmers and landless.
2.28      In view of their prospective involvement in the Project, the
operations of ARC, LMB and the commercial banks are discussed in the next
Chapter.
III. AGRICULTURAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS
INVOLVED IN THE PROJECT
A. Introduction
3.01      Several financing institutions would be involved in the proposed
project. The IDA credit to the Government of India (GOI) would be channel-
led to the Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC). In turn, ARC would
channel 80% or more of the funds to the Punjab State Cooperative Land Mort-
gage Bank (LMB) to be loaned through its network of Primary Land Mortgage
Banks to project farmers and contractors. Up to 20% of project funds would
be channelled by ARC through commercial banks for on-lending to project farm-
ers and contractors.



B. Agricultural Refinance Corporation
Organization and Management
3.02      The Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC) (Annex 3) was estab-
lished in July 1963 to provide medium- and long-term finance to agricultur-
al lending agencies throughout India. Its role is important, not only as a
channel for development funds but also for its influence on the lending
policies and operational procedures of the agencies it assists. ARC's pre-
sent paid-up capital of Rs 50 million has been subscribed by RBI (which is
required to hold at least 50% of the equity capital), land mortgage banks
and other approved financial institutions. Additionally, it can borrow and
receive deposits from GOI, state governments and public bodies but such
funds may not exceed 20 times its share capital and reserves.
3.03      ARC has its head office in Bombay and has ten regional offices,
one of which is at Chandigarh, the Punjab State capital. The Chairman,
presently Deputy Governor of RBI, and the Managing Director (also an RBI
officer) head a small staff but none have any technical qualifications,
such expertise having hitherto been obtained from a panel of consultants
who have been retained, as required, for appraisals and specialist advice.
With its growing volume of business, however, ARC recognizes the need for
specialist staff and is now in the process of appointing a cadre of five
specialists including an agricultural economist.
Lending Policies and Operations
3.04      ARC may refinance technically and financially sound agricultural
development projects initiated by central land development banks, state
cooperative banks, certain commercial banks and, exceptionally, primary
societies. It does this through subscription to special debentures in the
case of land development banks and through loans to the other institutions.
It lends either medium-term or long-term, but in practice most of its re-
financing has been in the range of 5-12 years. ARC charges 6% per annum
for its funds and scheduled banks may not on-lend at more than an addition-
al 2-1/2% per annum. Land development banks are not bound by the same re-
striction but usually follow the same mark-up. Collections from farmers
are invested by the banks in GOI 5% securities rather than being repaid to
ARC. As a result, ARC is deprived of funds which it could otherwise reinvest
in further schemes while borrowing agencies are forced to invest in se-
curities which earn less than the average cost of their borrowings. Accord-
ingly, ARC should require banks to change their repayment terms so that they
match as nearly as possible their collections (para 4.10).
3.05      During its first years, ARC made few loans, partly because it was
initially ARC's policy to refinance only projects to be carried out through
cooperative societies. In June 1966, this restriction was removed and,
furthermore, in 1967 ARC agreed to increase its refinancing of loans for
minor irrigation from 75% to 90%, refinance of other investments (including
farm mechanization) remaining at 75%. As a result of these measures ARC's
operations expanded rapidly, 89 irrigation schemes to the value of Rs 680



- 10 -
million being approved in 1967/68 and 113 schemes to the value of Rs 750
million in 1968/69; as of June 30, 1969, a further 251 schemes involving
Rs 2,700 million were under consideration. At this date, the majority of
ARC approved schemes were for minor irrization (about 65x) with the balance
going to land improvement and plantations and only a negligible amount for
tractors and power tillers. The small amount approved for schemes involv-
Lng farm machinery reflects, among other factors, the short supply of these
items.
Operational Results
3.06      Except for its 1968/69 operations, ARC's net earnings after taxes
have been insufficient to pay the statutory annual dividend of 4-1/4% on
its share capital. The deficiencies totalling Rs 1.41 million since 1963
have been made good by GOI in accordance with its guarantee to underwrite
the mandatory dividend and ARC will have to reimburse this out of future
profits. With the expected increase in lending, however, ARC should be fi-
nancially viable (Appendix 3-2) and with most of its assets held in GOI se-
curities and land development banks' debentures, ARC is in good financial
condition.
3.07      ARC's accounts are audited by independent auditors and GOI also
has the power, so far not exercised, to appoint the Auditor-General to ex-
amine and report on ARC's accounts. Its accounting system is satisfactory.
C. Punjab State Cooperative Land Mortgage Bank
Organization and Management
3.08      Originally established in 1958, the Punjab State Cooperative
Land Mortgage Bank (LMB) (Annex 4) in its early years suffered from a
number of organizational changes consequent upon alterations in the State's
boundaries. The last of these changes took place in November 1966 and con-
sideration of LMB operations is only relevant since that date.
3.09      At the State level, LMB is the apex organization for a network of
Primary Land Mortgage Banks. Although technically independent, these Pri-
maries are closely and effectively controlled by LMB which is the only per-
mitted source of their borrowings and which provides on secondment all but
their lower grade staff requirements. In all important respects, therefore,
LMB and its federated Primaries can be considered as a single entity with
an operating relationship similar to that of a bank head office to its
branches.



- 11 -
3.10      LMB's  share capital is held by the Primaries, and the Punjab
State Government. The proportion of Primaries' and State Government's
equity is subject to periodic review by RBI: as of June 30, 1969, total
subscribed share capital was Rs 13.3 million (against Rs 100 million au-
thorized) of which the State Government's contribution was Rs 3.5 million
(25%). LMB's borrowings take three forms: ordinary debentures of which
50% are subscribed by GOI entities and the balance sold on the market
(total Rs 133 million as of June 30, 1969); rural debentures (Rs 7 million)
designed to mobilize local savings and to which RBI subscribes in the ratio
of 8 to every 7 taken up by private persons, and special debentures (Rs
62 million) to finance ARC approved schemes and to which ARC and the State
Government subscribe in the ratio of about 9 to 1. Additionally, short-
term bridging finance is provided by local banks. As of June 30, 1969,
outstanding borrowings (debentures and loans) totalled Rs 217 million, and
equity capital at RS 14.5 million (including Rs 1.2 million reserves) thus
amounted to 7% of total borrowings. As of June 30, 1969, farmers' contri-
butions towards the overall operations of LMB and the Primaries totalled
Rs 18.6 million by way of paid-up equity capital of the Primaries and rural
debentures.
3.11      Twenty-one members of LMB's 25-member Board of Directors are
elected by the Primary Banks, the other four being nominees of the State
Government. The Board, which works mainly through committees, appoints
the Secretary who is chief executive and who heads a staff of nearly 400,
all but 60 of whom are on secondment to the Primaries. Hitherto, LMB's
operations have been collateral oriented and this is reflected in staff
composition, none of whom have a technical background. LMB recognizes
this deficiency and proposes to recruit a technical staff.
3.12      As of June 30, 1969, there were 29 Primary Banks which it is
intended to increase to 37. Their membership comprised about 63,000 far-
mers and 50 cooperatives. Members of the Primaries elect their own com-
mittees which control their administration and operations.
Lending Policies and Operations
3.13      In general, loans may be granted for any medium- or long-term
investment that would enhance agricultural production. To borrow a mem-
ber must hold shares in their Primary equivalent to 5% of any loan.
Primaries have the power to sanction loans of up to Rs 8,000 for minor
irrigation loans and Rs 5,000 for all other loans; above these limits,
all applications have to be referred to LMB. No loan may exceed 50! of
the value of land offered as security. Loans for minor irrigation and
tractors are repayable in seven years and for other purposes in up to
ten years. No grace period is allowed and repayments to LMB match those
of ultimate borrowers to the Primaries.
3.14      LMB's interest rate to the Primaries is at present 6-1/2% per an-
num and that of Primaries to borrowers 7-3/4% per annum. As LMB's present
borrowing rate is approximately 5-3/4%, it is left with a margin of about



- 12 -
3/4% per annum to meet its operational   ^   -  provide for dividends and
reserves while the Primaries have a margin oft 1-1/4% to meet their adminis-
trative costs and provide for dividends and reserves.
3.15      LMB's loan portfolio has risen sharply from Rs 43.7 million
as of June 30, 1967, to Rs 82.9 million as of June 30, 1968 and Rs
191.1 million as of June 30, 1969, representing an increase of about 4-1/2
times over three years. The number of loans advanced over this period
were 2,206 in 1966/67, 6,486 in 1967/68, and 15,135 in 1968/69. Loans for
minor irrigation have represented over 70% of total loans made over this
period, while farm machinery loans amounted to 25%, the balance being for
land reclamation, farm buildings and other purposes. LMB has made 3,500
tractor loans during the last two years.
Operational Results
3.16      With an average borrowing rate of about 5-3/4% per annum, LMB's
interest margin is small and has resulted in low profits. A 2% dividend
was declared in 1966/67 and 3% in 1967/68, the latter rate being likely to
be repeated for 1968/69. Transfers to reserve have similarly been small and
as of June 30, 1969 LMB's total reserves amounted to only Rs 1.2 million.
LMB has, however, enjoyed a 100% collection record which is almost matched
by that of the Primaries, only three of which have any defaults and these
are negligible in amount. The levels of Primary Bank's profits vary accord-
ing to their size and circumstances, and fluctuations occur where part of a
Primary's portfolio is transferred to form a new Primary Bank.
3.17      In order to meet the additional costs of strengthened supervisory
management and improve its profitability, it is necessary that LMB increase
its interest margins (para 5.10(c)). At the Primary Bank level, where the
main need is to improve the quality rather than the quantity (pro-rata to
lending) of staff, the existing interest margin is adequate to meet opera-
tional costs while the members would share in the increased group profit-
ability through the higher dividends which LMB would be in a position to
declare.
3.18      Since 1966 the operations of LMB and the Primary Banks have grown
rapidly. While their financial procedures and accounting systems have so
far been adequate to meet the demands made upon them, the expected continued
high rate of growth will inevitably involve additional strains and burdens.
It is, therefore, desirable that these systems should now be reviewed to
ensure that during the next few years the large volume of business can be
handled with the maximum efficiency (para 5.07). At the present time the
account of LMB and the Primaries are audited by the Punjab Cooperative
Department.



- 13 -
D. Commercial Banks
3.19      At the end of 1969, 21 commercial banks were operating in Punjab
of which 11 were nationalized, the balance being either small or foreign-
owned banks (Annex 5). Together they provide about 400 branches
throughout the State, the most important being the Punjab National Bank
with some 120 branches, and the State Bank of Patiala, the State Bank of
India, and Central Bank of India, each with about 40 branches. The Punjab
National Bank and the State Bank of Patiala (a subsidiary of the State
Bank of India) are essentially Punjab banks with head offices located in
the State while other banks conduct business in the State as part of their
operations elsewhere in India.
3.20      Until recently commercial banks' participation in agricultural
financing was mainly in the form of short-term advances against the pledge
of warehouse receipts and interim financing of Cooperative and Land Mort-
gage Banks and the Cooperative Marketing Federation. In the last three
years, however, a number of banks have begun to make loans direct to far-
mers on an appreciable scale, often combining short-term credit with medium-
and,exceptionally,long-term loans for specific farm improvements.  At least
five of the banks have engaged staff with agricultural qualifications in
order to supervise this lending and one, the State Bank of Patiala has con-
centrated its agricultural lending activities in a few selected villages
working closely with Government extension staff. The commercial banks
total medium- and long-term lending for Punjab agriculture is still small
and probably does not exceed Rs 10 million, but they are anxious to in-
crease the volume of their lending for farm improvements including mech-
anization.
3.21      The commercial banks normally require a downpayment by borrowers
of between 25 and 33-1/3%. Their security requirements consist of a
charge on equipment purchased and usually, though not invariably, a mort-
gage on land to the extent of double the amount of the loan by way of
collateral. Interest rates range from 9 to 9-1/2% per annum and repayment
is usually required within five years.
3.22      As of December 1969, no operational changes had resulted from
the Bank's nationalization measure of the previous July, but there were
indications that in order to reduce overlapping activities, some zoning
of the area of banks' operations could be expected.
1V. THE PROJECT
A. Brief Description
4.01      The Project is the first phase of a farm mechanization program in
Punjab. It would provide finance to farmers and contractors of custom ser-
vice to farmers for the purchase of 8,000 imported tractors, tractor imple-
ments and harvesting machinery over  . period of two years.  It also includes
provision for the financing of traczor and harvesting machinery spare parts.



- 14 -
The total Project cost is estimated at Rs "I".6 million (US$40 million) most
of which (89%) would be be for investmerts in tractors and tractor implements
and the balance (11%) for harvesting machinery and spares. The program would
be implemented through the Punjab banking system under refinance arrangements
with the Agricultural Refinance Corporation. Under the Project, about 8,000
loans would be made to farmers and contractors, individual tractor and imple-
ment loans ranging from Rs 22,000 to Rs 27,000, in accordance with criteria
agreed between the borrower and IDA.
B. Detailed Features
Imported Tractors
4.02      The Project would finance about 8,000 tractors to be imported over
a two year period; about 6,000 in the 30-40 hp range and around 2,000 in the
41-50 hp range. The higher-powered tractor unit is included to meet the need
for greater horse-power availability on farms with increasing mechanization
requirements. Assuming the continued supply to Punjab of about 6,000 trac-
tors annually (at present about 4,000 from Indian manufacturers and about
2,000 imported under trade arrangements), the Project would increase the an-
nual tractor supply to about 10,000 units.  Allowing for write-offs, it would
also increase the State's tractor population after two years to about 35,000
units compared with the estimated present 20,000 (para 2.18).
4.03      In order to obtain the maximum economic use of tractors, ARC would
ensure that lending banks would work towards applying as a norm for appraisal,
the applicants ability to demonstrate that the tractor would be used to cul-
tivate not less than 40 ha of cropped area per annum or for 1,000 hours of
productive work in agriculture per annum. Such criteria would apply to the
applicant's own land, or to the land of other farmers (through custom work)
or to a combination of both.
Tractor Implements
4.04      Investments in tractor implements would include mould-board plows,
discs plows, disc harrows, trailers, seed and fertilizer drills, sprayers
and other implements (excluding harvesting machinery for which special con-
ditions would apply). In order to ensure maximum tractor utilization and
economic benefits, it is essential that tractor owners should also possess
at least the basic tillage implements. Because of the short period between
the Kharif harvest and Rabi planting (para 2.15) the sharing of such im-
plements is not practicable. Accordingly, under the Project, all farmers
would be required to have suitable implements for use with their tractors.
For most farmers this would entail the purchase of a plow, harrow and
trailer. Where, however, a farmer already owned one or more of these im-
plements (and thus had some experience of farm mechanization) he could be
expected to purchase implements such as seed drills and sprayers and thus
extend mechanized operations beyond those of routine tillage and haulage.



- 15 -
tlarvesting Maclhinery
4.05      Investments in harvesting machinery, comprising about 40 self-
propelled combines and about 200 tractor-drawn harvesters, would extend
mechanized harvesting which recent Punjab pilot projects have proved to
be both practicable and beneficial. Loan applicants for self-propelled
combines would be required to give evidence of an assured workload of at
least 200 ha per unit per annum, and for tractor-drawn harvesters of 100
ha per annum. Prospective borrowers would be farmers, contractors, entre-
preneurs and PAIC; the last already provides farm custom services. In
order to permit worthwhile participation by private entrepreneurs it is
envisaged that PAIC investment in these items would be limited to 20 self-
propelled combines and 100 tractor-drawn harvesters (para 5.09 (c)).
Spare Parts
4.06      The Project cost also includes provision for tractor spare parts
and imported harvesting machinery spare parts as an initial stock to the
value of 15% and 10% respectively of the CIF price of such items and these
are estimated to meet requirements over the two-year disbursement period.
C. Cost Estimates
4.07      Project costs together with estimated foreign exchange require-
ments are detailed as follows:



- 16 -
Local Foreign  Total       Local Foreign  Total
RB  M  Rs  M   Rs  M       US$M    US$M   US$M        FE
1. Tractors        30.8   164.2   195.0        4.1    21.9   26.0        84
2. Tractor
Implements    61.0      9.8    70.8        8.1     1.3      9.4      14
3. Harvesting
Machinery       2.6     8.0    10.6        0.3      1.1     1.4      75
Spare Parts          -      24.2    24.2        -       3.2     3.2    100
Total Proj. Cost  94.4   206.2   300.6        12.5    27.5    40.0       69
Details of cost estimates are shown in Annex 6.  Estimates are based on
present prices including 10% contingencies for those items to be procured
locally and 5% contingencies for those items involving foreign exchange.
D. Financing
4.08      The total cost  of Rs  300.6  would be financed from the fol-
lowing sources:
Farmers/    LMB & Banks        ARC      Total Proj  IDA Refinance
contractors                                  Cost        of ARC
RsM   % of   RsM   Zof   RsM  X of   RsM    %          RsM  x of
Total          Total        Total                      Total/2
Tractors         48.7    25    36.6    19   109.7  56   195.0 100    164.2  84
Tractor
Implements    14.2    20    14.2    20    42.4  60    70.8 100           9.8  14
Harvesting
Machinery       2.1    20      2.1    20      6.4  60    10.6 100        8.0  75
Total Invest-
ment Program    65.0    24    52.9    19   158.5  57   276.4 100    182.0  66
Spare parts /1  24.2   100        -       -      -    -    24.2 100       24.2 100
Total Financed  89.2    30    52.9    18   158.5  52   300.6 100    206.2  69
1   Shown at c.i.f. value.  In addition farmers would bear dealers' mark-up.
/2   Equal to the estimated foreign exchange component of the total project
cost shown in para 4.07.



- 17 -
4.09      The IDA credit of US$27.5 million (Rs 206.2 million) would finance
the Project's estimated foreign exchange component equivalent to about 69% of
total Project cost. IDA's contribution to ARC under the investment program
(Rs 182.0 million) and for spare parts (Rs 24.2 million) would exceed the
amount ARC would require to refinance the lending program (Rs 158.5 million)
because ARC may not, under its present regulations, refinance more than 75%
of individual loans made for farm mechanization (para 3.05). Thus, in the
case where, as proposed, borrowers made a down payment of 25% for tractors
and 20% for other investments (an overall average of 24%), ARC's contribu-
tion would average 57%, leaving 19% to be financed by LMB and other parti-
cipating banks (Rs 52.9 million). In order to ensure a significant contri-
bution from Punjab resources, IDA would not require ARC to amend its regu-
lations (to increase its permitted contribution) and the excess amount of
IDA contribution over the lending program requirements (Rs 47.7 million)
would be credited to a special ARC account which would be available to re-
finance other ARC-approved schemes. An assurance on ARC application of
this excess amount of IDA funds was obtained during negotiations.
4.10      The proposed IDA credit would be made on normal IDA terms to
GOI. Assurance was obtained that GOT would make the proceeds available to
ARC repayable at the end of nine years at an interest rate of 5% per annum
less 1/4 of 1% rebate for prompt payment and that GOI would bear the ex-
change risk. ARC would on-lend the proceeds of the credit to LMB and par-
ticipating commercial banks (para 5.01) at an interest rate of 6-1/2% per
annum, computed on outstanding indebtedness.  LMB and the commercial banks
would in turn lend to farmers and contractors under the Project at 9% per
annum (para 5.10(a)). ARC refinancing would take the form of LMB and com-
mercial bank debentures, repayable in installments set to coincide with
collections from farmers and contractors (para 3.04). Assurances on these
arrangements were obtained from ARC during negotiations.
E. Procurement
4.11      Tractors are at present supplied by five Indian plants all of which
manufacture with overseas collaboration (three with companies in Bank member
countries). GOI has recently approved plans which, when iLmplemented, would
increase the number of Indian manufacturing plants and bring the total of
associated companies from Bank member countries to five. However, although
local tractor production is expected to increase during the next two years,
(para 2.17) this supply would still be inadequate to meet India's growing
demands. Accordingly, all tractors under the Project, including their spare
parts, would have to be imported.
4.12      The method of tractor procurement proposed for the Project follows
the arrangements agreed for the Gu-,Arat Credit Project and would combine
bulk purchase based on farmers' demands, with distribution through the nor-
mal dealership system.  However in Punjab, unl ke Gujarat, a number of banks
would participate in the finaneing of che Project and thus it would not be



- 18 -
practicable for a Punjab bank to undertake oulk procurement. Thus, GOI would
establish a committee consisting of one or more of its own representatives,
and representatives of the Government Or Punjab and ARC which would direct
the procurement of tractors (and other goods) under the Project. Under this
committee's direction, PAIC would organize the procurement of such goods.
Accordingly, PAIC would obtain price quotations from overseas suppliers re-
presented by firms authorized to manufacture tractors in India at the time
of procurement (see para 2.17). On the basis of such quotations, farmers
would express their first and subsequent choices of tractor make to the lend-
ing bank which in turn would transmit the preferences to PAIC. On the basis
of farmers' choice, the committee in agreement with IDA would direct
PAIC to place bulk orders and arrange importation of the tractors. Finally
PAIC would arrange for the distribution of tractors to agents designated by
the suppliers who would perform pre-sales services and sell the tractors to
applicants approved by the lending banks. PAIC would be allowed a maTk-up,
not expected to exceed 5% for providing these services.
4.13      This formula would take account of farmers' individual preferences,
tend to lower prices, strengthen local dealerships and ensure adequate after-
sales service which is considered essential to the Project. The restriction
of numbers of potential suppliers is reasonable -- the five makes now avail-
able from Bank member countries (para 2.17) is large enough to give adequate
competition without an undesirable proliferation of tractor makes which could
lead to relatively insubstantial support for spares supplies and after-sales
service. Firms whose requests to establish manufacturing facilities are ap-
proved by OI during the period of disbursement of the credit would be added
to the list of eligible suppliers. The present list of five might increase
to six by next year and three other proposals are pending. Details of the
procurement method proposed are set out in Annex 7. During negotiations it
was agreed that tractors would be procured only from Bank member countries
and Switzerland and in accordance with these procedures.
4.14      The Indian supply and quality of basic tillage implements (most
of which are based on the designs of imported models but incorporating
modifications which are important to meet local conditions) is satisfactory.
The major constraint on their manufacture is the shortage of hard steel
required for plow bottoms and discs. The position regarding the local pro-
duction of implements in less general use (seed-cum-fertilizer drills,
spraying equipment) is less good but nevertheless adequate, and is improving
in supply and quality as increased experience is gained of local conditions
and requirements. While tractor implements under the Project would be pro-
cured locally, plow bottom and disc components would need to be imported.
Accordingly, at the outset of the Project, PAIC, operating under the direc-
tions of the committee, (para 4.12) would make the necessary arrangements
for international tender. These components would subsequently be distribu-
ted by PAIC to manufacturers for the fabrication of implements designed to
meet Project requirements. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
that the foregoing arrangements would be followed and the necessary licenses
for component imports issued.



- 19 -
4.15      Self-propelled combines (which are presently inot manufactured in
India) and tractor-drawn harvesters (which are) would be procured by inter-
national competitive bidding, with a level of preference of 15% or prevail-
ing custom duties, whichever is lower, applying to Indian suppliers. Bids
would only be sought against approved loan applications for these items
which would then be bulked-up to a value of at least US$100,000 equivalent
for import by dealers. Assurances were obtained on this matter during ne-
gotiations.
4.16      In order to avoid excessive demand on Indian tractor component
manufacturers during a period of expanding tractor production, spare parts
required for tractors under the Project would be imported. During nego-
tiations, it was agreed that, together with each tractor and harvesting
machinery order, GOI would allow tractor and machinery suppliers to import
such spare parts. Additionally, it was agreed that annually, over the suc-
ceeding five years after disbursements, GOI would make available foreign
exchange for spare parts for each make of such tractors and machinery equal
to 10% annually of the CIF value of tractors and machinery imported under
the Project, or such lesser percentage as agreed between GOI and the Asso-
ciation having regard to the availability of spare parts from domestic man-
ufacturers within India at the time.
F. Disbursements
4.17      IDA disbursements are expected to extend over 2-1/2 years and would
cover, in the case of imports, the CIF cost of tractors, harvesters, tractor
implement components and spare parts for tractors at 15% and harvesters at
10% of CIF cost of the imported items. In the event of the tractor-drawn
harvesters being procured from Indian manufacturers, IDA would disburse
against the ex-factory price.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Introduction
5.01      Responsibility for the implemention of the Project would rest pri-
marily with ARC which would control the lending operations of LMB and parti-
cipating commercial banks through subsidiary loan agreements, the terms of
which would be subject to IDA approval. Commercial banks would be included
among the lending institutions because a number of them have recently made
significant medium- and long-term loans for agriculture, including farm mech-
anization and have built up small cadres of technical staff for this purpose.
Moreover, a relatively large number of farmers have accounts with commer-
cial banks where their short- and long-term agricultural credit require-
ments can be met from the same source. Lastly, although LMB is competent



- 20 -
to carry through the proposed lending program alone, its operations could
be expected to benefit from the competition which the couwercial banks
would provide.
5.02      Commercial bank participation would, however, be limited to those
scheduled banks (Annex 5) which obtained ARC approval (para 5.04(a)) and
which were willing to accept the lending terms and conditions which would
equally apply to all Project lending institutions. However, as LMB would
be expected to do most of the lending and, because this would be the first
large-scale scheme, refinanced by ARC in which commercial banks would be in-
volved, the latter's participation would be limited to 20% of the total lend-
ing program. For administrative reasons ARC would, within a period of one
year of credit signing, decide the timing of such banks entry into the
scheme. The participation of commercial banks would, however, result in
need for greater coordination of lending activities and standardization of
appraisal methods than would otherwise apply and ARC's responsibilities
would be correspondingly greater (para 5.04).
Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC)
5.03      During 1969, ARC took steps to strengthen its appraisal of proj-
ects by increasing its technical staff and realigning its management struc-
ture, a process which will continue through 1970. It has also initiated
a training program for the staff of land banks and the first course, for
Gujarat, took place early in 1970. ARC is aware of the increased respon-
sibilities which the Project and similar IDA-supported schemes would place
on it, and has agreed to take necessary steps to ensure proper control of
the lending program.
5.04      During negotiations it was agreed that ARC, through its Punjab re-
gional office, would:
(a) be responsible for selecting the commercial banks which would
participate in the lending program. Such banks would be re-
quired to satisfy ARC as to their ability and willingness to
carry out loan appraisals and lending operations in accordance
with criteria laid down by ARC (para 5.08). In addition, such
banks would be required to accept the financial terms and con-
ditions which would apply under the Project;
(b) take measures to ensure that loan appraisals carried out by
LMB and the participating commercial banks were in conformity
with agreed lending criteria and to prevent duplicate appli-
cations.
5.05      ARC's operations are now satisfactorily audited by independent
auditors (para 3.07) and an assurance was obtained during negotiations
that ARC would continue to employ qualified auditors acceptable to IDA.



- 21 -
Punjab State Cooperative Land Mortgage Bank (LMB)
5.06      LMB has expanded rapidly since its reconstitution in 1966.  While
it is competent to handle the Project lending program (which might involve
an additional 3,000 loan transactions per annum compared with over 15,000
made in 1968/69), it needs to exercise tighter control over the appraisals
made by staff at the Primary Bank level so as to ensure compliance with
loan criteria which, under the Project, would place more emphasis on develop-
ment and incremental income benefits. LMB has recently appointed more in-
spectors but there is nobody on its staff with qualifications or experience
in agricultural economics to provide the necessary back-up experience for
the Primaries and LMB management generally. Accordingly, assurance would be
sought that LMB would appoint at least two agricultural economists, prefer-
ably with experience of farm mechanization. One of these would work mainly
at LMB's head office and the other at the Primary Bank level, and such ap-
pointments would be a condition of credit effectiveness. It would be part
of ARC's functions to recommend to, and consult with, LMB on such further
staff appointments or changes as ARC might from time to time consider neces-
sary.
5.07      The financial procedures and accounting systems of LMB and the
Primary Banks have hitherto been adequate to meet the demands of the in-
creased volume of lending operations which have grown from just over 2,000
loans made in 1966/67 to over 15,000 loans made in 1968/69. As a result of
the Project and other anticipated lending operations, the number of loan
transactions handled annually can be expected to increase to nearly 30,000
annually by 1971/72 bringing LMB's total number of loan accounts to about
100,000 with a loan portfolio of over Rs 700 million (Appendix 4-5). To en-
sure that this large volume of business can be handled in an efficient man-
ner, it was agreed during negotiations that LMB would, as soon as possible,
obtain professional advice to review the financial procedures and accounting
systems of LMB and the Primaries and subsequently inform IDA of any major
changes which it proposed to make thereto. The accounts of LMB and the Pri-
maries are at present audited by an independent auditor from the Punjab Co-
operative Department, and it was agreed that the audits would continue to be
carried out by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA.
Punjab Agro-Industries Corj; :ation (PA .)
5.08      PAIC's organizational role in the Project would provide the mech-
anism required to carry out the various procedures involved in establishing
farmers' tractor requirements . d arranging for the procurement of goods
under the Project. In 1.1  .A-oQ:ative matters, PAIC would be under the
direction of the committee to be established for the purpose (para 4.12) and
there would thus be no conflict of int:2rest in the event of a tractor manu-
facturer deciding to use the whole or >rt of its facilities as distribution
agent.  It was agreed that PAIC would maintain separate accounts in respect
of any funds paid and re _ved on -ccount of the Project which would be sub-
ject to audit by an indepenuent audiL,: acceptable to IDA.



- 22 -
Lending Policies and Procedures
5.09      ARC would ensure that LMB and participating commercial banks
would follow procedures agreed upon with IDA and in particular:
(a) to ensure maximum tractor utilization, such banks would work
towards applying as a norm for appraisal, the applicants
ability to demonstrate that the tractor would be used to
cultivate not less than 40 ha of cropped area per annum or
for 1,000 hours of productive work in agriculture per annum
(para 4.03);
(b)  farmers taking tractor loans inder the Project would have
suitable implements for use with their tractors (para 4.04)
and also would be obliged to purchase post-warranty service
on tractors for the life of the loan;
(c) loans for self-propelled combines and tractor-drawn harvesters
would be granted to borrowers who could give evidence of an as-
sured workload of at least 200 ha annually for self-propelled
combines and 100 ha per annum for tractor-drawn harvesters.
In the event of PAIC wishing to acquire more than 20 self-pro-
pelled combines and 100 tractor-drawn harvesters, IDA approval
would first be sought (para 4.05); and
(d) all investments under this Project would be evaluated in terms
of incremental returns to farmers from additional investment
and ARC would prescribe appropriate evaluation methods (para
5.04).
It was agreed that LMB and participating commercial banks would follow the
above criteria in making Project loans.
5.10      The following lending terms would apply under the Project
(Annex 8):
(a) the lending rate to borrowers by both LMB Primaries and
participating commercial banks would be 9% per annum. In
the case of LMB Primaries, this would represent an increase
of 1-1/4% per annum and bring its interest rate into line
with that effectively charged by commercial banks;
(b) LMB's lending rate to the Primary Banks would be increased
by 1-1/4% per annum to 7-3/4% which would result in main-
taining their present interest margin of 1-1/4% per annum.
(para 3.17);
(c)  ARC's lending rate to LMB and participating commercial
banks would increase by 1/2% to 6-1/2% per annum. LMB's
margin on ARC borrowings would thus increase from the



- 23 -
present 1/2% (6% on borrowings and 6-1/2% on lendings)
to 1-1/4% (6-1/2% on borrowings and 7-3/4% on lendings).
As LMB also borrows from other sources at an average of
about 5-3/4%, these changes would have the effect of in-
creasing LMB's overall margin to nearly 1-1/2% per annum.
These measures are necessary to strengthen LMB's finances
(para 3.17). Participating commercial banks margin on
ARC refinanced operations would be 2-1/2% per annum;
(d) loan terms should take account of the repayment capacity
of borrowers. Loans for tractors, tractor implements and
tractor-drawn harvesters would be for not more than seven
years, and for self-propelled combines for not more than
five years; and
(e) tractor loans would not exceed 75% and other loans 80%
of individual investments and ARC refinance would not
exceed 75% of individual project loans.
Assurances have been obtained on the foregoing and also, in order to ensure
operational uniformity, that LMB would, during the disbursement period,
adopt an interest rate of not less than 9% on all its lending activities
for tractors, harvesters and implements and that it would apply the same
lending criteria on all tractor and other farm mechanization loans.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND FARMER BENEFITS
Production
6.01      Tractor mechanization would enable Punjab farmers with irrigation
facilities to increase cropping by about 30% and in addition, through time-
liness and better cultivation, increase yields by a further 10-20%. Thus,
for example, the cropping intensity on a 20-ha farm would be increased from
140% to 180%, a level of cropping intensity which would be difficult or im-
possible to achieve using animal draft power only, and the following changes
would occur:



- 24 -
Mechanization Effects - 20 ha Farm
Bullocks           Tractor           Change
Cropping intensity                 140%              180%          -      +29%
Total cropped area                  28 ha             36 ha        8 ha
Gross value of production       Rs 33,000        Rs 56,000      Rs 23,500 +71%
Total production costs /1       Rs 26,000        Rs 41,000      Rs 15,000 +58%
of which mechanization         Rs 10,600        Rs 15,000      Rs  4,400 +42%
Net value of production         Rs  7,000        Rs 15,000      Rs  8,000 +114%
/1   Includes interest and depreciation of bullocks and/or tractor plus
implements.
6.02      It is estimated that the investment of 8,000 tractors plus imple-
ments would permit Punjab farmers to crop an additional 60,000 ha and in-
crease food grain production by about 200,000 tons annually. As Punjab
yields are already high by Indian and world standards, this increased pro-
duction would result mainly from an expansion of the cropped area through
an increase in cropping intensity and to a lesser extent from higher yields.
The Project's impact on total production is estimated in the following table:
Cropped Area (ha)                 Production (tons)
Before      After                 Before       After
Food Grains    Investment Investment Increase  Investment Investment Increase
Bajra (millet)    4,000        8,000     4,000      12,000      26,400    14,400
Maize             25,000     31,000      6,000      75,000    102,300    27,300
Wheat             52,000      86,000    34,000    156,000    309,600   153,600
Barley             4,000      4,000       -          5,600       6,000        400
Pulses            10,000     14,000      4,000       9,000      12,600      3,600
Rice               9,000     12,000      3,000      22,500      31,200     8,700
Total Food
grains        104,000    155,000    51,000    280,100    488,100   208,000
Other Crops
Cotton (American) 4,000       8,000      4,000       4,800      12,000     7,200
Cotton (Desi)      4,000      8,000      4,000       3,200       8,000     4,800
Groundnut         12,000     15,000      3,000      14,400      15,500     5,100
Sugarcane          6,000      6,000       -         30,000      30,000      -
GRAND TOTAL      130,000    192,000    62,000



- 25 -
Markets
6.03      The Punjab Marketing Federation (MARKFED) and the Food Corpora-
tion of India are mainly responsible for crop storage and marketing and
would handle most of the incremental production arising out of the Project,
87% of which would be food grains. The incremental production of the latter,
estimated at about 200,000 tons annually, is about 3% of the present Punjab
production of about 6.3 million tons (1968/69) and as Punjab's production
exceeds the state's domestic requirements, increased output would eventually
be sold elsewhere in India. To meet additional storage requirements, MARKFED
is approximately doubling its capacity by adding 160,000 tons at about 90
different mundis (marketing centres, mostly railheads) under an ARC loan of
Rs 18.7 million. In addition, a grain storage project for about 750,000 tons
capacity (currently under IDA appraisal) would largely benefit Punjab. Such
an expansion of public purchasing and storage capacities is an essential sup-
port to enforce GOI price policy and maintain farmers' confidence in price
stability. In the past the farmer has been used to dispose of the output
surplus to his own requirements, immediately, after the harvest wherever he
could sell it. He has done this mainly because of lack of on-farm storage
and fear that the market might collapse. With the planned grain storage in-
vestments, the proven marketing organizations would be able to handle esti-
mated production increases.
6.04      MARKFED is also engaged in providing farmers with essential inputs
such as fertilizers, pesticides and new seeds, and keeping a uniform price
level within the State. Supply and related credit arrangements are also sa-
tisfactory.
Prices
6.05      GOI expects that self-sufficiency in food grains in India would
be attained within this decade. Uncertainties over the future food policy
and of future food grain production throughout India make it difficult to
calculate future price developments, but if substantial increases in India's
agricultural production were to materialize in the years ahead, food grain
prices might decline. Farmers in Punjab, at present, receive in the case of
their main food grain product, (e.g. wheat), about 20% less than farmers in
Gujarat, but Punjab prices are still about 35% higher than world market
prices estimated for 1975. In the farm plans and financial projections
therefore, three assumptions have been made in order to test the return
sensitivity of this project. These are that:
(i) present price levels in Punjab would prevail;
(ii)  overall farm produce prices would decline by 10% up to
A75; and
(iii)  farm produce prices would decline by 10% up to 1975 and
would correspond with expectec. world market prices there-
after.



- 26 -
These assumed rates of price decline are considered reasonable if account
is taken of GOI's policy to encourage the agricultural sector through price
incentives.
Farmers' Benefits
6.06      Analyses of expected financial benefits to farmers have been made
on the basis of three illustrative types of farm enterprises that would be
financed under the project (Appendix 9-2). These analyses show that sub-
stantial increases in net annual income to farmers would be derived from
in-:estments in farm mechanization under the lending program of the Project.
As Punjab farmers have responded fully to improved seed and fertilizer in-
puts (as evidenced by the high yields they have already achieved), Project
benefits from the extended use of such inputs are not considered significant.
On reasonably well-managed farms, the financial rate of return on iuvest-
ments in a tractor plus implements would range from 26 to 29% (at present
prices), from 24 to 27% (assuming a 10% price decline by 1975) and from
22 to 23% (assuming a 10% price decline by 1975 and projected World Market
Prices thereafter). 1/
6.07      Given the cropping pattern, yield and price assumptions, detailed
in the farm models (Appendix 9-1 and 2), farm incomes after debt service are
expected to rise as follows: (at present prices) -
T                II                III
20 ha Southwest   15 ha Southeast  15 ha Northwest
Farm Model                     Punjab              Punjab            Punjab
Investment                 50 hp Tractor      35 hp Tractor    35 hp Tractor
and Implements    and Implements   and Implements
(Rs 35,000)        (Rs 30,000)       (Rs 30,000)
Net Income -
At present                      7,704              6,138             7,964
At full Project development  19,759               16,861            19,161
Increment                     12,055              10,723            11,197
Debt Service (interest
and principal)                5,296               4,576             4,576
Increment After Debt
Service                       6,759               6,147             6,621
1/   The assumed world market prices are those projected by the Trade Poli-
cies and Export Projections Division of IBRD's Economic Department.



- 27 -
6.08      Farmers at present pay only a minimal fixed land revenue tax,
which is not related to farmers' actual net income and the Project would
not therefore generate any direct tax to be collected from incremental net
income. Indirect tax benefits would accrue to GOI and Punjab State Govern-
ment through a tax levied on tractor and machinery sales (at present about
3%) on diesel oil and through corporation tax payable by institutions in-
volved in the Project.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The Project would bring two direct benefits to the country's eco-
nomy. First, higher cropping intensity and yields would increase Punjab's
food grain production by about 200,000 tons annually, worth about US$22
million equivalent at present prices. Because recurring foreign exchange
requirements, such as spare parts and fuel, are relatively low the net
foreign exchange benefit to India would be very close to this gross value.
The production would thus contribute to India's effort to attain self-
sufficiency in food grains and improve the balance of payments position by
import reductions. Second, the Project would enable Punjab's economy, and
thus India's to make optimal use of past investments in irrigation. This
is at present limited because farmers' are unable to further increase crop-
ping intensity or obtain optimum results from the new high-yielding seed
varieties with animal power. Under the conditions which now prevail, this
is important since improved seed varieties require timely planting.
7.02      The rate of return to the economy would be high when calculated
on present price levels. To give some indication of the project's sensi-
tivity to lower prices, the rate of return based on the incremental net
value of increased production has been calculated on the three-price basis
discussed in para 6.05. Food grain prices used and the resulting rates of
return to the economy are as follows (Annex 10):
(a)                (b)                (c)
Present           10% Price        Projected World
Prices            Decline          Market Prices
in 1975
----US$ per ton--------------------
Wheat                        100                 90                  65
Rice                          80                 72                 120
Bajra (millet)                69                 62                  60
Maize                         69                 62                  60
Rate of Return to the
Economy                    23%                 17%                 14%
7.03      All prices in the project have been converted into Rupees at the
current exchange rate of US$1.00 to Rs 7.50.  Family labor has been in-
cluded in operating costs at its full market value. Similarly, operating



- 28 -
costs have been calculated at present levels although some essential inputs,
such as fertilizers, are much above world prices.
7.04      The analyses do not take into account other indirect benefits,
which are difficult to quantify. These would include incremental produc-
tion from farm custom work, the demonstration effect on other farmers, the
strengthening of Punjab's lending institutions and further agricultural in-
vestment by farmers out of their increased incomes. Though not quantifi-
able, these factors would enhance the Project's already adequate economic
justification.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During credit negotiations, assurances were obtained to ensure sa-
tisfactory Project performance. Some of the principal ones were:
(a) Tractors financed under the Project would be imported through
bulk arrangements on the basis of farmers' choice and would
be sold to farmers by manufacturers' appointed agents (para
4.12);
(b) Project lending would be through LMB and such scheduled com-
mercial banks, selected by ARC, which inter alia would be
prepared to accept Project lending terms and criteria (para
5.02);
(c) Loans to farmers would be evaluated on the basis of financial
feasibility,where formerly, loans were granted on the basis
of collateral sufficiency alone (para 5.09); and
(d) On LMB lending, farmers' participation would become more sig-
nificant than was previously the case; farmers' contributions
would be not less than 25% for tractor and 20% for other in-
dividual investments while interest on Project and non-project
farm mechanization loans would be increased from 7-3/4% to 9%
per annum. Identical lending terms by participating commercial
banks would be approximately in line with present practices
(para 5.10).
8.02      The proposed Project is suitable for IDA assistance of US$27.5 mil-
lion under usual IDA terms.
May 27, 1970



ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDIA
PUNJAB AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
FARM MECHANIZATION IN PUNJAB
Factors Affecting Farm Mechanization
1.        Punjab conditions favor the mechanization of farming operations.
The flat, virtually stoneless, plains consist of deep alluvial and easily
worked soils. Throughout the State, laud consolidation measures, now
nearing completion, have resulted in holdings consisting of one or more
contiguous blocks of land, each made up of rectangular individual plots
of about one acre in size and separated only by irrigation bunds - a lay-
out that lends itself to mechanized farming.
2.        Moreover, the Punjab farmer, besides being thrifty and hardwork-
ing, has shown that he is also very responsive to changing opportunities.
He has been quick to realize the potential of the higher yielding seed
varieties, particularly the new wheat strains available since 1965/66. He
has increased consumption of fertilizer more than three-fold in three sea-
sons, and has grasped the opportunity offered by tubewell irrrigation pos-
sibilities. As a result, Punjab farm output has increased dramatically.
Food grain production increased from 2.0 million tons in 1950/51 to 3.2
million tons in 1960/61 and then jumped. from 4.2 million tons in 1966/67
to 6.3 million tons in 1968/69. Since produce prices have in general been
maintained at high levels, Punjab farmers have been enjoying boom condi-
tions, and have been able and willing to increase their on-farm investments
principally in tubewells and tractors.
3.        In Punjab, the area of unused cultivatable land (excluding cur-
rent fallows) have progressively fallen from 394,000 ha in 1955/56 to
186,000 ha (representing only 3.3% of the total area of the State) in
1967/68. Further expansion of production on any scale can thus only be
achieved through greater intensity of cropping made possible by the in-
crease of irrigation facilities and farm mechanization. Between 1961/62
and 1967/68, cropping intensity rose from 125% to 136% while in the same
period current fallows fell by nearly 50% to 153,000 ha.
Demands for Farm Mechanization
4.        In seeking to intensifv doubLe cropping, Punjab farmers have been
faced with the problem of speeding up Land preparation and planting. Al-
though this applies to both the Kharif and Rabi plantings, it is particular-
ly pressing with the Rabi crop where seed has to be planted before the onset
of the winter rains which generally occur in early December. The new seed
varieties are particularly sensitive to this timing and, in the case of
wheat, experience has shown that there is a substantial and progressive
falling off of yields when Kalyan 227 (the new variety now most widely used)
is sown after the optimum planting -ate at the end of November. As the



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Kharif harvest is not generally completed until late October, the farmer has
about one month in which to prepare land and plant seed.
5.        In theory a farmer can increase his number of bullock teams (and
hire additional labor) in order to complete land preparation in this short
period. When a point of cropping intensity is reached however (about 160X,
see para 10) the land required to maintain bullocks for the short intensive
work periods prevents further double cropping. It would also be possible
of course to improve bullock use through the development of bullock powered
farm machinery, but in practice a combination of factors have made many
Punjab farmers dependent on tractors for lower levels of cropping intensity.
Apart from the loss of land for fodder, the additional bullocks and labor
required is not available in Punjab and can only be obtained outside the
State at much higher cost. Thus physical and economic factors have made
tractors, if not essential at least highly desirable and economically at-
tractive at cropping levels below the point where physical considerations
are an absolute constraint.
6.        In seeking to buy tractors, Punjab farmers have also been influ-
enced by convenience and other non-economic factors and among these, the
farmers need for transportation has been particularly important. Because
of limited on-farm storage facilities, the Punjab farmer continues to mar-
ket the bulk of his output when it is harvested. As most Punjabis prefer
to sell their produce at mundis (main markets) rather than through village
intermediaries or cooperatives, they have to travel considerable distances,
(the average distance between village and mundi being about 10 km) and the
increase in marketable surpluses has added to farmers' transport require-
ments. In addition, as most farmers live in villages there is also a con-
siderable movement between farm and village.
7.        Physical, economic and convenience factors have thus combined to
created a substantial demand for tractors in Punjab and this demand has
been intensified by such considerations as the prestige attaching to owner-
ship, a scarcity psychosis and the Punjab State Cooperative Land Mortgage
Bank's (LMB) easy terms for tractor loans.
The Case for Mechanization
8.        The replacement of bullocks by tractors will enable farmers to
increase their cropping intensity by up to 30%. The expected incremental
production attributable to the investment in tractors alone would justify
mechanization in economic terms, but it could be argued that similar re-
sults could be achieved by using more animal power. In the circumstances
of commercial irrigated farming in Punjab, it would be difficult and near-
ly impossible to increase cropping intensities substantially beyond those
now prevailing with animal power.
9.        To achieve optimum yields under conditions of double cropping,
the time factor between the harvest of one and the planting of the next
is critical. This applies particularly to the Rabi planting where fol-
lowing the Kharif harvest of rice, bajra, maize, groundnuts and cotton,



ANNEX 1
Page 3
land has to be prepared and planted before the onset of the winter rains
on which the wheat crop is dependent. This allows farmers about 30 days
for planting the wheat crop if maximum yields are to be obtained. At
present, farmers using bullock power have been unable to do this and
have left part of land fallow during the Kharif season. In particular,
cotton and rice have been planted to a lesser extent because of their
longer growing period and thus later harvest. Speedy land cultivation
and planting is therefore essential for effective double cropping.
10.       The following example demonstrates that beyond a cropping inten-
sity of about 160% further intensity increases are difficult to achieve
because the number of bullocks required to carry out timely land prepara-
tion and planting would require a prohibitive fodder area for their main-
tenance.
11.       On 20 ha of farmland and at a cropping intensity of 100%, less
than three pairs of bullocks draft power are required during the Rabi
planting period. This permits the planting of a total of 10 ha divided
between 4 ha of wheat, 2 ha barley, 2 ha pulses and 2 ha of fodder and
subsistence crops, involving 200 bullock-pair days (wheat 131 hours/ha, 1/
other crops 80/ha). Within a period of 60 days (on a traditional basis)
these three pairs of bullocks carry out the required 1,000 hours of work
by 5 hours a day or 150 hours per month. These bullocks require about
.8 ha fodder land per pair or 12% of the cropped area throughout the year.
12.       At the stage where 140% cropping intensity is reached (20 ha
cropped of which 16 ha is Rabi), the number of bullocks required for
cultivating the same amount of land has increased to 5 pairs. The draft
animals at this stage need 20% of cropped land for fodder. By 160% in-
tensity, the number of bullocks needed has increased to 9 pairs requiring
about 40% of cropped land for fodder, and using bullock power further
cropping intensity beyond this level is therefore almost impossible. Even
if it were feasible, the hiring of extra bullock teams for the intensive
cultivation period would not overcome the absolute loss of land for animal
maintenance.
13.       The investment of a tractor on the same type of farm with a crop-
ping intensity of 140% would permit an increase to 180% intensity (Appendix
9-2). To reach the same intensity 12 pairs of bullocks would be needed for
Rabi planting; not all of the additional bullocks would be required during
the rest of the year. To feed these animals throughout the year, 48% of
the cropped area would be needed for fodder production which would thus be
impracticable.
1/   Ploughing:  two times at 40 hours/ha total
Cultivating and harrowing: five times or 50 hours/ha total
Planking and levelling: five times at 31/hours/ha total
Planting: once at 10 hours/ha.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
14.       The graph at Appendix 1-' shows that an increase beyond 160% in-
tensity on 20 ha Punjab farmland would be impossible without tractor mech-
anization since the marginal increase of required fodder area comes to a
point where the "additional" bullock needs more land for maintenance than
he is able to cultivate for growing other crops.
15.       The table at Appendix 1-1 compares the benefits of mechanization
on Punjab farms of 5 and 20 ha. This shows that while there is a greater
benefit per ha on the 20 ha farm mechanization on the 5 ha farm is also
economic. However, in the case of the 5 ha farm, the benefits of tractor
ownership are essentially dependent on custom work.
16.       The primary benefit from farm mechanization is therefore the larg-
er area it enables a farmer to cultivate for commercial crops and (through
timely planting) obtain better yields. To a lesser extent increased produc-
tion also follows changes in the cropping pattern.  Thus higher intosity of
cultivation permits the greater use of existing irrigation facilities.
Farm Labor
17.       Between 1965/66 and 1968/69, the number of tractors in Punjab in-
creased by over 5,000 while agricultural labor force remained about static.
However, an 80% increase in food production and 10% increase in cropping
intensity over the same period increased the demand for labor. This in-
creased demand was only partially -ffset by farm mechanization as such la-
bor intensive operations as interculture, planting and harvesting are still
manually performed. Labor shortages thus arise at periods of maximum field
activity and as these occur at the same seasons throughout north-west India,
the possibility of solving the problem through labor movement is both limit-
ed and decreasing. As a result of these and other factors agricultural
wages have increased by 45% over the period.
18.       The trend towards greater cropping intensity and increased pro-
duction will continue but at reduced rates. As appreciation grows of the
tractor's potential, and as implements and equipment for more specialized
operations become available, mechanized farming will become progressively
more labor saving. Some labor displacement will thus occur but the growth
of marketing, transport, storage and processing services for the higher
level of output, coupled with the expansion of manufacturing, repair and
servicing industries for tractors and other industrial development will
create new employment opportunities in the rural areas.
Tractor Demand
19.       In Punjab, as elsewhere in India, it is difficult to establish
reliable statistics of genuine tractor demand. Easy credit terms for
tractor loans through the LMB, the prestige attaching to tractor owner-
ship and a sacarcity psychosis have inflated demand beyond economic levels.
Moreover an assessment of tractor orders is unreliable as many farmers have
placed their names on the lists of more than one distributor.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
20.       In 1968/69 a Punjab Government committee carried out an investi-
gation of tractor demand in the State and produced the following estimate:
Tractor hp
-Rang,e        1970/71        1971/72        1972/73       Totals
20           15,000          9,000          9,000        33,000
30-35          10,000          5,000          5,000         20,000
40-50           3,000          1,000            500          4.500
Total           28,000        15,000         14,500         57,500
The estimate for 1970-71 at 28,000 units was higher than in subsequent years
to take account of the back-log of demand arising from past years. This fig-
ure however is considerably lower than the present order book position which
totals 45,000 tractors (15,000 on the order books of dealers handling Indian
manufactured models and 30,000 on the books of the Punjab Agro-Industries
Corporation which handles tractors imported under barter arrangements).
21.       The Punjab committe's estimate however was not based on any require-
ment of prospective economic use and included demand encouraged by the rela-
tively easy LMB lending terms. Both of these factors would tend to inflate
demand beyond levels envisaged under the Project. Lastly, the estimate is
high when compared with the expected levels of all-India demand, which has
assessed at between 40,000 and 50,000 annually during the next three years.
As Punjab demand has historically been about one-quarter of the all-India
demand, the evidence suggests that current genuine demand in the State is of
the order of 10,000 to 12,000 annually.
22.       Nevertheless, there can be no doubt that Punjab tractor demand
and ultimate potential is high. A waiting period of two to three years
for the more popular makes, the high level of used tractor prices, sub-
stantial "black market" premia for new tractors (up to Rs 8,000 on a
Massey-Ferguson model with a list price of under Rs 22,000 and the read-
iness of Punjabis to travel far and wide in India in order to purchase
tractors all attest to the strength of current demand.
Indian Tractor Manufacture
23.       Until 1961, India's tractor requirements were entirely met by im-
ports, but in that year, tractor production began in India on a small scale.
24.       There are at present, five Indian manufacturing plants all of which
produce in collaboration with overseas manufacturers: three of these, Tractor
and Farm Equipment, Ltd. (Massey-Ferguson), UK, International Harvester, USA,
and Eicher, Federal Republic of Germany, being in collaboration with companies
from Bank member countries. Most of this Indian tractor production falls in



ANNEX 1
Page 6
the 30-50 hp range and though not of the latest designs, all the models are
equipped with hydrau-systems. All five manufacturers operate with varying
degrees of dependence on sub-contractors for components for which temporary
shortages develop from time to time. Production from these plants has in-
creased slowly from some 6,000 tractors in 1965 to 10,500 in 1967 and 18,000
(estimated) in 1969 (Appendix 1-2).
25.       Indian tractor manufacturers were unable to expand their produc-
tion faster for a number of reasons: imports of machine tools and some
tractor components were difficult to obtain, they were under pressure to
increase the indigenous content of their models, and their selling price
(and thus their profits) were subject to GOI control. As a result, output
lagged behind production capacity.
26.       In an endeavour to improve the situation, GOI in 1968 abandoned the
production licensing system and invited applications for the setting up of
additional manufacturing plants. As of November 1969, GOI had approved plans
fer additional plants, two of which would be in collaboration with manufac-
turers in Bank member countries (Deutz, from Federal Republic of Germany and
Ford from USA) while plans for a further four plants in collaboration with
companies from Bank member countries were under consideration by GOI. Past
experience has shown that it may take longer than expected to achieve plan-
ned increases in production and a substantial gap between supply and demand
can be expected for the next few years.
27.       Indian manufactured tractors are distributed and sold through a
network of dealerships which also provide farmers with short training
courses in tractor use and provide after-sales service (paras 35-41). Be-
cause of short supplies manufacturers have to ration tractor allocations
to their various dealers.
Punjab's Tractor Population
28.       A lack of statistics similarly makes it difficult to estimate
with any accuracy the existing tractor population in Punjab: vehicle tax-
ation statistics are no guide as tractor licensing is compulsory only where
the tractor is used for passenger transport purposes. However, the present
tractor population in the State is probably some 20,000 units or about one-
fifth of the estimated all-Indian total. Of the State total some 9,000
tractors are located in the south-western districts of Ferozepur, Bhatinda
and Sangrur where larger holdings prevail.
29.       Although there is no official data on farm size and income on
mechanized farms in Punjab, a Survey made by Punjab Government in 1969
showed that in Amritsar, Ludhiana and Ferozepur districts an average farm
with a tractor covered 18 ha and had a gross annual income of Rs 45,000.



ANNEX I
Page 7
Tractor Importa
30.       Most of the Indian tractor imports prior to 1961 originated from
manufacturers in western countries but since then tractors have been im-
ported mainly under soft-currency and trade arrangements. Although sub-
ject to considerable annual variation, such imports averaged about 3,000
in the years 1961-67, increasing to 4,500 in 1968 and jumping to an esti-
mated 18,500 in 1969. Most of these tractors originated from USSR,
Czechslovakia and East Germany but included a wide variety of models and
hp ranges. Their assembly and distribution is arranged by GOI through the
network of Agro-Industries Corporations and in Punjab through the Punjab
Agro-Industries Corporation (PAIC) (Annex 2). In 1969 Punjab's share of
these imports was expected to be about 2,000 units.
31.       In 1969, GOI introduced a tractor gift scheme whereby donors out-
side India paid the CIF tractor cost. Under this scheme, less than 1,000
tractors from manufacturers in western countries are expected to be import-
ed into India on a once-and-for-all basis. Their distribution in India is
made through the dealerships of manufacturers' associate Indian companies.
Project Tractor Requirements
32.       Assuming that the existing level of tractor imports into Punjab
were maintained at about 6,000 units annually (4,000 locally manufactured
2,000 imported under trade arrangements) the provision of an additional
8,000 tractors over the next two years would bring total Punjab supply to
some 10,000 units annually. This would make a substantial contribution
to the demand of farmers who would be able to make full economic use of
them. Moreover the increased supply would after two years bring the Punjab
tractor population (allowing for write-offs) to some 35,000 units compared
with the present estimated 20,000.
33.       While Punjab's present needs are mainly for tractors in the 35 hp
range, the trend towards higher on-farm horse-power demand makes it desir-
able that a proportion of the supply should be tractors in the 50 hp range.
Farm model calculations for a 50 hp tractor (Appendix 9-2 page 1) indicate
that an operational farm unit of 20 ha with farm custom work, the financial
rates of return are satisfactory. Official thinking in India favors the
continued production and use of lower horse-power models, mainly because of
pressure to ensure that farm mechanization benefits are made available to
smaller size farms. The present popularity of small horse-power tractors,
however, partly stems from artificially low prices resulting from barter
trade deals that have distorted the normal price/hp relationship. Moreover,
demand in this lower hp range may in future be partly met by a new 20 hp
tractor which India plans to manufacture as a public sector undertaking.
34.       In view of the present supply/demand position in India, tractors
required for the Project would need to be imported. The importation of
tractor components which are either not manufactured in India or are in
short or unreliable supply would not meet the position as prompt delivery



ANNEX I
Page 8
of the finished tractor could not under present conditions be assured.
Moreover, this method or procurement would place an additional assembly
burden on existing manufacturers who have plans to expand their produc-
tion.
Tractor Outlet, Repair and Spare Part Facilities
35.       The main Indian tractor manufacturers maintain in all over 30
dealer outlets in Punjab (Appendix 1-3) 24 of which are appointed by firms
with technical collaborators in Bank member countries. The latter are su-
pervised and assisted by regional technical and marketing representatives
of the tractor companies.
36.       Although selling prices of tractors are officially controlled,
under prevailing sellers' market, a flourishing black market exists on
which prices up to Rs 8,000 higher than the official prices are paid.
Since both their margins and throughput are limited and while the alloca-
tion of tractors is not based on any economic criteria, the opportunities
and the temptation are there to take advantage of black market prices.
This can be done by such methods as selling tractors "out of turn," or to
nominees on the order book, or to genuine farmers but at the same time
forcing them to purchase implements at unduly high prices.
37.       Concern for such developments coupled with the need to build up
quickly a distribution and servicing system for the various types of trac-
tor being imported under barter arrangements, prompted GOI to encourage
the formation of Agro-Industries Corporations in each State. PAIC has
been entrusted with the distribution of Czech Zetor 2011, Russian DT-14 B,
Russian Bylarus, Bulgarian Bolgar TL-30 A (crawler-type) and East German
Rs-09 tractors. It has established rudimentary assembly facilities for
Bylarus and Rs-09 tractors at Jullundur, operating with technical assis-
tance from the supplying organization concerned.
38.       Each private dealer has a major repair shop, at least one service
van and motorized mechanics for on-farm servicing and minor repairs. Rou-
tine services supplied by tractor dealers include:
(a) full warranty inspections;
(b) post-warranty service schemes at fixed annual rates;
(c) provision of operators' manuals in Punjabi;
(d) on-farm training of operators and farmers; and
(e)  organization of farmers courses and field demonstra-
tions in tractor and tractor implement use.



ANNEX 1
Page 9
Distributors are required by their principals to maintain specified levels
of spare parts stocks and are given assistance and training in store man-
agement techniques. However, although their stores and repair services are
well organized, in the present state of the market private dealers are un-
der little pressure to improve their services. One result of PAIC's incur-
sions into this field has been a reduction in the charges made by dealers
under their post-warranty schemes.
39.       PAIC operates at present from a base workshop and three main ser-
vice stations and plans to open seven more as well as appoint thirty eight
service agents. Its range of services is similar to that of the private
dealer network but it is placing more emphasis on mobile service vans,
operating on pre-arranged schedules, in order to ensure that there are at
least 10 tractors to service at each village stop. PAIC has been faced
with the task of building up stores and store systems for the considerable
range of tractors it handles but it has also attempted, so far unsuccess-
fully to obtain spare parts for Indian produced tractors handled by the
private dealership network, alleging that dealers's services are insuffi-
ciently widely spread and too costly.
40.       Despite the private and PAIC network of servicing units, more
than half tractor repairs and servicing is carried out in a multitude of
village and small town workshops, often run by mechanics previously em-
ployed by tractor dealers. Operating with the sparest of resources and
often utilizing imitated spare parts, these repair shops provide farmers
with on-the-spot service at reasonable rates. It is largely due to their
ingenuity that the lives of many tractors have been extended beyond their
normal life span.
41.       While existing repair and servicing facilities may, therefore, be
considered adequate, tractor supplies under the Project should be required
to demonstrate that their particular facilities in Punjab are satisfactory
to meet increased demand. It would be open to prospective suppliers not at
present represented in the State to establish these facilities either
through the appointment of new dealers or by utilizing the existing services
of PAIC or by a combination of both methods.
Tractor Implements - Use
42.       At present, a farmer acquiring a tractor for the first time buys
on average less than two implements, reflecting the restricted use being
made of tractor power and his lack of knowledge as to the utilization of
its full potential. As most LMB tractor lending hitherto has not included
implements, this has been a further disincentive to extend the scope of
tractor use. At the same time, there is a considerable amount of implement
sharing between tractor-owners, borrowings being paid for by services ren-
dered, rather than in cash.



ANNEX 1
Page 10
43.       The most commonly used implements in Punjab are those required for
preparatory tillage work - mouldboard plows, disc plows, cultivators and
disc harrows - together with trailers for transportation. There is a grow-
ing demand for seed-cum-fertilizer drills, seeding attachment to cultivators,
inter-row cultivators and spraying equipment.
Tractor Implements - Supply
44.       The two main sources of implement supply are first; tractor manu-
facturers who (either themselves or through approved contractors) produce
implements designed specifically for use with their make of tractor; and
second, small scale manufacturers. In both cases, the implements are most-
ly modified versions of models developed in other countries. Partly because
of their higher specifications, those models made by, or under, the control
of tractor manufacturers are more expensive than implements made by small-
scale manufacturers.
45.       In Punjab, there are some 60 implement manufacturers recognized
by the Department of Agriculture together with some 200 small-scale produc-
ers. In addition, there is considerable similar manufacturing capacity in
Haryana and around Delhi selling part of its output in Punjab. Because of
lack of credit and storage space, production varies to meet seasonal demand,
but is nevertheless considered capable of meeting Project needs. In the
case of preparatory tillage implements, difficulties have arisen from the
shortage of hardened steel for plow bottoms and discs and to meet this,
special imports of discs from Yugoslavia and Australia have been made for
distribution through PAIC to approved manufacturers of plows and harrows.
46.       In the category of more sophisticated implements for planting,
spraying and inter-culture, the main need is for more research and develop-
ment work on the adaptation of overseas models to local soil and climatic
conditions. Useful work in this field is being undertaken at the Agricul-
ture Engineering College of Punjab Agricultural University (recently, ad-
ditional finance for this purpose has been provided by the Punjab State
Government), at GOI centers such as that at Hissar (Haryana), and to a
limited extent by tractor manufacturers themselves. Small independent im-
plement manufacturers have little or no capacity for undertaking such work.
47.       Closely connected with the need for more research and development
in implements are the problems of quality improvement and of providing tech-
nical assistance to farmers to help them to improve the efficiency of their
mechanized farming. As to quality improvement a start has been made by GOI
through the Indian Standards Institution but this has been at a relatively
sophisticated level and so far has had little impact on the smaller manufac-
turers. It is therefore important that GOI should take steps which would
lead to an improvement in the quality of tractor implements suited to local
conditions and requirements.



ANNEX 1
Page 11
48.       While this is an all-India problem, the situation is particularly
pressing in Punjab, partly because of the relatively large scale of mecha-
nized farming and partly because of the large number of implement manufac-
turers in the State. Thus while the problem needs to be tackled on a com-
prehensive all-India basis, more rough and ready measures which would re-
sult in giving Punjab famers more immediate guidance on the selection and
use of implements should also be given attention. This would also involve
the bringing together of many Punjab entities who have an interest in this
field and whose activities are not at present fully coordinated.
Harvesting Machinery
49.       There are a number of factors in the Punjab which are favorable
to the introduction of mechanized harvesting and which could represent the
next major step in the development of farm mechanization in the State.
The most important of these is the present labor shortage at harvesting
time.
50.       Traditionally, local labor for harvesting operations has been sup-
plemented by special gangs of workers from Rajasthan, but the availability
of this additional labor, which has always varied with the size of the
harvest in that State, has decreased with the growing implementation of
major irrigation schemes there. This, and the tremendous increase in crops,
particularly wheat, has resulted in labor rates in the months of April and
May doubling between 1965 and 1968. Where gangs have traditionally been
paid in kind with a proportion of the crop, farmers harvesting crops have
also increased.
51.       Punjab agricultural conditions are particularly suitable for mech-
anizing harvesting operations. Dry conditions are usual at the time of
harvesting with in consequence, a uniform ripening of yield, while fields
are compactly laid out.  In addition, as the new seed varieties have a great-
er propensity to shatter, mechanized harvesting would reduce losses which oc-
cur with hand reaping.
52.       Although at the time of the missions' visit there had been no
field experience of mechanized harvesting, some pilot projects had been
conducted with self-propelled combined harvesters and since then PAIC has
acquired 10 self-propelled combines which are being used for farm custom
work. The results of the trials suggest that savings in operational costs
(compared with present methods of hand reaping and threshing by machine)
could amount to as much as Rs 200 (US$ 28) per hectare. Grain losses by
combine harvester are likely to be 10% less than under present methods.
Evaluating this at current wheat yields and prices would give an addition-
al saving of the order of Rs 275 (US$ 36.7) making a possible total gain
per hectare of about Rs 500 (US$ 66.7).
53.       As a first step towards realizing these potential benefits, the
Project includes provision for harvesting machinery. Because of the lack



ANNEX I
Page 12
of entrepreneurs with experience in this field and the relatively high in-
vestment involved, the number of applicants for such loans may be limited,
but PAIC, which has a pioneering role to play in the development of custom
services, should be regarded as eligible to apply.
54.       Since similarly favorable conditions are to be found throughout
north-west India, this aspect of the Project could lead to the spread of
mechanized harvesting throughout the wheat belt.



PUNJAB
FARM MODEL 20ha IRRIGATED
HECTACRES    CROPPING
CROPPED      INTENSITY
FODDER REQUIRED IN                                                                     40            200%
%OF CROPPED) LAND.F
20                                                                   36            180%
40                                                                    32            160%
60                                                                   28             140%
80         0-0                                                        24            120%
100 _                                                                  20            100%
3                        5                          12                                      >
PAiRS OF BULLOCKS REQUIRED
,
R  CL
IBRD - 4888(R)



INDIA
PUNJAB AGRICULTURAL ZREDIT PROJECT
ME,HANIZATION EFFECT ON 5 HA AND 20 HA FARMS
5 ha Farm                                                      20 ha Farm
Bullock Power         Tractor Mechanization Increment           Bullock Power         Tractor Mechanization Increment
ha  Yield kg/ha  GVP Rs   ha  Yield kg/ha  GVP Rs  GVP Rs        ha Yield kg/ha  GVP Rs   ha  Yield kg/ha  GVP Rs  GVP Rs
Cropping Pattern:
Kharif:
Bajra                               0.5    3,000        780    1.0    3,300      1,716      936      2.0   3,000      3,120    4.0    3,300       6,864   3,744
Maize                               0.5    3,000        780    0.5    3,300        858       78      2.0   3,000      3,120    2.0    3,300       3,432      312
Cotton (american)                   0.5    1,200        960    1.0    1,500      2,400   1,440       2.0   1,200      3,840    4.0    1,500       9,600   5,760
Cotton (desi)                       0.5      800        480    1.0    1,000      1,200     720       2.0     800      1,920    4.0    1,000       4,800   2,880
Fodder and subsistence crop         1.0        -          -    1.0        -          -        -      4.0        -         -    3.0         -          -        -
Rabi:
Wheat                               2.0    3,000      4,500    2.5    3,600      6,750   2,250       8.0   3,000    18,000   10.0    3,600    27,000   9,000
Barley                              0.5    1,400       35C    0.5    1,500         375      25       2.0   1,400      1,400    2.0    1,500       1,500     100
Pulses                              0.5      900        41E    1.0      900        837     419       2.0     900      1,674    4.0       900      3,348   1,674
Fodder and subsistence crop         1.0                   -    0.5        -          -        -      14.0      -          -    3.0               -        -
Total:                              7.0              8,268    9.0               14,136   5,868      28.0             33,074   36.0               56,544  23,470
Production Cost:
General (fertilizer, seed,
labor, etc.)                                3,462                      5,420   1,958                       13,850                      21,680   7,830
Irrigation                                              480                        720      240                       1,920                       2,880      960
Bullocks                                             1,000                                ,                          10,600                       2,400  -8,200
Trac tor  2/                                              -                      3/ 3/00   3,000                                              15,000  15, 000
Total Cost:                                           4,942                      9,140   4,198                       26,370                      41,960  15,590
Net Value of Production:                              3,326                      4,9964 1,670                         6,704                      14,584   7,880
F'D
_  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F
1/ Includes interest and depreciation of bullocks.
2/ Includes interest and depreciation of tractor plus implements.
3/ Used only 200 hr/year on farm.
;/ This does not include any income from custom work.
April 13, 1970



APPENDIX 1-2
INDIA
PUNJAB AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TRACTOR PRODUCTION AND IMPORTS
Indian
Year                Imports             Manufacture               Total
1951-5"               3,503                                         3,503
sf56                 4,468                                        4,468
7                  4,792                                        4,792
6                 3,733                                         3,733
2,652                                        2,652
60                  3,843                                        3,843
1.                3,248 2                   380                 3,628
2                 3,033                   1,114                 4,147
3                 1,523                   1,683                 3,2o6
14                 2,999                  3,172                 6,171
2,o64                  6,318                 8,382
6                  2,884 31               7,613                10,497 3
7                 3,500 -,               10,526                14,026 -
3                 4,500 -3/              13,799 3/             18,299 7y
5-               15,500 -                18,000 -              36,500-
j  Inuiual average
7  Since 1961 most imports have been under barter trade arrangements.
3/   5 timates
3ources:
a)   Reports of Working Group for formulation of Fourth Five
Year Plan proposals on agricultural machinery and imple-
ments.
b)   I'rinistry of Food Agriculture, Conmmunity Development and
Cooperatives.
April 13, 1970






INDIA
PUNJAB AGRICTULTJRAL CREDIT PROJECT
TRACTOR SERVICE-_RK IN PUNJAB
Tractors           Internatiocnal              Escorts                                            Punjab Agro-Indiustries Corporation
and Farm           Tractor Company             (Ford of UK) Hindreskan                            Tractors imporled under b?fter trade
Equipment(TAFE)    India (Ltd)   (ITCI)        Motorimport  Matokov of           Eicher           Sales -   Cum-      Sab-agents
DISTRICT      (Massey Ferguscm)  (International Harvester)   Poland)        (Czechoslavakia)  (West Gennany)   Service Stations    Proposed
AMRITSAR                 D             )        D                     D        )       D                             (1 planned)            (6)
GURDASPUR                D             )                              D        )                         D           (2 planned)            (2)
JULLUNDUR               D B            )       D                     D         )       D              )D             1 operating            (3)
)                                       )                      )
KAHALA                   -             )                                       )-                                                           (3)
HOSHIARPUR              D                      D                      D                                              (2 planned)            (2)
LUDHIANA                D BB                   D                      D                D              covered by
Jullundur      (1 planned)           (2)
FEROZEPOHI              D B                    D                      D B          cavered by                        1 operating            (5)
Bhatinda                          (1 planned)
ROPAR                   -             covered by Hoshiarpur           -                _              covered by     -                      (3)
Hoshiarpur
BHATINIDA               D                      D B                    D  B             D                             1 operating            (5)
(1 planned)
SANGRHUR                B              )       D                      D                -                  D          1 operating            (3)
PATIAU                  D              )                              D                D                  D          (1 plauned)            (4)
Notes:    D - main dealer (showroom, spare part store and workshop)
B - branch of dealers organization with lesser facilities
Agro-Industries Corporation position as of November 1.969
April 13, 1970






ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
PUNJAB AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
PUNJAB AGRO-INDUSTRIES CORPORATION LTD.
Organization and Management
1.        In order to encourage the growth of farm mechanization and agro-
industries, GOI decided to establish Agro-Industries Corporations in each
of the Indian States. In pursuance of this policy the Punjab Agro-Industries
Corporation (PAIC) was incorporated in February 1966 as a limited liability
company, its share capital being subscribed equally by GOI and the Punjab
State Government.
2.        PAIC's Board comprises nine directors, four of whom represent
GOI and four the Punjab State Government together with the Managing Dir-
ector. All the directors are civil servants, the Chairman being the
Punjab Development Commissioner and the Managing Director (who is chief
executive) being on secondment from the Punjab State Government.
3.        PAIC (as the other Agro-Industries Corporations) is intended to
operate as a commercial organization. Its Memorandum confers wide powers
on the Corporation and include -
a)   the financing, manufacturing and promotion of agricultural
machinery and equipment;
b)   the organization and management of engineering and repair
workshops;
c)   the purchase and sale of agricultural machines and appli-
ances including hire-purchase sales and the provision of
farm custom services;
d)   the promotion or conduct of any agricultural, commercial
or industrial enterprise.
In practice PAIC has concentrated its efforts on the assembly and subse-
quent sale and service of tractors imported under barter arrangements.
More recently it has also been involved in commercial seed production and
farm-custom services.
4.        PAIC's Head Office is at Chandigarh and the Corporation has es-
tablished a main base workshop at Jullunder and three main sale and service
stations and to appoint 38 service agents throughout the Punjab. PAIC's
commercial seed farm (for the multiplication of bajra and maize) is located
near Ludhiana.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
5.        Under the Managing Director, PAIC is divided into seven depart-
ments comprising accounts and finance, administration, procurement and
sales, servicing, farm-custom work, farm management and seed production
and engineering. As of December 1969, PAIC staff totalled 350 which in-
cluded all grades of personnel.
Tractor Operations
6.        PAIC's operations can be divided into those activities relating
to tractors which in 1968/69 accounted for over 80% of PAIC turnover and
85 of profits, and other operations which are thus at present relatively
unimportant.
7.        PAIC assembles tractors imported under barter arrangement at its
Jullunder base. This is carried out in the open and under the technical
guidance of manufacturers representatives. Most of these tractors are im-
ported in a partially knocked-down condition and the assembly facilities
are fairly rudimentary. GOI has made various State AIC's responsible for
the assembly of different types of tractors and the PAIC has thus been
mainly responsible for the assembly of tractors of USSR and East German
manufacture.
8.        PAIC handles farmers' applications for tractors.  All applicants
are required to have a cultivated area of not less than 6 ha. In order
to discourage resale, farmers are required to deposit Rs 1,000 with the
Corporation for each tractor purchase, though in practice, this has not
been a sufficient deterent. As applicants have far outnumbered available
tractor supply, PAIC has, after reserving a proportion for ex-servicemen
and priority cases, distributed the balance by ballot. Hitherto, PAIC
has not exercised its power to provide hire-purchase facilities, tractor
loans being provided mainly by the Punjab State Cooperative Land Mortgage
Bank.
9.        PAIC provides two-day courses for farmers in tractor and imple-
ment usage and thereafter provides after-sales service. As PAIC has not
yet been able to develop a wide network of service stations, it has con-
centrated on mobile service vans which work on a fixed schedule, each of
which aims to provide on-the-spot service for at least 10 tractors at each
village stop. To meet servicing and repair requirements, PAIC has had to
build up a stock of spares for a wide variety of tractor makes and types.
Its main stores are kept at its Jullundur base with subsidiary stores at
its other service stations.
10.       In order to meet alleged inadequate and expensive tractor ser-
vicing and repair by the private dealer networks, PAIC has attempted to
obtained authorized spare parts for those tractors manufactured in India.
For the most part, PAIC has been unsuccessful in its attempt to assemble
and distribute those tractors imported from western countries under the
gift scheme. This has been because of tractor manufacturers' unwillingness
to take any steps which would have the effect of weakening their accredited



ANNEX 2
Page 3
dealership networks. It remains PAIC's goal, however, to distribute and
service all imported tractors and not merely those imported under barter
arrangements.
Other Operations
11.       Significant among PAIC's other operations are its involvement in
supply of materials and components for tractor implements. Owing to the
shortage of hard steel in India, PAIC has imported discs and arranged their
distribution to manufacturers for the fabrication of plows and harrows.
PAIC has subsequently purchased from manufacturers part of this and other
implement production for sale along with the tractors it handles. During
1968/69, PAIC sold 300 implements of various types and aims to sell some
1,000 during 1969/70.
12.       PAIC has also established four custom service units, one consist-
ing of 10 tractors and the others of four tractors each. This service is
particularly designed to provide the benefits of farm mechanization to
those farmers who have been unable to obtain a tractor of their own.
Farmers' response has been encouraging and PAIC proposes to extend the
services provided from the present basic tillage and sowing operations to
spraying, land levelling and harvesting.
Resources and Financial Operations
13.       As of December 1969 PAIC's paid-up share capital was Rs 10 million
as against its total authorized capital of Rs 20 million. In addition,
PAIC mav borrow such amounts as its Board may approve from time to time; so
far however, it has not required to raise any loan finance.
14.       PAIC made a small loss of Rs 13,000 in its first accounting per-
iod to May 31, 1967. In the two subsequent years, it returned post-tax
profits of Rs 234,000 and Rs 226,000 respectively, but the Corporation has
not yet declared a dividend. PAIC's accounts are detailed in Appendix 2-1.






I N D I A
PUNJAB AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
THE PUNJAB AGRC-INDUSTRIES CORPORATION LTD.
CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS
:Tay 31, 1967              May 31, 1968                   May 31, 1969 _
Change from                     Change fromn
previous date                   previous date
Rs '000           Ps '000         Rs '000         Rs '000         Rs '000
ASSETS
Current Assets
- Stock in trade.                                      -                  103              103          2,205            2,102
- Stores and pro duce                                  -                  158              158            544              386
- Creditors and staff advan ces .......                n                    4                4          1,601            1,597
- Cash in hand and with banks                        395                6,796            6,401          8,727            1.931
Total current assets ......   ...... ... .               395               7,061            6,666          13,077           6,016
Field assets** -..     ....        .........                                 173               173            434             261
Net 100..  ***... *.... *0...                             13                  -                (3          
Total Asse                     t     s .........................  408   7,234            6,826         13,511            6,277
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY CAPITAL
Sundry creditors and provisioss                            2                 527               525          1,220              693
Advances and securities from customers .._                                   282               282          2,413           2,131         C
Total creditorse........                                2                 809               807          3,633           2,824
Capital equity
- Paid-up share capitali..............              .406                6,200            5,794           9,427           3,227
- Reserves (including net income).....                                    225              225             451             226
Total Equity....                                      06                6s425             6,019          9,878           3,453
Total Liabilities and Equity ..                       408               7,234            6,826          13,s5U           6,277
I/ Accounts unaudited
2/ n = negligible
April 13, 1q70






ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA
PUNJAB AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
THE AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
Organization and Management
1.        The Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC) was established on
July 1, 1963, with the objectives of providing medium- and long-term re-
sources to agricultural credit institutions and, at the same time, direct-
ing and guiding such institutions toward a development-oriented approach
in their operations.
2.        The following institutions can become shareholders of ARC:  The
Reserve Bank of India (RBI); central or state-level land and mortgage banks
and cooperative banks; and other institutions (scheduled banks, the Life
Insurance Corporation of India, insurance and investment companies, and
other classes of institutions as may be notified by the Government of
India). Individuals cannot be shareholders of ARC. Of the initial 5,000
shares issued, the law provided that RBI shall subscribe to at least 50%;
the central land mortgage banks and state cooperative banks to no more
than 30%; and other institutions to no more than 20%. Future issues of
shares would be allocated in the same proportion. The initial shares
issued were guaranteed a dividend of 4-1/4% per annum.
3.        ARC's management is vested in a Board of Directors of nine mem-
bers, three of whom are elected and the rest nominated. Three directors
represent RBI (a Deputy-Governor is Chairman of the Board); three directors
represent the Government of India (at present: The Secretary, Department
of Agriculture, and the Additional Secretary, Department of Cooperation
of the Ministry of Food, Community Development and Cooperation; and a De-
puty Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs of the Ministry of Finance);
and three directors elected one each by the central land development banks,
by the state cooperative banks, and by the Life Insurance Corporation of
India, scheduled banks, and other insurance and financing institutions.
4.        The Managing Director is the Chief Executive Officer.  He is aided
by a senior staff of 28 (as of April 30, 1970), most of whom hold a law or
commerce degree, or a certificate from the Indian Institute of Banking, but
none has training in agriculture, irrigation, engineering, or allied sciences.
However, ARC employs Indian consultants for technical evaluation of projects,
a practice which is advantageous and will continue despite ARC's present plans
to create a Technical Department.
5.        ARC's head office is in Bombay.  It has ten regional offices in
India (Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Bombay, Calcutta, Chandigarh, Kanpur, Madras,
New Delhi, Patra and Hyderabad) which assist banks and State Governments



ANNEX 3
Page 2
in formulating agricultural development projects for financing, clarify
ARC's policies and procedures when required, undertake pre-appraisal of
projects submitted and supervise general execution of projects under ARC
financing. Regional offices have only "skeleton" forces, however, and
generally, besides a Deputy Manager who is in charge, the "staff" con-
sists of a typist or stenographer and possibly another clerk.
6.        In general, ARC's Charter provides that it shall be guided by
such directions in matters of policy involving public interest as OI may,
after consulting RBI, give in writing. ARC can extend financial assist-
ance only to central or state-level land development banks, state coopera-
tive banks, and scheduled banks; in exceptional cases, and with RBI approval,
directly to a primary cooperative at the farm level. Refinance is provided
through purchases of special debentures floated by central or state-level
land development banks and through loans to state cooperative banks and
scheduled banks.
7.        Until June 1966, it was not normally ARC's policy to refinance
construction and energization of wells by individuals unless the outlay
involved was large and development was envisaged through a cooperative
society organized for the purpose. In July 1966, however, ARC not only
removed this restriction, but likewise circulated a model scheme for minor
irrigation development by farmers in compact areas. Thus, began ARC's
policy of financing individual farmers on the basis of project models.
8.        At the beginning, ARC's policy was to finance no more than 75%
of a project, leaving the balance to be contributed by State Governments.
However, the generally strained resources position of most State Govern-
ments considerably restricted the extent to which land development banks
could avail themselves of refinance facilities from ARC. Accordingly, to
stimulate investments in minor irrigation especially, ARC increased its
support of such investments to 90%, beginning with all projects sanctioned
in 1967/68.
9.        Special debentures purchased by ARC from central land development
banks must be guaranteed by the proper State Government. In addition,
debentures are protected by a charge on all mortgages resulting from loans
refinanced from the issue. Furthermore, as is the case in all debenture
issues, ARC requires that collections from farmers be lodged in a sinking
fund. The sinking fund is invested in GOI securities and debentures of
other land development banks. It may also be used to repurchase the land
development bank's own debentures. Since from the viewpoint of financial
returns the sinking fund arrangement does not benefit a land development
bank as issuer of debentures, it would be more advantageous if debentures
are redeemed in installments so that funds may be reused in ARC-evaluated
and approved projects.
10.       ARC will refinance agricultural development schemes which are
technically feasible, financially justified, and are within a reasonably
compact area for facility of loan evaluation and supervision. The scheme
can involve just one farmer, a group of farmers, or an association of



ANNEX 3
Page 3
farmers. Preference, however, is given to schemes involving a large
number of farmers.
11.       Technical evaluation of schemes is carried out by consultants
drawn from a panel approved by the Government of India. Services of the
Exploratory Tubewells Organization, the Geological Survey of India and
the various Commodity Boards are also availed of. ARC prescribes the
terms of reference in every case. Some important points looked into in
the case of schemes for minor irrigation include: an estimate of the
quantum of water proposed to be tapped, annual water recharge, annual
water draft, taking into account the existing and proposed wells, type of
pump sets needed, etc. While the technical evaluation procedure appears
to be adequate, there is the obvious need, however, for ARC staff with
expertise to judge such evaluations and to supervise further progress of
schemes on a technical basis. ARC's Board has authorized the creation of
a Technical Department. Towards this end, 3 technicians with post-graduate
work in Agriculture and extensive experience in institutional work, and one
specialist in cost accounting, are about to join the ARC.
12.       Economic evaluation of schemes is performed by ARC staff.  Some
of the important aspects looked into are: financial outlay necessary,
cropping pattern recommended and its suitability, inputs available for
development, farmer's repayment capacity, efficiency of project executing
agency, arrangements for the provision of short-term credits, marketing
arrangements, etc. Preappraisal is done generally by regional offices,
but final evaluation is made in Bombay. Although most of the staff had
been recruited from the Agricultural Credit Department of RBI, there is
need to bolster the staff with experienced agricultural economists.
13.       Periods of refinance are determined after a study of the repay-
ment capacity of farmers based on farm models. The terms, however, es-
pecially in the case of long-term projects, tend to be generous. Present
refinance terms are: for medium-term projects, 3 to 5 years; for long-
term projects, 5 to 25 years. At present, long-term refinance is limited
to 15 years, although 20 years may be allowed in exceptional circumstances.
14.       ARC charges 6% per annum for its funds.  However, scheduled banks
are required to charge their borrowers no more than an additional 2-1/2%
per annum. Land development banks are not bound by the same restriction,
but they nevertheless generally follow the same interest mark-up. ARC col-
lects a commitment charge of 1/3 of 1% on the amount not used in any one
year according to a schedule of expected withdrawals approved for a scheme.
Lending (Refinancing) Operations
15.       The following table shows the progress in ARC's lending operations
during the first six years of its existence (amounts in Rs M):



ANNEX 3
Page 4
Number of           Total
Projects           Project             ARC's
Year           Approved            Cost            Commitments
1963/64           3                22.30               20.10
1964/65           8               116.50               98.00
1965/66          15               160.30              124.60
1966/67          13                95.00               76.80
1967/68          89               681.60              586.40
1968/69         105               748.87              663.10
July 1, '69 -
Nov. 21, '69          61               476.18              329.89
Total           294             2,300.75            1,898.89
During the initial years, ARC transacted very little business due to the
need for laying the groundwork and bases for its operations and for build-
ing its staff. An important deterrent, however, was ARC's policy, at the
time, of refinancing only projects in which development was envisaged through
a cooperative society organized for the purpose. In June 1966, this re-
striction was removed; furthermore, ARC agreed to refinance up to 90% of
loans for minor irrigation, against 75% heretofore. Thus, during the last
two years, projects approved for refinancing were more than 3-1/2 times
the number during the first four years.
16.       As may be expected, most of the schemes sanctioned were for proj-
ects financed by land development banks:
Number of
Projects
Approved          Rs M      % of Total
a)   Land development banks           212          1,981.21        86.1
b)   State cooperative banks           13            129.86         5.7
c)   Scheduled commercial banks        69            189.68         8.2
Total                            294          2,300.75      100.0
17.       About 85% of the cost of projects approved for refinance were for
minor irrigation and land reclamation:



ANNEX 3
Page 5
Projects            Total Project
Approved                 Cost
% of                   % of
Number   Total         Rs M      Total
a)   Minor irrigation               149     50.7       1,342.95    58.4
b)   Land reclamation                35     11.9         587.57    25.5
c)   Tractor & power tillers          9      3.0          55.88      2.4
d)   Soil conservation                2       0.7         23.76      1.0
e)   Plantations                     57     19.4          70.42      3.1
f)   Horticulture                    25      8.5         104.77      4.6
g)   Poultry                          6      2.0           5.10      0.2
h)   Fisheries                        7       2.4         43.22      1.9
i)   Dairying                         2      0.7           8.36      0.3
J)   Godowns                          2      0.7          58.72      2.6
Total                          294    100.0       2,300.75   100.0
18.       As of November 21, 1969, there were 268 schemes pending consider-
ation. They would involve a total outlay of about Rs 3,270 million. The
bulk of the proposed schemes are for minor irrigation. ARC's contribution
is expected to be in the neighborhood of Rs 2,700 million.
Source of Funds
19.       Apart from share capital, ARC can raise funds from the following
sources:  (a) borrowings from GOI and from any entity approved by GOI; (b)
issue and sale of debentures guaranteed by GOI; (c) borrowings from RBI
for periods not exceeding 18 months; and (d) deposits from GOI, the State
Governments, and local authorities for periods not less than 12 months.
Total borrowings and deposits received shall not exceed 20 times the sum
of ARC's capital and surplus reserves.
20.       ARC's borrowings and receipts of deposits during the six years
of its existence may be summarized as follows (amounts in Rs M):
Year                Borrowings             Deposits Received
1963/64               50.000                      __
1964/65                 --                     1.130
1965/66                 --                     1.255
1966/67                 --                     1.255
1967/68               30.000                   1.255
1968/69              177.500                    1.252
Total                257.500                    6.147
Since June 30, 1969 ARC has increased its borrowings from GOI to Rs 437.5
million and has also, for the first time, made a public placement of bonds
to the value of Rs 110 million. These items, together with deposits and
ARC equity brought ARC resources at April 31, 1970 to just over Rs 600 mil-
lion. As of June 30, 1969, borrowings from GOI had been on the following
terms.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
Rs M            Interest P.A.                   Repayment
50,000               None               30 years with 15-year grace
30,000               5-1/2              At end of 15 years
60,000               5-1/2              At end of 15 years
117,500               5                  At end of 9 years
Since August 1968, ARC has been allowed a rebate of 1/4% on timely payments
of interest. The larger loan of Rs 117,50 was for a shorter term, since
the proceeds were used to refinance, in the main, minor irrigation schemes,
generally requiring refinance for 9 years or less. The special deposits
represent dividends payable on ARC's shares held by RBI which, under the
law, must be held by ARC as special deposits. No interest is paid on them.
Results of Operations and Financial Conditions
21.       A comparative statement of ARC's operating results since its es-
tablishment until 1968/69 is given in Appendix 3-2 and is summarized below:
Net
Income    Statutory  Surplus
Gross    Total      Net    Income  Before       Dividend    or
Year     Income  Expenses  Income   Tax   Dividends  Liability  Deficit
----------- Rs Million -------------------------
1963/64    3.75      0.30    3.45    1.80    1.65         1.91       -0.26
1964/65    4.00      0.39    3.61    1.76    1.85         2.13       -0.28
1965/66    4.34      0.48    3.87    2.27    1.60         2.13       -0.53
1966/67    4.98      0.61    4.37    2.40    1.97         2.13       -0.16
1967/68    6.00      1.67    4.33    2.38    1.95         2.13       -0.18
1968/69   11.04      6.29    4.75    2.61    2.14         2.13       +0.01
22.       In the first three years of ARC's operations, income was derived
mostly from interest on investments. Beginning 1966/67, this pattern changed
when ARC began to expand rapidly its refinancing operations (paragraph 15).
In 1968/69, interest received from loans and debentures represented more
than 92% of total income received.
23.       Benefitting from cost-free funds available to it during the first
four years of its existence (paragraph 20), ARC's main item of expense at
the time was salaries and employee benefits. Needing more funds for its
expanded operation, interest paid on borrowed money became an important item
of expense beginning with 1967/68. In 1968/69, interest paid on borrowings
and salaries and employee benefits were 70% and 23%, respectively, of total
expenses (before taxes).
24.       Net income after taxes has not been sufficient to meet the statu-
tory dividend liability of 4-1/4% payable annually to ARC's initial share-
holders (paragraph 2). The annual deficiency has been made good by GOI in
accordance with its guarantee under the law. ARC will have to reimburse



ANNEX 3
Page 7
these amounts out of future profits. As the tentative results of operations
for 1968/69 would indicate, ARC may be expected to operate with sufficient
income to pay the mandatory dividends. Appendix 1-2 is a five-year projec-
tion of ARC's future operating results.
25.       ARC is a good financial condition (Appendix 1-3).  Its equity
position as of June 30, 1969, is unimpaired by losses and its assets are
in GOI securities and debentures of land development banks, which are guar-
anteed by State Governments. A five-year projection of ARC's financial
condition is given in Annex 1-4.
26.       In accordance with its Charter, ARC's accounts are being audited
annually by an auditor duly qualified under the All India Companies Act of
1956 (the present auditor is S.B. Bilimoria and Co). Under the same Charter,
GOI can appoint the Comptroller and Auditor General of India to examine and
report on the accounts of ARC. To date, GOI has not found the need to ex-
ercise this power.






Di'D LA
PUNJAB  1y'WJ7A. 'rEIT F?JCl"
AGRIC[ULTUIRAL REFINANCE (GORPORATION
COMPARATIVE STATEMENT OF NET INCOME
1963/64 to 1968/69 1/
(Amounts in Rs '000)
1963/64      196h/65      1965/66       1966/67       1967/68       1968/69
INCOME
Interest Received
a.  On Loans and Debentures                -                1       1,089         3,058         4,833        10,200
b.  On Investments                       3,751          3,997       3,257         1,925          1,170          839
Total Interest Received           3,751         3,998        4,346        4,983          6,003        11,039
Miscellaneous Income                                        -            -            -              -               1
Total Income                          3,751         3,998        4,346         4,983         6,003        11,040
EXPENSES
Interest Paid                                -              -           -             -              466        4,419
Salaries, Allowances, Consultants' Fees,
and Employee Benefits                      203            279         365           475            913        1,433
General and Administrative Expenses           92            103         115           130            289           424
Depreciation of Assets                         4              4           4             4              8            11
Total Expenses                          299            386         484           609          1,676        6,287
NET INCOME BEFORE TAXES                      3,452          3,612        3,862        4,374          4,327         4,753
Takes Paid                                 1,800          1,765       2,268         2 406          2,380         26
NET INCOME AFTER TAXES                       1,652          1,847        15954        1,968          1,947         2.139
1/ Tentative
Apri 1l3, 1970



INDIA
PUNJAB AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
PROJECTED STATEMENT OF NET INCOME
For Fiscal Years Indicated
1970/71                    1971/72               _   1972/73                     1973/74                    1974T 75
% Or                        % of                       %of                        % of                        % of
Rs   M  Total Income       Rs   M  Total Income       Rs   M  Total Income       Rs   M  Total Income       Rs   M  Total Income
I N C O M E
Interest Earned on Debentures and Loans:
a. Gujarat Credit Project                               1.83      4.7              7.44     12.0             14.94      15.6            20.10      14.4            20.66      11.1
b. Ptmjab Credit Project                                2.09      5.3              7.03      11.3             9.13       9.5             7.64       5.5             6.14        3.3
c. Others                                              35-05     89.4             47.36     76.3             71.54      74.6           111.19      79.9           158.63      85.4
Interest Earned on Investments                            0.25      o.6              0.25       0.4              .25       0.3              _2        0.2              0.25       0.2
Total Income                                        9.22    100.0             62.08    100.0             95.86    100.0             139.18    100.0            185.68    100.0
E X P E N S E S
Interest Paid on:
a. IDA Funds (Gujarat and Punjab Projects)             2.77       7.1             10.30     16.6             17.17      17.9            20.28      14.6            21.28       11.5
b. Other Money Borrowed                                26.72     68.1             34.20      55.1            51.77      54.0            79.43      57.1            115.03      61.9
Salaries and Consultants' Fees                            4.10     10.5              7.36      11.8             9.81      10.2            13.07       9.4             17.42       9.4
General and Admdnistrative Expenses                       1.01       2.6             1.35       2.2             1.78       1.9             2.X0       1.7              3.19       1.7
Depreciation of Assets                                    0.02       N               0.02       N               0.03       N                0.04      N                0.05       N
Total Expenses                                     34.62      88.3             53.23     85.7             80.56      84.0           115.22      82.8           156.97       84.5
NWT INCCME BEFORE TAXES                                   4.60      11.7             8.85      14.3            15.30      16.0             23.96      17.2            28.71      15-5
Income Tax Due                                            2.53       6.4             4.87       7.8             8.42       8.8             13.18       9.5            15.79       8.5
ESTINATED NET INCCME AFTER TAXES                          2.07       5.3             3.98       6.5             6.88       7.2             10.78       7.7            12.92       7.0
N = Negligible
April 13, 1970



INDIA
PUNJAB AGRICULTURAL CREBlIT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
" N -~~~~~~~~~~
.9ND-'NSD  BALANCE  SHMrS
A;  ind zi fiszal Y ars Inoia3d
1963/64 1964/65                                   1965/66                        1966/67                       1967/68                        1968/69
Change from  I/               Change from                   Change fron                   Change from                    Change from
Ras 94      Rh        Previous Date -    RS  M    Previous Date          hi  A    Previous Date        RS  M    Previous Date         Rs  I    Previous Date
A S S & T S
Cash orn Hand & In Barnk .................,.,.                .158         .166        .,08              .02    0    (.1L6)             .o56         .036             .089         .033              .0,8         (.031)
Investments .......................     ,.,               101.854    9 9.091          (2.763)          55.P04       (83.832)         35.793      (1).L16)           3.403      (27.385)            5.145         (3.263)
Loans ......................., .-.                            -           -.            .               1.470         1.470            3.030        1.560            7.349        14.319           25.495        18.146
Debentures Purchased ..................    ,-                             4.500        4.5)0      4     7.30         43.03)          66.729       19.1)9           119.038       52.309           283.069       164.031
Other Assets ..7)                                                         1.017         .218            2.343         1.326            3.382        1.039            6.459        3.077             9.065         2.606
rotal Assets .102.311                                        104.774        1.963          106.572         1.793         lO.89O        2.418           141.343       32.353          322.832        181.L89
LIABILITIkiS & CAPITAL EQUIrY
Loans from Gov't of India.                                  50.000       53.000        -.-             50.00)         -.-            50.000         -.-             30.000       30.000           257.500       177.500
Special Deposits .-.-                                                     1.13)        1.130            2.396         1.256           3.641         1.255            4.897        1.256             6.149         1.252
Other Liabilites .2.310                                                   3.642         .832            L.133           .611           5.345        1.162            6.111        1.096             9.178         2.737
Tetal Liabilities6 52.810                                     54.772        19)62           56,56)         1.7)7           58,986        2.417           91.338       32.352           272.827       181.489
Capital - Paid-up ......6).........6................        51.1    -                   .-              ).1 H)                         .0(1         _. 50.000 _0.00
Reserves and Surplus1                                                      . .,  .7i.........1.......     I ....03      , 001           .OIL         .001             .065         .U01              .905         -.-
Total .apital _quity .           ..              75T           50.002                       50.0093         7_073 50.004 .                          11 53.0         1 ,              . 001            --
rotal Liabilities & Capital  quity .102,911                  104.77.        1,963          136.302         I.793         I)3. )90        2.11           1LI.343       32.353           322.832       181.489
1.' Figures in parenthesis () are decreases for the period.  Increass in ltiabilitiqs and in -iaital  quity snd deor-ases in assets represant
net sourco of funds; in;reases in assets and decreases in liabilities represent net' application of funds.
April 13, .170



INDIA
PUNJAB AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CCRPORATION
PROJECTED BALANCE SHEETS
As of Dates Indicated
June 30, 19701/       June 30, 1971            June 30, 1972            June  30,1973            June 30, 1974            June 30. 1975
Change from 2/          Change from              C ange from 2/           Change from              Change from
Rs  M          Rs  M  Previous Date-  Rs  M  Previous Date-  Rs  M  Previous Datc-  Rs  M  Previous Date-/ Rs  M  Previous Date_/
A S S E T S
Cash on Hand and In Banks                            0.47           0.49         0.02        0.87         0.38        0.72        (0.15)       0.84         0.12        0.88         0.04
Investments                                          5.00           5.00         -.-         5.00         -.-         5.00                     5.-.-                    5.00
Loans:
Punjab Credit Project                            .-           12.28        12.28       28.97        16.69      24.59        (4,38)      20.21         (4.38)     15.83         (4.38)
Others                                         56.4o          81.50        25.10      106.80        25.30     168.11        61.31      265.01        96.90      384.09        119.08
Debentures Purchased:
Gujarat Credit Project                          -.-           56.20        56.20      172.90       116.70     286.90       114.00      331.30        44.40       304.40       (26.90)
Punjab Credit Project3/                         -49.12                     49.12      115.86        66.74      98.31       (17.55)      80.76       (17.55)      63.21        (17.55)
Others                                        531.64         587.94        56.30      821.15       233.21   1,301.93       480.78   1,915.98        614.05   2,731.61        815.63
Others                                              10.05          11.04         0.99       12.01         0.97       12.98         0.97       13.94         0.96       1409o         o.96
Total Assets                                  603.56         803.57       200.01   1,263.56        459.99   1,898.54        634.98   2,633.04        734.50   3,519.92        886.88
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL EQUITY
Loans from Govtt. of India (IDA Funds):
Gujarat Credit Project                          -.-           141.6o       l1.60      129.40        87.80      218.20        88.8o     260.40         42.20      260.40
Punjab Credit Project 3/                         -            63.40        63.40      153.50        95.10     158.50         -.-       158.50           .       158.50           -
Other Loans from Gov't. of India & Other Sources 536.90           631.06        94.16      855.40       224.34   1,395.93        540.52   2,028.B3        632.91   2,904.18        875.35
Special Deposits                                     7.40           8.65         1.25        9.90         1.25       11.15         1.25       12.40         1.25       13.65         1.25
Other Liabilities                                    9.18           8.83        (0.35)       8.48        (0.35)       8.13        (0.35)       7.62        (0.51)       7.10        (0.52)
Total Liabilities                             5348           753.54       200.06   1.161.68        408.14   1,791.20        63o.22   2,467.75                   .343.83       876.08
Capital Paid-up                                     50.00          50.00          ---      100.00        50.00      100.00         _._       150.00        50.00      150.00          .
Reserves:
At Beginning of Year                                           0.08                     0.03                     1.88                     6.64                    15.29
Projected Net Income                                           2.07                     3.98                     6.88                   10.78                     12.92
Total Available                                                2.15                      .  
Mandatory Dividends Due                                        2.12                     2.13                     2.12                     2.13                     2.12
2.122.13                                   26221                                             2.12
At End of Year                                  0.o8                  0.035)            T77          1.85                     14.7 6 729               8.65          2         10.80
Total Capital Equity                           50.08          50.03        (0.05)    101.88         51.85      106.64         4.76      165.29        58.65      176.09        10.80
Total Liabilities & Capital Equity            603.56         803.57       200.01   1,263.56        451.99   1,898.54        634.98   2,633.04        734.50   3,519.92        886.88
/ Estimated figures.
d Figures in ( ) denote decrease for the period. Increase in liabilities and capital equity and generally, decrease in assets represent net sources of funds;
increases in assets and decreases in Liabilities represent net applications of funds.
Under ARC's Charter, the initial capital issue of Rs 50 million is entitled to guaranteed dividends of 4 1/4 p.a.
May 25, 1970



ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDIA
PUNJAB AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
THE PUNJAB STATE COOPERATIVE LAND MORTGAGE BANK LTD.
AND PRIMARY LAND MORTGAGE BANKS
A.  The Structure of the Puniab Land Mortgage Bank System
1.        The Punjab State Cooperative Land Mortgage Bank (LMB) originally
operated through 27 central cooperative banks on an agency basis.  In 1962,
this system was abolished with the establishment of a network of Primary
Land Mortgage Banks. Although each of these Primary Banks is theoretically
independent, their operations are closely controlled by LMB which is the
only permitted source of their borrowings and which provides on secondment
all but their lower grade staff requirements.
2.        In all important aspects, therefore, LMB and its federated Prima-
rise can be considered as a single entity with an operational relationship
similar to that of a bank head office to its branches. Thus the Primaries
(under LM.B direction and guidance) are responsible for making loans to their
members while LMB wholly refinances the Primaries' lending. As of June 30,
1969 the 29 Primary Banks had a total membership of about 63,000.
3.        In the following paragraphs, the operations of LMB and the Primary
Banks are considered separately in so far as their organization, management
and resources are concerned. Their lending procedures, operations and re-
sults, however, being closely integrated, are considered together in further
sections.
B.  The Puniab State Coo erative Land Mortiaie Ba Ltd.
Or anization
4.        Registered in 1958, LNB was reorganized in its present form in
November 1966, following changes in the State's boundaries as a result of
the formation of the new State of Haryana. It operates under the Punjab
Cooperative Societies Act, 1961 and the Cooperative Land Mortgage Bank Act,
1961. Its office is at Chandigarh, the Punjab State capital.
Board and Mana2ement
5.        Under the general council of shareholders, with powers equivalent
to an Annual General Meeting in a joint stock company, LMB's affairs are
directed by a board of 25 members comprising 20 elected by the Primary
Banks, 3 nominated by the Punjab State Government, 1 nominated by the Pun-
Jab State Cooperative Bank and the Registrar of Looperative Societies. To



ANNEX 4
Page 2
facilitate its administration, however, most of the Board's powers devolve to
a 9-man Executive Committee and in addition, there is a Staff Committee and
a Development Committee dealing with personnel and special development pro-
blems resDectively.
6.        The Secretary is L1MB's chief executive officer and is appointed
by the Board of Directors subject to the approval of the Registrar of Com-
panies. Under him, there are four persons of assistant secretary status
with responsibilities respectively for administration, accounts, loans and
the inspection of Primary Banks. As of November 1969, LIB's establishment
totalled 393 of whom 374 were to staff rank (supervisors or above). Of
this number 60 were employed at LMB's office at Chandigarh, while the ba-
lance (all of supervisory rank) were on secondment to Primary Banks.  In
addition, each Primary has its own establishment of clerical staff. In
order to meet the increased staff demands, LMB operates a 20-month train-
ing scheme and the above establishment includes 20 probationary officers.
7.        While LMB's staff includes many graduates in the arts and law, it
lacks any specialists in agriculture, engineering or economics. LMB recog-
nizes the need to build up a small cadre of technically qualified personnel
and is considering making appointments. The immediate need is for at least
two agricultural economist one of whom should be based at LMB's office at
Chandigarh while the other would mainly work with the Primary Banks. To-
gether they would be responsible for applying economic development criteria
in loan appraisals and ensuring the implementation of such criteria at all
levels. This should be regarded as a first step towards strengthening the
quality of staff on secondment to the Primaries and as circumstances permit
should be augmented by the appointment of a few newly graduated agricultural
economists (a number graduate from the Punjab Agricultural University each
year) and other technical staff.
Sources of Funds
8.        As an apex organization,  IB3 share capital is contributed by the
Primary Banks (each providing a prescribed minimum relating to its borrow-
ings and limited by certain maxima) and the Punj4b State Government. The
proportion of Primaries' and State Government's equity holdings is subject
to periodic review by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). As of June 30, 1969,
LM4B's total subscribed share capital was Rs 13.3 million (against RS 100
million authorized) of which the State Government's contribution was Rs 3.5
million or about 25%. The following table shows the growth of LMB's issued
share capital divided as to the Primaries' and State Government's subscrip-
tions:
As June 30, 1967 As June 30, 1968 As June 30, 1969
Primaries                       2,552              4,507              9,860
State Government               1,814               2.514              3,514
Total issued share capital    4,366                7.021             13,374



ANNEX 4
Page 3
9.        Apart from short-term bridging finance provided by commercial banks,
LMB's borrowings derive from the issue of debentures. These are guaranteed
by the State Government as to the payment of interest and repayment of prin-
cipal and are secured by the mortgages financed from the proceeds of a par-
ticular debenture issue. As in the case of other state land banks in India,
LMB floats three types of debentures:
(a) ordinarY or regular debentures 50% of which are purchased by
the Life Insurance Cooperation of India, the State Bank of India
and RIB under pre-arranged quotas, the balance being sold on the
open market, (but largely taken up by other institutional in-
vestors). Brokerage and underwriting commission are fixed by
RBI, the issue price being dependent on the money market. In
1968/69, the effective cost of borrowings was approximately 5-3/4%
per annum and issue price of debentures floated in that year at
99-1/4% being marginally higher than in the previous year;
(b) rural debentures which are sold only to individuals since their
purpose is the encourage the mobilization of local savings. To
stimulate their sale, RBI subscribes in the ratio of eight for
every seven rural debentures sold to private persons and receives
interest at 1% less than the regular rate.  Present rates are 6%
on five year debentures and 5% on 10 year debentures;
(c)  special debentures  which are issued for financing agricultural
projects approved by the Agriculture Refinance Corporation (ARC).
They are subscribed by ARC and the State Government in proportions
decided by ARC and are currently in the ratio of 9 to 1. Interest
paid on these debentures is similarly decided by ARC and the pre-
sent rate is 6% per annum.
10.       The following table shows the growth of LMB's borrowings from
June 30, 1967 (Es million):
At June 30, 1967 At June 30, 1968 At June 30. 1969
Ordinary debentures             46.4                75.4              133.4
Rural debentures                  2.9                5.5                7.0
Special debentures                 -                 8.4               61.5
Commercial bank loans                                7.3               14.8
Total                      49.3               96.6              216.7



ANNEX 4
Page 4
C. Primary Land Mortgape Banks
OrRanization and Membership
11.       As of June 30, 1969 there were 29 Primary Banks operating and it
is proposed to increase this number to 37 to provide one for each tehsil
(administrative unit) of the State. New banks are formed by the subdivision
of existing banks and it is LMB policy not to promote the creation of a new
bank unless an initial loan portfolio of at least Rs 2 million is assured.
12.       The membership of the Primaries falls into two types.  First, the
regular (or A Class) membership is open to individuals and cooperative farm-
ing, tubewell irrigation and central cooperative socieites. Such members
must be landowners and thus be able to offer the security of land: according-
ly only A Class members are entitled to borrow. Second, there is also a
relatively small associate (or B Class) membership made up of individuals
who are co-partners of who have some interest in the title of A Class mem-
bers. This class of membership exists to facilitate the execution of mort-
gage deeds in favor of regular members who otherwise would have insufficient
collateral to borrow. Only A Class members have voting rights and are en-
titled to any dividends which the Primaries may declare. As of June 30,
1969 the total regular membership of all the Primaries was 63,149 (compared
with 30,109 a year earlier) and of this only 50 were cooperative societies.
This membership compares with an estimated 1.7 million farm families in the
Punjab, 1.4 million membership of primary credit societies and (as of June
30, 1969) 31,405 outstanding loans made by all Primaries (Appendix 4-1).
Board and Mana ement
13.       The control of management of each Primary Bank follow3 the LMB
pattern with overall control vested in the general meeting and with a com-
mittee exercising the functions of a Board of Directors. Similarly the
secretary of each Primary (each of whom are on secondment from LMB) is
chief executive.
14.       The Primaries main independent functions are the approval of loans
(para 20) the appointment of lower grades of staff and the declaration of
dividends.
Sources of Funds
15.       Each Primary Bank has a separate. issued share capital.  Although a
Primary requires a certain percentage of equity participation by any member
which borrows from it (para 22) nearly half of the total Primaries regular
membership have not taken loans (para 12) and the amount of each Primary's
paid-up capital therefore varies considerably. The Primaries reinvest in
LMB effectively that part of their paid-up capital derived from their mem-
bers' borrowings (Appendix 4-1). Apart from short-term bridging finance
provided by commercial banks the borrowings of all Primaries derives from
LMB.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
D. Overall Lendinz Procedures and Operations
Loan Policies
16.       The Primary Banks lend for (and thus LB refinances) a wide range
of agricultural purposes on medium and long-term. The purposes include:
(a) the construction, improvement and major repairs to minor
irrigation works;
(b) land drainage, reclamation and improvement;
(c) construction of farm improvements (excluding housing);
(d)  purchase of farm machinery including tractors and implements;
(e) purchase of land occupancy rights and redemption of mortgages;
and
(f) such other purposes as the Board may determine to be for land
improvement or agricultural production.
Maximum loans allowable vary among the Primaries but generally they may not
exceed Rs 30,000 for individuals and Rs 60,000 for member societies, though
under schemes refinanced by ARC, no limits are set.
Lending Procedures
17.       Applications for a loan have to be made to the Primary Bank of
whtich the applicant is a member. All applicants, who must be cultivators
of land to be mortgaged, are required to deposit a fee at the rate of Rs .5
per Rs 100 of the proposed loan limit, the final fee being determined on
such amount of loan as may eventually be sanctioned.
18.       Loan appraisal consists essentially of a review of the title to
the property of the applicant and of an assessment of its value made by
the Land Valuation Officer at the Primary and where necessary, additional-
ly by LMB's Legal Adviser. Each land valuation officer is required to in-
spect the revenue record maintained by the Revenue Patwari of the applicant's
village and is also required to inspect the field offered for hypothecation
as security for the loan.
19.       The basis of valuation is taken as either:
(a) the average of all the sale statistics over the previous two
years for similar kinds of lands of the same village as entered
in the mutations register, or in the event of no sale statistics
being available;
(b)  by multiplying the land revenue payable by the applicant by 1,500.
In practics, sale statistics are nearly always available and recourse to
method (b) has rarely to be made. Loans are made for up to 50% of the value
of agricultural lands as determined above. Security of houses can be accept-
ed up to 40% of their value provided 75% of the loan is secured by land in



ANNEX 4
Page 6
cases where the loan amount is Rs 5,000 or less. The Primaries require a
first mortgage on such property (third party security is also acceptable)
but they will not accept any machinery hypothecation even in the case of
machinery loans.
20.       The Primaries have the power to sanction loans for minor irrigation
of up to Rs 8,000 and other loans up to Rs 5,000. Beyond these limits, LMB
sanction is required. Loans for the redemption of agricultural lands, pur-
chase of lands, tractors and machinery, are paid to the third parties con-
cerned and loans for other purposes are disbursed in instalments after proper
utilization confirmation has been obtained. All payments are made through
checks drawn on the bankers of the Primaries. Every loan applicant is in-
spected within three months after final disbursement and a loan valuation
officer reviews the security of every loan each year.
LMB Refinancing
21.       LMB subsequently advances loans to the Primaries in the form of
reimbursement on the security of mortgages collected by them after they
have advanced loans to their members and the time gap between loan dis-
bursement of the Primaries and refinance by LMB is negligible. LMB loan
periods match those of the Primaries lending to their members and as the
Primaries have virtually no other source of finance available to them,
LMB has complete control of their lending terms and policies. Similarly,
LMB advances are almost the same as the loan portfolios of the Primaries.
Lending Terms and Interest Rates
22.       Borrowers are required to hold shares in their Primary equivalent
to 5% of any loan, this in effect representing the borrowers down payment.
Until recently, repayments on all loans were for a uniform period of 10
years but in the case of minor irrigation and farm mechanization loans this
has been reduced to a maximum of seven years. Loans are repayable annually
by equal instalments and no grace periods are granted.
23.       The present lending rate from Primaries to individual borrowers
is at present 7-3/4% per annum. In the case of defaults, a penal rate of
9-3/4% is charged. Against this, LMB refinances the Primaries at an in-
terest rate of 6-1/2% per annum allowing them a margin of 1-1/4% per annum.
LMB's margin fluctuates in accordance with its borrowing rates (which vary
both as to both the mix of various debentures issued as well as to market
rates) but in 1968/69 amounted to less than 3/4%.
Lending Operations
24.       LMB's lending operations have shown a high rate of growth since
its reorganization in November 1966. Total loans and advances outstanding
have approximately doubled in each of the last two fiscal years - from Rs
43.7 million as of June 30, 1967 (which was only slightly lower than the
previous year of Rs 44.0 million when LMB operations covered the present



ANNEX 4
Page 7
States of Punjab and Haryana) to Rs 82.9 million as at June 30, 1968, and
to Rs 191.1 million at June 30, 1969. This growth has to a considerable
extent been attributable to the introduction of special schemes refinanced
by ARC. The first five such schemes, for minor irrigation and land level-
ling were approved in August 1967 to be carried out over a two-year period.
A further fifteen schemes for the same purposes have since been approved to
a total of Rs 226 million and are now being implemented. ARC now has under
consideration a further eleven schemes submitted by LZB to a total value of
an additional Rs 464 million: this however includes a tractor project in
the districts of Ferozepur, Sangrur and Bhantinda Districts to the value of
Rs 200 million which forms part of the project under consideration. As
shown in para 16, as of June 30, 1969 special debentures to the value of Rs
61.5 million (or 28% of total debentures and loans outstanding) has been
issued to finance these schemes.
25.       The number of loans made increased from 2,206 in 1966/67 to 6,486
in 1967/68 and 15,135 in 1968/69. Loans for minor irrigation have represented
about 72% of total loans made over this period, while farm machinery loans
amounted to 25%, the balance being for land reclamation, farm buildings,
and other purposes. LMB has made loans for 3,500 tractors during the last
two years (Appendix 4-1).
E. Overall Operational Results
26.       Although LAB has relatively small administrative expenses compared
with those of the Primaries (in 1968/69 LMB's expenses other than interest
payable and debenture issue expenses amounted to Rs .4 million compared with
Rs 1.6 million for the combined Primaries) its slim interest margin has
resulted in small profits and in 1968/69, these indicated a decline in
relation to average funds employed. The following table shcows LMB expendi-
tures and profits over the last three years in total amounts and as ex-
pressed as a percentage of average funds employed.
1966/67            1967/68             1968/69
Average Funds
Employed
Rs 56.2 million    Rs 82.1 million   Rs 172.3 million
% of                % of                X of
Rs.M   av. funds   Rs.M   av. funds  Rs.M    av. funds
Exnenditures
Interest           1.5      2.7        3.5       4.3      8.1         4.7
Other               .2        .3        .4         .5      .7          .4
Total              1.7      3.0        3.9       4.8      8.8         5.1
Profit                .2        .4        .4         .5      .5          .3
Total Income       1.9      3.4        4.3       5.3      9.3         5.4



ANNEX 4
Page 8
27.       As a result of small profits, LVB's dividends have been limited
to 2%o in 1966/67 and 3% in 1967/68 and 3% is also expected for 1968/69.
Transfer to reserves has also been small: as of June 30, 1969, these to-
talled about Rs 1.25 million.
28.       The profits of the Primary Banks vary in accordance with their
size and circumstances and in the extent of 1'4 dividend. Collectively,
lhowqever. their profits have been greater than those of 1MB (when measured
against the same outstanding loan portfolios) as is shown in the following
table (rs '000).
1966/67        1967/68        1968/69
MIIB Profits                 182             352            453
Total Primaries Profits    154               174            501
Tne need to strengthen LMB's finances is tlherefore emphasized.
29.       The loan collection record by both LMB and the Primaries has been
e.cellent, UTB recording no overdue repayments while only three of the Pri-
marv Bank's in 1968/69 recorded any default and in each case the amount in-
volved was negligible.
30.       Further details of LDAB's accounts are given at Appendices 2-2
and 2-4.  In addition Appendices 2-3 and 2-5 detail 12M's projected fi-
nancial position in the next three years. These are based on the follow-
ing assumptions:
(a)  an effective increase in interest paid by LIB on ARC
borrowings from 6 to 6-1/2% per annum.
(b) an increase in LMB lending rate to the Primary Banks of
from 6-1/2 to 7-3/4% per annum.
This would have the effect of increasing L1I's interest margin on ARC borrow-
iju-s from 1/2% to 1-1/4% per annum (and on all borrowings to nearly 1-1/2%o)
thus considerably strengthening LMB's finances.
31.       L'3's loan nortfolio has increased over the last three years
ne3rl" 5 times from Rs 44 million to Rs 191 million. As a result of
the project and other lending operations this growth will continue at
a ii lea Ievel during the next three years.  In each of the years 1970/71
and 1971/72, the number of loan transactions handled annually is likely
to  xceed 235,000 bringing the total number of LTM  loan accounts to about
1fe,00f0 and its loan portfolio to over Rs 700 million. In addition, the
numUer of Primary Banks is lilkely to increase over the period from 29 to
37.  Hitherto, the financial procedures and accounting systems of lYE and
the Prinmaries have been adequate to meet the increased volume of operations.



ANNEX 4
Page 9
Future demands, however, will be considerable and to ensure that the large
volume of business can be handled in an efficient manner it is advisable
that LIMB and the Primaries should, with professional advice, review as soon
as possible their financial procedures and accounting systems and carry out
such changes as may be necessary. At the present time the accounts of LMB
and the Primaries are audited by an independent auditor from the Punjab
Cooperative Department.






INDIA
PUNJkB AGRICULTC1-U-?L CRIEDIT PIWJfC'T
PUNiJAB OOOPZIRATITV  LAiD 110'LtGAG.L BALNK LTD.
P?htIIRY B'IK S2' COMNrBT  _OPEtJTIO:J ,
1966/6,7               1967/68                1968/69
U-rnbei of Pir_arn Banks                                           25                      28 29
A Class                                                           41:enbe zsm  8,L4  32,0C,                 63,149
3hhare CaDltal (Ps '000)                                        4,967                  '7,862                15,350
Shar2  Capital Inves bed in ULB (Rs '000)                       2.552                  4,507                  9,860
IJTumber of Loans Advanced                                      2,7C6                  6,4&6                 15,205
hmount of Loans Advanced (Lts '000)                            15,839                 44,652                120,945
AILverage Size of Loan (Rs)                                     5,853                  6,486                  7,954
NIumber of Loans Outstanding at Year-end                        (NA)                  16,273                 31,405
Amount of Loans Outstanding at Year-end (Rs '000)              43,719                 84,329                195,564
Repayr,;ents Due (Rs '000)                                      5,355                  7,747                 14,106
Repayments Collected (Rs '000)                                  5,834                  7,724                 14,083
Appnlicat,ion of Loans                                       K:Zs I 000 (%)                                 Rs ' 000 (I '000 (5H)
Land Purchase and Mortgage Redemption                           l,94h0 12)              2,0337                1,569 (lt    >
Purchase of Tractors                                            6,909 (44)            20,089 (45)            30,632 (25)
Irrigation                                                      6.671 (42)             22,087 (49)           86,616 (71)   z
Cattle Sheds and Go-downs                                         272 (2)                 348 (1)               761 (1)    '.
Land Levelling                                                     18 (n)                  40 (n)             1,322 (2)    x
Other                                                              28 (n)                 255 (1)                 45 (n)
Total                                                          15,838 (100)           44,852 (100)          120,945 (100)  '-
n = negligible
April 13, 1970



INDIA
PUNJAB AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
THE PUNJAB STATE COOPERAT IVE LAND I11RTGAGE BAIIK, LTD.
CONDENSED STATEIANTS OF NET INCOME
For years ended June 30
1965 / 66          1/         1966/ 67                       1967 / 68                       1968 / 69 2L/
%  of                         %  of                          %  of                           %  of
Rs '000    Total Income       Rs '000    Total Income        Rs '000    Total Income         Rs '000    Total Income
I N C O M E
Interest and Fees                                   2,404           96.9           1,786           96.2           4,200           97.7            9,134           98.2
Comaission, Brokerage and Discount                      47           1.9               52           2.8               70            1.6             143            1.5
Rents Received                                          21             .9              14             .7              21             .5              20             .2
Dividends Received                                       8             .3               4             .3               6             .2               6             .1
Total Income                              2,480          100.0           1,856          100.0           4,297          100.0           9,303          100.0
E X P E N S S S
Interest on Money Borrowed                          1,901           76.7           1,505           81.1           3,524           82.0            8,108           87.2
Salaries and Allomaences                               181            7.3              64           3.4              155            3.6             285            3.1
Depreciation of Assets                                  26            1.1              22            1.2              36             .8              36              4
Brokerage and Underwriting Commission                   26            1.1              52            2.8             124            2.9             264            2.8
Other Expenses                                          28            1.0              31            1.7             106            2.5             157            1.7
Total Expenses                            2,162           87.2           1,674           90.2           3,945           91.8            8,850           95.2
Net Income                                             318           12.8             182            9.8             352            8.2             453            4.8
Note:  1/ Covering operations in Punjab and Haryana States
2/ Subject to audit
April 13. 1970



INDIA
PUNJAB AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
THE PUNJAB STATE COOPERATIVE LAND MRTGAGE BANK LTD.
PROJECTED STATEMENT OF NET INCOOE
1969/70                  1970/71    _               1971/72                   1972/73
% off                    % of                       %of 
Rs '000  Total Income    Is '000  Total Income    Rs '000  Total Income    Rs '000  Total Income
INOONE
Interest Earned on-
Project Loans                                     -          -          2,500       7.6           8,500       16.8         11,100       16.7
Other Loans and Deposits                     18,700       99.1         30,000       91.7         42,000       82.8         55,300       83.0
Commission, Brokerage, Discount                   150        0.9            175        0.7            200        0.4             200       0.3
Other Income                                        20       n               20        n                20       n                20       n
Total Income:                                18,870     100.0          32,695     100.0          50,720      100.0         66,620      100 0
EXPENSES
Interest Paid on-
Special Debentures (on amount of Project)         -          -          1,600        4.9          5,400       10.6           7,000      10.5
Other Borrowings and Debentures              16,300       86.4         26,600       81.3         37,500       73.9          48,ooo      72.1
Salaries and Allowances                           350        1.8            450        1.4             600       1.2             900       1.3
Depreciation of kssets                             40        0.2             50        0.2            100        0.2             200       0.3
Brokerage and Underw-iting Co-mission             350        1.8            450        1.4            600        1.2           1,000       1.5
Other Expenses                                     200       1.1            400        L.2             300       1.2           1,000        1.5
Total Expenses:                              17,240       91.3         29,550       90.4    __448.L0          88.3          58,100       87.2
Net Income:                                     1,630        8.7           3,145       9.6           5,920      11.7           8,520       12.8
Note:  n = Negligible
Assumptions - interest receivable on Project Loans at 7 3/4% per annum
- interest receivable on non-Project Loans at 6 iA to June 30, 1970, thereafter at 7 3/4% per annum
- interest receivable on deposit investments at 5% per annum
- interest payable on Project AR.C debentures at 6 1A per annum
- interest payable on other ARC debentures at 6% per annum
- interest payable on other bor"owings at 5 3/ha% per annum
April 13, 1970



INDTA
PUNJAB AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
THE PUNJAB STATF COOPERATIVE LAND 4DRTOAGE BAAINK LTD.
CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS
June 30,1966 1/      June 30, 1967               June 30, 1968                June 30, 1969 2/
Change From                  Change From                  Change From
Previous Date                Previous Date                Previous Date
Rs '000        Rs '000       Rs '000        Rs '000       Rs '000        Rs '000        Rs ' 000
ASSETS
Cash on Hand and in Banks                      2,861          1,903         (958)          7,912         6,oog           14,348         6,436
Investments                                    7,748          8,840         1092          13,653         4,813           23,623         9,970
Loans                                         44,o14         43,719         (295)         82,905        39,186          191,137       108,232
Other Assets                                   1,465          1,854          389           3,409         1,555            7,585         4,176
Total Assets                      56,o88         96,316          228         107,879        51,563          236,693       128,8114
LIABILITIES & EQUITT CAPITAL
Debentures                                   46,782          49,331        2, 549         89,435         40,104        201,991       112,556
Bank Overdrafts                                 -              -             -             7,326          7,326         14,716         7,390
Advances and Deposits Pyable                    585             221          (364)           897            676          2,079         1,182
Other Liabilities                             2.298           1,010       (1.288)          1,571            561          2,820         1.249
Total Liabilities                 49,665          50,562          897          99,229         48,667        221,606       122,377
Capital Equityt
Paid-up Share Capital                      5,021           4,366          (655)          7,021         2,655         13,374         6,353
Reserves and Net Income                    1.402           1,388          ( 14)          1,629           241          1,713             84
Total Capital                    6,423           5,754          (669)         8,650          2,896         15,087         6,437
Total Liabilities &
Capital Equity                  56,088          56,316          228         107.879         51!563        236,693       128J814
Note: 1/ Covering operations in Punjab and Haryana States
2/ Subject to audit
Anril 13, 1970



IND IA
PUNJAB AG.OICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
THE PUNJAB STATE COOPERATIVE LAND MORTGAGE BANK LTD.
PROJECTED B3ALANCE SHFETS
June 30, 1969 -       June 30, 1970            June 30, 1971            June 30, 1972             June 30, 1973
Change from             Change from               Change from              Change from
Previous Date            Previous Date            Previous Date            Previous Date
Rs '000          Rs '000    Rs '000       Rs '000    Rs '000       Rs '000    Rs '000       Rs '000    Rs '000
ASSETS
Cash on Hand and in Banks                   14,348             7,400      (6,948)      12,000      4,600        16 000      4,,00        18,000       2,000
Investments                                 23,623            50,623     27,000       100,000     49,377       158,000     58,000       218,600      60,600
Loans:  Project 21                                -                -           -       65,600     65;600       154,600      89,000      131,200    (23,400)
Others                             191,137           325,ooo    133,863       450,000    125,000       550,000    100,000       700,000    150,000
Other Assets                                 7,585             9,000      1,L15        11,000       2,000       20,000       9,000        23,000      3,000
Total Assets:                            236,693           392,023    155.330       638,600    246,577       898,600    260,000    1,090,800    192,200
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
Long-term Borrovings:
Special Debentures (Project)(ARC)               -                -           -       49,200      49,200      116,ooo      66,800        98,400    (17,600)
Other Borrowings and Debentures          201,991           351,000    149,009       551,o00    200,400       730,400    179,000        924,000    193,600
Advances and Overdrafts Payable             16,795            13,000      (3,75)       4,000      (9,000)       2,000      (2,000)        2,000           -
Other Liabilities                            2,820             5,973       3,153        3,605      (2,368)       2,285      (1,320)        2,935         650
Total Liabilities:                       221,606           365,;73    148,367       608,205    238,232       850,685    242,480    1,027,335    176,650
Equity:
Paid-up Share Capital                     1j,374            L),50(i     6,126        26,000       6,500       40,000      14,000        50,000     10,000
Reserves:
At Beginning of Year                          -            1,700           -        2,550           -        4,395           -         7,915           -
Project Net Income                           -             1,630           -        3,145           -        5,920           -         8,520           -
Total Available                               -            3,330           -        5,695           -       10,315 5/        -        16,465  /-
Dividends Paid                                -              780 3                  1,300 -         -        2,400 -         -         3,000 -
At End of Year                           1,713             2,550         837        4,395       1,845         7,915      3,520        13,465       5,550
Total Equity:                              15,087           22,0,0       6,63         30,395      8,345        47,915     17,520        63,465      15,55
Total Liabilities and Equity              236,693          392,023    155,330       6A8,66o      46,577       8?8,600    260,000    1,090,800    192,200
-/6% Dividend
Notes:  1/ Subject to Audit
2/ 80% of Project Lending
31 4S Dividend
17/ 5% Dividend
/ 6% Dividend
April 13, 1970






ANNEX 5
PUNJAB AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PRDJ1CT
COWILtRCIAL BALKS OPERATING IN PUNJAB
(As of November 1969)
Nationalised Banks:
Allahabad Bank
Bank of' Baroda
Bank of India
Central Bank of India
Dena Bank
Indian Overseas Bank
Punjab National Bank
3tate 3ank of India
State Bank of Patiala
United Commercial Bank
Union Bank of India
3anks with Private Cwnershi-o:
Chartered Bank Ltd.
Hiindus tan Commercial Bank Ltd.
Laxmi Commercial Bank Ltd.
National Bank of Lahore Ltd.
National & Grindlays Bank Ltd.
Oriental Bank of Commerce Ltd.
i>mnjab and Sind Bank Ltd.
iunjab Cooperative Bank Ltd.
Sahukara Bank Ltd.
The New Bank of Inuia Ltd.
NoLe:  2ADart irom  Sahukara Bank Ltd., all of the above
banks are schediled.  Schoduied banks are those
which are incl-hded in the Second Schedule to the
iReserve Bank of India Act 1935. They have paid-
up capital and reserves of at least Rs .5 mil-
lion and are entitled to certain borrowing facil-
irGies f'rom the Aeserve Bank of India.
Anril 13. 1970






PUNIJAB AGRICUL.TURAL CREDIT PREJECT
DETAIIS OP ESTIM4ATED P1MJZCT COST
Fi rsat  T e ar                        Secod  YearTo.tal    Project
Total                                  Total                                   Aver-go      Total
Unite       Coot                       Reics       Cent                         Unite       Unit Cost  Coot
Re '000                                Rn '000                                 Re           Re '000
C.  INVESII4ENT PI1GRAM                                                                                                                              l/
l/
Troctore (41.-50 bp r. ge)                      bOO       21,630                     1,200       O2,41.oo                     2 ,000      26,000T       55,000
sob-total                               3,200       70,030O                     4,800      107,000                       8 , ')G       -         195,000
Standard Inplertente                         9,600        28,320                    31.,100      1.2.48o                     24.,0100                   70,800
RHrveting Manhiner                                                                                                                               3/
self-propelled combines                       16        2,240                        121.       3,360                          1.0    14.0 0.003      5,600
t-acior-drawen cmabines                        80     ....2flDQ                       20       1LQ0                           200      25,000 -
Total Ineestant Pregre                                 _1Q56                                    165,84.0                                              276,1,00
TT.  SPARE PARTS
Tr-tereV                                       -ai.sn      9,4.00                    vartoue    o1.,100                        r2ren          -00~O
Icmported Rare-eieg Macbinery5                -sio..         330                     caroo          1.50                      cartonsw                     750
Total Spar  Parts                                          9,710                                  T4,55o                                               24.,2LD
TOTAL PESJECT TORT                                       1200260                                LO0.390                                               300,65o
Note 1.    Tractor cost aesoeptions are an fe11ese (in Ruone.):                            31-1.0 hp               Li5hp
cAf Indian Port                                   19l,000,
Continge_clee at 5%                                   5145                  1 075
20% dintribotio  cet loot. 3% Soles Toe                6~9_                 41
say  s350                ay 370
2.  For breok-don se  Ano.-  - P.
Troctor-O)rc                                  Tr-ctor-Dre
3.  RHro-nticg Macbiner.y cost assumptions ore as follow,s (In  Isp-e).                                        5..  otbn                    obines (inported)                             Cnbines (lanal)
For T-actor-dr-a  cebinen c-ti  -tioates.nfIda   ot10001,2                                                                                                   c   aeatrr1,0
arc-   5fc%  -p-rted ood 10  local1y pencor's.Td.P-                                                         0,')                             8"y)        ~          ufcuerl,
Contiegcniee cc 9%9,0                                                755          Cotiongncies at 10%           1 900
PO% distribotion coeto           31 500                           5 625           20% dintribotien ooet           180
noy   110,000                  soy   29,000                                 coy     200
1.   ololood  t  bocs 15. 1 of s   cogt.
Col1-1ictrd ct IU  of cif cot 0,     irctc(ies
Moy 2i,l~70



INDIA
PUNJAB AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
IMPLEMENT ODSTS
31  - 40  HORSEP.OWER  TRACTOR                    41  - 50  HRRSERPWER TRACTuR                         TOTAL
UMIT                          TIOTAL               UJNIT                        I-fFT-AL     AL3GR!2GATE  IMPORTED COflFOUZU
NUMBER  PRICE  CONTINGENCIES  COST  COST          NUMBER  PRICE   MNDNTINGENCIES   COST  COST        COST        (%) FE    (Rs M)
NUMBER    I T E M                                  (1s    TOa TT-7   (,'s)  (-0s M)                    (R)s    (10%)    TRs    (Rs)  (Rs M)        (Rs M)
3,000     Mouldboard Plows                 2,000   2,100       210          2,310   4.6       1,000    2,600         260       2,860    2.9         7.5        25         1.9
2,000     Disc Plows                       1,500   2,300       230         2,530   3.8          500   3,500          350       3,850    1.9         5.7        40         2.3
5,000     Disc Harrows                     3,500   P,250       225         2,475   8.7        1,500    3,250         325       3,575    5.4        14.1        4O         5.6
6,000     Cultivators                      5,000   1,750       175         1,925   9.6        1,000    2,250         225       2,475    2.5        12.1         -           -
l,000     Trailers                         3,000   5,250       525          5,775  17.3       1,000    6,250         625       6,875    6.9        24.2         -          -
3,500     Seed-Cuw-Fertilizer-Drills       2,700   1,500       150         1,650   ,. 5         800    1,750         175       1,925    1.5         6.o         -          -
500     Sprayers                           300   2,000       200         2,200   0.6          200    2,500         250       2,750    0.6         1.2         -          -
7LI,000    TOTAL                           18.000                                   2.1         6000                                   -   7        707_
May 25, 1970



ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDIA
PUNJAB AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
TRACTOR PROCUREMENT
1.        The Project now proposed would be the second of six agricultural
credit projects which IDA is at present considering. As in the case of the
Gujarat Credit Project which it follows, this and subsequent projects in the
series would involve substantial tractor imports. Accordingly, in con-
sideration of the Gujarat Project, careful attention was given to the method
of tractor procurement. The formula outlined below for Punjab thus substan-
tially follows that recommended for Gujarat.
2.        Farmers' purchases through existing dealerships would not be
feasible as the necessary competition between dealerships could only be
obtained by liberalizing import licensing to enable large scale tractor
imports. In view of India's shortage of foreign exchange this would be
inappropriate. Normal international competitive bidding could only be
organized through State entities. This would tend towards a Government
tractor distribution monopoly and further weaken existing dealership chan-
nels and it would not take farmers' choice into account.
3.        A compromise formula has been worked out with the Government of
India (GOI), details of which would be as follows: -
(a)  GOI would establish a central committee (hereinafter refer-
red to as the Committee) for the purpose of directing the
procurement of goods under the Project. The Committee
would consist of representatives of GOI (one of whom would
be chairman), the Government of Punjab and the Agricultural
Refinance Corporation (ARC). Under the Committee's direc-
tions, Punjab Agro-Industries Corporation (PAIC) would or-
ganize the procurement of goods under the Project in ac-
cordance with the following procedures.
(b) On the basis of about 4,000 tractors required per annum for
a total of about 8,000 tractors under the Project, PAIC
would obtain quotations on unit prices at varying quantities
from suppliers in IDA member countries currently authorized
to manufacture tractors in India. These are Eicher (Federal
Republic of Germany), International Harvester (USA) and
Massey-Ferguson (UK) with plants in production and Deutz
(Federal Republic of Germany) and Ford (USA) with plans for
manufacture approved by GOI. Further companies may be added
to the list; GOI is currently considering four additional
proposals. Quotations would be sought by public invitation
and the form and substance of the bid requests would be sub-
ject to IDA concurrence.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
(c) PAIC would require all suppliers submitting quotations to
give full particulars as to proposed pre-sales and after-
sales service arrangements, including provision for spare
parts equal to 15% of the CIF price of tractors supplied
(estimated requirement for first two years of the life of
a tractor). Any supplier not providing satisfactory as-
surance as to service arrangements would be disqualified
by the Committee.
(d)  PAIC would advertise through the Punjab State Cooperative
Land Mortgage Bank (LMB) and the participating commercial
banks, the quoted prices and service arrangements offered
by the different suppliers.  Farmers would be required to
state to the Primary Bank of LMB or the participating com-
mercial bank their first and second choice of tractor
which they would be willing to buy and at the same time
make application for a loan.
(e) Farmers' tractor preferences would be sent to PAIC which
would aggregate the orders received according to first
tractor choices. If the aggregate orders for the parti-
cular model came to below the minimum acceptable order
for that manufacturer at the unit prices quoted for vary-
ing quantities, PAIC would discard the first choice for
those farmers and proceed on the basis of second or other
choices as agreed to by IDA. After approval by the Com-
mittee, PAIC would send to IDA its analysis of bids and
its recommendations before orders are placed.
(f) PAIC would then place orders with the selected suppliers at
the unit prices quoted for the size of order placed. PAIC
would also enter into contracts with the selected suppliers
which would specify service arrangements and performance as-
surances including the supply of spare parts. Agents repre-
senting suppliers would be required to seel post-warranty
service.
(g) PAIC would arrange for the importation, insurance and trans-
portation to Punjab of tractors. Subsequently, PAIC would
arrange for the distribution of tractors to agents designated
by the suppliers who would perform pre-sales services and sell
the tractors to farmers whose loan applications has been ap-
proved.
(h) Suppliers would be required to maintain stocks of spare parts
by a designated representative in a central store to be re-
leased through agents for tractors imported under the Project.
4.        It is expected tha  the above procurement method and procedures
would take account of individual preferences and tend to lower prices while
strengthening the services provided by manufacturers approved agents which
is considered essential to the Project.



ANNEX 8
INDIA
PUJNJAB AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
PRESENT AND PROPOSED INTEREST RATES
FOR PROJECT FINANCING
The following table gives the present (in brackets) and proposed
interest rates and margins for Project institutions:
Lending Rate          Margin           Margin Increase
ARC                   (6%)     61%       (1a)  1-3/h% 1/           91
LMB 2                 (60%)  7-3/4%        (;t)   11N 3           3/4%
Primary Banks       (7-3/h%)   9%        (11v)   11'            Nil
Notes:  1/  assumes ARC borrowing rate of 4-3/h% per annum.
2/ participating commercial banks would also receive funds from
ARC at an interest rate 61s per annum and would lend direct to
ultimate borrowers at 9% giving them a margin of 21A per
annum.
3/ if LMB borrowings from sources other than ARC included this
margin would be nearly 1) per annum.
May 25, 1970






I N D I A
PUNJAB AGRICULTURAL SR2DIT PROJECT
YIELD, OOST AND PRICE ASSUMPTIONS
Yield                   Cost                                                                    P r i c e
Full                    Full                                                                      World Market
Before  Development     Before  Development                                                  Present  - 10%      1975
kg/ha      kg/ha        Rs/ha      Rs/ha                                                      Rs/kg   Rs/kg      Rs/kg
Model I (20 ha; South-West Punjab; Irrigated; Investment: 50 HP Tractor & Implements)
Bajra                       3,000     3,300           865        900                                      full            0.52    0.147      0.146
Maize                       3,000     3,300          1,040     1,100                          Before  Development         0.52    0.47       0.47
Seed Cotton (american)      1,200     1,500           660        730                                                      1.60    1.44       1.60
Seed Cottan (desi)            800     1,000            530       600        Irrigation Cost    1,920      2,880           1.20    1.08       1.20
Wheat                       3,000     3,600            720       800        Bullocks Cost       9,600     2,1400          0.75    0.67       0.49
Barley                      1,400     1,500            620       620        Tractor Cost           --    10,825           0.50    0.45       0.40
Pulses                        900       900            330       330                                                      0.93    0.84       0.93
Model II (15 ha; South-West Punjab; Irrigated; Investment:  35 RP Tractor & Implements)
Full
Maize                       3,000     3,300          1,0140    1,100                           Before  Developuient       0.52    0.147      0.46
Groundnut                   1,200     1,300            570       600                                                       0.90    0.81      0.56
Sugar Cane (Gur)            5,000     5,000          2,400     2,1400       Irrigation Cost   1,536       2,208           1.00    0.90       1.00
Wheat                       3,000     3,600            720       800        Bullocks Cost       7,200     2,400            0.75    o.67      0.49
Pulses                        900       900            330       330        Tractor Cost           --     8,505           0.93    0.84       0.93
Model III (15 ha; North-West Region -- Gurdaspur, Amritsar, Karourthala, Jullandur & Hoshiapur District)
Full
Rice                        2,500     2,600          1,060     1,100                           Before  Development         o.6o    0.514     0.90
Maize                       3,000      3,300         1,040     1,100                                                       0.52    o.47       0.46
Groundnut                   1,200     1,300            570       600        Irrigation Cost    1,536      2,208            0.90    O.B1      0.56
Sugar Cane (Gur)            5,000     5,000          2,400     2,1400       Bullocks Cost       7,200     2,400            1.00    0.90      1.00
Tractor Cost          --      8,505
April 13, 1970






T N D I A
PUNJAB AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PFRJECT
FARM MODELS (IUNDER PRFENIT PRICE ASSTUMPTION)
Gross                                            Net Value
A r e a             Production  Value             C o a t s               of Production          Incremental
Full                     Full                      Full                       Full          Net Value of
Before  Develooment-    Before  Development        Before  Development       Before  Development         Production
(ha)      (ha)            (Rs)      (RB)           (R.)       (R)            (Rs)       (Rs)               (Rs)
Model I (Farm Size:  20 ha - Irrigated; South West Region - Ferozepur, Bhatinda & Sangrur District)
Kharif Crops:
Bajra                                        2         b             3,120      6,864         1,730       3,600         1,390       3,26)4            1,874
Maize                                        2          2            3,120      3,432         2,080       2,200         1,040       1,232               192
Cotton (american)                            2          4           3,840       9,600         1,320       2,920         2,520       6,680             h,160
Cotton (desi)                                2          4           1,920       4,800         1,060       2,400            860      2,400             1,540
Other Cropa incl. Fodder 2/                  4          3               --          --            --          --             -          __                __
Sub-total .........................12            17           12,000      21,696         6,190      11,120         5,810      13,576             7,766
Rabi Crops:
Wheat                                        8         10           18,000     27,000          5,760      8,000        12,21,0      19,000            6,760
Barley                                       2         2            1,400       1,500         1,240       1,240            160         260              100
Pulses                                       2         b            1,674       3,3148          660       1,320         1,014       2,028             1,014
Other NHoae uae Crops                        4          3               _           __            __          __            __          __               _
Sub-total ...... ..,..... 16                     19           21,074      31,848         7,660      10,560        13,414      21,288             7,874
Total .....                           28         36           33,074      56,544        13,850      21,680        19,224      34,864          +15,660
Crooping Intensity                           1140       180                  Irrigation:         I,92A2/       ,88g        -1,920      -2,880             -960
Bullocks:           9,600_      2,14002      -9,600      -2,400            +7,200
Tractor'               --      10,8256/                 -10,825           -10,825
Grand Total .25,370  37,785   7,70h  18,759    11,055
Net Tncome Custom Work:-/          1,009
Investment:  One 50 HP tractor Rs 28,o8n
Implements    10,850                                                                                                                  12,055
3L,930
Sale of 2 pairs of
bullocks at
Rs 750 each          2,250
Rs 32 ,680
1/  Tear 14 after investment and later (yr. 3   90%; yr. 2 = 80%: yr. 1    70w).
2/ 70 HP at Rs 8 per month for electricity.
TI 30 HP at Rs 8 per month for electricity.
T/  4 pairs at Rs 2,400.
/ 1 pair at Rs ?,14Yn.
At Rs 10.8/h.
7/ Cost for bullock-fodder are listed under "Bullock".
8/  200  hours per year at rate Rs 16/h.
April 13_, 1l70



Oross                                               Net Value
A r e a              Production  Vilue               C o s t s                of Production           Incremental
Full    1/                 Full                       Full                       Full           Net Value of
Before  Development-    Before  Develooment           Before  Develooment        Before  Development          Production
(h,)       (ha)            (R9)       (Rq)            (Rs)       (Rs)            (as)        (Rs)               (Rs)
Model II (Farm Size:  15 ha - Irrigated;  South East Region - Ludhiana, Patiala & Rupar District)
Kharif Crops:
Maize                                          4          5             6,240       8,580          b,160       5,500          2,080        3,080             1,000
Groundnut                                      3          4             3,240       4,680          1,710       2,400          1,530        2,280               750
Sugar Cane (in terms of GUR)                   1          1             5,000       5,000          2,o00       2,L400         2,600        2,600                --
Other home use Crops incl. Fodder 7/           2          1                             --            --           --             --          --                --
Sub-total ..........,,.,.10                        11            14,180      18,260          8,270      10,300          6,210        7,960             1,750
Rabi Crops:
Wheat                                          5         10            11,250      27,00           3,60o       8,000          7,650       19,000            11,35o
Pulses                                         7          2             1,67h       1,67)4           660          660         1,014        1,0TL
Sugar Cmme (annual crop)                       1          1                _-           __            __           __             __          __                 __
Other home use Crops incl. Fodder              2          1                       --           --            --           --            --                       --
Sub-total .     .    . . .......  10               14            12,924      28,674           4,260       8,660          8,664      20,01T            11,350
Total .............................                25            27,404  4 6,934            12,530       18,960        14,874       27,97h            13,100
Cropping Intensity                              127        160                   Irrigation:          1 536 2/   2,208 3/    -1,536          -2,208               -672
Bullocks:            7,200 b/   2,400 5/    -7,200          -2,4            +4,800
Tractor:                --        8,505 {/          --      -8,505            -8,505
Grand Total                                     . . . . .    21,266  32,073    6,138  14,861                                                            8,723
Investment:  One 35 HP tractor  Rs 21,168                                                                                      Net Income Custom Work:8/            2,000
lmplements        B,180
'                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10,723
PQ,3)48
Sale of 2 pairs of
bullocks               1,500
Rs 27,848
V/  Tear h after investment and later (yr. 3 - 90%; yr. 2   80%  yr. 1 - 70%).
2/ 16 HP at Rs 8 per month.
'/ 23 HP at Rs 8 per month.
:/ 3 pairs at Rs 2.400.
/  1 pair at Rs ?,400.
9/  at Rs 8.5/h.
7/ Cost for bullock-fodder listed under "bullocks".
0/ 1400 hours per year at rate Rs 13.5/h.
April 13, 1970



Gross                                            Net Value
A r e a             Production  Value             C o s t s               of Production         Incremental
Full                     Full                      Full                      Full          Net Value of
Before  Develoomenti/   Before  Development        Before  Development       Before  Development        Production
(ha)      (ha)           (Rs)       (Rs)           (Rs)       (Rs)           (Rs)       (Rs)              (Rs)
Model III (Faru Size:  15 ha - Irrixated; North West Region - Gurdaspur, Amritsar, Karpurthala, Jullandur & Hoshiapur District)
Kharif Crops:
Rice                                        3          4            4,500       6,240         3,180       4,4OO         1,320       1,840              520
Maize                                       3          4            4,680       6,864         3,120       4,L400        1,560       2,464              904
Groundnut                                   1          1            1,080       1,170           570         600           510         570               60
Sugar Cane (in terms of GUR)                1          1            5,000       5,000         2,400       2,400         2,600       2,600               --
Other hone use Crops incl. Fodder 7/        2          1               --          --            --          --            -
Sub-total ......................... 10           11           15,260     19,27h         9,270      11,800         5,990       7,474             1,484
Rabi Crops:
Wheat                                        7        12           15,750      32,400         5,040       9,600        10,710      22,800           12,090
Sugar Cane (annual)                         1          1               --          --            --          --            --          --                --
Other home use Crops incl. Fodder            9         1               --          --            --          --            --          --                --
Sub-total .10                                    14           15,750     32,400          5,040      9,600        10,710      22,800            12,090
Total .20                                        25           31,010     51,674        14,310      21,h00        16,700      30,274            13,574
Cropping Intensity                           127        160                  Irrigation:         1,536 21   7,208 31    -1,536        -2,208              -672
Bullocks:           7,200 -    2,400 7,    -7,200        -2,400            +4,800
Tractor:               --       8,505_-          --      -8,505            -8,505
Grand Total .23,046  34,513   7,964  17,161                                                                                                     9,197    1
Inveslment:  One 35 HP tractor   Rs 21,168                                                                              Net Income Custom Work:             2,000
Implements        8,180
79,348                                                                                                              11,197
Sale of 2 pairs of
bullocks               1,500
Rs 27,8o48
1/  Year 4 after investment and later (yr. 3 = 90%; yrs. 2 = 80%; yrs. 1 = 70%).
2/ 16 HP at Rs 8 per month.
3/ 23 HP at Rs 8 per month.
I/  3 pairs at Rs 2,400.
1 pair at Rs 2,400.
At Rs 8.5/hour.
7/ Cost for bullock-fodder listed under "bullocks".
F/ 400 hours per year at Rs 13.5/hour.
April 13, 1970






Appendix 9 - 3
I N D I A
P!NJAB AaRIULT5g   CRKDIT PROJICT
FINANCIAL  RATE  OF  RETURN  TO  THE  NTERPRISE
(in Re)
Year ............  1              2            3            4            5            6            7
Model I (Farm Size:  20 ha - Irrigated; South West Region - Ferozepur, Bhatinda & Sangrur District)
Incremental Sales                 14,933       18,613       20,950       23,797       24,470       24,170       33,379 -
Incremental Expenses              12 415       12,415       12,415       12,415 1     1?,h1        1?,ll5       1', !.1
Net Value                          2,518          1                       1,382       1?,' '       l2,^5        ?1,L55
Capital Investment                3?,661 2/                     --           --                        -
Net Incremental Flow             (30 143)       6,198       8.$53        11,382       12,055       12,055       71,4S5
Financial Rate of Return - Present prices:  26%
10% price decline by 1975- 24%
10% orice decline by 1975 and world mprket prices thereafter:  22%
Model II (Farm Size:  15 ha - Irrigated; South East Regioa - Ludhiana, Pattala & Rupar District)
Incremental Sales                 13,239       16,648       18,601       20,554       21,S3-       21,53         7r)S3I
Incremental Expenses              10,807       10,807       10,807       10,807       10,807       l0,807      1,807
Net Value                          2,432        5,841        7,794        9,747       10,723       10,723       18,723
Capital Investment                28,626 3/         ---                      --           --           --           --
Net Incremental Flow             (26,19h)       8,811        7,794        9,747       10,723       10,723       18,723
Financial Rate of Return - Present prices:   27%
10% price decline by 1975:  25%
10% nrice decline by 1975 and woild market orices thereafter: 21%
Model III (Farm Size:  15 ha - Irrigated;  North-West Region - Gurdaspur, Amritsar, Karpurthala, Jullandur
& Hoshiapur Distri Kt)
Incremental Sales                 14,171       17,704       19,565       21,631       22,66h       72,664       30,66)h
Incremental Expenses              11,467       11,467       11,467       11,467       11,467       11,467       11,ll67
Net Value                          2,704                     8,098       10,164       11,197       11,197       19,197
Canital Investment                28,6263./        --            --          --                        --           --
Net Incremental Flow             (25,922)       6,237        8,098       10,164       11,197       11,197       19,197
Financial Rate of Return - Present prices:  29%
10% price decline by 1975:  27%
10% price decline by 1975 and world market orices thereafter: 23%
1/ Includes salvage value: Tractor 20%; Implements 40%.
2/ Sale of 3 pairs of bullocks subtracted (Rs 2,250).
3/ Sale of 2 pairs of bullocks subtracted (Rs 1,500).
May 25, 1970






ANNEX 10
I N D I A
PUNJAB AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
(Rs Million)
Incremental Net Value of Production
Year             Investment  /               under Three Assumptions 2/
(a)         (b .          c)
1                116.o (a)               1-.2        16.2         16.2
2                173.3 (b)               47.2        45.8          5.8
3                   -                    64.o        59.3         59.3
4                   -                    80.1        69.8         69.8
5                   -                    90.9        72.7         72.7
6                   -                    90.9         72.7        49.1
7                   -                   154.2       136.0        112.5
Rate of Return         23%          17%         14%
1/  a)  40% of total investment assumed.
b) 60% of total investment assumed.
2/  a)  Under present price rate.
b) Assuming a 10% price decline by 1975.
c) Assuming a 10% price decline by 1975 and World Market Prices
thereafter.
Note:  This table excludes the investment costs and benefits of harvesting
machinery.
May 25. 1970






74-     ~INDIA             ,       Jammu &  KasSmir/              2X           1eIFGtNKrA# w       "Z71=4.
PUNJAB STATE                  > \                                /2           -S  g                      H
AGRiCULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT                        \ , ,                                   PAXISSTAN,                     f.
---Slaterctol boundaries                           fi?i sRfhr>-atrdtSf  $m}
---ltitboundaries                                                                                  oi (W    "      >K it^Z\
$ tote capitazfl \ ,'* iUM
O toJ  tO          30    40                                            I  kxehLohrl ,,{fs2 
_12.  ULLE I8 /1                                       GRIDASPUR  i                                        ,^_,7 
M  .iLESf                                                                \3t   >pldh<Sye
W E S T            <                                 r                                               tAEYL4N
,@;LeFra  91     AMRITSAR           0S/         n\HOSHIARPUR                Hm c lPrds
,^,   t3FEROZPORE                 )                  LUDIANARTHAL 
0                                                     /                  PARL    DAbl
of             |           ~~~~~~SANGRUR           /              5 
,i)                 _~~~~u  3 ~~BHATINDA\ -                                          t       S 
R a a shn o n~<                                                                          Haryana
74                      l_'                                                         76
MARCH 1970                                                                                                              IB RD -2 87 3



