CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 203 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Punjab Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 24, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 203 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Punjab Agricultural Credit Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 24, 1970


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 24, 1970, between INDIA, acting by its
President  (hereinafter  called  the   Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of a project consisting of a two-year lending program for on-farm
investments in agricultural equipment in the State of Punjab;
(B)   By an agreement of even date herewith between the Association of
the one part and the Agricultural Refinance Corporation, the Punjab State
Co-operative Land Mortgage Bank Ltd. and The Punjab Agro-Industries Corporation
Ltd. of the other part, certain obligations in respect of the carrying out of said
project have been undertaken by the Agricultural Refinance Corporation, the Punjab
State Co-operative Land Mortgage Bank Ltd. and The Punjab Agro-Industries
Corporation Ltd., respectively; and
(C)   The Association, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing, has agreed
to make a development credit to the Borrower on the conditions hereinafter set
forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
(a)   Paragraph 5 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as follows:
"5. The term Borrower means India, acting by its President."


﻿4
(b)   The following paragraph is added to Section 2.01:
"13. The term Project Agreement has the meaning set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement"; and
(c)   The words, "the Project Agreement" are added after the words "the
Development Credit Agreement" in Section 6.06.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Development Credit Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions
have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
(a)   "Punjab" means The State of Punjab, a state of India, or any successor
thereof.
(b)   "ARC" means the Agricultural Refinance Corporation, a statutory
corporation established and organized under the laws of the Borrower.
(c)   "LMB" means the Punjab State Co-operative Land Mortgage Bank Ltd.,
a cooperative society established and organized under the laws of Punjab.
(d)   "PAIC" means The Punjab Agro-Industries Corporation Ltd., a
corporation established and organized under the laws of Punjab.
(e)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Association, ARC, LMB and PAIC, as the same may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Association, ARC, LMB and PAIC.
(f)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ARC pursuant to Section 4.02 (a) and Schedule 4 hereof
as the same may be amended from time to time with the approval of the
Association.
(g)   "Project Area" means the territory of Punjab.
(h)   "Agricultural Loan" means any loan to a Beneficiary for equipment
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(i)   "Beneficiary" means (i) any person or enterprise carrying out farm
custom work, or (ii) any farmer, group of farmers or cooperative farming society,
in the Project Area, which is eligible for receiving an Agricultural Loan.


﻿5
(j)   "Participating Bank" means any commercial bank, listed in the Second
Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1935, which extends an Agricultural
Loan.
(k)   "Primary Bank" means any Primary Land Mortgage Bank which is a
member of LMB and which extends an Agricultural Loan.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-seven million five hundred
thousand dollars ($27,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit Account on its books
in the name of the Borrower and shall credit to such Account the amount of
the Credit.
(b)   The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account
as provided in, and subject to the rights of cancellation and suspension set forth
in, this Development Credit Agreement and in accordance with the allocation of
the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such
allocation shall be modified from time to time by further agreement between the
Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from the Credit
Account in respect of the reasonable cost of goods or services required for the
Project and to be financed under this Development Credit Agreement:
(i)        such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Association
shall so agree, shall be required to meet payments to be made)
for goods or services included in Categories I, II and III of the
allocation of the proceeds of the Credit referred to in Section
2.02 of this Agreement; and
(ii)       such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Association
shall so agree, shall be required to meet payments to be made)
for the c.i.f. Indian port price of goods imported into, or the
ex-factory price of goods manufactured within, the territories
of the Borrower and included in Category IV of said allocation
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿6
Section 2.04. It is hereby agreed, pursuant to Section 5.01 of the General
Conditions, that no withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made:
(i)        under Categories I, II and III of the allocation of the proceeds
of the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement on
account of payments in the currency of the Borrower, or for
goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories of
the Borrower; or
(ii)       on account of payments for taxes imposed by the Borrower or
any of its political subdivisions on, or in connection with the
importation or supply of, goods or services included in Category
IV of said allocation of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.05. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February 15
and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
February 15   and  August 15   commencing    August 15, 1980  and   ending
February 15, 2020, each installment to and including the installment payable on
February 15, 1990 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such'principal
amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%)
of such principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of the Credit to be
applied, in accordance with the provisions of this Development Credit Agreement
to expenditures on the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.


﻿7
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, (i) the goods
and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured
in accordance with such procedures as are set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement
or such other procedures as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association, and (ii) contracts for the procurement of such goods and services shall
be subject to the prior approval of the Association.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be made available
exclusively under Agricultural Loans.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be carried out,
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
administrative, agricultural and financial practices, and shall provide, or cause to
be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b)   Without limitation or restriction upon any of the obligations of the
Borrower set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall take all
action including, in particular, without reconsideration of the eligibility of the items
for importation, the granting of all necessary licenses, foreign exchange permits
and other approvals required to ensure the prompt importation of the following:
(i) that part of the equipment listed in Schedule 3 to this Agreement that has
not been procured domestically pursuant to the procedures referred to in Section
3.02 of this Agreement as the same is required for the efficient carrying out of
the Project; (ii) spare parts for tractors and harvesters in amounts at least equal
to fifteen per cent (15%) and ten per cent (10%), respectively, of the c.i.f. price
of such equipment imported pursuant to subparagraph (i) hereof; and (iii) for a
period of five years commencing two years after the disbursement date in respect
of each consignment of tractors and harvesters under the Credit, spare parts for
such tractors and harvesters in an annual amount equal to ten per cent (10%)
of the c.i.f. price of tractors and harvesters imported pursuant to subparagraph
(i) hereof or such smaller amount as may from time to time be agreed to between
the Borrower and the Association.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
on terms and conditions (including inter alia those set forth in paragraph I of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement) satisfactory to the Association for the purpose of


﻿8
lending the equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit to ARC. ARC shall in turn
relend to LMB and the Participating Banks part of such proceeds in accordance
with the terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. The
Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association.
Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.
(b)   The operating policies and procedures for the carrying out of the
Project shall be as set forth in Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement and as the
same may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Association,
ARC, LMB and PAIC.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take all action which shall be necessary
on its part to enable ARC, LMB and PAIC to perform their obligations under
the Project Agreement and shall not take or permit any of its agencies to take
any action which would prevent or interfere with the performance of any such
obligations of ARC, LMB or PAIC.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully
to assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each
of them shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Project and the Credit. On the part of
the Borrower, such information shall include information with respect to financial
and economic conditions in the territoiies of the Borrower and the international
balance of payments position of the Borrower.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time exchange
views through their representatives with regard to matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit and the maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower shall
promptly inform the Association of any condition which interferes with, or
threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or
the maintenance of the service thereof.
(c)   The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for accredited
representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower
for purposes related to the Credit.
Section 4.05. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.


﻿9
Section 4.06. This Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes that shall be imposed Linder the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof.
Section 4.07. The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make satisfactory
arrangements for the insurance of, the imported goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit against marine, transit and other hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal, together with such charges, shall become due and payable immediately,
anything in this Development Credit Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)  A default shall have occurred in the performance of any obligation
of ARC, LMB or PAIC under the Project Agreement and such nonperformance
shall continue for a period of sixty days.
(b)  ARC, LMB or PAIC shall have been unable to pay its debts as they
mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by ARC, LMB or PAIC
or by others whereby any of the property of ARC, LMB or PAIC shall or may
be distributed among its creditors.
(c)  The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ARC, LMB or PAIC
or for the suspension of ARC's, LMB's or PAIC's operations.
Section 5.03. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified:


﻿10
An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that ARC, LMB or PAIC will be able to perform their respective
obligations under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of this Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
ARC, LMB and PAIC respectively have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate action.
(b)   The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and ARC respectively have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental and corporate
action.
(c)   LMB shall have appointed two agricultural economists in accordance
with Section 2.03 (b) of the Project Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, ARC, LMB and PAIC
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of ARC,
LMB and PAIC in accordance with its terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower
and ARC respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation
of the Borrower and ARC in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date of August 31, 1970 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. On termination of the Project Agreement in accordance with
its terms, the obligations of the Borrower with respect to the Project, shall forthwith
terminate.


﻿ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
Section 7.01. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1972 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 7.02. Any of a Secretary, Special Secretary or Joint Secretary to
the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower or the Director
of the Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower,
acting singly, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.03. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Alternative address for cables:
Ecofairs
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Development Credit


﻿12
Agreement to be signed in their respective names and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s / L. K. Jha
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / J. Burke Knapp Vice President


﻿*                                             13
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of Proceeds of Credit
Amounts Expressed
Category                                        in Dollar Equivalent
I.    Imported tractors and spare parts                     24,000,000
II.   Imported self-propelled harvesters
and spare parts                                           600,000
III.  Imported discs and plough bottoms                       1,200,000
IV.   Tractor-drawn harvesters and spare
parts                                                     500,000
V.    Unallocated                                             1,200,000
TOTAL         27,500,000
Reallocation Upon Change in Cost Estimates
1.   If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any of the Categories
I to IV shall decrease, the amount of the Credit then allocated to, and no
longer required for, such Category will be reallocated by the Association
to Category V.
2.    If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any of the Categories
I to IV shall increase, an amount equal to the portion, if any, of such increase
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit will be allocated by the
Association, at the request of the Borrower, to such Category from Category
V, subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined
by the Association, in respect of the cost of the items in the other Categories.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of a farm mechanization program in Punjab and consists
of a two-year program to finance investments in tractors and implements, harvesting
machinery, and spare parts.
Long-term loans will be made to Beneficiaries in the Project Area by Primary
Banks and Participating Banks. Such loans will, subject to the terms and conditions
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement and in the Project Agreement, be
refinanced as follows:
(i)        Agricultural Loans made by Primary Banks will be refinanced
by LMB;
(ii)       Such refinancing extended by LMB will be refinanced by ARC;
(iii)      Agricultural Loans made by Participating Banks will be
refinanced by ARC.
The procurement of equipment and spare parts on account of which
Agricultural Loans are made will be organized by PAIC.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 3
Equipment Required for the Project
1.    Tractors of not less than 30 hp.
2.    Tractor Implements: tillers, trailers, ridgers, terracers, seed drills,
seed-cum-fertilizer drills, disc-harrows and ploughs.
3.     Self-propelled and tractor-drawn harvesters.
4.     Tractor and harvester spare parts.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 4
Principal Terms of Relending Agreements
The following sets forth the principal terms and conditions under which the
proceeds of the Credit or the equivalent thereof shall be lent to ARC and under
which part of such proceeds shall be relent to LMB, the Participating Banks and
the Primary Banks:
1.   Lending Terms to ARC from India:
(a)   Term: 9 years
(b)   Repayment terms: one lump sum repayment for each drawing by ARC
at the end of 9 years after the date of each such drawing
(c)   Interest rate: 5% per annum with 1/4% rebate for prompt payment
of interest and principal
(d)   Exchange risk: for account of India
2.    Lending Terms to LMB and Participating Banks from ARC:
(a)   Amount: ARC shall refinance 75% of Agricultural Loans
(b)   Repayment terms: set to coincide, more or less, with expected
collections of Agricultural Loans
(c)   Interest rate: 6-1/2% per annum on outstanding balance
3.    Lending Terms to Primary Banks from LMB:
(a)   Amount: LMB shall refinance 100% of Agricultural Loans made by
Primary Banks
(b)   Repayment terms: set to coincide, more or less, with expected
collections of Agricultural Loans
(c)   Interest rate: 7-3/4% per annum on outstanding balance


﻿17
4.    Re-use of Funds under the Credit:
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, proceeds of the Credit not
lent by ARC to LMB or Participating Banks and repayments to ARC from LMB
and the Participating Banks shall be deposited in a special account to be used
only for refinancing ARC-approved agricultural development schemes, such schemes
to be carried out in conformity with sound administrative, agricultural and financial
practices.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 5
Procurement Procedures
The Borrower will establish a central committee (hereinafter called the
Committee) for the purpose of directing the procurement of goods under the
Project. The Committee shall consist of representatives of the Borrower (one of
whom shall be the chairman), the Government of Punjab and ARC.
PAIC will organize procurement of equipment eligible for financing out of
the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the following procedures:
1.    Tractors:
(a)   PAIC will obtain quotations for lots of at least 700-800 tractors in
order to import about 8,000 tractors. Quotations will be sought by public invitation,
on unit prices at varying quantities, from those suppliers in Bank-member countries
and Switzerland who have established tractor manufacturing facilities in India, or
have obtained necessary approvals of the Borrower, for the manufacture of tractors
in India, prior to the date on which quotations are sought. Invitations to bid,
specifications, all other tender documents and the method and plans of advertising
will be approved by the Committee and will thereafter be submitted to the
Association for its prior approval;
(b)   PAIC   will require all suppliers submitting quotations to give full
particulars as to proposed pre-sales and after-sales service arrangements, including
provision for spare parts equal to 15% of the c.i.f. price of tractors supplied. Any
supplier not providing satisfactory assurances as to service arrangements would be
disqualified by the Committee;
(c)   PAIC   will advertise through LMB and the Participating Banks the
quoted prices and the service arrangements offered by the different suppliers.
Beneficiaries will be required to state to the Primary Bank or the Participating
Bank of their choice for transmittal to PAIC their choices, in order of preference,
of, and at the same time apply for an Agricultural Loan for, tractors which they
would be willing to buy. Loan applications will be processed in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement;
(d) PAIC will aggregate the orders received, according to first tractor
choices. If the aggregate orders for the particular model came to below the minimum
acceptable order for that manufacturer at the unit prices quoted for varying
quantities, PAIC will discard the first choice for those farmers and proceed on


﻿19
the basis of second or other choices as agreed to by the Association. After approval
by the Committee, PAIC will send to the Association its analysis of bids and its
recommendations before orders are placed and not place any order before its
approval by the Association;
(e)   PAIC will arrange for the importation, insurance and transportation
to Punjab of tractors. PAIC also will enter into contracts with the selected suppliers
which would specify service arrangements and performance assurances including
the supply of spare parts. Agents representing suppliers will be required to sell
post-warranty service;
(f)   PAIC will arrange for the distribution of tractors to agents designated
by the suppliers who would perform pre-sales services and sell the tractors to
Beneficiaries. PAIC may charge agents a fee for its services;
(g)   Suppliers will be required to maintain stocks of spare parts referred
to under paragraph 1 (b) of this Schedule by a designated representative in a central
store to be released through agents for tractors imported under the Project.
2.    Harvesters, Discs and Plough Bottoms:
(A)   Harvesters
The harvesters to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published
by the Bank in August 1969, and in accordance with the following supplementary
procedures:
(a)   Harvesters shall be grouped into contracts of a value of not less than
$100,000 equivalent. The tender documents shall specify a period of 60 days
between contract award and delivery. Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall
submit to the Association for its approval the invitations to bid, specifications
and all other tender documents, together with a description of advertising
procedures. A period of 30 days shall be observed between calling and opening
of bids. After bids have been received and analyzed, the bid analysis and
recommendation for contract award, together with the reasons for such
recommendation shall be submitted to the Association for approval prior to the
contract award or the issuance of a letter of intent.
(b)   In determining bid prices for the purpose of evaluating bids for
harvesters to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit the following shall
apply:


﻿20
I.    The term Local Bid means any bid submitted by any manufacturer,
established in the territories of the Borrower, for harvesters
manufactured or processed in the territories of the Borrower to a
substantial extent as determined by the Association; any other bid
shall be deemed to be a Foreign Bid.
II.   The price of harvesters offered under a Local Bid shall be determined
by adding the following amounts:
(i)         an amount representing the ex-factory price of such
harvesters; and
(ii)        an amount representing inland freight, insurance and other
costs of delivery of such harvesters to the respective
agents.
III.  The price of harvesters offered under a Foreign Bid shall be determined
by adding the following amounts:
(i)         an amount representing the c.i.f. landed price of such
harvesters net of any taxes on their importation;
(ii)        an amount representing inland freight, insurance and other
local costs of the delivery of such harvesters to the
respective agents; and
(iii)       an amount representing the total of such taxes as generally
apply to the importation of such equipment into the
territories of the Borrower by non-exempt importers to
the extent that such total does not exceed the equivalent
of fifteen per cent (15%) of the amount referred to under
III (i) of this subparagraph (b).
(B) Discs and Plough Bottoms
Discs and plough bottoms to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be imported after procurement on the basis of competitive bidding; the
above-mentioned Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits and the supplementary procedures set forth in Section 2 (A) (a) of this
Schedule shall apply mutatis mutandis.
3.    As soon as a contract for the procurement of equipment is signed, and prior
to the date of submission of the first application for withdrawal of proceeds of
the Credit in respect of any payment thereunder, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association a certified copy of such contract.


