                                             Document of
                                         The World Bank

                                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                                 Report No: 58431-MX




    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT



                                    PROGRAM DOCUMENT


                                        FOR A PROPOSED

       STRENGTHENING THE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT FOR ENHANCED

                ECONOMIC GROWTH DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN


                          IN THE AMOUNT OF US$751.9 MILLION


                                                  TO


                               THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES




                                       DECEMBER 15, 2010



Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Department
Colombia and Mexico Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
              (Exchange Rate Effective December 13, 2010)
                     Currency Unit = Mexican Pesos
                         MX$1.00 = US$0.080866
                             US$1 = MX$12.3661

                            FISCAL YEAR
                        January 1 ­ December 31

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAA        Analytical and Advisory Services
ATM        Automated Teller Machine
BANOBRAS   Banco Nacional de Obras (National Bank for Public Works)
BANSEFI    Banco del Ahorro Nacional y Servicios Financieros SNC (National
           Bank of Savings and Financial Services SNC)
CCD        Certificado de Capital de Desarrollo (Equity Development Certificate)
CFAA       Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CFC        Comisión Federal de Competencia (Federal Competition Commission)
CFE        Comisión Federal de Electricidad (Federal Electricity Commission)
CNBV       Comisión Nacional Bancaria y de Valores (National Banking and
           Securities Commission)
COFEMER    Comisión Federal de Mejora Regulatoria (Federal Commission for
           Regulatory Environment)
COFETEL    Comisión Federal de Telecomunicaciones (Federal
           Telecommunications Commission)
CONCAMIN   Confederación de Cámaras Industriales C(Confederation of Industrial
           Chambers)
CONDUSEF   Comisión Nacional para la Protección y Defensa de los Usuarios de
           Servicios Financieros (National Commission for the Protection of
           Users of Financial Services)
CONSAR     Comisión Nacional del Sistema de Ahorro para el Retiro (National
           Commission for the Retirement Saving System)
CPAR       Country Procurement Assessment Review
CPS        Country Partnership Strategy
CTF        Clean Technology Fund
CY         Calendar Year
DPL        Development Policy Loan
FCL        Flexible Credit Line
FED        Federal Reserve Bank
FIAS       Foreign Investment Advisory Services
FONADIN    Fondo Nacional de Infraestructura (National Infrastructure Fund)
FRL        Fiscal Responsibility Law
FSAP       Financial Sector Assessment Program
FY         Fiscal Year
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GOM         Government of Mexico
HTS         Harmonized Tariff System
IADB        Inter-American Development Bank
IBRD        International Bank of Reconstruction and Development
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IDE         Impuesto a los Depósitos en Efectivo (Cash Deposit Tax)
IETU        Impuesto Empresarial a Tasa Unica (Business Flat Tax)
IFC         International Finance Corporation
IMF         International Monetary Fund
IMSS        Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social (Mexican Institute of Social
            Security)
INEGI       Instituto Nacional de Estadística y Geografía (National Institute of
            Statistics and Geography)
INFONAVIT   Instituto Nacional de Fomento a la Vivienda de los Trabajadores
            (National Institute to Promote Housing for Workers)
IPAB        Instituto para la Protección al Ahorro Bancario (Deposit Insurance
            Institute)
IPER        Infrastructure Public Expenditure Review
IT          Information Technology
ITLP        Indicador de la Tendencia Laboral de la Pobreza
            (Labor Trend Indicator of Poverty)
LAC         Latin America and the Caribbean
LDP         Letter of Development Policy
LGEEPA      Ley General de Equilibio Ecológico y Protección Ambiental (General
            Law on Ecological Equilibrium and Environmental Protection)
MDGs        Millennium Development Goals
MIGA        Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MOE         Ministry of Education
MOH         Ministry of Health
MOU         Memorandum of Understanding
MP          Mexican Pesos
NAFIN       Nacional Financiera
NAFTA       North America Free Trade Agreement
NDP         National Development Plan
OECD        Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development
PEMEX       Petróleos Mexicanos (Mexican Oil Company)
PFM         Public Financial Managmeent System
PND         Plan Nacional de Desarrollo (National Development Plan)
PREM        Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
PSBR        Public Sector Borrowing Requirements
PSIA        Poverty and Social Impact Analysis
ROA         Return on Assets
ROE         Return on Equity
SAAI        Sistema Aduanero Automatizado Integral (Comprehensive Automated
            Customs System)
SAT         Servicio de Administración Tributaria (Revenue Administration
           Service)
SCT        Secretaría de Comunicaciones y Transportes (Ministry of
           Communications and Transport)
SE         Secretaría de Economía (Ministry of Economy)
SED        Sistema de Evaluación de Desempeño (Performance Evaluation
           System)
SEMARNAT   Secretaría de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales (Ministry of
           Environment and Natural Resources)
SFP        Secretaría de Función Pública (Ministry of Public Procurement)
SHCP       Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público (Ministry of Finance and
           Public Credit)
SHF        Sociedad Hipotecaria Federal (Federal Mortgage Corporation)
SIEFORE    Sociedades de Inversión de Fondos para el Retiro (Retirement Funds)
SME        Small and Medium Enterprise
SOFOL      Sociedad Financiera de Objeto Limitado (Limited Purpose Financing
           Society)
SOFOM      Sociedad Financiera de Objeto Múltiple (Multiple Purpose Financing
           Society)
STPS       Secretaría del Trabajo y Previsión Social (Ministry of Labor)
TA         Technical Assistance
TESOFE     Tesorería de la Federación (Federal Treasury)
TIIE       Tasa de Interés Interbancaria de Equilibrio (Interbank rate)
US         United States
VAT        Value Added Tax
WPS        World Paper Study
WTO        World Trade Organization




                  Vice President:     Pamela Cox
               Country Director:      Gloria M. Grandolini
                 Sector Director:     Marcelo Giugale
                Sector Manager:       Lily L. Chu
                  Sector Leader:      Paloma Anós Casero
              Task Team Leader:       Esperanza Lasagabaster
           Co-Task Team Leader:       Jozef Draaisma
                                                          MEXICO

        STRENGTHENING THE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT FOR ENHANCED
             ECONOMIC GROWTH DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN


                                              TABLE OF CONTENTS




LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY ................................................................................... i

I.    INTRODUCTION ...................................................................................................... - 1 - 
II.  COUNTRY CONTEXT.............................................................................................. - 2 - 
III.  THE GOVERNMENT´S PROGRAM AND PARTICIPATORY PROCESSES ...... - 9 - 
IV.  BANK SUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM ................................ - 13 - 
           Link to Country Partnership Strategy ................................................................. - 13 - 
           Summary Update of the Implementation of the CPS.......................................... - 13 - 
           Collaboration with the IMF and other development partners ............................. - 14 - 
           Relationship to Other Bank Operations .............................................................. - 14 - 
           Lessons Learned.................................................................................................. - 17 - 
           Analytical Underpinnings ................................................................................... - 18 -

V.  THE PROPOSED OPERATION .............................................................................. - 20 - 
           Operation Description ......................................................................................... - 20 - 
           Policy Area I: Competition Policy ...................................................................... - 23 - 
           Policy Area II: Streamlining Business Regulations ............................................ - 28 - 
           Policy Area III: Fostering Financial Access with Stability ............................... - 31 - 
           Policy Area IV: Fostering Public Participation in Infrastructure........................ - 35 -

VI.  OPERATION IMPLEMENTATION ....................................................................... - 40 - 
           Poverty and Social Impacts ................................................................................. - 40 - 
           Environmental Aspects ....................................................................................... - 43 - 
           Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation ...................................................... - 44 - 
           Fiduciary Aspects................................................................................................ - 45 - 
           Disbursements and Auditing .............................................................................. - 46 - 
           Risks and Risk Mitigation ................................................................................... - 47 -
VII.  ANNEXES ................................................................................................................ - 49 - 
            Annex 1. Letter of Development Policy ............................................................ - 49 - 
            Annex 2. Operation Policy Matrix ..................................................................... - 55 - 
            Annex 3. Fund Relations Note ........................................................................... - 60 - 
            Annex 4a. Towards a Stronger Competition Policy Framework in Mexico ....... - 62 - 
            Annex 4b. Telecommunications Reform in Mexico ........................................... - 70 - 
            Annex 4c. Developing a More Competitive Framework for Public
            Procurement ........................................................................................................ - 82 - 
            Annex 4d. Strealining Business Regulations ...................................................... - 89 - 
            Annex 4e: Financial Sector Policies ................................................................... - 97 - 
            Annex 4f. Fostering Public Private Partnerships for Infrastructure .................. - 109 - 
            Annex 5. Poverty and Social Impact Review .................................................. - 121 - 
            Annex 6. Mexico at a Glance ........................................................................... - 130 - 
            Annex 7. Mexico Map ..................................................................................... - 133 - 
                       LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY

                          The United Mexican States
    Strengthening the Business Environment for Enhanced Economic Growth
                           Development Policy Loan


Borrower            The United Mexican States
Implementing
                    Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Agency
                     IBRD financing: US$751.9 million
                     Proposed terms: IBRD Flexible Loan US$ denominated, with a variable
                     spread
Financing Data       Conversion options: Currency conversion, interest rate conversion,
                     caps/collars with premium to be financed out of the loan proceeds
                     Maturity: Repayment in full on January 15, 2029
                     Front-end fee: 0.25 percent

Operation Type      Single Tranche Development Policy Loan
                    Competition policy, business regulations, financial sector, and private
Main Policy Areas   participation in infrastructure

                    Competition in Telecommunications and Public Procurement
                     Increase in internet users (per 100 inhabitants)
                     Increase in broadband users (per 100 inhabitants)
                     Implementation of framework agreements to streamline public
                      procurement procedures
                     Implementation of additional reverse auctions

                    Streamlining Business Regulations
                     Improvement in the Doing Business sub-index of Time to Comply
                       with tax obligations
Key Outcome
Indicators           Cost savings obtained by the private sector from the implementation
(by January 31,        of the Zero Base Business Regulation Program
2012)                Reduction in the number of international trade related processes
                       linked to the Revenue Administration Service and Ministry of
                       Economy

                    Financial Sector Support
                       Number of financial transactions conducted through mobile phones
                       Increase in the number of entries (credits) present in the credit
                       reporting databases
                     Production of Financial Stability Report by Financial Stability
                       Council and activities completed by the Council
                     Coverage of delinquent mortgage credit and non-revolving consumer

                                           i
                       credit from commercial banks under new methodology

                   Fostering Private Participation in Infrastructure
                    Average annual private investment in infrastructure


                   The Overall Program Development Objective is to support economic
                   policies that will strengthen Mexico´s business environment and the
                   micro-economic foundations for enhanced economic growth and
                   employment generation. This will be achieved by:
                   (i)     strengthening the conditions for competition in crucial markets,
                           in particular the telecommunications sector and public
                           procurement;
                   (ii)    streamlining business regulations that will lower trade and other
                           transactions costs and facilitate the adoption of new
                           technologies;
                   (iii) improving the regulatory framework to foster financial sector
                           access, stability and market transparency; and
                   (iv)    promoting public-private partnerships in infrastructure to expand
                           core infrastructure services essential to the productivity of
                           Mexican firms.

Program            The four pillars are mutually reinforcing. Improving telecommunication
Development        services is critical to support mobile banking operations so as to expand
Objective(s) and   access to finance and to build the e-platform necessary to modernize
Contribution to    business regulations and public procurement. The streamlining of
CPS                business regulations together with the expansion of infrastructure through
                   greater private participation will help reduce logistics costs of Mexican
                   firms increasing their competitiveness and facilitating their access to new
                   export markets. Modern business regulations and greater access to
                   finance will increase the incentives of becoming formal, the former by
                   reducing the costs of formality and the latter by making it easier to
                   exploit its benefits.

                   The Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) and its Progress Report were
                   discussed by the Board in April 2008 and March 2010, respectively. The
                   proposed operation is in line with the CPS Progress Report, which
                   envisioned an active program of financial services during fiscal year
                   2011 in response to the GOM´s request. Improving competitiveness is a
                   key thematic area of the CPS, and the World Bank has conducted
                   extensive analytical work to assist the policy dialogue in this area over
                   the last six years. Moreover, the proposed operation is part of a larger
                   programmatic engagement in the area of growth and competitiveness--
                   which includes knowledge services, development policy lending,
                   investment lending, and the promotion of South-South collaborations.




                                           ii
                 A sharp weakening in the economic recovery of the United States would
                 pose risks to Mexico's growth and the objectives of this operation due to
                 the high degree of economic integration. Lower export growth would
                 endanger the incipient recovery of domestic demand. Mexico, however,
                 maintains a record of sound and predictable macroeconomic
                 management. This contributed to an adequate and timely policy response
                 to the global crisis which has set the stage for a strong economic
                 recovery. Strong commitment to the main elements of the fiscal and
                 monetary policy framework­fiscal discipline, inflation targeting and
                 flexible exchange rate­provide for ample buffers to adverse external
                 shocks.

                 The rise in violent crime may increase the cost of doing business and
                 reduce investments in some parts of the country and investor confidence
                 in general. The Government has begun a reorganization of police forces
                 and is determined to increase its ability to contain and reduce the impact
                 of organized crime in Mexico. It is also designing a broad National
Risks and Risk   Crime Prevention and Citizen Participation strategy to tackle the causes
Mitigation       and effects of crime (be it organized or not). In addition, the prospects of
                 Mexico's economic recovery and the ongoing structural reforms to
                 facilitate the acceleration of growth over the medium term will generate
                 better conditions for job creation and in turn discourage participation of
                 vulnerable groups in illegal activities.

                 Legal injunctions may hinder efforts to increase competition in the
                 telecommunications sector. However, strong Government commitment to
                 increased competition in key markets indicates that it will vigorously
                 defend reform measures in the face of such legal injunctions or similar
                 pressures to slow down the reform process, as it has been able to
                 successfully defend other competition cases recently. Pressure from
                 exporters and importers should mitigate the risk of delays in the
                 implementation of the Single Trade Window. Lastly, the World Bank
                 will continue an active agenda of knowledge services on public
                 procurement, business regulations, financial sector and public-private
                 partnerships and will accompany the Government on future reforms in
                 these areas.
                 Pursuant to the World Bank Policy on Access to Information, the World
                 Bank will disclose the Program Document, the related legal agreements
Disclosure
                 and other information related to the legal agreements, including any
                 supplemental letters.

Operation ID     P112264




                                         iii
                           MEXICO
    STRENGTHENING THE BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT FOR ENHANCED
         ECONOMIC GROWTH DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN

                              I.       INTRODUCTION

1.      Mexico's progress on macroeconomic policies has enhanced its economic
performance and supported its recovery in the aftermath of the global financial crisis.
Yet, its overall economic growth in recent decades has been disappointing. Low per
capita income growth is holding back convergence to standards of living reached in other
higher income countries and stands in sharp contrast with more dynamic emerging
market economies and regions. While significant trade liberalization and market-oriented
reforms took place over the last couple of decades, there is a broad recognition that
additional reform efforts are needed to raise productivity and achieve a higher rate of
sustainable economic growth.

2.      Faster economic growth and the generation of employment constitute policy
priorities of President Calderón's administration. The National Development Plan
presented to Congress in 2007 lays out the administration's core strategies to enhance
productivity and job creation. In addition, in September 2009, President Calderón
launched a 10-point program that prioritized policy actions for the second half of his
administration including reforms aimed at increasing Mexico´s competitiveness. The
economic policy program encompasses legislative reform proposals as well as regulatory
and institutional changes that seek to: (i) strengthen the environment applicable to
business operations and start ups, (ii) broaden market access by enhancing competition,
and (iii) improve the functioning of key factor markets (labor, finance,
telecommunications, energy, and other core infrastructure).

3.     In response to the Government's request, the World Bank has been actively
supporting Mexico in the analysis and implementation of policies to strengthen the
foundations for sustained economic growth. The Country Partnership Strategy has
organized the collaboration on growth and competitiveness along the two themes of
Strengthening the Business Environment and Promoting Financial Sector Development.
Multiple World Bank products--including financial, knowledge and coordination
services--are being deployed to assist the Government in these key areas.

4.       In this context, the proposed Development Policy Loan (DPL) seeks to support
the Government´s reform efforts adopted to enhance growth and job creation by: (i)
further strengthening competition policy in telecommunications and public procurement,
(ii) streamlining business regulations, (iii) improving the regulatory framework to foster
financial access and stability, and (iv) promoting private participation in infrastructure.
The proposed DPL builds on an engagement of over half a decade on competitiveness
challenges that will continue through program implementation as well as follow up
activities envisioned in the Country Partnership Strategy. Besides knowledge sharing and
financing resources, the proposed DPL will provide international recognition for the
progress achieved on critical elements of the Government´s economic reform agenda.

                                           -1-
                               II.        COUNTRY CONTEXT

Recent Economic Developments

5.       The Mexican economy is
recovering from a brief but very           Figure 1  Mexico: GDP and Aggregate demand (s.a., Q22008=100)
                                       120
deep recession. The collapse of                    GDP                        Private Consumption
external demand, particularly in 115               Private Investment         Public Expenditure
                                       110         Exports
durable consumer goods, in the
                                       105
last quarter of 2008 and the first
                                       100
half of 2009 led to an almost
                                        95
immediate and severe downturn in        90
manufacturing       industry    and     85
economic activity in Mexico. The        80
ensuing loss of employment and          75
income generation opportunities         70
as well as the higher level of                     2008:II




                                                                                           2009:II




                                                                                                                                   2010:II
                                                                        2008:IV




                                                                                                                2009:IV
                                                             2008:III




                                                                                                     2009:III
                                                                                  2009:I




                                                                                                                          2010:I
uncertainty and risk created by the
global financial and economic
crisis contributed to a fall in private consumption and investment, further reducing
aggregate demand. A subsequent rebound in external demand as of the second half of
2009 is giving rise to an economic recovery, even though private consumption and
investment are trailing behind and have not yet contributed significantly to the upturn of
economic activity. Figure 1 provides a graphical presentation of the levels of economic
activity and the main components of aggregate demand, showing that by the 2nd quarter
of 2010, GDP was still slightly below its pre-crisis level. A similar scenario occurred for
private consumption and investment, whereas the level of exports has returned to its pre-
crisis level and public expenditure never dropped.
6.      The Government proceeded with a gradual withdrawal of the fiscal stimulus
as of 2010 to assure markets of fiscal sustainability. By maintaining public expenditure
at about the same level in real terms as the previous year despite a sharp public sector
revenue decline, a fiscal stimulus of about 2.5 percent of GDP was generated in 2009.1
The stimulus was mainly financed by non-recurrent revenue that was no longer available
in 2010. In view of market concerns regarding fiscal sustainability, largely related to a
rapidly falling volume of oil production, the authorities opted to initiate a program of
fiscal consolidation by increasing taxes and containing public expenditures. To moderate
the withdrawal of fiscal support and in line with Mexico's fiscal responsibility law, the
budget allowed for a deficit (excluding investments in the oil sector) of 0.7 percent of
GDP in 2010, which is reduced to 0.5 percent in 2011 and is expected to return to a
balanced budget by 2012.
7.     Monetary policy has been left unchanged after substantial easing in 2009.
The increase in tax rates and public sector prices, that were part of the 2010 budget law,


1
    Mexico: 2010 Article IV Consultation, IMF Country Report 10/71 March 2010.

                                                  -2-
contributed to increase consumer price inflation in 2010 with a year-end inflation
estimate at about 4.5 percent compared to 3.6 percent observed by the end of 2009. The
sharp contraction of economic activity by 6.5 percent in 2009 created a particularly large
output gap, which implies that the economy may grow for some time at a level
moderately above its potential, absorbing excess capacity instead of creating undue
inflation pressures. The monetary authorities have left the monetary policy intervention
rate unchanged in view of the continued significant output gap.

8.      The monetary authorities have expressed their intention to increase the level
of international reserves to mitigate the impact of possible future financial shocks.
A rules based mechanism that allows market participants to sell foreign exchange to the
Central Bank was reintroduced in February 2010 and should allow for a steeper increase
of international reserves. Over the first nine months of the year the mechanism
contributed US$3.8 billion to an overall reserve accumulation of US$17.4 billion, with
the difference consisting of net public sector foreign exchange receipts. In the meantime,
the US$47 billion Flexible Credit Line contracted with the IMF in April 2009 for one
year was renewed in March 2010 for another twelve months.

9.      Broadly speaking, the Mexican financial system endured the global financial
crisis relatively well due to enhancements in bank risk management and prudential
regulations during the past decade. The average of non-performing loans of
commercial banks, which dominate the system, peaked at 3.6% in April 2009 and had
fallen to 2.5% by September 2010 with capital adequacy ratios at 17%. The consumer
credit portfolio was the most affected. During the global crisis, private sector credit
changed from double-digit growth to stagnation but is now showing signs of recovery.
Despite the overall resilience of the system, the crisis highlighted a number of vulnerable
areas which the Government is now trying to tackle (Annex 4e). In addition, the system
remains small relative to the size of the economy and numerous groups are still not
participating in the formal financial system.

Macroeconomic Outlook and Debt Sustainability

10.     After a sharp rebound of external demand over the past year, the Mexican
economy is headed for a more moderate and balanced expansion of economic
activity. Economic growth is expected to moderate to about 3.8 percent in 2011. Strong
external demand for Mexican manufactured goods is projected to persist but will
normalize compared with its sharp post-crisis rebound. More importantly, the expansion
of economic activity will be more balanced with respect to the contribution of domestic
and external demand to aggregate demand as GDP growth converges to the underlying
growth of domestic demand (see Table 1).




                                           -3-
                        Table 1. Mexico: Macroeconomic Indicators 2008-2013
                                    (average annual rate of growth)
                                                        Actual          Estimate          Projections
                                                  2008       2009        2010      2011       2012      2013
GDP                                                1.5           -6.5     4.8      3.8         4.2      4.2
  Consumption                                      1.7           -5.0     3.1      3.8         4.0      4.1
  Investment                                       4.4       -10.1        3.3      5.6         6.4      6.4
  Exports                                          0.5       -14.8        24.1     9.0         6.6      6.1
  Imports                                          2.8       -18.2        23.0     9.5         7.2      7.0
Current account balance (as a % of GDP)           -1.5           -0.6     -0.8     -1.2       -1.5      -1.8
Source : Bank staff estimates based on SHCP and INEGI

11.     Domestic demand is recovering with a lag as it depends largely on a
strengthening of the level and quality of employment. Household consumption in
Mexico is closely related to labor market developments since labor income constitutes the
main source of disposable income. In this respect, the recovery mirrors the sequence of
the economic downturn in which the collapse of external demand led to a decline in
manufacturing industry followed by a loss in employment and eventually a weakening of
private consumption. Similarly, the recovery of trade and industrial activity is leading to
a rebound in employment which will be reflected in a strengthening of private
consumption. The increasing level of employment has taken place largely in lower paid
jobs, holding back a more vigorous increase of private consumption.

12.     Trade and current account deficits will increase as domestic demand starts to
play a larger role in the economic recovery. The gradual recovery of domestic demand
contributes to import growth catching up with and slightly surpassing export growth. The
widening of the trade deficit is taking place from a low base after the trade balance
narrowed substantially in 2009 (see Table 2). The evolution of the trade deficit is
currently the main driver of the current account, as net outflows from tourism and freight
services together with net interest payments and profit remittances are largely offset by
the receipts from workers' remittances. After a drop of almost 16 percent in 2009,
workers' remittances have currently stabilized at about US$21 billion annually and are
projected to resume a moderate growth. The current account deficit is projected to
increase from US$5.7 billion in 2009 to US$20.5 billion by 2013, which remains
moderate relative to the size of the economy and is mainly financed by Foreign Direct
Investment inflows projected at about 2 percent of GDP or US$25 billion annually
between 2011 and 2013.

13.     Mexico's medium term growth outlook is reasonably encouraging. Progress
on the economic reform agenda and higher levels of investment in public infrastructure
over the past few years are likely to raise potential growth. Taking into account this
impact, a recovery of domestic demand and a moderation of U.S. growth, the
Government has based its medium-term fiscal outlook on an annual economic growth of
4.2 percent for 2012-2016.

                                                   -4-
                             Table 2. Mexico: External Accounts 2008-2013
                                             (Billion US$)
                                                      Actual           Estimate               Projections
                                               2008            2009     2010          2011           2012      2013
 Exports                                       291.3           229.8    294.9         320.1          343.1     367.1
 Imports                                       308.6           234.4    296.9         324.8          351.1     377.4
 Workers' Remittances                           25.6           21.2      21.5         23.1           25.2      26.5
 Current Account                               -16.2           -5.7      -8.9         -13.1          -16.6     -20.5
 Portfolio Investment                           2.4             7.7      12.3         11.2           10.6      10.4
 FDI                                            24.3           14.0      21.4         24.5           25.3      25.8
 International Reserves (End-year)              95.1           99.9     118.7         129.3          139.7     145.6
 Gross External Debt (End-year)                201.5           192.6    209.5         223.8          239.2     248.3
 Source : Bank staff estimates based on Banco de Mexico

14.     Over the next few years, the public sector will be subject to a continued effort
of fiscal consolidation. The budget proposal for 2011 presented to Congress contains an
update of the fiscal consolidation program (see Table 3). Implementation of the program
is on track with minor adjustments in terms of revenue and expenditure estimates as a
result of a more rapid economic recovery, a slightly higher oil price and volume of
production, and a stronger exchange rate. The budget for 2011 adopted by Congress
includes a budget deficit of 2.5 percent of GDP. Taking into account investments in the
oil sector of 2.0 percent of GDP, the deficit target in terms of the fiscal responsibility rule
amounts to 0.5 percent of GDP. A return to a balanced budget (excluding investment in
the oil sector) is envisaged by 2012. Tight public expenditure conditions are likely to
prevail as proposals for a comprehensive, base broadening tax reform are unlikely to
advance before the upcoming presidential elections (July 2012).

                               Table 3. Mexico: Fiscal Accounts 2008-2013
                                          (as a percent of GDP)
                                     Actual               Estimate                    Projections
                              2008        2009                 2010         2011              2012           2013
  Revenue                     23.6        23.8                 21.6         21.4              21.2           21.2
    Oil                       8.7             7.4              7.2              7.0           6.9            6.8
    Tax                       10.0            9.5              10.0         10.3              10.6           10.8
    Other                     4.9             6.9              4.4              4.1           3.7            3.6
  Expenditure                 23.7        26.1                 24.3         23.9              23.2           23.1
  Budget Deficit              0.1             2.3              2.7              2.5           2.0            1.9
  PSBR                        2.1             2.5              3.2              2.9           2.5            2.4
  Net Public Debt             35.8        36.9                 36.8         36.6              36.3           35.9
  Source : Bank staff estimates based on SHCP



                                                         -5-
15.    The medium term fiscal outlook projects a gradual reduction in the public
debt-to-GDP ratio. The outlook is based on a return by 2012 to a balanced budget in
terms of the Mexican fiscal responsibility law. In addition, it assumes a gradual
reduction of investments in the oil sector from 2.0 percent annually between 2010 and
2012 to 1.9 percent in 2013 and 1.6 percent in 2016. This will result in a decrease of the
Public Sector Borrowing Requirements (PSBR) from 3.2 percent of GDP in 2010 to 2.4
percent in 2013 and 1.9 percent by 2016. These public sector deficit targets in
conjunction with nominal output growth projections will lead to a reduction of the net
public debt from 36.8 percent of GDP in 2010 to 35.9 percent in 2013 and 33.9 percent
by 2016.

16.     The downward path in the public debt-to-GDP is mainly susceptible to
weaker economic growth. Some of the main macroeconomic variables that have an
impact on Mexico's public finances include economic growth, inflation, interest rates and
the oil price. The institutional framework for the formulation of fiscal policies, including
the balanced budget rule, provides for coping mechanisms, such as the use of revenue
stabilization funds, and requires adjustments to public finances in the light of adverse
developments to assure sustainable public finances. In this environment, only a lower
nominal output growth could derail the projected downward path in the public debt-to-
GDP ratio as a 1 percentage point lower level of nominal GDP raises the public debt-to-
GDP ratio by 0.4 percent. This implies that if, after the recovery, the economy falls back
to an average annual rate of growth of 3 percent instead of the projected 4.2 percent and
absent further fiscal adjustments the public debt-to-GDP ratio will fail to come down and
stabilize at the higher level attained during the crisis.

17.     The macroeconomic policy framework is deemed appropriate for the
proposed Development Policy Loan (DPL). Fiscal and monetary policies continue to
be well-managed in view of the challenges posed by the significant uncertainties about
the strength and sustainability of the global recovery and the volatility in global financial
markets. No major internal or external macroeconomic imbalances have been building
up or are projected in the near future.

Mexico's longer term growth
18.     Mexico's longer term economic growth performance has not been as
dynamic as other emerging market economies. For a long period of time Mexico's
annual average growth rates have lagged compared to that of other countries and regions,
such as East Asia and some of the more recently industrialized Western European
countries that had similar levels of development almost five decades ago.2 Table 4
presents purchasing power parity based estimates of GDP per capita growth for some
selected Latin American and Asian countries. Mexico and Latin American countries,
with the exception of Chile, experienced a decline in their growth rates over the 1981-
2008 period compared to the previous two decades whereas Asian countries were able to
sustain high growth rates.



2
    Chiquiar and Ramos Francia (2009)

                                            -6-
19.     More recently, Mexico's per
capita growth performance has                    Table 4. Average Annual GDP per Capita Growth
been trending upward. Over the                           Purchasing Power Parity-corrected
decade previous to the recent global
                                                             1961-1980 1981-2008 1999-2008
recession, Mexico's per capita GDP
growth increased to a level close to             Mexico                 3.4            0.9   1.8
the OECD average, thereby just                   Brazil                 4.8            0.8   2.0
maintaining rather than closing the              Chile                  1.4            3.3   2.6
income     gap    with     advanced              Malaysia               5.2            3.6   3.5
economies.
                                                 Korea                  5.8            5.6   4.8
20.     Growth          decomposition Thailand                4.8          4.4          3.8
        3
studies show that the moderate Source: Data from Heston and Summers (2006) and World
level of output growth in Mexico is Development Indicators (2009)
mainly due to accumulation of
production factors rather than
higher levels of productivity (see Box 1). The sharp decline in productivity growth
during the eighties is generally attributed to the impact of macroeconomic instability on
economic activity and investment, whereas progress over the past decade in attaining
macroeconomic stability and opening up the economy to trade and investment flows in
the context of trade liberalization and bilateral trade agreements has contributed to a
steady though modest increase in productivity growth. Relative weaknesses in education,
infrastructure, financial development, the rule of law as well as a lack of competition
arising from overly restrictive product market regulation are key factors cited in various
studies as explaining why Mexico has not grown as fast as other countries (for example,
OECD, 2009).

21.     Progress on a broader agenda of growth enhancing structural reforms has
been moderate, which is often attributed to divided governments and the ability of
vested interests to block reform. In no Congressional election since 1997 has a
political party won enough votes to secure a majority of seats, whereas the President's
party has managed enough seats to make it impossible for the opposition parties to
override his veto. These conditions have severely complicated policymaking and forced
the President to negotiate support on legislative reforms, although they do allow the
Government to implement its non-legislative programs and policy actions. Rather than
ideological differences, it is often vested interests of large business groups and organized
labor that successfully manage to influence the political system and block the adoption of
productivity enhancing reforms.




3
    Santaella (1998), Bosworth (1998), Faal (2005), García-Verdú (2007) and OECD (2009).

                                                   -7-
                  Box 1. Income and Productivity Growth in Mexico, 1961-2010
A closer look at the data may shed some light on the sources of economic growth in Mexico and present an
idea about future trends and growth enhancing policies. This box provides a quick review of the data and
through the application of a simple growth accounting framework allocates growth to increases in the factor
inputs, capital and labor, and the efficiency with which these factors are used.




Dividing the past five decades of economic growth in Mexico in three periods, it can be observed that there
has been a collapse in GDP growth and GDP per capita growth during 1982-1995, a period characterized
by a lack of macroeconomic stability. Economic growth has recovered over the past decade-and-a-half, but
has not yet achieved the historic rates observed during the two decades previous to the growth collapse. An
important observation with respect to these basic indicators concerns the demographics in Mexico,
including a rapidly diminishing population growth and a still increasing rate of labor participation. The rise
in the labor participation started around 1970 and can mostly be attributed to a change in the age structure
of the population with an increasing ratio of persons of working age (15-64 years) to the total population.
This demographic transition is projected to last until 2020 when a growing proportion of elderly may start
to level labor participation rates.

A growth accounting exercise, decomposing total output with the contributions of different inputs and the
efficiency or productivity in the use of these inputs, can be revealing with regards to the sources of
economic growth particularly in terms of its evolution in time and a cross country comparison. The results
of a simple growth accounting exercise for Mexico are presented in the figure and table below. The figure
shows the evolution of indexed indicators in time (1960=1), whereas the table provides the rates of annual
average growth of these concepts over the same periods of time identified before.




                                                    -8-
           Box 1. Income and Productivity Growth in Mexico, 1961-2010 (continued)




Labor productivity, a concept of efficiency measured simply by GDP per worker, shows a dramatic
reduction during the period of the big collapse in growth. Although there has been a partial recovery over
the past decade and a half, labor productivity has not yet fully reached the level nor the growth rates
observed around 1980 and during the 1961-1981 period, respectively. Closely related to labor productivity
is the average amount of capital each worker has available and investment in the economy that determines
the change in the overall capital stock. In terms of capital per worker, important progress is observed over
the past decade as the rate of growth is similar to the one observed in the higher growth period of 1961-
1981.

A slightly more elaborate concept of productivity measures the change in Total Factor Productivity (TFP),
which is the growth residual that cannot be attributed to changes in the labor force or capital inputs. TFP is
usually interpreted as a measure of technological progress, better business operation practices, or improved
investment climate. The growth decomposition below does not account for changes in the quality of labor,
i.e. human capital accumulation, and as a result, TFP is overestimated since it incorporates the impact of
improved levels of schooling on the labor force.

The most significant finding in this analysis is that, while the performance of TFP has improved
significantly over the 1996-2010 period, its overall contribution to economic growth is still quite limited,
especially compared to the 1961-1981 period when Mexico experienced rapid GDP growth. Numerous
growth decomposition studies have shown that TFP has been the main source of per capita income
differences across countries.

    III.         THE GOVERNMENT´S PROGRAM AND PARTICIPATORY
                              PROCESSES

22.     Consistent implementation of prudent macroeconomic policies has
strengthened the ability of the Mexican economy to weather the impact of the global
crisis and set the stage for a sound economic recovery. Mexico is strongly committed
to macroeconomic stability and, to this end, maintains a flexible exchange rate, fiscal
prudence, inflation targeted monetary policy, and sound financial sector regulation and
supervision. These policies managed to deal with the sharp shocks that the economy
experienced at the time of the global crisis, such as the reversal of capital flows, the
contraction of international trade and the steep fall in oil prices and production levels.
Improved macroeconomic stability has enhanced economic growth in Mexico over the
decade previous to the global crisis and is an important element in the economic recovery
that is currently taking place. Policies focused on macroeconomic stability, however,
need to be complemented with an agenda of structural reforms if Mexico is to grow faster
and generate the higher quality jobs that a growing labor force is demanding.

23.     Simultaneous to the announcement of a gradual withdrawal of fiscal stimulus
in September 2009, President Calderón launched a 10-point program of legislative
reforms and structural changes "to transform Mexico". This agenda seeks to
prioritize reform actions for the second half of the President's administration and is based

                                                    -9-
on the administration's medium-term development program (Plan Nacional de
Desarrollo­PND) presented to Congress in 2007. The 10-point program focuses the
Government's resources on reducing poverty; ensuring universal health coverage by the
end of his administration; improving the quality of education provision; reducing tax
evasion, widening the tax base and rationalizing federal spending; promoting a second
energy reform, along with telecommunications, labor and regulatory reforms; improving
the effectiveness of the fight against organized crime; and implementing political reform.

24.    In terms of structural reforms to increase productivity and raise Mexico's
level of potential output growth, the Government's program focuses on legal,
regulatory and administrative changes that: (i) will improve the performance of critical
input markets (labor, finance, telecommunications, energy, and other infrastructure
services), (ii) will strengthen the environment applicable to business operations and start-
ups, and (iii) will broaden markets and market access through enhanced competition.

25.     Focused on implementing the ambitious economic reform agenda, the
administration submitted several proposals to Congress to advance legislation.
Lacking a majority in Congress, the Government has to construct consensus and
negotiate political support on legislative reform. While recent experience in Mexico has
shown that this takes time and becomes more complicated in the run-up to the
Presidential elections in July 2012, the Government submitted to Congress several
legislative reforms proposals, including reforms to the labor legislation, strengthening of
the anti-trust legislation, changes to the regulatory framework for mandatory old-age and
housing providence savings and a new law enabling Public-Private Partnerships, to
advance the economic reform agenda. Progress is being made on their discussion and
eventual adoption.

26.     At the same time, the administration is going ahead with numerous non-
legislative policy actions that enhance competition, reduce the cost of doing business
and create additional investment opportunities. With regard to policy actions within
the purview of the Executive branch of government, the administration is implementing a
strong agenda to raise competition, competitiveness and investments in several sectors of
the economy. This includes the awarding of licenses for the use of radio spectrum and
the lease of the unused fiber-optic network of the public electricity utility, both of which
will enhance competition and investments in a critical network industry as the
telecommunications sector. The Government is also actively pursuing an agenda of
simplifying business regulations and, since mid-2010, has implemented measures to
reduce the number of tax payments and allow for the homologation of product standard
certification for electronic appliances, data processing equipment, and medical devices
with systems in place in its NAFTA trading partners; both of these initiatives will
substantially reduce the cost of doing business in Mexico. Further actions in this area are
envisaged with regard to other certification requirements, such as medical equipment.
The development of an electronic Single Trade Window, which will greatly facilitate and
reduce costs of international trade transactions, also began in December 2010.

27.    Steady progress on the Government's development strategy to foster access
to finance is complemented with additional policies to enhance financial stability.

                                           - 10 -
The Government is deepening its strategy of financial inclusion creating and
implementing the regulatory framework for new delivery channels and strengthening
policy actions in the area of consumer protection and financial literacy based on
technological developments, new insights and international experience. In addition, the
Government is addressing vulnerabilities that emerged during the global financial crisis
through modifications to the prudential regulatory framework as well as implementing
additional policy actions on the basis of international agreements on financial sector
regulation.

28.     The expansion and modernization of the country's infrastructure, through
substantial increases in public and private investments, is a key pillar in the
Government's competitiveness program. The National Infrastructure Program 2007-
2012, the first in its kind, establishes an ambitious program to significantly raise the level
of public and private investment in the energy, water, transport and telecommunication
sectors. As a result, infrastructure investments, especially public investments, have
substantially increased in Mexico over the last three years in spite of the global crisis.
Additional actions, however, are necessary to foster private sector participation and
investment.

29.     Over the past year, the GOM reinvigorated its program to foster economic
competitiveness through a series of policy actions and legislative reforms proposals.
This operation proposes to support the Government in the implementation of policy
actions in critical areas. The process of enhancing competitiveness in Mexico is a
continuous process of identifying and removing unique sector-specific obstacles and
constraints.4 Broad participation of the private sector and organized society in this
process is critical to ensure an adequate diagnosis and policy response. The next few
paragraphs provide more detail on such participative processes in Mexico, whereas a
description of the specific areas of policy reform ­competition policy, business
regulations, financial sector development and private sector participation in
infrastructure­ is provided in section VI and Annex 4.

Consultative and participatory processes in Mexico's economic policy formulation

30.     The National Development Plan, which constitutes the basis of the "Ten
Point Program" and the economic reforms supported by the proposed operation,
was formulated under an extensive consultative process.5 The process comprised
surveys, focus groups and other meetings with key stakeholders including trade unions,
citizens' groups, academic institutions, business organizations, and Congress. It covered
205 workshops with participation of more than 50,000 citizens; and an additional 79,921
citizens participated by sending comments.6


4
  See Hausmann and Klinger (2009)
5
  The National Planning Law (Ley de Planeación) establishes that the National Development Plan must
follow an ample consultation process (see:
http://www.snieg.mx/contenidos/espanol/normatividad/marcojuridico/leydeplaneacion.pdf).
6
  See http//pnd.calderon.presidencia.gob.mx for detailed information on the consultative process and its
results.

                                                  - 11 -
31.    A second level of public consultations took place through the Federal
Commission for Regulatory Improvement (COFEMER). This is the agency
responsible for the promotion of the transparent development and implementation of
regulatory reform policies. Drafts of regulations and legal changes supported by the
proposed operation were publicly available at COFEMER's website for at least six
weeks, giving citizens and civil society organizations an opportunity to comment.

32.     In addition, the GOM undertook specific consultations with stakeholders in
each sector. For example, the Ministry of Economy (MoE) carried out a series of
meetings with business organizations, in particular the Confederation of Industrial
Chambers (Confederación de Cámaras Industriales--CONCAMIN), to discuss the
harmonization of the technical norms for electronic appliances and data processing
equipment. CONCAMIN represents 65 chambers and 42 associations from the Mexican
productive sector. Similarly, it carried out extensive meetings with exports, importers,
customs and trading agents, other members of the trading community and think tanks
during the formulation of the Single Trade Window. Regulatory changes to prudential
regulations also followed consultations with the banking industry. The Competition
Policy Commission (Comisión Federal de Competencia--CFC) has and continues to play
a very active role on all aspects concerning consultations on competition policy,
conducting meetings with the private sector, consumer advocacy groups, and think tanks.
Officials from relevant federal and states agencies are also invited.

33.     The formulation of the National Infrastructure Program 2007-2012,
including the role of the private sector in it, benefitted from a series of public
consultations.7 The Mexican Construction Industry Chamber (CMIC)8 held regional
meetings with the participation of representatives from state and municipal governments,
federal and state congresses, key agents in the construction industry, planning
organizations, academics and other stakeholders. The core public agencies in charge of
infrastructure development are responsible for performing consultations on projects (e.g.,
concessions and infrastructure development projects), and regulatory and operational
amendments. Furthermore, these agencies (e.g., the Ministry of Communications and
Secretaría de Comunicaciones y y Transportes, the National Bank for Public Works
(Banco Nacional de Obras Públicas--Banobras, and National Water Commission
(Comisión Nacional del Agua--CONAGUA) are taking actions to improve information
disclosure on their operations and internal regulations and have considerably improved
their websites to that end.




7
  This program, as well as all sectoral programs that comprise it (Water; Transport and Communications;
Energy), are based on the Vision Mexico 2030 long term strategy that was produced trough contributions
from public, private and civil society groups.
8
  Cámara Mexicana de la Industria de la Construcción.

                                                 - 12 -
     IV.        BANK SUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM

Link to Country Partnership Strategy

34.    The Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) and its Progress Report were
discussed by the Board in April 2008 and March 2010, respectively. The proposed
operation is in line with the CPS Progress Report, which envisioned an active program of
financial services during fiscal year 2011 in response to the GOM´s request. Improving
competitiveness is a key thematic area of the CPS, and the World Bank has conducted
extensive analytical work to assist the policy dialogue in this area as further discussed
below. Moreover, the proposed operation is part of a larger programmatic engagement in
the area of growth and competitiveness--which includes knowledge services,
development policy lending, investment lending, and the promotion of South-South
collaborations.

Summary Update of the Implementation of the CPS

35.     The flexibility of the FY08-13 CPS was instrumental in helping Mexico
quickly adjust to the global economic downturn in 2008-2009. The CPS was
originally designed to have a flexible partnership with a focus on knowledge assistance
and a more limited financing relationship. However, the economic downturn in 2008-
2009 combined with the negative impacts of the food crisis and the AH1N1H influenza
epidemic in Mexico diverted much of the World Bank's assistance to Mexico to focus on
financial assistance. Between FY09-10, the IBRD's lending to Mexico reached
US$9,791 million. Much of the financial assistance focused on large development policy
loans in support of economic policy, education and climate change as well as several
quick disbursing investment loans to alleviate the human consequences of the economic
downturn. A very active program of knowledge services encompassing technical
assistance and fee-based services continued in parallel during this period. The flexibility
embedded in the CPS strategy permitted IBRD to quickly respond to the need for
increased financing by the federal government in the face of the global crisis.

36.      Financial services will continue to play an important role in the near term.
Due to the persistent weak international environment, the GOM has indicated a
preference for an active program of financial services in the range of US$2.5-3.0 billion
in FY11 and lower amounts in the range of US$1.5 billion annually in FY12-13. A broad
range of knowledge services will be undertaken to meet growing demand. Financial and
knowledge services will be aligned to the policy priorities of the GOM as expressed in
the Ten Point Program discussed above. Accelerating growth, improving
competitiveness, developing infrastructure and assuring environmental sustainability will
remain a focus of forthcoming activities. In addition to IBRD activities, Mexico fulfilled
all its membership requirements to become MIGA's 175th member in July 2009.

37.     During this period, IFC also adapted its strategy to respond to Mexico's
changing needs. It supported the economic recovery by strengthening the financial
sector, supporting investments in infrastructure and climate change, and helping
competitive industries with a special focus on employment generation. IFC increased its

                                          - 13 -
commitments to US$338 million in FY11 compared to US$232 million for FY10-11.
This level of assistance is expected to continue in FY10-13. Complementary knowledge
services have primarily covered investment climate, innovative models in microfinance,
and best corporate governance practices. In moving forward, IFC has identified climate
change as a new priority area of assistance together with IBRD. It will support the Clean
Technology Fund (CTF) Investment Plan and already has two renewable energy projects
in the pipeline with proposed CTF co-financing.

Collaboration with the IMF and other Development Partners

38.     World Bank and IMF staff conduct regular consultations on Mexico's
macroeconomic situation and its growth prospects. The meetings involve exchange of
analytical reports carried out by the respective teams. Structural issues are often
discussed during these meetings, especially financial sector issues since both institutions
are engaged in policy advice in this area.

39.     The one-year Flexible Credit Line (FCL) contracted with the IMF in April
2009 for US$47 billion was renewed March 2010. Mexico was the first country to
request this new instrument, which is treated as precautionary by governments. The
objective of the IMF program is to extend a backstop on international reserves of the
Central Bank, thus limiting the possibility of speculative capital outflows.

40.    The World Bank maintains close collaboration with the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB). In the area of private participation in the expansion and
operation of infrastructure and public services at the state level, the IDB is implementing
a technical cooperation facility to strengthen the legal and institutional capacity of
Mexican state governments for the application of a harmonized PPP model.

Relationship to Other Bank Operations

41.     The World Bank is supporting the Government's objectives to enhance
Mexico's competitiveness through multiple financial and knowledge instruments
(see Box 2 below). The competition policy and business regulations pillars of the
proposed operation build on the First Programmatic Competiveness Development Policy
Loan (2006), which inter alia addressed growth constraints related to competition policy,
trade facilitation, and the cost of doing business. On competition policy, the World Bank
has also provided analytical services through the Policy Notes: Creating the Foundations
for Equitable Growth (2006) as well as analytical work on specific sectors, and is
currently exploring multiple instruments to support the establishment of the Regional
Competition Policy Center that will be incubated in Mexico.




                                          - 14 -
                               Box 2. Schematic of Programmatic Engagement by Policy Area

                             2006                                                                           2010...Future

                                                              Competition Policy Area
                                                               Knowledge Services:
                                                                          WB Publication: No Growth without       Regional Competitiveness
Policy Notes: Creating the                                                Equity: Inequality, Interests, and      Conference
Foundations for Equitable                                                 Competition in Mexico
Growth
                                    Country Procurement Assessment         Follow up TA on Public Procurement
                                    Review
Financial Services
First Programmatic                                                         Investment Loan (IL): IT Industry
Competitiveness DPL                                                        Development                                 This Proposed DPL

                                                                        Technical Assistance Loan (TAL):
                                                                        Results-Based Management and
                                                                        Budgeting Project (Component 1)
                                              Streamlining and Improving the Quality of Business Regulations
Knowledge Services:
FIAS: Business Regulation           WB Publication: Does the               Fee-based service: FIAS                Advanced discussion regarding
Simplification Project              Investment Climate Matter?             Implementation of Doing Business       possible fee-based service:
                                                                           Reforms                                Customs Administration
                                                                                                                  Reforms
                                    TA: Tax Administration and Customs     TA: Tax Administration and Customs
Financial Services:
First Programmatic                                                         TAL: Institutional Strengthening of
Competitiveness DPL                                                        Customs                                     This Proposed DPL


                                                            Financial Sector Policy Area
Knowledge Services:
FSAP Update                         DEC Policy Reports: Finance for        Advisory Work on Financial             TA: Governance on
                                    Growth: Policy Choices in a Volatile   Infrastructure: Payment Systems and    Development Banks
TA on Competition, Access and       World and Finance for All?; .          Credit Bureau
Development Banks, and              Regional Studies: Access to                                                   Development Bank Conference
Capital Markets Development         Finance, SME lending and Capital       Assessment of the Equity Market
                                    Market Development                                                            Capital Markets Conference
Policy Notes: Creating the                                                 Housing Finance Strategy
Foundations for Equitable                                                                                         Financial Education and
Growth                                                                     Crisis Preparedness Training           Consumer Protection Program
                                                                                                                  (Trust Fund)
Financial Services:
Finance for Growth DPL                                                     IL: Private Housing Markets            This Proposed DPL
                                                                           Development Loan (SHF)
Access to Rural Finance Loan
(BANSEFI development bank)                                               Additional Financing to BANSEFI
                                                                         DPL: Economic Policies in Response
                                                                         to the Global Crisis
                                                 Promoting Private Participation in Infrastructure
Knowledge Services:
Policy Notes: Creating the          TA: Regulatory Framework and Best      TA: Adjusting PPP program to Global
Foundations for Equitable           Practice Design of PPPs (Banobras)     Crisis
Growth                              IPER: Federal Toll Road Reforms
Financial Services:
                                                                           IL: Urban Transport Transformation     This Proposed DPL


                                                                      - 15 -
42.     The World Bank together with the IADB conducted a comprehensive
Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) in 2007 helping set the stage for
the public procurement reforms supported by the proposed operation. In addition,
the Results-based Management and Budgeting Project (2009) comprises a component to
strengthen public procurement including the design of a strategic unit for consolidated
public procurement and the development of a human resources plan. The Information
Technology (IT) Industry Development Project (2008) contains a component to review
obstacles posed by the current enabling policy framework to the development of the IT
industry and IT-enabled industries, including aspects related to the supporting
telecommunications infrastructure.

43.    Several World Bank financed-operations have advanced improvements to
business regulations in order to lower the cost of trade and other economic
transactions. On this area, the proposed operation follows up on the First Programmatic
Competitiveness DPL as well as the trade policy pillar of the Economic Policies in
Response to the Global Crisis DPL (2009). The on-going Customs Institutional
Strengthening Project (2009) is assisting the Revenue Administration Service (the
Servicio de Administración Tributaria, SAT) to enhance the efficiency of customs
processes, actions that are highly complementary to the establishment of the Single Trade
Window supported by the proposed operation. In addition, the Foreign Investment
Advisory Services (FIAS) is currently providing advisory services to improve key
business regulations and working on a Business Regulation Simplification Project in
the State of Mexico.
44.     The financial sector policy area of the proposed DPL builds on earlier DPLs
and extensive technical assistance provided during the last decade. Actions to
strengthen prudential regulations expand on the achievements of the earlier Finance and
Growth DPL (2006), the Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) Update (2006),
and other knowledge services such as the assessment of the impact of the global crisis on
Mexico´s financial system (2009). The on-going crisis simulation training constitutes an
important complement to these.

45.    On the access to finance front, the proposed DPL complements critical
actions supported by the Economic Policies in Response to the Global Crisis DPL
(2009), prior technical assistance on credit information systems and mobile banking,
and the on-going technical assistance on financial literacy.9 The World Bank has also
supported public initiatives to foster underdeveloped segments of the market through the
Savings and Rural Finance Project; the Private Housing Finance Markets Strengthening
Project (2008) and complementary advisory services to formulate a Housing Finance




9
 The technical assistance on financial literacy is being conducted in partnership with the National Banking
and Securities Commission (Comisión Nacional Bancaria y de Valores--CNBV) and the National
Commission for the Protection of Users of Financial Services (Comisión Nacional para la Protección y
Defensa de los Usuarios de Servicios Financieros--CONDUSEF).

                                                  - 16 -
strategy (2010-2011); to review the governance of public development banks (2010); and
to analyze the development of Mexico´s equity markets (2010-2011).10

46.    In the area of private participation in infrastructure, the World Bank has
provided extensive knowledge assistance throughout the past decade (see section on
Analytical Underpinnings). Most recently, in response to the global crisis, the Global
Experts team conducted a special technical mission to advise on necessary adjustments to
the GOM's program in light of increased risk aversion by the private sector. At the sub-
national level, the World Bank is building technical capacity to develop the PPP Program
in the State of Jalisco through a grant from the Private Participation in Infrastructure
Trust Fund.11

47.    In addition to the aforementioned sectors, the World Bank has been actively
involved in other areas critical to Mexico's competitiveness including innovation
and education. In education, the World Bank has assisted the GOM through the Tertiary
Education Student Assistance APL I (2005), the Mexico Upper Secondary Education
DPL (2010), the Mexico Education Quality project (2005), and the new Compensatory
Education Project (2010) focused on children in the poorest municipalities of Mexico.
There is also Economic and Sector Work on the Mexican Alliance for Education Quality.
On the innovation front, the World Bank has assisted the GOM through the Innovation
for Competitiveness APL I (2005) and the aforementioned IT Industry Development
(2008) project.

Lessons Learned

48.    The design of the proposed operation takes into account the lessons learned from
the overall program with Mexico as well as the Development Policy Lending
Retrospective (2009).12 The most important lessons include the following:

         Operations should focus on actions that are critical to the achievement of the
         program's objectives and avoid covering too many policy areas. The proposed
         DPL matrix has sought to concentrate on those policy actions that constitute the
         cornerstone of the GOM's program to enhance Mexico's productivity and its
         growth potential. The selection of the policy areas and prior actions follows
         extensive consultations with the GOM and, based on the experience of earlier
         DPLs, the number of prior actions has been limited.

         Strong country ownership is critical to success. The proposed operation responds
         to the GOM's request to support policy areas that are central to its growth and


10
   The Savings and Rural Finance Project was approved in 2004 and additional financing was approved in
2008.
11
   The project assists inter alia with (i) a review of the legal and regulatory framework for PPPs; (ii)
definition of the structure of a PPP unit and identification of training needs; (iii) the structuring of PPP
contracts; (iv) training on the analysis of financial aspects of projects from the private sector perspective;
and (v) training on structuring of business plans for PPP projects.
12
   2009 Development Policy Lending Retrospective, August 2009.

                                                   - 17 -
        competitiveness strategy and around which the GOM has conducted extensive
        consultations with stakeholders. The experience has shown that without strong
        country ownership the risk of reversal of policy reforms is high.

        Prior strong analytical work and continued engagement is a necessary
        precondition. The World Bank has maintained a very fruitful dialogue with the
        GOM on all the policy areas supported by the proposed operation. While strong
        government and country ownership underlies the prior actions contained in the
        proposed operation, the World Bank's global knowledge and analytical work has
        informed the design of these policies and the public debate around them. The CPS
        FY08-13 envisions further assistance and collaborations in the policy areas
        endorsed by the proposed DPL. More specifically, several activities are already
        underway and other follow up activities are planned as detailed above. Most of
        these follow up activities are envisioned as knowledge services as the CPS08-13
        enters a new cycle with greater relative emphasis on advisory and technical
        assistance services.

        Need for a sound and well-structured monitoring system and transparent
        progress review. Measuring impact requires the identification of indicators that
        are closely linked to the prior actions endorsed by the operation. Clear impact
        indicators have been agreed with the GOM as reflected in the Operation Policy
        Matrix (Annex 2). The task team will monitor closely the impact of the policy
        actions supported by the proposed DPL and progress towards the achievement of
        the agreed impact indicators. A framework with the SHCP and other agencies
        involved in the program has been developed so that they will provide information
        on the outcome indicators on a regular basis. Monitoring of outcome indicators
        will also be supported by a structured schedule of supervision missions. Such
        coordination will avoid the problems identified with some of the earlier DPLs,
        where agencies were not well aware of their responsibilities towards program
        implementation and the need to provide information on the outcome indicators.

Analytical Underpinnings

49.     The design of policy reforms on competitiveness has benefitted from a broad
range of analytical studies, and the World Bank through its research and knowledge
services has made important contributions to this analysis. During the political
transition, the World Bank provided inputs to the development of the medium-term
reform agenda in the form of the Policy Notes: Creating the Foundations for Equitable
Growth. The notes highlighted the issues of competition policy, investment climate,
financing and infrastructure for equitable growth.13 A Regional Conference on
Competitiveness, conducted in Mexico City in July 2010 and sponsored by the Ministry
of Economy (Secretaría de Economía) and the World Bank, provided a forum for high-



13
  See Chapter 2: Public and Private Finance for Equitable Growth, Chapter 3: Mexico's Regulation,
Competition and Investment Climate: Some Progress but Key Challenges Ahead, and Chapter 11:
Infrastructure for Human Welfare and Economic Growth.

                                                - 18 -
level policy-makers and entrepreneurs to analyze competitiveness issues and learn from
international experiences on how to overcome them.14 The Governments of Ireland,
Spain and the United States also supported the regional conference.

50.     Extensive research of competition policy issues has been carried out at the
sectoral level, in particular public procurement, infrastructure, the banking and
payments systems, and the pension system.15 Mexico´s Procurement Assessment
Review of 2007, conducted jointly with the IADB, contained an in-depth assessment of
competition issues in public procurement. This assessment together with the follow up
policy dialogue has helped inform the policy reforms contained in the proposed
operation. Additional knowledge services by the World Bank over the course of FY2011
will assist with the implementation of on-going policy reforms.

51.     The World Bank has conducted substantial analysis of the business
environment and regulations at the national and state level (including the Federal
District and the State of México). For example, the study Does the Investment Climate
Matter? (2009) examined the micro-determinants of growth and helped identify key
investment climate factors affecting enterprise productivity in Mexico and other 15 Latin
American countries.16 FIAS advisory services have contributed to the reformulation of
regulations that concern key Doing Business areas and their implementation; these
advisory services will continue through the remainder of the fiscal year. The active policy
dialogue maintained with SAT over the last few years has also contributed to facilitate
tax payments by simplifying tax filing and payment procedures as well as the formulation
of trade facilitation measures.

52.    The Mexico FSAP Update (2006-2007) and follow up analytical work have
provided valuable inputs to the design of financial sector reforms to foster access
and stability.17 Subsequent technical assistance has been carried out in the areas of
banking regulation, crisis simulations, retail payments systems, mobile banking, credit
information bureaus, consumer protection, and competition. On the access and market
development front, the World Bank is currently providing guidance on the formulation of
a housing finance strategy, growth of equity markets, the governance of development
banks, measurement of access to financial services, and financial literacy.

53.     The World Bank has offered intellectual leadership in the design of Public-
Private Partnerships (PPPs). The publication Granting and Renegotiating
Infrastructure Concessions: Doing it Right (2004)18, which contains a conceptual


14
   www.worldbank.org/laccompconf.
15
   For example on pensions see G. Impavido, E. Lasagabaster, and M. García-Huitrón (2010); on payments
systems see Guadamillas (2008), on infrastructure see Levy and Walton (2009).
16
    Does the Investment Climate Matter? (2009), edited by Palob Fajnzybler, José L. Guasch, and José
Humberto Lopez.
17
   The update covered an assessment of the following: financial system stability; regulation and supervision
specific to banking, insurance, securities markets, payment systems, anti-money laundering, and pensions,
and organizational arrangements for financial system oversight; private sector financing; evolution of
development banks; housing finance; derivatives markets; and competition issues in the pension system.
18
   See Granting and Renegotiating Infrastructure Concessions: Doing it Right (2004) by J. L. Guasch.

                                                  - 19 -
framework for establishing robust PPPs and a review of Mexico´s and other international
experiences, has informed the design of the Government´s plan on PPPs.
Complementary World Bank studies (including the Infrastructure Public Expenditure
Review (2005), the Assessment of Financial Instruments to Promote Investments in Water
Sanitation and Sewerage (2008), and the Federal Toll Roads Institutional Reforms19)
have also contributed to the understanding of PPP challenges in Mexico and the
formulation of detailed policy recommendations. In 2009, a World Bank mission assisted
the Government on how to best accelerate the PPP program and adapt it to the challenges
of the global crisis. The analysis covered the regulatory and institutional framework, risk
mitigation instruments to leverage private financing, and assistance to the states on their
PPPs programs.

                            V.          THE PROPOSED OPERATION

Operation Description

54.    The Overall Program Development Objective is to support economic policies
that will strengthen Mexico´s business environment and the micro-economic
foundations for enhanced economic growth and employment generation. This will be
achieved by:
(i)    strengthening the conditions for competition in crucial markets, in particular the
       telecommunications sector and public procurement;
(ii)   streamlining business regulations that will lower trade and other transactions costs
       and facilitate the adoption of new technologies;
(iii) improving the regulatory framework to foster financial sector access, stability and
       market transparency; and
(iv)   promoting public-private partnerships in infrastructure to help build and expand
       core infrastructure services essential to the productivity of Mexican firms.

55.     The four pillars are mutually reinforcing. Improving telecommunication
services is critical to support mobile banking operations so as to expand access to finance
and to build the e-platform necessary to modernize business regulations and public
procurement. Greater use of electronic communication systems in the interaction between
firms and government will also have a positive impact on transparency and the rule of
law. The streamlining of business regulations together with the expansion of
infrastructure through greater private participation will help reduce logistics costs of
Mexican firms increasing their competitiveness and facilitating their access to new export
markets. In addition, the implementation of modern business regulations and greater
access to finance will increase the incentives of becoming formal, the former by reducing
the costs of formality and the latter by making it easier to exploit its benefits.

56.    The proposed operation is consistent with the CPS. As noted earlier, it is part
of a broader programmatic engagement--including investment lending, knowledge and
coordination services--to support the Government's competitiveness and growth agenda


19
     The last study was prepared jointly with the International Finance Corporation.

                                                     - 20 -
(see Box 2 above for a summary of the programmatic engagement by policy area). Box 3
below summarizes the Policy areas supported by the Proposed Operation and key prior
actions and is followed by a detailed discussion of each area.


                         Box 3.   Summary of Prior Actions and Outcome Indicators

                                      Policy Area 1: Competition Policy
 Objective: (i) Enhance competition in the telecommunication markets
           (ii) Increase competition, efficiency and transparency of public procurement
 Prior actions:                                                          Outcome Indicators:*
 Enhancement of competition in the telecommunications markets            Increase in internet users (per 100
 through the actions taken by CFE, SCT and COFETEL as                    inhabitants).
 evidenced, among others, by:
 (a) the issuance of a concession on July 5, 2010, to use a pair of      Increase in users of broadband (per 100
 fibers of the state-owned power utility's fiber-optic network for the   inhabitants).
 provision of telecommunication services; and
 (b) the issuance through Decision (Acuerdo) of COFETEL dated
 December 14, 2009, of bidding documents (bases de licitación) for
 public bidding of multiple concessions for the use of radio
 spectrum in the bandwidths of: 1.9 GHz in eight of the nine
 different spectrum regions of Mexico, and 1.7/2.1 GHz in the nine
 different spectrum regions of Mexico, all for the provision of
 mobile telecommunication services.

 Enhancement of competition, efficiency and transparency of              Implementation of new framework
 public procurement of goods and services as evidenced, among            agreements.
 others, by the enactment of:
 (a) a regulation (Reglamento) to the Law of Acquisitions, Leases        Implementation of additional reverse
 and Services of the Public Sector20 issued by the President and         auctions.
 published in the Official Gazette on July 28, 2010, that establishes
 i.a. the regulations for the use of framework agreements;
 (b) guidelines on Acquisitions, Leases and Services and Public
 Works and Services Related thereto21 issued by SFP and published
 in the Official Gazette on September 9, 2010 that establish inter
 alia the rules for using reverse auctions22 in public procurement
 processes.

            Policy Area 2: Streamlining and Improving the Quality of Business Regulations
 Objective: Reduce business transactions costs and facilitate trade to enhance productivity
 Prior Actions:                                                          Outcome Indicators:
 Implementation of the Zero Base Business Regulation Program as          Reduction in the time to comply with tax
 evidenced, among others, by:                                            obligations as measured by the relevant
 (a) the enactment of a Presidential decree simplifying and              Doing Business index.
 reducing the number of tax declaration and payment procedures,
 published in the Official Gazette on June 30, 2010;                     Cost savings obtained by the private
 (b) the execution of a contract between SAT and a technology            sector from the implementation of the


20
   Reglamento de la Ley de Adquisiciones, Arrendamientos y Servicios del Sector Público
21
   Lineamientos en Materia de Adquisiciones, Arrendamientos y Servicios y de Obras Públicas y Servicios
Relacionados con las Mismas
22
   Referred to in the Law as Ofertas Subsecuentes de Descuentos

                                                   - 21 -
                        Box 3.    Summary of Prior Actions and Outcome Indicators
 integration company for the development and operation of an           Zero Base Business Regulation Program.
 electronic Single Trade Window, dated November 11, 2010; and
 (c) the enactment of four Ministerial Decisions that eliminate        Reduction in the number of international
 redundant certification requirements by recognizing the use in        trade related processes linked to SAT
 Mexico of standards and conformity assessment procedures              and SE.
 applied in the U.S. or Canada for electronic appliances and data
 processing equipment, issued by SE and published in the Official
 Gazette on August 17, 2010.
                          Policy Area 3: Fostering Access to Finance with Stability
 Objective: Foster (i) responsible access to finance and (ii) the stability of the financial system to promote
 growth, competitiveness and improvements in households' living standards
 Prior action:                                                        Outcome Indicators:*
 Enhancement of access to finance and of stability of the financial Number of financial transactions
 system as evidenced, among others, by the enactment of:              conducted through a mobile phone.
 (a) a resolution amending the General Provisions Applicable to
 Credit Institutions (including, inter alia article 325 Bis1 of the   Number of entries (credits) present in
 said general provisions) to facilitate the supply of financial       the credit reporting databases.
 services using mobile phone accounts, issued jointly by SHCP and
 CNBV, and published in the Official Gazette on April 15, 2010;       Production of Financial Stability Report
 (b) a decree amending the Law of Credit Information Societies        by the Financial Stability Council and
 including Articles 19, 20, and 42, to support the enhancement of     activities completed by the Council.
 coverage, data quality and consumer service provided through
 credit bureaus, issued by the President and published in the         Coverage of delinquent mortgage loans
 Official Gazette on May 25, 2010;                                    and non-revolving consumer credit from
 (c) a decree establishing a Financial Stability Council, issued by   commercial banks under new
 the President and published in the Official Gazette on July 29,      methodology.
 2010; and
 (d) prudential regulation strengthening provisioning requirements
 for mortgage loans and non-revolving consumer credit, issued by
 CNBV and published in the Official Gazette on October 12, 2010.
                         Policy Area 4: Promoting Private Participation in Infrastructure
 Objective: Develop a coherent regulatory framework and financing instruments to foster private
 participation in infrastructure
 Prior actions:                                                       Outcome Indicators:*
 Fostering of private investment in infrastructure as evidenced,      Average annual private investment in
 among others, by the enactment of:                                   infrastructure.
  (a) a decree amending the Law on Federal Roads, Bridges and
  Auto Transport to allow extensions of concessions during any of
  its stages, issued by the President and published in the Official
  Gazette on November 4, 2010;
 ( b) a circular letter issued by CONSAR amending the investment
 regime of SIEFORES to authorize them to invest in structured
 securities up to 15% of their portfolio, depending on the risk
 profile of the relevant SIEFORE, published in the Official Gazette
 on June 11, 2010; and
 (c) guidelines issued by the board of FONADIN allowing it to
 participate as a minority investor in private equity funds
 specialized in infrastructure with the purpose of promoting the
 creation of such funds, dated May 14, 2010.
*See Annex 2 for more details



                                                   - 22 -
Policy Area I: Competition Policy23

57.     The empirical literature provides ample evidence that market competition
fosters higher productivity and, in turn, growth. Pressure from competitors can affect
productivity by moving market share toward more efficient producers and inducing firms
to make costly productivity-raising investments (see Syverson, Chad (2010)).24 Yet,
Mexico´s economy is notoriously concentrated. Its telecommunications, television,
cement, banking and brewing industries, among others, are oligopolies or near-
monopolies.25 Notwithstanding the limitations of perception indices, the World Economic
Forum ranks Mexico 116 out of 139 countries on the effectiveness of anti-trust policy,
well below Chile and Brazil and most OECD countries. There is an emerging consensus
on the role of monopolies in explaining Mexico's underperformance in terms of low GDP
growth rates and persistent inequality. Arias, Azuara, Bernal, Heckman and Villarreal
(2009), Chiquiar and Ramos Francia (2009), and Levy and Walton (2009), among others,
coincide on pointing out the importance of monopolies and rent seeking behavior in
explaining Mexico's poor economic performance over the past three decades.26 While
lack of competition in key markets affects all households, the poor are particularly hard
hit. Empirical work by Urzúa (2009) shows that Mexico's poorest families devote at least
7% of their spending to overcharging by firms with market power, and the existence of
market power in key goods has negative distributional consequences.

58.     Mexico's competition policy framework is relatively nascent and presents
many gaps. The Federal Competition Law and the Federal Competition Commission
(Comisión Federal de Competencia--CFC), responsible for enforcing it, date back to
1992 and 1993, respectively, compared with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission which
has been in place for more than a century. The initial law presented many weaknesses,
which together with limited resources and a steep learning curve restricted the ability of
CFC to fulfill its mandate. The law was amended in 2006 expanding CFC's authorities,
but it did not raise them to best practices in the OECD. The 2006 legal amendments
together with institutional changes within CFC have allowed it to improve its
performance and obtain a few major achievements. For example, the institution has
become a more forceful advocate of competition policy and positively influenced various
sectoral laws and regulations and uncovered major collusive practices in public


23
   See Annexes 4a-c for a more detailed discussion.
24
   Syverson, Chad (2010)). What Determines Productivity?, Journal of Economic Literature, forthcoming
(http://home.uchicago.edu/~syverson/productivitysurvey.pdf)
25
   Concentration in a given market does not imply, per se, lack of competition. However, competition
agencies consider the existence of concentration in a relevant market as a necessary condition for the
effective implementation of anticompetitive conducts with negative impact on economic efficiency or
consumer welfare.
26
   Arias, Javier, Azuara, Oliver, Bernal, Pedro, Heckman, James J. and Villarreal, Cajeme (2009), "Policies
to Promote Growth and Economic Efficiency in Mexico," IZA Discussion Paper No. 4740. Available at:
http://ideas.repec.org/p/iza/izadps/dp4740.html; Chiquiar, D. and Manuel Ramos-Francia (2009);
"Competitiveness and growth of the Mexican economy," Banco de Mexico, Working Papers, No. 2009-11,
November 2009. Available at: http://ideas.repec.org/p/bdm/wpaper/2009-11.html; and Levy, Santiago and
Michael Walton (2009), No Growth without Equity?: Inequality, Interests, and Competition in Mexico,
Washington, DC: The World Bank.

                                                  - 23 -
procurement (Annex 4c). Cognizant that the legal reforms of 2006 were not
comprehensive enough, the GOM presented Congress a new round of amendments to the
Federal Competition Law. These would further strengthen the authorities of CFC.

59.      In addition, the GOM is supporting various reforms to stimulate greater
competition in key economic sectors. In the midst of the global crisis when countries
where imposing protectionist measures, the GOM initiated a reduction of the most
favored nation tariffs on manufactured imports and increased the number of duty free
tariff lines.27 These measures sought to decrease the costs of intermediate inputs and
capital goods and increase the competitiveness of Mexican firms. The authorities have
also advanced important reforms in public procurement and the telecommunications
sector with the purpose of enhancing competition. The former should bring about
significant fiscal savings, and the latter better and cheaper access by firms and consumers
to telecommunication services­an important goal as Mexico seeks to move towards a
knowledge economy. Both of these reforms are further discussed below.

The Prior Actions on Competition Policy are:

              Enhancement of competition in the telecommunications markets through
              actions taken by CFE, SCT and COFETEL as evidenced by:
         (i) the issuance of a concession on July 5, 2010, to use a pair of fibers of the
              state-owned power utility's fiber-optic network for the provision of
              telecommunication services; and
         (ii) the issuance, through Decision (Acuerdo) of COFETEL dated December 14,
              2009, of bidding documents (Bases de Licitación) for public bidding of
              multiple concessions for the use of radio spectrum in the bandwidths of: 1.9
              GHz in eight of the nine different spectrum regions of Mexico, and 1.7/2.1
              GHz in the nine different spectrum regions of Mexico, all for the provision of
              mobile telecommunication services.
          Enhancement of competition, efficiency and transparency of public
              procurement of goods and services as evidenced, among others, by the
              enactment of:
         (i) a regulation (Reglamento) to the Law of Acquisitions, Leases and Services of
              the Public Sector28 issued by the President and published in the Official
              Gazette on July 28, 2010, establishing inter alia the regulations for the use of
              framework agreements; and
         (ii) guidelines on Acquisitions, Leases and Services and Public Works and
              Services Related thereto29 issued by SFP and published in the Official
              Gazette on September 9, 2010, establishing inter alia the rules for using
              reverse auctions30 in public procurement processes.


27
   These trade reforms became effective in January 2009 and will be fully implemented over five years.
The most substantial tariff reductions, however, will take place during the first two years.
28
   Reglamento de la Ley de Adquisiciones, Arrendamientos y Servicios del Sector Público.
29
   Lineamientos en Materia de Adquisiciones, Arrendamientos y Servicios y de Obras Públicas y Servicios
Relacionados con las Mismas.
30
   Referred to in the Law as Ofertas Subsecuentes de Descuentos.

                                                 - 24 -
Enhancing competition in telecommunications markets31

60.     Increasing competition in the telecommunications industry is important to
Mexico's competitiveness agenda since it is a platform technology with an impact on
all other economic activities. The performance of the Mexican telecommunications
sector improved significantly after the privatization of the country's telephone operator in
1990. Yet the limited scope of competition, since the industry was initially privatized as
an unregulated monopoly and remains dominated by one group, caused improvements to
be far smaller than those observed in OECD countries and other places.

61.     In May 2009, President Calderon announced a tender to lease of part of the
fiber-optic network owned and operated by the Federal Electricity Commission
(CFE). In January 2010, the bidding rules for the lease of a pair of dark fibers32 of the
fiber-optic network were published. On June 9, the bidding process was concluded and
the lease was awarded to a single consortium formed by three telecommunications
companies. Previous to the lease of part of CFE's fiber-optic network, there was only
one nationwide network available for telecommunications owned by the main operator,
which sub-leases capacity to other operators at higher costs because of its power as a
dominant player. The lease of part of CFE's fiber-optic network provides for additional
competition taking advantage of existing infrastructure, which should be reflected fairly
rapidly in increased service provision and coverage, at lower prices.

62.     After a series of public consultations carried out in 2005 and 2006,
COFETEL proposed a program of tenders to license additional radio spectrum
which was published in 2008. COFETEL published the public call to acquire the
bidding rules for the 1.9 GHz and 1.7/2.1 GHz frequencies, used for mobile telephone
services, in November, 2009, and subsequently issued the bidding rules in December,
2009. A total amount of 120 MHz was made available and divided in: (i) 30 MHz for the
1.9 GHz band in 3 blocks of 10 MHz each for eight of the nine spectrum regions of the
country, and (ii) 90 MHz for the 1.7/2.1 GHz band in two national blocks of 30 MHz
each and the remainder in three regional blocks of 10 MHz in the nine different spectrum
regions of the country. Following a resolution issued by CFC, limits to the accumulation
of spectrum that operators could obtain were included in the bidding rules. The regional
maximum was set at 70 MHz for the 1.9 GHz auction, considering the original
allocations of spectrum in the bands of 800 MHz and 824 MHz; and a regional maximum
was set at 80 MHz for the 1.7/2.1 GHz auction, considering the aforementioned
allocations of spectrum plus 1.7/2.1 GHz. The use of spectrum caps offers an effective
form of intervention in the competitive process which can benefit end users (Cave, 2009).



31
   See Annex 4b for a more detailed discussion.
32
   Dark fiber is unused optical fibers available for use in fiber-optic communications. One reason that dark
fiber exists in well-planned networks is that much of the cost of installing cables is in the civil engineering
work required. This includes planning and routing, obtaining permissions, creating ducts and channels for
the cables, and finally installation and connection. This work usually accounts for more than 60% of the
cost of developing fiber networks. Many fiber optic cable owners such as railroads or power utilities have
always added additional fibers for lease to other carriers.

                                                    - 25 -
63.    The design of the auction included two key elements that had a critical
impact on the final outcome. First, the definition of the spectrum blocks to be
auctioned (two national blocks of 30 MHz each and the remainder in three regional
blocks of 10 MHz in each of the nine different spectrum regions) responded to both
technical and market considerations. Second, CFC set the spectrum accumulation cap of
80 MHz to promote competition in end-user markets. By using a cap in combination
with the national blocks, there was the explicit intention to encourage new entrants in the
mobile phone market in Mexico. The Government thus, willingly, let a competition
policy motivation prevail over an immediate revenue maximization one. Through the
two competitive auctions concluded in July of 2010, it awarded licenses for the use of 90
MHz of radio spectrum managing to increase the average amount of spectrum allocation
per operator and to reduce the concentration in spectrum allocation among them.33

64.    The leasing of part of the fiber-optic network owned and operated by the
Federal Electricity Commission (CFE) and licensing of additional radio spectrum
are expected to have a positive impact on both access and prices. In particular, it is
expected that the penetration of internet services, including broadband services, will
increase substantially.

Enhancing competition in public procurement34

65.     Until recently, excessive regulatory complexity, and the need for more
effective competition and governance had characterized Mexico's public
procurement system (see World Bank Country Procurement Assessment Review
(CPAR) of 2007). The legal amendments to the Law of Acquisitions, Leases and Services
of the Public Sector enacted in 2009 together with the regulations to the law issued in
July 2010 have taken several important steps towards addressing these issues. The most
important reforms include introduction of the use of framework agreements and reverse
auctions mechanisms, establishing a more comprehensive role for the electronic platform
CompraNet (including the possibility of electronic bidding), addressing some of the bid-
opening procedures, and providing an out-of-court conciliation process managed by the
Civil Service Ministry.

66.     The introduction of framework agreements and the strengthening of
CompraNet´s role have potentially profound medium and long-term benefits that
should significantly improve the practice of procurement in Mexico. Framework
agreements, introduced successfully in public procurement in several countries over the
last few years, are agreements with suppliers, the purpose of which is to establish the
terms governing contracts to be awarded during a given period, in particular with regard


33
   All the corresponding concession titles have been issued to the successful bidders. The issuance of several
titles of concession has been challenged in Mexican courts by an incumbent operator. As of the date of this
program document, the legal challenges have not prevented the use of the concession titles for bandwidth
1.9 GHz, but they have prevented, for the time being, the use of the concession titles for bandwidth 1.7/2.1
GHz. The final resolution of these legal proceedings is still pending and could affect the issuance of these
titles and the use of the rights entailed in them.
34
   See Annex 4c for a more detailed discussion.

                                                   - 26 -
to price and quantity. Framework agreements should open the way for aggregation and/or
streamlining the contracting process. They are important mechanisms for raising the
performance of procurement and should benefit both the Government as a buyer and
suppliers including small businesses. They can be particularly effective in circumstances
where: (i) there is frequent re-ordering of a product or service; (ii) the required delivery
dates cannot be predicted; (iii) independent buying units within a Ministry or between
different Ministries are duplicating each other's efforts and acquiring the same supplies;
and (iv) crisis planning (such as for natural disasters) cannot accommodate the time
required for traditional processes. All of the above circumstances emerged frequently in
Mexico´s public procurement, but until recently, the regulatory framework had not
acknowledged them. In order to take full advantage of the potential of framework
agreements, the Ministry of Public Procurement (Secretaría de la Función Pública--
SFP) is strengthening its capacity. Among others, it has created a new unit responsible
for framework agreements--including the carrying out of the necessary market
intelligence (Annex 4c).

67.    The second transformative change to the procurement process is the
enhanced role for the electronic procurement platform, CompraNet. When launched
ten years ago, this platform was an international leader. However, it did not evolve over
the years and remained largely as a document management and publishing facility. Its
potential was unrealized with most tenders being submitted by traditional paper means,
making it more cumbersome and costly to both the government (the buyer) as well as
suppliers. The greater use of CompraNet (allowing for the possibility of including all the
steps of the electronic bidding process) is a very positive development. Its expanded
functionality should reduce significantly transactions costs to both the government and
suppliers, and make the overall procurement process more transparent and competitive. It
will also make it easier to detect and investigate potential collusive behavior. The
Ministry of Public Administration has already formulated an action plan to make the
wider functionality of CompraNet operational in sequential steps.

68.     The regulatory amendments have also opened the way for the
implementation of reverse auctions. The amendments to the Law of Acquisitions,
Leases and Services of the Public Sector allowed the option of reverse auctions but
required the issuance of regulations to provide critical implementation guidelines. In view
of the learning process that such reverse auctions entail, the Ministry of Public
Administration decided to conduct a series of pilots. Six pilot programs on the use of
reverse auctions involving the purchase of pharmaceutical products by PEMEX and by
the Mexican Social Security Institute (the Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social--IMSS),
and coal by the Federal Electricity Commission (Comisión Federal de Electricidad--CFE)
were implemented from late 2009 through mid-2010. The results were satisfactory with
preliminary estimates suggesting that the use of the reverse auctions together with the
consolidation of purchases could have resulted in savings of US$50 million and US$150
million in drug acquisitions by IMSS and coal acquisition by CFE, respectively. The
regulations issued in July 2010 have opened the way for all federal agencies to use the
reverse auction model when market conditions are deemed appropriate. As a result of
these regulatory reforms, it is expected that the Government will increase the use of


                                           - 27 -
reverse auctions and will start issuing framework agreements so as to enhance
competition and decrease transaction costs to public agencies.

69.    In the medium term, the Government plans to focus on the consolidation of these
reforms, which will require changes in the role and expertise of the SFP and making the
extensions to the application of CompraNet fully operational.

Policy Area II: Streamlining Business Regulations35

70.     Redundant, poorly designed and implemented business regulations increase
the costs of firms, hinder new export opportunities, and create opportunities for
corruption. In 2000, the GOM took important steps to improve the quality of business
regulations through the creation of the Federal Commission of Regulatory Improvement
(Comisión Federal de la Mejora Regulatoria or COFEMER). Over the years, this reform
effort lost some of its initial momentum. In addition, it did not include a comprehensive
review of the costs of regulations already in place.

71.     Yet, there was significant room to streamline existing business regulations
which lagged substantially practices applied in most OECD countries. Most
transactions required by the federal government had not yet migrated to electronic
platforms, required excessive documentation, and followed outdated processes imposing
unnecessary costs and generating delays in business operations. For the trading across
borders indicator, Mexico ranked 74 out of 183 in the 2010 Doing Business report. Until
recently, the process to conduct trade activities had been very complex demanding
interactions with more the 30 stakeholders. Over the last couple of years, the GOM has
implemented measures to facilitate tax payments. The number of yearly payments was
drastically cut from 27 to 6, which helped improve Mexico´s Doing Business rank for
paying taxes from 149 (out of 183 countries in 2009) to 106 in 2010. Compliance time,
however, remained excessively high compared to most OECD countries.

The Zero Base Regulation Approach

72.      Cognizant of the economic costs imposed by unnecessary regulations, the
GOM has launched a new ambitious and comprehensive reform that seeks to move
toward a Zero Base Regulation Approach. The reform will eliminate and simplify
procedures and norms, keeping only those strictly necessary and justified, with the aim of
reducing costs imposed on businesses, facilitating the entry and exit of firms, and
removing barriers that hinder innovation. The reform of business regulations, coordinated
by the Ministry of Economy, is being implemented in parallel to a similar ambitious
initiative to streamline internal regulations, coordinated by the Ministry of Public
Administration.

73.    The Ministry of Economy has prioritized more than 40 regulatory processes
whose reform can achieve the biggest economic impact. According to preliminary
estimates by the Ministry, the simplification of these regulations could lead to annual

35
     See Annex 4d for a more detailed discussion.

                                                    - 28 -
savings of about 0.4% of GDP once the reforms are fully consolidated. The economic
impact was estimated on the basis of incidence (the number of times that an individual or
firm must comply with it) and the economic value associated to the regulatory
compliance (Annex 4d). The simplification of these norms is being implemented in
stages and is expected to be completed by late 2011. The first three important packages of
administrative reforms entail: (i) the simplification of tax payments; (ii) the
harmonization of technical norms; and (iii) the establishment of a Single Trade Window.

The prior actions linked to the Streamlining of Business Regulations are:

     Reduction of business transaction costs and facilitating trade as evidenced,
     among others, by:
     (i)    the enactment of a Presidential decree simplifying and reducing the
            number of tax declaration and payment procedures, published in the
            Official Gazette on June 30, 2010;
     (ii)   the execution of a contract between SAT and a technology integration
            company for the development and operation of an electronic Single Trade
            Window, dated November 11, 2010; and
     (iii) the enactment of four Ministerial Decisions that eliminate redundant
            certification requirements by recognizing the use in Mexico of standards
            and conformity assessment procedures applied in the U.S. or Canada for
            electronic appliances and data processing equipment, issued by SE and
            published in the Official Gazette on August 17, 2010.

Simplification of tax payments

74.     Following on recent initiatives to facilitate tax payments, a Presidential
Decree was issued in June 2010 that seeks to reduce the time and resources that
firms spend complying with fiscal obligations. The decree establishes the following
simplifications:

       The elimination of the monthly declaration of the Flat-Rate Business Tax (IETU).

       The elimination of the annual declaration of the Value Added Tax.

       The elimination of mandatory annual tax and social security contributions
       external audit reports.

       Taxpayers with a credit from the Cash Deposit Tax (IDE by its Spanish acronym)
       will be able to obtain a re-imbursement without the need for a review by a public
       accountant.

       The validity of the Electronic Signature, required for filling out tax forms, will be
       extended from two to four years.

75.    It is estimated that these measures will reduce the time to comply with fiscal
obligations (as measured by the Doing Business) and will save taxpayers about
MX$15 billion (US$1.2 billion) each year, equivalent to a 6 percent reduction in

                                          - 29 -
overall compliance costs. Small and medium enterprises (SMEs) will be the primary
beneficiaries of the reform since they typically have fewer resources to hire special
advice to help them meet their tax requirements. The GOM also expects that the reform
will decrease tax collection costs from 1.3 percent36 of total tax revenues to less than 1
percent, close to the OECD average (0.98 percent).

Harmonization of technical norms

76.     Until recently, Mexico required certification of compliance with standards
(Norma Oficial Mexicana, NOMs) for products to be used in the country, causing
redundant testing as goods are produced and tested according to similar standards
elsewhere. Demonstrating compliance with NOMs required the submission of samples to
certified laboratories for testing and product certification, taking time and involving
costs. Delays often implied that by the time a product was certified, a technologically
superior product was already available in the global market.

77.     To eliminate redundant certification requirements and facilitate access to
capital goods and consumer products embodying the latest technologies, Mexico has
initiated a process of recognizing the equivalence between NOMs and international
product standards. This process, which will be implemented in phases, has started with
specific products and with Mexico's NAFTA counterparts.37 The first stage was launched
in August 2010 with the issuance of a Presidential Decree that recognizes the equivalence
of compliance with standards and conformity assessment procedures on electronic
appliances and data processing equipment with those used in the United States and
Canada. The measure will enable electronic goods to be commercialized in the country
with either a certificate of compliance with the corresponding NOM or a certificate of
compliance issued by recognized U.S. or Canadian based certification bodies.
Preliminary estimates by the GOM suggest that the industry could save up to MX$2
billion (US$155 million) on a yearly basis. A second phase of harmonization is focusing
on health products starting with medical equipment and devices (see Annex 4d). In
November 2010, the Ministry of Health through the Federal Commission for the
Protection against Sanitary Risk (COFEPRIS) simplified the evaluation process for
medical devices that are already certified by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
(FDA) and Health Canada.

78.     As a complement to the recognition of the equivalence of the NOMs with
international product standards, an amendment to the Regulation of the Federal
Law on Metrology and Standardization is in process. When approved, the amendment
will allow NOMs to be developed in a more expeditious way, using as a reference
international standards.



36
   This is based on the performance of the last ten years.
37
   The determination of the equivalence of product standards will follow a careful analysis that will take
into account: (i) that the technical standards of NAFTA partners fulfill the same objectives of NOMs and
(ii) that the conformity assessment procedures used in the United States and Canada provide an assurance
that the goods to be imported comply with the certification procedures applied in Mexico.

                                                  - 30 -
Establishment of a Single Trade Window

79.      To reduce costs related to trade transactions, the Government has initiated
the development of a Single Trade Window. This reform will allow enterprises to
comply with all trade related regulations (e.g., customs clearances, and obtaining licenses
as well as health, environmental and other certificates) through a single electronic
platform. Presently, enterprises have to manage all these processes with separate federal
institutions and, for the most part, processes are not automated. By bringing all trade
related processes under a single electronic portal, compliance time and costs will be
substantially reduced. A substantial revision and reengineering of procedures will
accompany its creation, but existing health and environmental standards will continue to
apply. International experience has shown38 that the establishment of this kind of tools
results in improved efficiency and effectiveness of official controls and decreases costs to
both governments and traders.

80.     The Single Trade Window will be established in phases. The Ministry of
Economy, the Customs Administration Agency (Servicio de Administración Tributaria-
SAT) and SHCP, which cover more than half of all trade transaction processes, will be
fully integrated with the platform by September 2011; the Ministry of Health, the
Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, and the
Ministry of National Defense by January 2012; and another 6 institutions by June 2012
(Annex 4d). An international bidding process was conducted to select the contractor that
will be responsible for its development, and the execution of the contract has already
begun. The contractor will be responsible inter alia for: (i) change management within
all the public institutions involved, (ii) the reengineering of processes, (iii) the
development of the software and its integration with the supporting hardware, and (iv) the
development of e-learning modules for the trading community. In addition, the contractor
will support its operation during the first five years of implementation. A Presidential
Decree will be issued shortly providing further support to the establishment of the Single
Trade Window. The Government expects that the reform will cut substantially the
number of international trade related processes from 107 to 60 by the end of 2011, with
further reductions taking place in 2012.

Policy Area III: Fostering Financial Access with Stability 39

Trends and recent developments

81.     Overall, the Mexican financial system was fairly resilient to the global
financial crisis due to improvements in prudential regulations and oversight as well
as bank risk management. At the outset of the crisis, banks presented strong
profitability and capital buffers. The portfolio quality of banking institutions deteriorated
during the crisis, but it is now improving due to the economic rebound and better
management of the consumer portfolio. The level of non-performing loans was 2.5


38
   UN/CEFACT: United Nations Centre for Trade Facilitation and Electronic Business. (Recommendation
No. 33, 2004).
39
   See Annex 4e for a more detailed discussion

                                              - 31 -
percent in September 2010, and capital adequacy ratios stood at 17 percent.
Notwithstanding its resilience, the crisis exposed a number of vulnerabilities in the
system.

82.     Despite a modern regulatory framework, the Mexican financial sector
remains small relative to the size of the economy. Private sector credit as a percentage
of GDP amounted to 21 percent in 2008, well below that of other high-middle income
countries, such as Brazil, Chile, Malaysia, Thailand and Turkey. Commercial bank assets
constitute 45 percent of GDP compared to more than 85 percent of GDP and 110 percent
of GDP in Brazil and Chile, respectively. The system is dominated by banks which hold
57 percent of total assets.

83.     Although Mexico experienced double-digit credit growth prior to the global
crisis, credit to firms in Mexico has traditionally lagged behind other high middle
income countries. In particular, small firms, face greater constraints to credit access.
According to surveys by Banco de México, the percent of firms with bank credit had
peaked at just 30 percent prior to the global crisis, while the corresponding peak for small
firms was less than 25 percent. During the global crisis, these rates declined substantially
reaching 25 percent and 15 percent for the average of all firms and the average of small
firms, respectively, in mid-2009.

84.     An important share of the Mexican population (40 percent of adults) does not
have access to basic formal financial services.40 Although the branch infrastructure in
Mexico has expanded relative to 2005 levels, particularly following recent reforms
permitting banking through agents, it is still below levels seen in comparable countries
such as Chile and even Guatemala, which has a lower per capita income. Moreover, the
banking infrastructure is very unevenly distributed within the country, with the majority
of municipalities (64 percent) deprived of a single bank branch, especially municipalities
in the south.41

Policies to Foster Financial Access with Stability

85.    In the wake of the global financial crisis, financial sector policy has continued
to feature prominently in Mexico´s development agenda. On the one hand, the GOM
is addressing the vulnerabilities that emerged during the global crisis. On the other, the
GOM is vigorously pursuing a multi-pronged approach to expand responsible access to
financial services.

The prior actions in the Financial Sector Policy Area are:

        Enhancement of access to finance and of stability of the financial system as
        evidenced, among others, by the enactment of:



40
  The figures are based on the access to financial services survey conducted by SHCP in 2009.
41
 Comisión Nacional Bancaria y de Valores (CNBV). (2010). Presentation on "Consideraciones sobre el
Esquema de Corresponsales Bancarios," Mexico City, January 25, 2010.

                                              - 32 -
       (i) a resolution amending the General Provisions Applicable to Credit Institutions
             (including, inter alia article 325 Bis1 of the said general provisions) to
             facilitate the supply of financial services using mobile phone accounts, issued
             jointly by SHCP and CNBV, and published in the Official Gazette on April
             15, 2010;
       (ii) a decree amending the Law of Credit Information Societies including Articles
             19, 20, and 42, to support the enhancement of coverage, data quality and
             consumer service provided through credit bureaus, issued by the President
             and published in the Official Gazette on May 25, 2010;
       (iii) a decree establishing a Financial Stability Council, issued by the President
             and published in the Borrower's Official Gazette on July 29, 2010; and
       (iv) prudential regulation strengthening provisioning requirements for mortgage
             loans and non-revolving consumer credit, issued by CNBV and published in
             the Official Gazette on October 12, 2010.

Strengthening financial stability

86.     The crisis has highlighted the need for a more systemic approach in
prudential regulation and oversight. With the objective of moving towards a more
macroprudential framework, the GOM established in July 2010 an inter-agency
Financial Stability Council. The Council will ensure greater collaboration and the timely
flow of information among institutions and will lay the foundations for better monitoring
and management of potential systemic risks. It will be responsible inter alia for
producing and disseminating a report on financial stability and its activities on a yearly
basis. The Council is chaired by the SHCP and comprises participation from Banco de
Mexico, the CNBV and the Insurance Supervisory Commission (Comisión Nacional de
Seguros y Fianzas). In parallel, the Government is strengthening its capabilities for crisis
management.

87.     Regulations on credit provisioning and credit to related parties are being
upgraded in response to vulnerabilities observed prior to and during the crisis. In
particular, the accelerated rise in consumer lending registered prior to the crisis raised
concerns on the quality of underwriting standards, the risks associated with the consumer
credit portfolio and the adequacy of provisions, prompting a revision of regulations. In
mid-2009, the CNBV modified the credit card provisioning regulations from an incurred
loss to an expected-loss approach, following the guidelines of the Basel Committee. In
October 2010, the CNBV issued a regulation on the provisioning of non-revolving
consumer credit and mortgages that entailed a similar paradigmatic change. These new
measures will become effective in March 2011. The change is expected to result in more
robust credit monitoring practices and more sustainable credit growth.

Promoting financial inclusion

88.     The GOM has put in place a comprehensive strategy to expand access to
underserved segments of the population. Key pillars of this strategy are: (i) creating an
enabling regulatory environment for the use of innovative delivery channels which are
better suited to serve the needs of the population unattended by banks, (ii) enhancing

                                           - 33 -
critical financial infrastructure such as credit bureaus and the retail payment systems, and
(iii) strengthening the framework for consumer protection as well as consumer education.
Although important elements of this strategy have been implemented since the early
2000s (Box 2 in Annex 4e), the strategy has gained pace during the last few years.

89.     In the spirit of promoting innovative and cost-effective delivery channels, the
CNBV issued a regulation in April 2010 allowing commercial banks to contract
mobile phone companies to offer financial services on their behalf. To make it
effective, in early 2010, Banco de Mexico issued a regulation providing for limited
documentation requirements to open low-value transaction accounts. These two changes
build on amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions (June 2009), which permitted
banks to contract third parties to provide financial services on behalf of the bank. With
more than 80 million active cell phone lines in Mexico for a population of 108 million42,
the "mobile banking" channel has the potential to substantially reduce geographic
disparities in basic financial service provision. By moving financial services beyond
banks' traditional `bricks-and-mortar' infrastructure and shifting them to a lower cost and
widely available channel, financial services can be offered profitably and sustainably to
segments of the population that are poorer or more remote, and that are currently
neglected by regulated financial institutions. Other international experiences (e.g., Kenya
and the Philippines) have shown that the number of financial transactions executed via
mobile phones is moderate in the first year but can accelerate reaching the millions as
consumers become more familiar with the product.43 In Mexico, it is expected that at
least 10,000 financial transactions will have been executed through this new channel by
the end 2011, with expectations that they will rise substantially thereafter.

90.     While the enactment of the Law on Credit Information Bureaus in 2001 was a
critical step in helping to expand the coverage of credit information bureaus, a
number of institutional gaps remained which recent amendments have tried to
address. In May 2010, the law was amended with the purpose of increasing the coverage
and data quality of credit bureaus as well as the quality of services to consumers whose
data is included in the credit bureau. It is expected that the number of entries in the credit
reporting database will have increased by at least 4 percent by the end of 2011. The legal
amendments establish minimum requirements on the content of credit reports and make
efforts to improve data quality by requiring all credit bureaus to specify the origin of data.
It also attempts to increase incentives for information sharing between different credit
bureaus. By strengthening data quality and facilitating data sharing, asymmetries of
information between borrowers and financial institutions will be narrowed and new
lending institutions will gain access to records--all of which should facilitate competition
and access to credit. Better quality data will also contribute to sounder credit portfolios.


42
  Federal Telecommunications Commission (Comisión Federal de Telecomunicaciones--COFETEL)
43
   The impact indicator used for mobile accounts was developed by examining the trajectories of growth of mobile
payments and mobile banking in Kenya, the United States and Philippines. In the three cases, the countries had fewer
than 500,000 users more than three years after the accounts became available in these countries. However, as
consumers become familiar and services reach a critical mass, the number of accounts surges. For example, Kenya now
has roughly 10 million users of mobile accounts (25 percent of its total population). Ultimately, Mexico forecasts that
35% of its population with access to mobile phones (approximately 80 million people) will avail themselves of these
services.

                                                       - 34 -
In addition, the law improves consumer protection by defining penalties for credit
bureaus that do not comply with minimum service standards to consumers and provides
clear grievance procedures for consumers.

91.     Going forward, the authorities envision a financial sector reform agenda that
continues to foster stability together with market development and inclusion. The
GOM plans to submit to Congress amendments to the Law of Credit Institutions to
further strengthen the bank resolution framework and to define a framework for covered
bonds in order to facilitate long-term bank financing to the housing sector. It is also
collaborating with Congress on a proposal to expand the perimeter of regulation to
specialized financial institutions (Sofomes) that might present systemic risks. In addition,
the GOM intends to move towards the new regulatory framework of Basel III. This is
expected to require little adjustment to Mexican banks, which were already subject to
more stringent capital requirements.

Policy Area IV: Fostering Private Participation in Infrastructure44

Historical trends and challenges

92.     Despite significant advances over the last two decades, Mexico´s
infrastructure needs to support high growth and poverty reduction remain
substantial. Infrastructure services are critical inputs to the production of both goods and
services, and its inadequate supply constitutes one of the most important bottlenecks to
doing business in Mexico. Logistic costs in Mexico remain well above 20 percent of
product value (particularly for SMEs), when OECD benchmarks are close to 8 percent.
Such high costs hamper efforts at export diversification (Guasch 2006, Jordan et al 2009).
The World Economic Forum ranks Mexico 69 and 79 (out of 139 countries) on the
effectiveness and quality of its infrastructure, respectively. Gaps are prevalent in all
infrastructure sectors, but they are most acute in telecommunications, railways, ports and
highways. Highway coverage is quite low.

93.     During the last three decades, Mexico´s investments in infrastructure were
less than half those in fast growing economies. Excluding hydrocarbons, it invested
less than 2 percent of GDP in infrastructure versus 5.8 percent in Chile, more than 6
percent in most East Asian countries, and as high as 12 percent in China. To address its
growth and poverty challenges, Mexico needs to invest, at least, 4 percent to 6 percent of
GDP (Fay and Yepes 2008). Given budgetary constraints and opportunities for efficiency
gains, a large share of that financing will have to come from the private sector. Thus, the
need to foster a proper environment for public-private partnerships (PPPs) in
infrastructure.

94.     Four key challenges have limited private participation in the sector: (i)
coordination and institutional gaps; (ii) shortcomings in the legal framework; (iii)
difficulties in financing projects; and (iv) deficiencies in the structuring of projects.


44
     See Annex 4f for a more detailed discussion

                                                   - 35 -
Insufficient coordination of investment planning and inadequate transparency and
accountability have affected infrastructure development more broadly and PPP
development in particular. Federal ministries, agencies and local governments have been
relatively isolated in the planning and implementation of infrastructure spending (IPER
2005). Fragmented information systems and decisions about funding allocations have led
to disparate sectoral outcomes. Frequently, the various actors do not share information
well diminishing the space for accountability. In addition, Mexico does not have a legal
framework suited to the specific challenges of PPPs. It has a Law of Acquisitions,
Leases and Services of the Public Sector, but its provisions are not appropriate to the
complex and long-term contractual nature of PPPs. Elements of other relevant laws,
enacted many years ago, present problems to the implementation of an effective PPP
program causing significant delays and increasing risks to investors.

95.     Mexico is not immune to the standard financing issues that usually affect
PPPs (inter alia difficulties to secure long-term financing, syndication difficulties,
and refinancing issues). These challenges are aggravated by the lesser development of
Mexico´s financial sector relative to other high middle income countries (Annex 4f).
Gaps in procedures and the design structure of projects have sometimes dampened the
interest of potential sponsors, a problem that was aggravated by the global crisis and
heightened risk aversion of investors. While the potential for PPPs at the sub-national
level is extensive (e.g., on water and sanitation, solid waste, and roads), the problems
listed above are typically more acute. Sub-national governments have very limited fiscal
space and the credibility of their commitments to deliver on contractual payments is often
questioned by project sponsors.

The Public Policy Response

96.     The Government, aware of the substantial infrastructure needs, has
identified infrastructure as a national policy priority. Mexico's targets are to increase
the country's ranking in infrastructure to the top 30 by 2030, raise annual investments in
infrastructure above 5 percent of GDP, and secure at least 58 percent of that investment
from private sources. The authorities have established a five-year National Infrastructure
Plan (Plan Nacional de Infraestructura or PNI) for 2007-2012 that seeks to enhance the
coverage and competitiveness of Mexico's infrastructure and commits to investments of
almost US$240 billion, both public and private. The plan identifies over 300
infrastructure projects in multiple sectors to be financed mostly trough public-private
partnerships, with significant Mexican public sector investment and support for PPPs.

97.     Substantial progress has been achieved in the implementation of the National
Investment Plan. During the current administration, infrastructure investment has risen
by 30% in spite of the global crisis. During the last 3 years, infrastructure investments
(including hydrocarbons) have amounted to an average of 4.69 percent of GDP on a
yearly basis, representing a 40 percent completion of the target set out in the National
Infrastructure Plan (Annex 4f). About 80 percent of infrastructure investment registered
during the first half of the administration corresponds to public resources. The private
portfolio in infrastructure has recorded a substantial increase of 44 percent from 2006 to


                                          - 36 -
mid-2010. Yet, it has not reached the targeted levels, to a large extent due to the
unfavorable global environment.

98.    To facilitate PPP development, the Government has formulated a
comprehensive program and has been systematically addressing the aforementioned
weaknesses since 2007. The program is a multi-year effort that covers institutional
aspects, improvements to the design and structure of PPPs, modifications to the legal
framework, and a comprehensive financial support program. The Proposed Operation
seeks to recognize the advancements made by the Government with the prior actions
focusing on the most noteworthy reforms implemented during the past year.

Prior actions on Fostering Private Participation in Infrastructure:

       Fostering of private investment in infrastructure as evidenced, among others, by
       the enactment of:

       (i) a decree amending the Law on Federal Roads, Bridges and Auto Transport to
       allow extensions of concessions during any of its stages, issued by the President
       and published in the Official Gazette on November 4, 2010;
       (ii) a circular letter issued by CONSAR amending the investment regime of
       SIEFORES to authorize them to invest in structured securities up to 15% of their
       portfolio, depending on the risk profile of the relevant SIEFORE, published in the
       Official Gazette on June 11, 2010; and
       (iii) guidelines issued by the board of FONADIN allowing it to participate as a
       minority investor in private equity funds specialized in infrastructure with the
       purpose of promoting the creation of such funds, dated May 14, 2010.

Enhancement of the regulatory and policy framework.

99.     The GOM has started to address the legal weaknesses of Mexico's PPP
framework to provide robust legal foundations for PPP development. In 2009, the
Mexican Government announced a series of legal initiatives to stimulate the execution of
infrastructure projects, including a proposal for a new Public-Private Partnerships Law
(Ley de Asociaciones Público-Privadas) and amendments to a series of laws that would
help expedite PPPs. The proposed Law for Public-Private Partnerships draws from
international best practices as well as Mexico's own experiences and tries to foster an
adequate allocation of risks between the public and private sectors. The draft law was
approved by the Senate in October 2010 and has now been submitted to the Chamber of
Deputies. During 2009 and 2010, 19 states plus the federal district have enacted their own
PPP laws, and others have issued appropriate amendments to implement PPPs.

100. Several amendments to existing laws were approved in 2009, and additional
ones are underway to tackle other regulatory constraints to PPPs. In 2009, the (i)
Law of Public Works and Related Services; and (ii) Law of Acquisitions, Leases and
Services of the Public Sector ("Acquisitions Law") were amended. Additional
amendments to these two laws are in progress as well as amendments to the Agrarian



                                          - 37 -
Law; General Law of National Property; Federal Code of Civil Procedure; and Federal
Roads, Bridges and Auto Transports Law (or "Highways Law").

101. In particular, the recently approved amendments to the "Highways Law"
will eliminate past restrictions to the extension of concessions, and together with
amendments to the "Acquisitions Law", could spur US$4.5 billion dollars of new
investments and reduce project costs by at least 15 percent. The "Highways Law"
amendment recognizes that during the long life of a PPP contract, a variety of
circumstances may require changes to the original contract or the project, such as
extending the length of the concession term to compensate for damages or additional
works. This is an efficient and easy way to compensate sponsors. Prior to the reform,
extensions of the length of the concession were allowed only in the last fifth period of the
concession term increasing risks and cost of capital and making projects much less
attractive to the private sector. Possibly, they also resulted in higher tariffs as part of the
risk was partially transferred to the consumer.

Mobilizing long-term savings to facilitate PPPs financing

102. To increase private financing available to PPPs, the GOM has approved the
introduction of Equity Development Certificates (Certificados de Capital de
Desarrollo--CCDs) as new structured securities. CCDs are securities issued by trusts
with a variable return linked partially or totally to the underlying assets of the trust and
are intended to raise long-term financing for infrastructure projects and certain real estate
projects, among others. In December 2009, the CNBV approved amendments to the
General Rules Applicable to Issuers and other Stock Exchange Participants allowing the
introduction of CCDs45. Given the nature of risks associated to such projects and to
protect investors, the amendments contain strict regulations on corporate governance and
information disclosure applicable to the issuers.46

103. In addition, in June 2010, the National (the Comisión Nacional de Ahorro
para el Retiro--CONSAR) reformed the investment regime of the pension funds
(Sociedades de Inversión Especializada en Fondos para el Retiro--SIEFORES) to
allow them to invest a share of their holdings in structured instruments. This will
allow greater diversification of pension portfolios. The share of the portfolio that can be
allocated to structured instruments, including CCDs, changes with the purpose and risk
profile of the SIEFORES. In particular, SIEFORES 2 and SIEFORES 3-5 will be able to
invest up to 10 percent and 15 percent of their portfolio, respectively, while SIEFORES 1



45
   Development Capital Bonds are intended to raise equity to support the development of specific existing
or future projects, or the acquisition of shares of one or more companies. CCDs are similar to equity
securities, as neither the trustee nor the settlor have the obligation to pay any principal or interest thereon,
and any profit derived from the CCDs relates directly to the financial results of the underlying assets. CCDs
grant their holders certain rights on the profits and income earned on the investments made by the trustee
and, in any case, on the proceeds of the sale of such investments.
46
   CCDs must comply with the disclosure regulations of Bolsa Mexicana de Valores (BMV) and Comisión
Nacional Bancaria y de Valores (CNBV). Other main features: projects can only be developed in Mexico,
and investments can be brown or green fields.

                                                    - 38 -
which are more conservative and targeted to participants close to retirement will not be
able to invest in them.47 The medium-term impact of the reform could be very significant
with SIEFOREs being able to invest over US$11 billion in infrastructure projects. It will
take time for institutional investors to become familiar with these new market
instruments. As of mid-2010, five CCDs had already been issued.

Comprehensive financial program to support PPPs

104. Mexico has put in place a comprehensive financial support program for
PPPs, which was expanded in response to the adverse effects of the global crisis. In
2007, the GOM created the National Infrastructure Fund (Fondo Nacional de
Infraestructura--FONADIN), a trust managed by the infrastructure development bank
(Banco Nacional de Obras Públicas--BANOBRAS). FONADIN offers a comprehensive
portfolio of financial instruments to facilitate PPP financing. From its creation in 2007
until mid-2010, it has promoted investments in the amount of US$11 billion by making
infrastructure projects bankable; supporting projects with high social returns but
insufficient financial returns; and bearing the risk that the market is unwilling to take.
The Board of BANOBRAS approved Operational Guidelines allowing FONADIN to
participate as a minority investor in CCDs with the purpose of leveraging private
financing (on a 5 to 1 ratio).

105. BANOBRAS is complementing PPP financing from FONADIN with a
growing emphasis on PPP projects by sub-national governments. In 2009, about 22
percent of its portfolio was credit to infrastructure projects and the amount lent (18 billion
pesos) constituted a threefold rise from 2007. It also lends to sub-national governments to
support infrastructure development (about 46 percent of its portfolio) and is contributing
to the development of credit markets for local infrastructure by providing technical
assistance to municipalities with no access to finance (see Annex 4f for details). In the
seven states where the latter program has operated, the mean coverage of municipalities
with credit has about doubled from 20 percent in 2007 to 41 percent in 2009.

106. The GOM has made a comprehensive effort in setting the conditions for an
effective development of PPPs. It has increased public expenditures for PPPs, made
improvements to the institutional and legal framework, enhanced the structuring of PPPs,
and developed a package of financial instruments to remedy market failures--all in an
environment complicated by the global crisis. During the last 3 years, on average, 4.69
percent of GDP has been invested in infrastructure (including hydrocarbons), which
represents a 40 percent completion of the target set out in the 6 year national
infrastructure plan. The private credit portfolio in infrastructure increased by 44 percent
from 2006 to mid-2010. Most noteworthy are the Atotonilco Water Treatment Plant, the
Mexico Mass Transit Systems, and a series of build, operate and transfer contracts in the
state of Mexico. The expansion of private participation is substantial, but represents only
18 percent of the total and falls below the initial targets. Nonetheless, the achievement is


47
  The regulation stipulates additional diversification restrictions, e.g., restrictions on the amount to be
invested per issue and on instruments issued by related parties.

                                                     - 39 -
important and has to be evaluated in the context of the severe financial crisis and the
diminished appetite by lenders and sponsors for long-term investment projects. The
policy actions together with the improved financial environment should result in higher
private investment over the coming year. It is expected that annual private investment in
infrastructure will increase from MX$7.8 billion in 2007-2009 to MX$15 billion in 2010-
2011.

107. Over the medium term, the Government plans to further advance the
environment for PPPs. This will encompass the implementation of a new Federal Law
on PPPs as well as selected amendments to existing legislation, continued public
expenditures for PPPs, the development of new financing instruments through
FONADIN, and the provision of assistance to the states with their PPP plans.

                    VI.          OPERATION IMPLEMENTATION

108. OP 8.60 (Development Policy Lending) mandates the World Bank to determine
whether policies supported by the operation are likely to cause significant effects on the
country's environment, forests and other natural resources as well as assess the poverty
and social impact. The policies supported by the proposed DPL are expected to have a
positive impact on poverty reduction and a negligible impact on the environment.

Poverty and Social Impacts

109. The policy reforms supported by this proposed operation are likely to have a
positive poverty and social impact on poor and vulnerable groups. The most recent
official poverty figures indicate that the commodity price increase in 2007-2008 and the
global recession of 2008-2009 have reverted a significant part of the gains in poverty
reduction registered between 1996 and 2006. On the basis of the 2008 National
Household Income and Expenditure Survey, CONEVAL has estimated that, between
2006 and 2008, the extreme poverty rate increased from 13.8 percent to 18.2 percent, the
moderate poverty rates increased from 20.7 percent to 25.1 percent, and the asset poverty
rate rose from 42.6 percent to 47.4 percent.48 In absolute terms, the increase in poverty
rates between 2006 and 2008 implied that an additional 5, 5.1, and 5.9 million people
entered extreme poverty, moderate poverty, and asset poverty, respectively. While new
household income and expenditure data is not yet available, recent estimates by
CONEVAL on trend poverty using data on labor income from the quarterly employment
survey suggest that poverty rates are likely to have risen between 2008 and 2010,
reaching a maximum in the third quarter of 2009 and decreasing moderately thereafter.
According to this index, in the second quarter of 2010, poverty was still nearly 16 percent
above the level registered two years earlier.

110. Transfers from the largest social program Oportunidades have been
important to prevent poor households from falling into extreme poverty. According


48
 CONEVAL is the National Council for the Evaluation of Social Development Policy (Consejo Nacional
de la Evaluación de la Política de Desarrollo Social) is responsible inter alia for establishing the
guidelines and criteria for the definition, identification, and measurement of poverty rates in Mexico.

                                                - 40 -
to estimates by CONEVAL, an additional 2.6 million people would have fallen into
extreme poverty in 2008 in the absence of these targeted transfers, which are conditioned
on school attendance by children and health clinic attendance by all family members. The
program currently benefits about 5 million households--close to 20 percent of the
country's total population. The Government partly mitigated the impact of the food and
global crisis by increasing the amount of conditional cash transfers. It also expanded
active labor programs during the global crisis.

111. The redistributive capacity of the Government in Mexico is limited, which
means that economic growth must accelerate for further reductions in the poverty
rate to materialize. As Figure 3 in Annex 5 highlights, periods of rapid growth in
Mexico coincided with a rapid decline in all measures of poverty. The policy measures
considered in the proposed operation can increase the growth potential of the Mexican
economy and simultaneously have a positive impact on poverty reduction.

112.   The main findings with respect to the specific policies supported are:

Competition policy
113. Until recently little was known on the direct welfare losses of weak
competition in Mexico, but recent empirical studies have found that the poor are
disproportionately hit. Urzúa (2008 and 2009) examine the welfare cost of non-
competitive market structures (either monopolies or oligopolies) for six groups of goods
(corn tortillas, processed meats, chicken and eggs, bottled juices, dinks and water, beer,
and prescription and over-the-counter drugs) and six groups of services (land transport,
air transport, private education, communications, energy, gasoline, electricity, gas, health
and financial). Goods and services were chosen because of their importance in terms of
the share of expenditure allocated to them, and the absence of competition as perceived
by CFC through its sectoral work.

114. These studies found that the combined welfare losses (as a share of income)
accrue disproportionately to poor households, rural households, and households in
southern states (Chiapas, Oaxaca, Campeche, Tabasco, Quintana Roo, and
Guerrero). In rural areas, welfare losses to the poorest households from the exertion of
market power in those goods was on average 23 percent higher than welfare losses to the
highest income households. In the case of services the costs tend to accrue
disproportionately (as a share of their income) to high-income households. Nevertheless,
the higher welfare effect in the goods markets outweighs the lower welfare effect in the
services markets, so the overall welfare loss of poor households is relatively higher as a
result of market power in the economy (Table 2b in Annex 5). Additional important
losses stem from foregone increases in productivity and the resulting slower GDP and
employment growth. (See Syversen (2010) for a review of the channels through which
competition affects productivity and a review of empirical evidence supporting it.)

115. In sum, a stronger competition policy framework can reduce poverty in
Mexico by increasing purchasing power among the poorest households, as well as
indirectly, by promoting higher productivity and job creation. A more competitive
telecommunications market, in particular, is likely to lead to an expansion of services and

                                           - 41 -
lower prices to firms and households and support Mexico's transformation to a
knowledge economy. Improved competition in public procurement will result in fiscal
savings over the medium term that could possibly be reallocated to social programs. For
example, the substantial savings in drug prices achieved by the IMSS due to improved
public procurement processes and the unveiling of a cartel could be reallocated to the
provision of health services.

Private participation in infrastructure
116. Improving the quality and expanding the quantity of infrastructure services
through greater private participation is likely to have a positive impact on growth
and poverty reduction as extensive empirical evidence supports. Infrastructure can
affect growth through many channels, including productivity effects, durability of private
capital, and the demand and supply of both health and education services.4950 The
implications for the poor of limited access or low quality infrastructure are significant
(see Fay et al. (2005) and Calderón and Servén (2010), among others).5152 Unsafe water
and sanitation affect health outcomes, increasing mortality rates for children under 5,
while lack of reliable electricity and access to internet is associated to weaker educational
outcomes. Access to reliable and low cost electricity, as well as reliable transportation
increase the productivity of the poor, allowing them to access jobs, engage in new
economic activities, and sell goods in markets.

Streamlining business regulations
A streamlining of business regulations will reduce transaction costs of enterprises
raising their productivity. In addition, it will make it easier for the poor to develop new
economic ventures in the formal market with the resulting benefits of access to better
suppliers and final product markets, as well as easier access to finance. By cutting the
points of contact with officials, the regulatory reform will address, to some extent,
bribery and gender discrimination problems sometimes faced by female entrepreneurs.

Fostering financial inclusion
117. The 2009 financial access survey confirmed that 40% of Mexico's population
does not have access to basic financial services in Mexico, and that the problem is most


49
    Agénor, Pierre-Richard, and Blanca Moreno-Dodson. 2006. "Public Infrastructure and Growth: New
Channels and Policy Implications." Policy Research Working Paper 4064. The World Bank, Washington,
DC.
50
   See also Romp and de Haan (2005), Calderon and Servén (2010), Briceño-Garmendia et al. (2004) for an
empirical analysis of the impact of infrastructure on growth and productivity. Calderón and Servén (2010),
in particular, make a special effort to address endogeneity and reverse causation effects through their
choice of econometric techniques and by looking at the effect of cross-country differences in the level of
infrastructure (not its change) on subsequent growth.
51
   Fay, Marianne, Danny Leipziger, Quentin Wodon, and Tito Yepes. 2005. "Achieving Child-Health-
Related Millennium Development Goals: The Role of Infrastructure". World Development 33 (8): 1267-84.
52
   See Calderon, César, and Luis Servén. 2010. "Infrastructure in Latin America". Draft prepared for the
Handbook of Latin American Economies. Besides the impact on growth, Calderón and Servén estimate the
impact of improvements in the quality and quantity of infrastructure between 1991-1995 and 2001-2005 for
different regions of the world.

                                                 - 42 -
acute among lower income households and in rural areas. More than 55 percent of
municipalities remain deprived of a single bank branch with the vacuum being most acute
in the poorest states. The empirical literature has shown that improved financial access by
lower income households can help them manage household risks better, smooth
consumption, and develop new economic ventures. For example, using data from 10,000
firms across 80 countries, Beck, Demirgüç-Kunt, and Maksimovic (2005) found that
financing constraints constituted one of the greatest impediments to firm growth, in turn
affecting job creation (see Annex 5 for further empirical evidence on the case of Mexico).

Environmental Aspects

118.     The proposed operation is not likely to have significant effects on the
environment, forests, or other natural resources. Both the recently enacted and the
proposed legal reforms to foster private participation in public infrastructure are
consistent with Mexico's environmental framework, and private investors will be
required to comply with the country's environmental laws and regulations which are
considered adequate. In addition, institutions will be required to conduct an
environmental assessment before launching the PPP process. The development of the
Single Trade Window will simplify and expedite import and export processes reducing
costs to firms. Existing environmental and safety regulations will continue to apply to all
traded goods, but firms will be able to submit the relevant documentation confirming
compliance with various regulations through the Single Trade Window, which will be
linked to all the institutions involved in the clearance process. The electronic platform
will be implemented in stages and will be fully operational by June 2012.53 It will not
only be more expeditious but will also introduce greater transparency to clearance
processes. The harmonization of technical norms with those of key trading partners is
undergoing a thorough case-by-case review to ensure that international product standards
accepted in Mexico are compliant with existing Mexican environmental, health and other
safety standards or follow higher ones.

119. Moreover, environmental sustainability is a policy priority within Mexico's
2007-2012 National Development Program and an adequate legal and institutional
framework is in place. The Federal Government has a legal and regulatory framework in
place to apply environmental safeguards in the execution of infrastructure works. The
General Law on Ecological Equilibrium and Environmental Protection (Ley General de
Equilibio Ecológico y Protección Ambiental--LGEEPA) states that the Federal
Government has the authority and responsibility to apply the environmental policy
instruments specified in the law and to take regulatory actions for the preservation and
restoration of the environment in areas under federal jurisdiction. Thus, the Federal
Government has the authority to require Environmental Impact Assessments for all
activities specified by the law, including infrastructure, and provide its clearance




53
  See Annex 4d for a list of the 13 institutions that will be linked to the electronic platform and schedule
for implementing it.

                                                    - 43 -
accordingly. The LGEEPA also establishes the procedures to be followed for
infrastructure works that are not subject to Environment Impact Assessment.54

120. The key agencies implementing the National Infrastructure Program have
made great strides in developing mechanisms to support environmental compliance
and enforcement. These mechanisms range from legal instruments to manuals and
indicators. Over time, the Ministry of Communications and Transport (Secretaría de
Comunicaciones y Transportes) and the National Water Commission (Comisión Nacional
del Agua) have developed specific guidelines and operational manuals to guarantee
compliance with federal environmental legislation in Environmental Impact
Assessments55. The World Bank has produced Environmental Capacity Assessments
during the preparation of investment operations in Mexico (such as for the Natural
Disaster Fund project and the Urban Transport Transformation Program). The results
have highlighted that public agencies have adequate institutional arrangements to screen
and supervise potential environmental effects and require and monitor mitigating
measures.

Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation

121. Implementation of the loan will require close coordination among
Government agencies and the World Bank. The SHCP constitutes the primary
counterpart, and the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Public Procurement, the
COFETEL, the CNBV, and BANOBRAS will also be involved in program
implementation. As the World Bank's primary counterpart, the SHCP will be responsible
for coordinating information reporting on the program's monitoring indicators, and the
World Bank team will also maintain a close dialogue with Government counterparts. The
matrix of proposed indicators is presented in Annex 2. All the indicators have been
discussed with the Government authorities and agreed on during program appraisal.

122. Being part of a broader programmatic engagement, the World Bank will
have the opportunity to monitor the impact of the proposed DPL beyond 2011,
which is critical in those areas that require a longer maturation period. For example,
future FSAP updates will contain information on the full fledge impact of prudential and
access to finance reforms. The investment loan on results-based management and the
broader policy dialogue on public procurement will provide the basis for monitoring the
impact of changes to CompraNet and other recent public procurement reforms. Similarly,
the Customs Administration project will permit a monitoring of the medium-term impact



54
   As defined by the LGEEPA, the Environmental Impact Assessment is a procedure by which the Federal
Government determines the conditions under which works with environmental impacts can be executed
(Section V, Art.28). The LGEEPA states that the activities which are not subject to an EIA have to submit a
Precautionary Report (Art. 31). The Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (Secretaría de Medio
Ambiente y Recursos Naturales--SEMARNAT) has issued sectoral guidelines for the elaboration of EIAs
and Precautionary Reports.
55
   Research institutions such as the the Waster Research Institute (Instituto Mexicano de Teconología del
Agua) and the Transport Research Institute (Instituto Mexicano del Transporte) have also supported these
efforts with publications and trainings.

                                                  - 44 -
of the Single Trade Window. In addition, there is an active involvement of the World
Bank on various infrastructure areas.

Fiduciary Aspects

123. As documented in the Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA),
the 2007 Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR), and other analytical
work, the public financial management (PFM) systems at the federal level are
adequate to support development policy lending in Mexico. As envisioned in the CPS,
the World Bank is collaborating with the Mexican Government at the central and sub-
national level in strategic areas aimed at modernizing and reforming public finances, and
increasing transparency. This has been supported by a number of knowledge services to
the SHCP and Ministry of Public Administration (SFP), through different Bank financing
products. Likewise, the World Bank has reviewed the PFM systems of the Mexican
federal administration in the context of a series of different DPLs approved in the last
fiscal year.

124. In the last decade, the Mexican Government has introduced a number of
laws and policy reforms in public finances aimed at improving fiscal responsibility
and transparency by modernizing the budget process and creating a more efficient
and transparent fiscal framework in line with international good practices. The
funding from this DPL will support the Federal Expenditure Budget (Presupuesto de
Egresos Federales, PEF) and, accordingly, will be subject to provisions of the annual
PEF Law, the Federal Budget and Fiscal Responsibility Law, the Government
Accounting Law, and the Manual of Budget Procedures, among others. This set of legal
and regulatory arrangements, together with the country financial management operating
systems, provides for sound budget formulation, execution and internal control
arrangements for public expenditures. Other internal control aspects are ruled by the
Federal Public Administration Internal Control Standards.

125. Although rules and procedures governing the budget, accounting and public
expenditure laws are clear and comprehensive, and the budget monitoring and
control systems work well, there remain areas within the public finances where
further advances could be made. Developing a long-term focus for the budget,
including performance results in the budget formulation process, and engaging the public
sector to focus on results are key priorities. Currently, the Mexican Government is
working towards the achievement of the envisioned PFM reforms, including a
harmonized budget and financial accounting reporting system, the modernization of its
treasury operations including full implementation of the Single Treasury Account, as well
as the design of an integrated financial management system at federal and state levels.
With Bank support, progress has been made to move towards international standards in
the different areas of the country PFM systems.

126. The most recent World Bank Country Procurement Assessment Review
(CPAR) of 2007 (prepared jointly with the IADB) identified issues in the public
procurement system including excessive regulatory complexity and need for more
effective governance and coordination. As noted earlier, the current Government has

                                         - 45 -
the objective to align public procurement more closely with economic expenditure policy,
aimed at producing value for money, ensuring transparency, economy and efficiency,
while improving the overall quality of the goods and services. Operational changes as
well as amendments to the legal and regulatory framework advanced in 2009 and 2010
have taken several important steps towards addressing the issues identified in the 2007
CPAR (see Section V on the Proposed Operation for further details). As envisioned in the
CPS, the World Bank is collaborating with the Mexican Government in modernizing its
public procurement and other aspects of the PFM. This support is being provided by a
number of knowledge services as well as the Results-Based Management and Budgeting
Project.

127. As for external oversight, the Federal Supreme Audit Institution conducts,
on a regular basis, a number of performance, financial and compliance audits on
Government federal programs. The annual public accounts are prepared and sent to
Congress within four months of the end of each fiscal year. The external audit of these
accounts is undertaken by the Auditor General's office and submitted to the legislature
fourteen months after the end of each fiscal year. Audit reports are comprehensive and
there is a system in place to follow up on audit findings and recommendations. The
results of audits by the Auditor General's office are made public in the Annual Audit
Report on the Federal Public Accounts.

Disbursements and Auditing

128. The flow of fund arrangements for this operation will be those customarily
observed in DPLs for Mexico, as per long-standing agreements with the
Government. The SHCP has informed the Bank that BANSEFI will be the financial
agent of the Borrower with regard to this DPL.56 Under this arrangement, upon
effectiveness and compliance with any withdrawal tranche release conditions, the Bank
will deposit the single tranche disbursement to a designated account of the Bank of
Mexico (BANXICO) in US Dollars for subsequent credit by BANXICO to an account of
the National Treasury (SHCP/Tesorería de la Federación, TESOFE) used for budgeted
expenditures. Based on the review of the 2009 audit reports of the financial agent and the
extensive experience between the Bank and BANSEFI regarding funds flow from bank-
financed projects, there is no evidence that the banking control environment into which
the DPL proceeds would flow is other than adequate. If requested by the Bank, the SHCP
would provide the Bank with a written confirmation of the described transaction after
funds are disbursed by the Bank. Based on the assessment of the borrower`s current PFM
and the conclusion that the fiduciary arrangements for this financing are adequate, the
Bank will not require an audit of the designated account of the financial agent, and no
additional fiduciary arrangements are considered necessary at this time.




56
 The use of a financial agent and designated account is a standard procedure of the Government of
Mexico for their control purposes and not an additional requirement by the Bank.

                                             - 46 -
Risks and Risk Mitigation

129. A sharp weakening in the economic recovery of the United States poses risks
to Mexico's growth and the objectives of this operation. The high degree of economic
integration with the U.S.--the destination of 80 percent of Mexico's exports of goods--
implies a significant exposure of the Mexican economy and manufacturing industry to the
U.S. business cycle. Lower export growth will endanger the incipient recovery of
domestic demand as less job opportunities and labor income are generated in the
manufacturing sector and trade related services. Mexico, however, maintains a record of
sound and predictable macroeconomic management. This contributed to an adequate and
timely policy response to the global crisis which has set the stage for a strong economic
recovery underway. Strong commitment and credibility in the main elements of the fiscal
and monetary policy framework­fiscal discipline, inflation targeting and flexible
exchange rate­provide for ample buffers to adverse external shocks.

130. Higher volatility and a deterioration of access to finance on international
financial markets is another risk to Mexico's economic and fiscal outlook. Concerns
about the global economic recovery or the fiscal situation in a number of advanced
economies may lead to renewed jitters on international financial markets and translate in
less favorable conditions of access finance for the public and private sectors in emerging
market economies including Mexico. Sound public debt management, however, has
reduced vulnerability to financial shocks, and the public debt policy has favored local
currency financing, reducing exposure to exchange rate volatility.

131. The exposure of public finance to lower oil prices or lower volumes of oil
production remains high. Oil revenue still makes up a third of total public sector
revenue in Mexico. A mitigating factor to this risk is that fiscal policy is conducted
within the framework of a fiscal responsibility law that contains a balanced budget rule to
ensure fiscal sustainability and mechanisms to limit the impact of oil price volatility on
public spending. The latter includes an oil stabilization fund and a policy to leverage
resources in the fund through the contracting of oil price hedges.

132. The rise in violent crime may increase the cost of doing business and reduce
investments in some parts of the country and investor confidence in general.
Increased competition between gangs on the control of drug flows as well as the
Government's military offensive against organized crime is thought to have caused the
rise in violence. The Government has begun a reorganization of police forces and is
determined to increase its ability to contain and reduce the impact of organized crime in
Mexico. It is also designing a broad National Crime Prevention and Citizen Participation
strategy to tackle the causes and effects of crime (be it organized or not). In addition, the
prospects of Mexico's economic recovery and the on-going structural reforms to facilitate
the acceleration of growth over the medium term will generate better conditions for job
creation and new employment opportunities, which will in turn discourage participation
of vulnerable groups in violent or illegal activities.

133. Legal injunctions may hinder efforts to increase competition in the
telecommunications sector. These have been frequently used in the past to thwart public

                                           - 47 -
initiatives aimed at creating a more open and vibrant market for telecommunications in
Mexico. Strong Government commitment to increased competition in key markets
indicates that it will vigorously defend reform measures in the face of such legal
injunctions or similar pressures to slow down the reform process.

134. The implementation of the Single Trade Window could be delayed due to
pressures from customs or trading agents. The Government has already committed to
a clear timetable for the implementation of the window that is publicly known. This
commitment together with pressure from the trading community, who will clearly benefit
from the full execution of a much more transparent and agile tool for clearing exports and
imports, minimizes the risk of delays.

135. Progress in implementing the full strategy of public-private partnerships
could be hampered by the limited control over the legislative agenda. The draft
Federal Law on Public-Private Partnerships was approved by the Senate in October 2010,
and is now being discussed by the Chamber of Deputies (Cámara de Diputados). The
draft law has strong support from the states, which are eager to see its enactment so that
more PPP projects can get underway.




                                          - 48 -
                        VII.   ANNEXES

Annex 1. Letter of Development Policy




               - 49 -
- 50 -
- 51 -
                                                                                Mexico City

ROBERT ZOELLICK
President
World Bank


Dear Mr. Zoellick:

As you are aware, over the past two years, the Mexican government has undertaken a
series of actions to offset the results of the recent international financial crisis on the
Mexican economy, resume growth and consolidate economic recovery in the short term,
while establishing the bases for vigorous, sustained growth in the medium term.

The measures established by President Felipe Calderón's administration have yielded
positive results, as borne out by various indicators. During the first three quarters of this
year, the real value of GDP grew at an annual rate of 5.8%, and a growth of about 5% is
expected for the whole of 2010. With the actions adopted, the loss in employment during
2009 was contained to half the one observed in the reduction in production, whereas the
historical relation has been of similar movements, and there has been a significant
recovery of employment in 2010. In November, employment shows an annual growth of
5.4 %, equivalent to 757 thousand people. With these new jobs we have reached a
historical maximum of employment, overcoming the losses observed during the crisis.

Several of the measures implemented to consolidate recovery and economic growth
have focused on strengthening the Mexican economy by boosting its competitiveness.
To this end, we have undertaken a series of actions in the telecommunications, financial
and infrastructure sectors, which, together with bureaucratic deregulation measures and
the simplification of commercial procedures, will help create a more suitable environment
for business and encourage private investment, the generation of employment and
poverty reduction.

Among the measures taken recently the following can be highlighted:

1.- In order to boost competition in telecommunications services, a concession were
    granted for more than 19,000 km of optical fiber cabling owned by the Federal
    Electricity Commission as well as additional frequencies of the radio-electric
    spectrum in the 1.7 and 1.9 gigahertz bands. These actions will result in better
    quality services, greater coverage and lower prices for users by incorporating new
    broadband service suppliers and creating a fairer distribution of the radio-electric
    spectrum among operators.

2.- With the aim to simplify and facilitate international trade operations the Mexican
    Foreign Trade Digital Window will be implemented. This window is designed to allow
    carrying out procedures for import, export and transfer of goods, in a single place.
    Likewise, several procedures for importing electronic appliances and processors
    have been eliminated, facilitating their import and therefore their availability at lower
    prices.


                                           - 52 -
3.- In the financial sector, we will continue with a strategy to facilitate access to financial
    services by various sectors of the Mexican population, eliminating obstacles and
    promoting innovating mechanisms that will expand the range of options available for
    providing these services. Among others, the necessary regulatory bases have been
    established to provide financial services through cellular telephony. Measures have
    also been implemented to improve the coverage and quality of information as well
    as credit bureaus' customer service.

    Likewise, the Council for the Stability of the Financial System (CESF) was created in
    order to, in the first place, attempt to prevent systemic problems in the financial
    system and, in the second place, resolve them in a timely manner and at the lowest
    possible cost in case they occur. Through the CESF a closer coordination between
    the various financial authorities is achieved as a means of joint analysis of situations
    that might jeopardize the proper functioning of the national financial system and the
    country's economic development and propose policies and solutions that allow
    coping with them.

4.- Infrastructure investment has been given an unprecedented boost by the current
    administration, both through the use of budgetary resources as well as by promoting
    private participation in project development. As part of this effort, we established the
    National Infrastructure Fund (FONADIN) and are looking to leverage private funds
    for investment in infrastructure projects. Actions have also been carried out to
    provide more certainty for highway concessionaires. Changes were incorporated
    into the investment regime for retirement savings funds to allow investment in
    capital development certificates, thereby strengthening the private capital financing
    chain for infrastructure and, at the same time, maintaining high investment
    standards to protect the savings of workers.

5.- Lastly, in the institutional framework, we engaged in an integral process of revision
    of existing regulation in order to carry out a streamlining of regulation that will
    reduce the costs and distortions created by excess regulation and thereby boost
    competitiveness and productivity. We are also attempting to simplify regulations and
    paperwork and increase the certainty, quality and transparency of the services
    offered by the Federal Government. Within this context, significant progress has
    already been made in the so-called "zero-base regulation", including a regulatory
    ban and the simplification and homologation of Federal Public Administration
    processes regarding auditing, acquisitions, financial and human resources.
    Decrees were issued to simplify paperwork in various offices in order to eliminate
    unnecessary costs and facilitate access to the latest generation technology. In
    addition, as part of the budget approval for next year, fees associated to services
    provided by the Federal Government were eliminated without weakening public
    revenue.

The Mexican Government has continued to work closely with the World Bank. The
financial and knowledge services provided by the World Bank are much appreciated and
strengthen our work in the design and implementation of various actions and public
policies. By virtue of the above, we are grateful to the World Bank for acknowledging the
actions we have undertaken to strengthen the business environment and continue
promoting economic growth, a set of measures outlined in one of the five main pillars of
the 2007-2012 National Development Plan, Pillar 2 "A Competitive and Job-Creating
Economy". a set of measures included in one of the five main pillars of the 2007-2012

                                            - 53 -
National Development Plan, Pillar 2, "A Competitive, Job-Creating Economy." By virtue
of the above, we request your support in securing a policy development loan that will
include measures such as those described above.

Thanking you in advance for your kind attention, I look forward to hearing from you soon,

                             Yours sincerely,
                             Under-Secretary


                             José Antonio Meade Kuribreña




                                         - 54 -
                                                                 Annex 2. Operation Policy Matrix

   Policy area                            Progress in policies and institutional reform to achieve policy area objective                          Medium-term Development
    objective                                                                                                                                              Plans
                                    Pre-2010                                 Prior Actions                          Outcome Indicators
                                                                     Policy Area 1: Competition Policy
Enhance              Adoption of a program to consolidate       Enhancement of competition in the            Increase in the number of users of   Approval of amendments to
competition in the   long distance areas and a technical plan   telecommunications markets through           internet services (per 100           the Federal Competition
telecommunication    for the interconnection and                actions taken by CFE, SCT and                inhabitants).                        Policy Law to strengthen the
markets              interoperability of telecommunication      COFETEL as evidenced by:                     Baseline: 26.3 (end 2009)            authorities and instruments
                     services (2009).                           (i) the issuance of a concession on July     Program: 38 (end 2011)               of the CFC.
                                                                5, 2010, to use a pair of fibers of the
                     Adoption of a multiyear radio spectrum     state-owned power utility's fiber-optic      Increase in the users of broadband   Elimination of restrictions on
                     bandwidth availability program (2008).     network for the provision of                 services (per 100 inhabitants).      foreign direct investment in
                                                                telecommunication services; and              Baseline: 9.2 (end 2009)             the sector.
                                                                (ii) the issuance, through Decision          Program: 12.5 (end 2011)
                                                                (Acuerdo)      of    COFETEL         dated                                        Implementation of a new
                                                                December 14, 2009, of bidding                                                     model      to      determine
                                                                documents (Bases de Licitación) for                                               termination rates in mobile
                                                                public bidding of multiple concessions                                            networks.
                                                                for the use of radio spectrum in the
                                                                bandwidths of: 1.9 GHz in eight of the                                            Issuance of the internal
                                                                nine different spectrum regions of                                                regulation of the Federal
                                                                Mexico, and 1.7/2.1 GHz in the nine                                               Telecommunications
                                                                different spectrum regions of Mexico,                                             Commission.
                                                                all for the provision of mobile
                                                                telecommunication services.                                                       Completion of the process to
                                                                                                                                                  consolidate long distance
                                                                                                                                                  areas.




                                                                                   - 55 -
   Policy area                             Progress in policies and institutional reform to achieve policy area objective                        Medium-term Development
    objective                                                                                                                                             Plans
                                       Pre-2010                                Prior Actions                        Outcome Indicators
Increase               Amendments to the Law of                   Enactment of:                              Framework agreements in place.      Implementation of a schedule
competition,           Acquisitions, Leases and Services of the   (a) a regulation (reglamento) to the       Baseline: 0 (2009)                  of framework agreements.
efficiency and         Public Sector introducing the options of   Law of Acquisitions, Leases and            Program: 11 (end 2011)
transparency of        framework agreements, reverse auction,     Services of the Public Sector57 issued                                         Launch of accreditation and
public                 and strengthening the application of       by the President and published in the      Implementation of additional        training framework.
procurement            information technology (2009).             Official Gazette on July 28, 2010,         reverse auctions.
                                                                  establishing inter alia. the regulations   Baseline: 6 (July 2008 to August    Implementation of
                       Adoption of the open tender model in 6     for the use of framework agreements;       2010)                               CompraNet´s new functions
                       bidding processes by CFE, IMSS and         and                                        Program: 8 (September 2010 to
                       PEMEX (2008-2010).                         (b) guidelines on Acquisitions, Leases     December 2011)
                                                                  and Services and Public Works and
                                                                  Services Related thereto58 issued by
                                                                  SFP and published in the Official
                                                                  Gazette on September 9, 2010,
                                                                  establishing inter alia the rules for
                                                                  using reverse auctions59 in public
                                                                  procurement processes.

                                                Policy Area 2: Streamlining and Improving the Quality of Business Regulations
Reduce business        Enactment of the Agreement for             Implementation of the Zero Base         Reduction in the time to comply        Further     elimination      of
transactions costs     Regulatory Quality that includes           Business Regulation Program through     with tax obligations as measured by    redundant        certifications
and facilitate trade   guidelines on the issuance of new          (a) the enactment of a Presidential     the relevant Doing Business sub-       related     to     mandatory
to enhance             regulations with an incidence on the       decree simplifying and reducing the     index.                                 technical norms.
productivity.          private sector (2007).                     number of tax declaration and payment Baseline: 517 hours (Doing
                                                                  procedures, published in the Official   Business 2010)                         Consolidation of the Single
                       Introduction of electronic filing systems Gazette on June 30, 2010;                Program 2011: 385 hours (Doing         Trade Window.
                       for payroll taxes, property taxes and      (b) the execution of a contract between Business 2012)
                       social security (2008).                    SAT and a technology integration                                               Consolidation of Tu Empresa
                                                                  company for the development and         Cost savings obtained by the private   as a centralized electronic
                       Creation of a program to accelerate        operation of an electronic Single Trade sector from the implementation of      platform to comply with



       57
          Reglamento de la Ley de Adquisiciones, Arrendamientos y Servicios del Sector Público.
       58
          Lineamientos en Materia de Adquisiciones, Arrendamientos y Servicios y de Obras Públicas y Servicios Relacionados con las Mismas.
       59
          Referred to in the Law as Ofertas Subsecuentes de Descuentos.


                                                                                    - 56 -
   Policy area                              Progress in policies and institutional reform to achieve policy area objective                               Medium-term Development
    objective                                                                                                                                                     Plans
                                       Pre-2010                                 Prior Actions                          Outcome Indicators
                       customs processes of high-volume           Window, dated November 11, 2010;              the Zero Base Business Regulation        most business regulations
                       exporting companies and of an              and                                           Program (as measured by the OECD         required by the federal
                       Integrated Computerized Customs            (c) the enactment of four Ministerial         methodology).                            government.
                       system (SAAI) to facilitate customs        Decisions that eliminate redundant            Baseline: 0 (2009)
                       clearance including the introduction of    certification requirements by                 Program: 0.15% of GDP (2011)
                       electronic clearance requests.             recognizing the use in Mexico of
                                                                  standards and conformity assessment           Reduction in the number of
                       Reduction of Most Favored Nation           procedures applied in the U.S. or             international trade related processes.
                       tariffs on manufactured imports over a     Canada for electronic appliances and          linked to SAT and SE.
                       five year period, starting January 2009.   data processing equipment, issued by          Baseline: 107 (2010)
                                                                  SE and published in the Official              Program: 60 (2011)
                       Establishment of the portal                Gazette on August 17, 2010.
                       www.tuempresa.gob.mx for
                       entrepreneurs to register new companies
                       by electronic means (2009).

                                                            Policy Area 3: Fostering Access to Finance with Stability
Foster (i)             Strengthening of prudential regulations    Enactment of:                                 Number of financial transactions         Amendments to the Law of
responsible access     and risk management in the banking         (a) a resolution amending the General         conducted through mobile phones.         Credit Institutions to further
to finance and (ii)    sector .                                   Provisions Applicable to Credit               Base: 0 (January 2010)                   enhance the Bank resolution
the stability of the                                              Institutions (including, inter alia article   Program: 10,000 (end 2011)               framework.
financial system to    Enactment of new legal framework that      325 Bis1 of the said general provisions)
promote growth,        provides more flexible options for bank    to facilitate the supply of financial         Estimated number of entries              Continued strengthening of
competitiveness        resolution, regulates information          services using mobile phone accounts,         (credits) present in the credit          prudential regulations within
and improvements       exchange between relevant agencies,        issued jointly by SHCP and CNBV, and          reporting databases.                     the framework proposed by
in households'         and improves legal protection for          published in the Official Gazette on          Base: 265.99 million (2010)              the G-20.
living standards.      prosecutors (2006).                        April 15, 2010;                               Program: Increase of 4 percent over
                                                                  (b) a decree amending the Law of              the base (end 2011)                      Continued institutional
                       Enactment of new Securities Markets        Credit Information Societies including                                                 strengthening of DFIs.
                       Law to enhance transparency, strengthen    Articles 19, 20, and 42, to support the       Production of Financial Stability
                       corporate governance, and facilitate       enhancement of coverage, data quality         Report by the Financial Stability        Reform of INFONAVIT
                       access to stock market listing (2005 and   and consumer service provided through         Council and activities completed by      (housing fund) to gradually
                       2008).                                     credit bureaus, issued by the President       the Council (end-2011.)                  transfer mandatory workers'
                                                                  and published in the Official Gazette on                                               contributions to pension
                       Enactment of the Law on Transparency       May 25, 2010;                                 Coverage of delinquent mortgage          funds managed by the private




                                                                                      - 57 -
   Policy area                              Progress in policies and institutional reform to achieve policy area objective                      Medium-term Development
    objective                                                                                                                                            Plans
                                       Pre-2010                                Prior Actions                        Outcome Indicators
                       of Financial Services                      (c) a decree establishing a Financial     loans from commercial banks under   sector to allow for a more
                       Rationalization of Development             Stability Council, issued by the          new methodology.                    efficient intermediation of
                       Financial Intermediaries (DFI),            President and published in the Official   Base: 24 months (September 2010)    long-term savings.
                       considerable improvements in               Gazette on July 29, 2010; and             Program: 12 months (2011)
                       governance and overall financial           (d) prudential regulation strengthening
                       performance, and development of new        provisioning requirements for             Coverage of delinquent non-
                       instruments for market development.        mortgage loans and non-revolving          revolving consumer credit from
                                                                  consumer credit, issued by CNBV and       commercial banks under new
                       Enactment of enabling legal framework      published in the Official Gazette on      methodology.
                       for banking through agents (2009).         October 12, 2010.                         Base: 7 months
                                                                                                            Program 2011: 12 months
                       Amendments to the Law Protecting                                                     (As measured by CNBV)
                       Users of Financial Services that
                       strengthened the authorities of
                       CONDUSEF (2009).
                                                        Policy Area 4: Promoting Private Participation in Infrastructure
Develop a              Amendments to the (i) Law of Public        Enactment of:                             Average annual private investment   Enactment of Federal Law
coherent               Works and Related Services (2009),         (a) a decree amending the Law on          in infrastructure.60                on PPPs.
regulatory             and (ii) Law of Acquisitions, Leases and   Federal Roads, Bridges and Auto           Base: MX$7.5 billion (2007-2009):
framework and          Services of the Public Sector (2009).      Transport to allow extensions of          Program: MX$15 billion (2010-       Selected amendments to
financing                                                         concessions during any of its stages,     2011)                               several federal laws to ensure
instruments to         Enactment of Laws on PPPs in the states    issued by the President and published                                         their coherence with the PPP
foster private         of Durango, Mexico, Nayarit, Zacatecas,    in the Official Gazette on November 4,                                        framework (Law on Public
participation in       Michoacán, Tabasco, Aguascalientes,        2010;                                                                         Works and Related Services,
infrastructure         Coahuila, Chiapas, Morelos,                (b) a circular letter issued by CONSAR                                        and General Law of National
                       Tamaulipas, D.F., Jalisco, Sonora,         amending the investment regime of                                             Property, Federal Code of
                       Queretaro and Yucatán.                     SIEFORES to authorize them to invest                                          Civil Procedure)
                                                                  in structured securities up to 15% of
                       Creation of FONADIN (2008).                their portfolio, depending on the risk                                        Enactment of Laws on PPPs
                                                                  profile of the relevant SIEFORE,                                              in other states.
                       Institutional strengthening of             published in the Official Gazette on
                       BANOBRAS to foster private                 June 11, 2010; and                                                            Development of new



      60
           Based on estimates of infrastructure investments with participation from FONADIN.


                                                                                    - 58 -
Policy area                         Progress in policies and institutional reform to achieve policy area objective             Medium-term Development
 objective                                                                                                                              Plans
                               Pre-2010                                 Prior Actions                     Outcome Indicators
              participation in infrastructure and serve    (c) guidelines issued by the board of                               financing instruments by
              as FONADIN´s Trustee.                        FONADIN allowing it to participate as                               FONADIN.
                                                           a minority investor in private equity
              Amendments by CNBV to the General            funds specialized in infrastructure with                            Continued institutional
              Rules Applicable to Issuers and other        the purpose of promoting the creation                               strengthening of
              Stock Exchange Participants,                 of such funds, dated May 14, 2010.                                  BANOBRAS.
              introducing CCDs with the purpose of
              making available a new type of security
              to finance infrastructure projects (2009).




                                                                              - 59 -
Annex 3. Fund Relations Note




           - 60 -
- 61 -
     ANNEX 4. ANALYSIS OF THE GOVERNMENT'S ECONOMIC POLICIES

     ANNEX 4A. TOWARDS A STRONGER COMPETITION POLICY FRAMEWORK IN MEXICO


Introduction

1.      The empirical literature provides ample evidence that market competition fosters
higher productivity rates and economic growth. Markets in Mexico, however, are
notoriously concentrated. The exercise of market power in key economic sectors is not
only detrimental to the country's economic performance but reinforces existing inequities
as recent evidence highlights. Mexico's competition policy framework and the institution
responsible for its enforcement (Comisión Federal de Competencia--CFC) are both
relatively young dating back to 1993. The institution has confronted a steep learning
curve. That said, the institutional and legal reforms of 2006 are starting to show positive
results in terms of more effective enforcement and a more forceful advocacy role for
competition, which has succeeded in influencing policies and regulations in several
markets--including telecommunications and public procurement.61 Institutional and
regulatory challenges, however, remain, and a legal proposal is underway to further
enhance the mandate and legal tools of the competition policy authority.

The Productivity and Welfare Costs of Market Power

2.     Competition promotes higher productivity rates and economic growth, while the
exertion of market power by a firm or group of firms in key goods and services results in
consumer deadweight losses, inefficient allocation of resources, rent seeking behavior,
and limited innovation with a detrimental impact to growth and welfare.

3.      The first fundamental theorem of welfare economics states that, under certain
assumptions, a competitive equilibrium is equivalent to a socially optimal (or Pareto
efficient) allocation, i.e. an allocation in which no individual can be made better off
through a redistribution without making another individual worse off. One of the
conditions needed for the first welfare theorem to hold is that there is perfect competition,
defined as an equilibrium in which all prices are taken as given by firms and consumers.
Perfect competition, in turn, requires that all firms produce under constant returns to
scale. If there is pricing power (due to increasing returns to scale, artificial barriers to
entry, or non-competitive behavior such as the formation of cartels) so that firms do not
take prices as given, then the equivalence between competitive equilibria and socially
optimal allocations breaks down. In such cases, the equilibrium price of the good or
service is higher, and the equilibrium quantity is lower relative to the competitive general
equilibrium. Part of the consumer surplus is redistributed to the producer in the form of
monopolistic rents, while the rest is wasted since it is lost by the consumer but not
captured by the producer (i.e. social welfare or deadweight loss).



61
   See Annexes 4b and 4c for a discussion of recent policy reforms aimed at increasing competition in
telecommunications and public procurement, respectively.

                                               - 62 -
4.      While exercising market power has been known to restrict supply and impose
deadweight losses, the economics literature is placing increasing emphasis on the
importance of competition and preventing or addressing market power due to its
detrimental effect on total factor productivity and, in turn, growth. According to
Syverson (2010), pressure from competitors can affect productivity levels by (i) moving
market share toward more efficient producers, shrinking or forcing the exit of high-cost
firms, and making room for more efficient producers, and (ii) inducing firms to make
costly productivity-raising investments (innovation)--such as investments on new
technologies, upgrading of production processes, adoption of better management
practices, training, etc.6263

5.     There is a substantial empirical literature on the productivity impacts of
competition and the two channels through which competition can result in greater
productivity. On the selection effect of competition, for example, Foster, Haltiwanger,
and Krizian (2006) find that increases in productivity in the U.S. retail industry where
driven to a large degree by the exit of the less efficient single-store firms faced with the
competition of more efficient national chains.64 On the innovation effect, Prescott
(1998), Holmes and Schmitz (2001 and 2005), among others, have shown the relation
between the existence of monopoly rights and the incentives to innovate and adopt the
most efficient work and management practices.65 (See Syverson (2010) for a recent
review of the literature on the determinants of productivity and the links between
competition and productivity.)

Market Structure in Mexico and its Effects

6.      Mexico's economy is notoriously concentrated (Table 1). Its telecommunications,
television, cement, banking and brewing industries, among others, are oligopolies or
near-monopolies66. The World Economic Forum (WEF) produces the only international
benchmark indicator on competition policy, based on the perception of the "effectiveness
of the anti-monopoly policy". Notwithstanding the limitations of perception indices,



62
   Syverson, Chad (2010). What Determines Productivity?, Journal of Economic Literature (forthcoming),
(http://home.uchicago.edu/~syverson/productivitysurvey.pdf)
63
   However, for a market of fixed size, increased competition could diminish a firm's incentives to make
such investments. Syverson, Chad (2010), "What Determines Productivity", Journal of Economic
Literature, forthcoming (http://home.uchicago.edu/~syverson/productivitysurvey.pdf)
64
   Foster, L. J. Haltiwanger and C.J. Krizan (2006). "Market Selection, Restructuring and Reallocation in
the Retail Trade Sector in the 1990s", Review of Economics and Statistics, 88(4): 748-58.
65
   Holmes, Thomas and James A. Schmitz, Jr. (2001), "A Gain from Trade: From Unproductive to
Productive Entrepreneurship," Journal of Monetary Economics, Vol. 47, pp. 417-446; Prescott, Edward C.
(1998), "Needed: A Theory of Total Factor Productivity," International Economic Review, Vol. 39, August
1998, pp. 525-52; and Schmitz Jr., James A. (2005), "What Determines Productivity? Lessons from the
Dramatic Recovery of the U.S. and Canadian Iron Ore Industries Following Their Early 1980s Crisis,"
Journal of Political Economy, Vol. 113, No. 3, pp. 582-625.
66
   Concentration in a given market does not imply, per se, lack of competition. However, competition
agencies consider the existence of concentration in a relevant market as a necessary condition for the
effective implementation of anticompetitive conducts with negative impact on economic efficiency or
consumer welfare.

                                                 - 63 -
Mexico shows a poor performance with a ranking of 116 out of 139 countries, well below
Chile and Brazil and most OECD countries (see Table 2 below).

7.     Insufficient competition imposes economic costs. The Central Bank of Mexico
reckoned that insufficient competition costs the country a percentage point of economic
growth each year.67 On the one hand, lack of competition in input markets creates higher
production costs and unreliable supply, which handicaps Mexico's competitiveness
within international markets. On the other, insufficient competition in product markets
prevents the exit of the less efficient firms and discourages innovation, where Mexico
lags relative to its OECD peers. There is an emerging consensus on the role of
monopolies in explaining Mexico's underperformance in terms of low GDP growth rates
and persistent inequality. Arias, Azuara, Bernal, Heckman and Villarreal (2009),
Chiquiar and Ramos Francia (2009), and Levy and Walton (2009), among others,
coincide on pointing out the importance of monopolies and rent seeking behavior in
explaining Mexico's poor economic performance over the past three decades.68

               Table 1: Market Concentration in Key Sectors of the Mexican Economy
                                                                                                                       Herfindhal-
                                                                                                                       Hirchman
                                                                                                                       Index
 Sector                                          C(1)        C(2)        C(3)         C(4)        C(5)        C(6)     (HHI)
 Oil Exploration                                      100.0                                                                    10,000
 Oil Refining                                         100.0                                                                    10,000
 Electricity Transmission                             100.0                                                                    10,000
 Electricity Distribution                             100.0                                                                    10,000
 Fixed line telephony                                  90.1         94.8       96.6       97.3        97.9        98.1          8,149
 Cement                                                83.4         89.6       94.4       97.4        99.7       100.0          7,027
 Corn flour (harina de maíz)                           72.4         95.9       97.4       98.7        99.8       100.0          5,796
 National television open broadcasting                 69.1       100.0                                                         5,727
 Mobile phone telephony                                70.9         82.8       93.7       99.9        99.9        99.9          5,322
 Beer                                                  58.5         99.9       99.9       99.9        99.9        99.9          5,136
 Supermarkets (autoservicios)                          65.2         81.6       91.4       96.9        93.0        94.2          4,616
 Railroads                                             48.8         88.2      100.0                                             4,072
 Airports                                              28.2         53.5       76.4       90.9       100.0                      2,253
 Commercial airlines in domestic routes                28.0         52.1       64.2       75.0        84.6        89.4          1,766
 Pension Funds Administrators (Afores)                 22.1         37.9       50.6       59.4        67.6        75.6          1,260
 Sources: World Bank' estimates based on data from various sources, including the Expansion 500 database, stock market reports
 (Bolsa Mexicana de Valores), The Competitive Intelligence Unit, and the Dirección General de Aeronáutica Civil of the Secretaría
 de Comunicaciones y Transportes (SCT). All concentration ratios and the HHI are calculated using data for 2007 on gross sales,
 except for airports and fixed line telephony, which are calculated on the number of passengers and number of lines, respectively.
 NB: The HHI should be interpreted as an upper bound on the true value of the index since the shares of the smallest firms are
 sometimes not available individually.


67
  Source: http://www.nytimes.com/2006/06/03/world/americas/03slim.html?pagewanted=2&_r=1
68
  Arias, Javier, Azuara, Oliver, Bernal, Pedro, Heckman, James J. and Villarreal, Cajeme (2009), "Policies
to Promote Growth and Economic Efficiency in Mexico," IZA Discussion Paper No. 4740. Available at:
http://ideas.repec.org/p/iza/izadps/dp4740.html; Chiquiar, D. and Manuel Ramos-Francia (2009).
"Competitiveness and Growth of the Mexican economy," Banco de Mexico, Working Papers, No. 2009-11,
November 2009. Available at: http://ideas.repec.org/p/bdm/wpaper/2009-11.html; and Levy, Santiago and
Michael Walton (2009), No Growth without Equity?, Inequality, Interests, and Competition in Mexico,
Washington, DC: The World Bank.

                                                            - 64 -
8.       While lack of competition in key markets affects all households, the poor are
particularly hard hit. Recent empirical work by Urzúa (2009) shows the welfare and
distributional impact of pricing power in key basic    Table 2. Global Competitiveness Index:
goods and services of the Mexican economy.69           Effectiveness of Anti-monopoly Policy
Mexico's poorest families devote at least 7% of their Country             Position in Ranking
spending to overcharging by firms with market
power. Moreover, the existence of market power in Chile                              22
those goods that account for the largest share of the Brazil                        39
consumption basket of the average Mexican Costa Rica                                 41
household       have      negative     distributional Panama                         48
consequences, both across income levels and Peru                                     76
geographically. The urban poor have a relative Mexico                               116
welfare loss due to market power (higher prices and Colombia                         90
lower quantities in the market place) which is about El Salvador                     96
19.8% higher than the one suffered by the highest
                                                      Uruguay                       104
income groups; in the rural areas, the relative
welfare loss of the poorest groups is even higher Argentina                         118
(see the Poverty and Social Impact Assessment Source: World Economic Forum (2010)
Annex 6 for a more detailed discussion).

Evolution of Competition Policy in Mexico

9.      The early days of competition policy in Mexico: Mexico´s competition policy
framework is relatively nascent and presents many gaps. Despite the fact that the
Constitution outlawed monopolies except in selected sectors reserved to the state,70 the
country enacted only in 1992 a normative framework to promote competition (the Federal
Law of Economic Competition or Ley Federal de Competencia Económica) and
established the Federal Competition Commission (Comisión Federal de Competencia--
CFC) to enforce this normative framework a year later. By contrast, the U.S. Federal
Trade Commission has been in place for more than a century.71 CFC is a decentralized
body of the Ministry of Economy with technical and operational autonomy and is
responsible for preventing, investigating and combating monopolies, cartels, and other
non-competitive practices. It has preventive (analysis of mergers and acquisitions,
concentrations and reviews of public procurement processes) as well as corrective tools
(investigation, prosecution, and sanctioning).

10.     In addition, CFC participates in regulatory proceedings of infrastructure and other
sectors issuing statement declarations on the effects of regulations on the intensity of


69
   Urzúa, Carlos M. (2009a), "Distributive and Regional Effects of Monopoly Power," EGAP Working
Papers 2009-04, Tecnológico de Monterrey, Campus Ciudad de México.
70
   Article 28 of the Constitution includes the prohibition of monopolies and monopolistic practices but
establishes exceptions in some sectors: postal services, telegraphs, oil and other hydrocarbons, basic
pretrochemicals, radioactive materials, nuclear energy, electricity, minting of coins, and printing of notes.
71
   Beginning in 1982, the Government of Mexico embarked in a comprehensive privatization program,
which reduced the number of state owned enterprises (SOE) from around 1,115 in 1982 to around 600 in
1988 and 250 in 1994. Some of the SOE privatized included airlines, airports, banks, ports, and railroads.

                                                   - 65 -
competition in the marketplace and has the authority to issue opinions on laws introduced
in Congress, decrees and regulations that may affect competition.

11.     The Federal Competition Law enacted in 1992 presented many weaknesses which
restricted the ability of the CFC to fulfill its purpose of protecting the process of free
competition effectively, quickly, and firmly. The most important statutory limitations72
were:

            Need for advance notice: CFC was required to provide advance notice to the
            targeted company before conducting an investigative search, which gave the
            company ample time to hide potentially damaging evidence and defeats the
            purpose of the search for anticompetitive behavior.
            Immunity for cooperation: The laws did not explicitly provide for immunity
            (from monetary sanctions) to individuals who voluntarily reveal collusive
            agreements.
            Limited investigative powers: The statute did not grant CFC the authority to
            conduct investigations to determine if questionable monopolistic/oligopolistic
            practices are taking place, limiting its role to a reactive rather than a proactive
            one.
            Low sanctions: The level of sanctions provided in the statute was not onerous
            enough to deter monopolistic practices.

12.     The legal deficiencies combined with excessive litigation ("amparos") and fiscal
nullity requests by firms, and the paucity of financial resources by CFC resulted in the
loss of most trials brought forward by the institution.

13.     The legal and institutional reforms of the mid-2000s: Growing public awareness
about the lack of capacity to adequately enforce the Federal Competition Law resulted in
substantial amendments in 2006 alongside important institutional reforms. In 2006, the
Mexican Congress unanimously adopted significant amendments to the Federal
Competition Law to tackle many of its shortcomings, grant better enforcement tools to
CFC, and better align its authorities with those of well established national competition
agencies. The reforms increased monetary and non-monetary sanctions for
anticompetitive conducts, empowered CFC to suspend anticompetitive market practices,
and attempted to introduce measures to provide effective market resolutions without
resorting to expensive and lengthy litigations procedures. In addition, it better defined the
monopolistic practices that CFC could prosecute; it provided immunity arrangements for
those individuals/companies wishing to assist with investigations; it improved the
authorities for CFC to obtain information; it authorized CFC to fight interstate trade
barriers and forced the federal government to consider CFC's opinion involving matters




72
  See for example the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (2004), Competition Law
and Policy in Mexico: An OECD Peer Review of Competition Law and Policy in Mexico,
http://www.oecd.org/dataoecd/57/9/31430869.pdf.

                                              - 66 -
of competition policy.73 Such improvements resulted in policy guidelines to promote
competition in certain sectors.

14.    The institutional reform program, which started in 2005, encompassed the
following actions:
        More effective defense of CFC's rulings: The CFC made a major effort to defend
        more effectively its rulings before the judiciary and the Federal Tribunal of Fiscal
        and Administrative Justice. This effort included an improvement in the
        presentation of economic and legal reasonings in its rulings backed by more in
        depth research and implementation of joint training programs with the judiciary.
        As a result, the CFC has won 75% of "amparos" over the last three years.
        Operational restructuring: In 2006, it carried out a restructuring of its operational
        and support areas reallocating resources from support areas to core business areas.
        Better selection of cases: It focused its scarce resources in those cases that have
        more direct impact on market efficiency and consumer welfare.
        More effective mechanisms for the collection of fines: In November 2007, it
        reached an agreement with the Tax Administration Service (SAT) to set up
        guidelines to improve the collection of fines imposed by the CFC.

15. Recent achievements: The legal and institutional changes adopted in the mid-2000s
    allowed the CFC to improve its performance and obtain major achievements. A
    highlight of some of its recent achievements is provided below:

        Absolute monopolistic practices:
        In 2009, the first cartel case (housing market in Lake Chapala) that made use of
        the Immunity Program was completed.
        In 2010, the CFC fined six pharmaceutical companies that regularly colluded in
        contracts issued by the Mexican Social Security Institute (Instituto Méxicano de
        Seguridad Social--IMSS). This and other reforms in public procurement have
        generated a very substantial reduction of drug prices. (See Annex 4c for a
        comprehensive discussion of recent policy reforms aimed at increasing
        competition in public procurement.)

        Relative monopolistic practices:
        In 2009 the CFC completed an investigation into a complaint against Productora y
        Comercializadora de Televisión, SA de CV, a leading cable TV content
        distribution and production company in Mexico, which refused to provide signals
        to an operator of cable television networks in two Mexican municipalities.




73
   Chiquiar, Daniel and Manuel Ramos-Francia (2009), Competitiveness and Growth of the Mexican
Economy,       Banco     de   Mexico,    Working  Papers, No.     2009-11,  November     2009,
http://ideas.repec.org/p/bdm/wpaper/2009-11.html.


                                            - 67 -
        In a similar case, the CFC imposed one of the highest fines to Televisa, the largest
        Spanish speaking media consortium in the world for refusing to provide content to
        a cable network operator. (See Annex 4b for a comprehensive discussion of recent
        policy reforms aimed at increasing competition in the telecommunications sector.)

        Mergers and acquisitions:
         In 2007, an emblematic decision on mergers and acquisitions was reached.
        When Aeroméxico was put up for sale by the GOM in 2007 and Mexicana
        expressed its intention to acquire a controlling share of it, the CFC decided not to
        authorize the acquisition due to potential serious risks to competition in the
        market for air travel.74
         In 2007, the CFC issued an opinion and recommendations to promote
        competition and improve the efficiency of designating landing slots at the airport.
        As a result, new airlines now have access to the International Airport and stronger
        competition has prompted additional services for airport passengers.

        Preventive market concentration measures:
        In 2008, the CFC issued an opinion with a critical assessment of Mexico´s trade
        regime in which it indicated that the tariff structure discriminated between
        importers and created distortions that limited the ability of domestic producers to
        compete with their foreign competitors. The opinion contributed to the issuance
        of a decree that reduced the most favored nation tariffs on manufactured imports
        and increased the number of duty-free tariff lines.75
         In early 2010, the CFC established limits on the maximum amount of radio
        spectrum that is permitted by one agent to protect the market from high levels of
        concentration.
        Also, in early 2010, at the request of the Secretary of Communications and
        Transport, the Commission developed competition guidelines for the bidding
        proposals regarding the fiber optic threads in the voltage network for the Federal
        Electricity Commission.

Additional Reforms Needed

16.      Although a substantial improvement, the legal amendments to the Federal
Competition Law of 2006 were not comprehensive enough. Additional reforms are
needed to provide the CFC with the tools that will support the achievement of its mandate
and to further align the Mexican antitrust legislation to the best practices observed in
countries with long and successful tradition in the enforcement of competition laws. In
this vein, the GOM presented Congress a proposal of amendments to the Federal
Competition Law that, among others, (i) would further increase monetary sanctions and
facilitate the effective application of criminal sanctions; (ii) would authorize the CFC to
conduct unannounced down raids to support its investigations; (iii) would permit "early


74
   In 2005, the CFC approved the divestiture of the two major government-owned domestic airlines
(Aeroméxico and Mexicana) to independent investors.
75
   The implementation of the trade reform

                                                 - 68 -
agreements" to conclude an investigation; (iv) would introduce the legal figure of
injuctions to allow the CFC to suspend certain acts or conducts that could damage the
process of free competition; and (v) allow the CFC to have easier access to information
of public institutions in order to conduct relevant market studies and enhance competition
in public biddings.




                                          - 69 -
                ANNEX 4B. TELECOMMUNICATIONS REFORM IN MEXICO


Introduction

1.     The telecommunications industry is important for development. It provides not
only final consumer products but also basic production inputs to all industries. The
telecommunications sector is undergoing radical technological, economic and policy
changes throughout the world. The liberalization of telecommunications markets during
the 1990s has played a key role in the industry's development.

2.      In Mexico, the performance of the telecommunications sector improved
significantly after the privatization of the country's telephone operator in 1990. Yet the
limited scope of competition, since the industry was initially privatized as an unregulated
monopoly and remains dominated by one firm, caused improvements to be far smaller
than those observed elsewhere.

3.     Mexico has an overall infrastructure deficit and the telecommunications sector is
no exception. Low levels of investment in the sector along with a lag in the adoption of
new technologies have led to a shortfall in the infrastructure needed to participate in
today's information based society.

4.     Recently, the Government has adopted and implemented several regulatory
actions aimed at enhancing the levels of investment and competition in the
telecommunications sector. These include auctions for the lease of part of the optic fiber
network owned by the Federal Electricity Commission (CFE) and for the use of radio
spectrum conducted by the Federal Telecommunications Commission (COFETEL).
These auctions have the potential to change the telecommunications market in Mexico,
promoting the better use of the existing infrastructure and the development of new
technologies, and increasing coverage and quality of services.

The Mexican Telecommunications Market

5.      The Mexican telecommunications sector has been characterized by a high level of
market concentration. The privatization of the country's telephone operator, Telmex, in
1990 was accompanied by a six-year exclusivity period in domestic and international
long distance telephony prior to the opening up of the market to competition. As a result
and despite a downward trend in its market share, the Telmex-Telcel group maintains a
dominant position in the Mexican telecommunications market with a market share of 81
percent of fixed lines, 71 percent of mobile services and 68 percent of broadband
services. The same is observed in revenues, with the group concentrating 67.8 percent of
total revenue. Concentration is also present in public networks as the only network with
national coverage is property of the incumbent operator. The high concentration level is
affecting the sector´s development.

6.     The Mexican telecommunications sector has undergone a dramatic transformation
and its performance improved significantly ever since the sector's restructuring two

                                          - 70 -
decades ago. The number of fixed lines almost tripled, to 18 million lines, and mobile
telephony services increased from nothing to 86.5 million subscriptions by 2010. Despite
this strong growth, penetration of telecommunication services in Mexico still shows a
lower level and slower growth compared to OECD countries or its Latin American peers.
In 2010, the penetration rates (subscriber per 100 inhabitants) for fixed telephony, mobile
telephony and broadband services were 18, 78 and 10, respectively. Meanwhile, the
corresponding average penetration rates in OECD countries were 36, 114 and 25. Other
high middle income countries in Latin America also showed higher levels of penetration.
In Chile, for example, the corresponding penetration rates are 21, 106 and 10.3. Due to
technological developments and innovation in the sector, telecommunications in most
countries has been one of the most dynamic sectors and has grown faster than the
economy in general.

7.      Penetration of telecommunication services is closely related to investments in the
sector. In Mexico, investment fell from a high of US$51 per capita in the period of 1999-
2001 to an average of US$33 per capita in 2005-2007, less than a quarter of the level of
investment observed in the average OECD country (OECD, 2009)

8.      Prices for telecommunications services have tended to fall from year to year in
real terms whereas the range of services has expanded. The recent trend toward bundled
services makes it increasingly difficult to identify the prices of specific services. Using
the OECD methodology of representative baskets of monthly consumption,
telecommunications services in Mexico are more expensive compared to other OECD
countries. Prices of fixed, mobile and broadband services were 39, 26 and 31 percent
higher than the average OECD price (CFC, 2009).

9.    Recent market developments in the three main telecommunication market
segments­fixed, mobile and broadband­and market shares of the different operators in
Mexico can be characterized as follows:

Fixed Line Telephony

10.     The fixed line telecommunications market in Mexico has been losing ground to
mobile and converging technologies that are offering more benefits to consumers. This
has led to a significant loss of revenue in the segment. Revenues from the fixed segment
currently represent 35.9 percent of the total telecommunications market.

11.     The fixed line market is dominated by Telmex, even if during the last years it has
lost ground. In 2009, this firm operated 82.2 percent of the 19.3 million of lines existing
in the market and accumulated 82 percent of the US$10.8 billion in revenues generated
by this market segment, down from 91 percent in 2005.

12.    The fixed line telecommunications segment will continue to stagnate in the short
run due to the recent disconnection of fixed telephone lines that were in arrears, the use
of voice services provided by cable operators and the increasing adoption of mobile
services.



                                          - 71 -
Mobile Telephony

13.     Mobile telephony has been the most dynamic segment over the past years and
now accounts for 81.7 percent of total (fixed and mobile) lines. By 2010, the mobile
market consisted of 86 million of lines divided among the four main operators (Telcel,
Movistar, Iusacell and Nextel). The main operator (Telcel) had 70.8 percent of those
lines. In 2009, the sector generated revenues of US$15 billion with an uneven
distribution among operators. Telcel accounted for 68.5 percent of total revenues, while
its closest competitor (Movistar) obtained 14.1 percent. The Herfindhal-Hirschman
Index of market concentration in the mobile segment is estimated at 0.55. The mobile
market operates mainly under the prepayment scheme with 87 percent of subscribers
using this modality.

Broadband Services

14.     The broadband market in Mexico is experiencing an exponential growth. The
number of subscribers has tripled since 2007 and by June 2010 there were 10.9 million
connections. As in the rest of the telecommunications sector, this market shows a
significant concentration with the major operator, Telmex, holding 64 percent of
broadband connections.

15.    Despite recent strong growth, the segment of broadband penetration depicts the
most acute lag by international standards with 10 connections per 100 inhabitants
compared 23.3 on average for OECD countries. The country not only has a deficit in the
number of users but also shows one of the lowest connection speeds and one of the
highest prices for broadband services. The price of a broadband connection in Mexico is
5 times the price observed in the U.S. or Chile.

Public Policies in the Area of Telecommunications in Mexico

16.     The last decade of the 20th century saw a movement around the world towards
new market-based approaches to the supply of telecommunications services. The
successful transformation of monopolistic telecommunications markets, often run by
state-owned operators, into competitive ones does require important regulatory
intervention. Reasons for such regulation include authorizing new operators, removing
barriers to market entry by new operators, connecting new entrants with incumbent
operators and ensuring that competitive markets do not fail to serve high cost areas or
low income subscribers.

17.     In Mexico a restructuring of the telecommunications industry took place with the
privatization of the state-owned operator, Telmex, in December 1990. The privatization
included a six-year exclusivity period in domestic and international long distance
telephony as well as investment and pricing commitments. Initially, there was no
regulatory arrangement other than enforcement of the terms of the concession by the
Ministry of Communications and Transport (Secretaría de Comunicaciones y
Transportes--SCT).



                                         - 72 -
18.      The regulatory framework for telecommunications in Mexico was established in
1995, five years after the privatization, with the adoption of the Federal
Telecommunications Law and the regulatory body to implement the framework was
established in 1996, shortly before the end of the exclusivity period. COFETEL was
created by presidential decree and operates under the control of SCT, to which the law
assigns the regulatory functions. The limited autonomy and weak regulatory powers
conferred to COFETEL has created an ambiguous situation in which the entity mainly
plays an advisory role to SCT. Development of competition may suffer in this
institutional set-up as SCT, being part of the executive branch, tends to privilege short-
term investment and coverage targets (Mariscal and Rivera, 2007).

19.     The next few paragraphs briefly describe the Government's program with respect
to the telecommunications sector. Subsequently, an analysis is provided of the policy
actions that are expected to have a major impact on the dynamics of telecommunications
in Mexico­the lease of CFE's optic fiber network and the licensing of additional radio-
spectrum. Finally, the section concludes with a set of challenges in the regulatory
framework that are in the process of being dealt with.

Recent Progress and Challenges

20.     The National Development Plan (NDP) and the sector-specific program for 2007-
2012 set out the main strategies and actions of the current administration in the area of
telecommunications. While recognizing the dynamism of the sector and progress
achieved in increasing coverage and penetration, the NDP signals the lower levels of
penetration compared to other countries and the importance of access to
telecommunications services within the country's competitiveness agenda. In order to
increase access to telecommunication services the NDP and the sector-specific program
set out to:

       Increase coverage of telecommunication services and promote the optimal use of
       existing infrastructure in the country by
           o Facilitating the development and expansion of telecommunications
               services and networks
           o Optimizing the use of existing infrastructure
       Encourage convergence in telecommunication services by
           o Elaborating and implementing norms that allow operators to offer services
               independent of the type of network, platform or technology used
           o Fostering investment in the sector in order to update equipment and
               infrastructure in accordance technological progress
       Promote competition among the different telecommunication service modalities
       by
           o Developing fair regulation that allows for adequate interconnection and
               sharing of infrastructure
           o Establishing transparent processes in governmental and regulatory
               authority's resolutions that generate legal certainty



                                          - 73 -
Lease of Fiber Optic Network

21.    In May 2009, President Calderón announced a tender to lease part of the fiber
optic network owned by the Federal Electricity Commission (CFE), a network of 21,208
km throughout the country. CFE has been operating this national fiber optic network for
its own needs, including the operation and administration of the national power grid.
CFE provides electric power throughout Mexico, reaching 130,000 locations and almost
all of Mexico's 108 million inhabitants. Using part of this fiber optic network rapidly
expands the availability of data transmission capacity in Mexico.

22.     Previous to the lease of part of CFE's fiber optic network, there was only one
nationwide network available for telecommunications owned by the main operator,
Telmex, which sub-leases capacity to other operators at high costs because of its power
as a dominant player. As a result, a large part of the Mexican population was covered by
a single network, which has led to higher prices and a delay in coverage expansion.

23.    In January 2010, the bidding rules for the lease of a pair of dark fibers76 of the
fiber optic network were published. In June 2010, the bidding process was concluded
and the lease was awarded to a consortium formed by Telefónica, Televisa and
Megacable.

24.     For the auction, CFE's network was divided into three different routes with the
intention to increase competition in different regions:
         a. Pacific Route (8.120 km) crossing the west of the country from Baja California
            to Oaxaca and including two segments not connected to the rest of the country
            in Baja California and the Baja California Sur Peninsula.
         b. Center Route (5.789 km) crossing from Chihuahua in the north to Chiapas in
            the south and accessing Guatemala by Tapachula.
         c Gulf Route (5.560 km) crossing the country on the east side with two outlets to
            the northern border in Nuevo León and Tamaulipas and reaching the Yucatán
            Peninsula with access to the submarine cable that connects to Florida.

25.     The auction consisted of 2 rounds. During the first round, the participants
submitted their bids for one or more of the routes individually. For the second round
bidders were allowed to bid for packages of two or three routes, with a requirement that
bid prices should at least exceed 3 percent of the sum of the highest bid for each of the
routes from the first round.

26.    Initially, 16 companies issued comments on the bidding rules though, finally, only
three companies that joined in an alliance participated in the tender. Due to the lack of


76
   Dark fiber is unused optical fibers available for use in fiber-optic communications. One reason that dark
fiber exists in well-planned networks is that much of the cost of installing cables is in the civil engineering
work required. This includes planning and routing, obtaining permissions, creating ducts and channels for
the cables, and finally installing and connecting. This work usually accounts for more than 60% of the cost
of developing fiber networks. Many fiber optic cable owners such as railroads or power utilities have
always added additional fibers for lease to other carriers.

                                                    - 74 -
participants, the lease was awarded to the consortium of Telefónica, Televisa and
Megacable for an amount of MX$883 million, i.e. 3 percent above the minimum bid
price.

27.    Undoubtedly, the entry of the CFE in the telecommunications market and the
lease of part of its optic fiber network provide for additional competition taking
advantage of existing infrastructure, which should lead fairly rapidly to increased service
provision and coverage, at lower prices.

Licensing of Additional Radio Spectrum

28.     In 1987, when the market for mobile telephony took off, the country was divided
in nine regions with two licenses in the 800 MHz frequency band granted in each one.
Telmex, through its subsidiary Telcel, received a license in each of the regions, the only
proviso being that the company could not be the sole provider in any of those regions.
After the original cellular phone band at 800-894 MHz had become overcrowded, the
Federal Communications Commission (FCC) in the United States set aside the frequency
band of 1850-1990 MHz for mobile phone use in 1994 and carried out auctions to
allocate this Personal Communication Services band (PCS) between 1994 and 1997.
Mexico followed with an auction for 80 MHz in the PCS bandwidth in 1997-1998.
Another auction in this bandwidth took place in 2005. The latter included a spectrum
accumulation cap77 intended to promote competition among service providers.

29.    After a series of public consultations carried out in 2005 and 2006, COFETEL
proposed a program of public tenders of additional radio spectrum. The program was
published in 2008 and included four main segments of frequency bands (Table 1). The
tenders of the frequencies for mobile phone services (1.9 GHz and 1.7-2.1 GHz) have
already taken place, and tentatively the other two frequencies will be tendered in 2011.

30.     COFETEL published a call to acquire the bidding rules for the frequencies of 1.9
GHz and 1.7/2.1 GHz in November 2009 and subsequently issued the bidding rules in
December 2009. COFETEL decided to auction a total amount of 120 MHz divided in (i)
30 MHz for the 1.9 GHz band in 3 blocks of 10 MHz each for eight of the nine spectrum
regions of the country, and (ii) 90 MHz for the 1.7/2.1 GHz band in two national blocks
of 30 MHz each and the remainder in three regional blocks of 10 MHz in the nine
different spectrum regions of the country.




77
   The cap was set by CFC on the accumulation of spectrum in the PCS band (at 35 MHz) and did not take
into account any spectrum accumulated in the 800 MHz band that is used for the same mobile telephony
service delivery. A higher cap, at 65 MHz, taking into account spectrum accumulation in the 800 MHz and
the PCS band as proposed at the time by COFETEL, would have increased the possibilities of allocating
the spectrum rights among the three participating operators (Piedras, 2010).

                                                - 75 -
                              Table 1. Tender Program for Radio Spectrum

                               Frequency Band                                 Time to be Tendered

     1.9 GHz                                                                 within 90 days
     Known as the PCS Band (Personal Communications Services)
     and previously subject of auctions in 1998 and 2005
     3.4 ­ 3.7 GHz                                                           within 180 days
     Known as the WLL band (Wireless Local Loop) and previously
     subject of an auction in 1998
     1.7 ­ 2.1 GHz                                                           within 270 days
     Known as the AWS band (Advanced Wireless Services)
     71 ­ 76 / 81 ­ 86 GHz                                                   within 270 days
     For fixed broadband links of short distance

31.      In line with the Federal Telecommunications Law, COFETEL submitted the
auction plans to the consideration of CFC for its opinion regarding the impact on and
promotion of competition in the mobile market. In a resolution, CFC established, once
again, limits to the accumulation of spectrum that operators could obtain. The regional
maximum was set at 70 MHz for the 1.9 GHz auction, considering the original
allocations of spectrum in the bands of 800 MHz and 824 MHz; and a regional maximum
was set at 80 MHz for the 1.7/2.1 GHz auction, considering the aforementioned
allocations of spectrum plus 1.7/2.1 GHz (Table 2).

                                   Table 2. Radio Spectrum Blocks
        Region of the         Tender 20 (1900 MHz)                     Tender 21 (1700 MHz)
          Country        Blocks of MHz to be auctioned             Blocks of MHz to be auctioned
    1                   10        10          10                              10       10      10
    2                   10        10          10                              10       10      10
    3                   10        10          10                              10       10      10
    4                   10        10          10                              10       10      10
    5                   10        10          10              30     30       10       10      10
    6                   10        10          10                              10       10      10
    7                   10        10          10                              10       10      10
    8                  -          -           -                               10       10      10
    9                  10         10          10                              10       10      10
            Source: COFETEL

32.    An important objective in the licensing of spectrum is to maximize the
opportunities for spectrum-using industries. This requires that the spectrum licensed is

                                                     - 76 -
fully used rather than hoarded by incumbents, and that no firm is able to use market
power in spectrum licenses to limit competition in end-user markets. The use of
spectrum caps offers an effective form of intervention in the competitive process which
can benefit end users (Cave, 2009). At the same time, spectrum caps may inhibit the
adoption of innovative services, and spectrum caps at auctions often reduce revenues.
Spectrum caps have been used in the U.S., Canada, Guatemala and Mexico.

33.     The objectives to license additional radio spectrum through an auction, as stated
in the bidding documents, are to:
           Expand the radio spectrum available;
           Encourage the entry of new operators in telecommunications; and
           Promote new technologies, address the sector's capacity constraints, and foster
           better services at lower cost.

34.     The design of the auction of 1.7/2.1 GHz (Auction 21) included two key elements
that had a critical impact on the final outcome: (i) the definition of the spectrum blocks to
be auctioned (in regional blocks of 10 MHz each and two national blocks of 30 MHz
each), which responded to both technical and market considerations; and (ii) the spectrum
accumulation cap of 80 MHz fixed by CFC, which sought to promote competition in end-
user markets.

35.     Given that the blocks of 30 MHz were of national coverage, if an operator had
more than 50 MHz in any of the nine cellular regions in which the country is divided, it
could not bid for the national blocks. This was the case of three of the existing operators
(see grey cells in Table 3). The distribution of spectrum between the existing operators
previous to the auction, together with the accumulation cap and the size of the national
blocks, ensured that these segments of 30 MHz each could only be acquired by new
entrants or by the smallest of the incumbent operators, Nextel.

                          Table 3. Allocation of Radio Spectrum before the Auctions

                                                                          Spectrum Regions
 Operator          1            2            3           4            5           6            7           8            9         Total      Percent
Iusacell          31.6        31.6         31.6        31.6         51.6         56.6        51.6         51.6        56.6        394.4           27.6
Telcel            49.4        51.4         58.3        57.3         49.4         58.3        52.4         49.4        58.3        484.3           33.9
Nextel             13         22.5          22           22         23.5         22.9        23.7         25.5         22         196.8           13.8
Telefonica         50          50           50         51.9          30           30          30           30          30         351.9           24.7
  Total in 
  bands of 
  800 and         144        155.5        161.9        162.8       154.5        167.8       157.7        156.5       166.9       1427.4           100
 1900 MHz
Note: Cells in grey denote the regions in which the operator could not bid for the national blocks of 30MHz due to the caps established by CFC.


36.     Auction 20, in which regional blocks of 10 MHz were auctioned in the band of
1.9 GHz, finished on July 15, 2010 with a decision by COFETEL to award the spectrum
licenses (Table 4). Auction 21, in which regional blocks of 10 MHz and two national
blocks of 30 MHz were auctioned in the frequency of 1.7/2.1 GHz, was completed on
July 19, 2010. The auctions generated a total revenue of MX$8.2 billion (US$660

                                                                      - 77 -
million), and the amount paid was 11.4 times the initial offer and minimum bid price
(Table 5). In the end, only the four existing operators in the mobile phone market in
Mexico participated in the process: TELCEL, Movistar and Iusacel, and a consortium
formed by Nextel (operating a specific mobile phone market segment in major urban
areas) and the largest media company in the country, Televisa. Following the auction
award, Televisa withdrew from the consortium.

                                     Table 4. Results of Auctions 20 and 21
                                           Initial Offer                   Final Offer                        Ratio of
      Tender and Frequency                                                                                    Final to
                                         (MX$ million)                   (MX$ million)                      Initial Offer
      No. 20 - 1.9 GHz                        $178.80                       $2,977.20                         16.7 times
      No. 21 - 1.7 GHz                        $540.90                       $5.248.05                         9.7 times
      TOTAL                                   $719.70                       $8,225.25                         11.4 times


37.     Regarding Auction 20, Iusacell obtained 9 blocks of 10 MHz in 8 regions;
Movistar received 14 blocks across the 9 regions; and the alliance Nextel-Televisa
obtained one block in region 4. Regarding Auction 21, the consortium Nextel-Televisa
gained one of the national 30 MHz blocks, while the other national block was not
allocated due to lack of new entrants. The price paid by Nextel-Televisa for the allocation
of the license was significantly lower than the amount that competitors paid for the
regional blocks. All the 10 MHz regional blocks were allocated among Telcel and
Movistar.

               Table 5. Spectrum Allocation and Amount Paid (Million of Mexican Pesos)
                                                                                          Participant
                                                           Nextel
                                                          Televisa           Iusacell Movistar Telcel                    Total
                            Amount paid (MXN million) $                48.3 $         65.4 $ 2,863.5 $                $    2,977.3
           Tender # 20
                            Regional blocks ( 10 MHz)                      1              9         14              0            24
                            Amount paid  (MXN million) $             180.3 $                $ 1,273.9 $    3,793.9 $    5,248.0
           Tender # 21      Regional blocks ( 10 MHz)                      0              0          6             21            27
                            National blocks (30 Mhz)                       1              0          0              0             1
          Source: COFETEL

38.       The Government has indicated the following on the auction outcomes:
          The national block of 30 MHz that was not awarded can be licensed in a
          subsequent tender in the short or medium term.
          Increasing competition in end-user market was an explicit intention of the auction.
          Payment received from the auction as a mechanism to allocate licenses constitutes
          a small share (about 14 percent) of the total amount that operators are expected to
          pay throughout the 20-year licensing period. Thus, the difference in total




                                                               - 78 -
        payments to be made by the winning companies for spectrum licensing and
        exploitation is substantially smaller (Table 6).78

                       Table 6. Estimated Net Present Value (NPV) of Payments Derived from
                                     Licensing of Additional Radio Spectrum
                                                             NPV of the Annual
                                Initial Payment                                         Total NPV (MX$
                                                                 Payments
                                 (MX$ million)                                              million)
                                                          - 20 years(MX$ million)
            Iusacell                      65                        1,859                    1,924
            Movistar                  4,136                         10,833                  14,969
            Nextel                        228                       18,876                  19,104
            Telcel                    3,793                         12,700                  16,493
            Note: The estimates are based on the assumption that annual payments are updated yearly
            (as required in the Ley Federal de Derechos) with an inflation rate of 3 percent and use an
            intertemporal discount rate of 3 percent.
        .

39.     Through the two competitive auctions concluded in July 2010, the Government
awarded concession titles for the use of 90 MHz of radio spectrum managing to increase
the average allocation of spectrum and reduce market concentration.79 After the auctions,
the average allocation increased from 39.7 MHz per operator to 61.5 MHz, whereas the
dispersion in the distribution of spectrum (measured by the standard deviation) decreased
as shown in Table 7.
                     Table 7. Average Allocations and Dispersion of Radio Spectrum (MHz)

                     Operator              Pre-auctions     Post-auction 20         Post-auction 21

                     Telcel                     53.8             53.8                    77.1
                     Movistar                   39.1             54.7                    61.3
                     Iusacell                   43.8             53.8                    53.8
                     Nextel                     21.9             23.0                    53.6
                     Average                    39.7             46.3                    61.5
                     Standard deviation         13.3             15.6                    11.0




78
   In addition to initial payment, operators are subject to an annual payment for the use of spectrum rights
that had been introduced in the Mexican legislation in the late 1990s. Payments differ according to the
region and are updated annually in the Ley Federal de Derechos. The mixed model of an initial payment
for the allocation and subsequent payments for the rights of its intertemporal use is applied in many
countries. Other countries follow a single payment model.
79
    All the corresponding concession titles have been issued to the successful bidders. The issuance of
several titles of concession has been challenged in Mexican courts by an incumbent operator. As of the date
of this document, the legal challenges have not prevented the use of the concession titles for bandwidth 1.9
GHz, but they have prevented, for the time being, the use of the concession titles for bandwidth 1.7/2.1
GHz. The final resolution of these legal proceedings is still pending and could affect the issuance of these
titles and the use of the rights entailed in them.

                                                           - 79 -
Challenges in the Regulatory Framework

40.     Consolidation of Local Service Areas: A Local Service Area (LSA) is the
geographical area in which a subscriber can call to fixed and mobile phones without
incurring in long distance payments. The consolidation process of the LSAs has been a
great progress for Mexican consumers, but remains limited compared to other countries.
As late as 1995, Mexico had over two thousand LSAs. The entry of competition in the
long distance segment and the auctions of radio spectrum for wireless
telecommunications forced to re-define geographic areas within which the operators
would provide the "local telephone service", either fixed or mobile. As a result, a
reduction in the number of LSAs to 397 was obtained. Further efforts to continue with
this process have been blocked by Telmex in the fixed market, arguing that such
measures would represent a revenue decline of US$500 million per year. In September
2009, COFETEL issued a resolution to further consolidate to 70 LSAs, and it is expected
the SCT will overrule the temporary suspension presented by Telmex and continue with
the regulatory reform that will reduce the number of LSAs.

41.    Elimination of barriers to foreign direct investment: Another reform that can
promote competition within the sector would be the opening up to Foreign Direct
Investment (FDI) in telecommunications. FDI is currently limited to 49 percent, except in
the mobile segment. This measure would provide a more conducive environment for the
packaging of services through strategic alliances, acquisitions and mergers, would
increase infrastructure, promote competitiveness, generate jobs, and increase tax
revenues. The barriers to full investment in telecommunications are inconsistent with the
convergent nature of the technological change and market developments.

42.     Interconnection rates: The interconnection rates for mobile termination in
Mexico are considered among the highest in OECD countries. Currently, there is a legal
controversy by some mobile operators with the ruling of the SCT on mobile termination
rates. That ruling confronts the model used at this time by COFETEL with a new model
developed by SCT which estimates rates considerably lower than the previous one and
that has retroactive implications for fixed operators. At the end of 2009, the mobile
operators obtained a suspension to the SCT ruling. The regulator has to program the
following reductions to the mobile terminations rate by the end of 2010 based on the
average long run incremental cost according to the current market conditions and the size
of its operators.

43.     Excessive litigation: Effective implementation of competition policy in general
and in the telecommunications sector in particular has been hindered by the litigious
abuse of the ¨amparo¨ process. Similar to an injunction, an ¨amparo¨ is a judicial review
procedure whereby a complainant can ask for the reparation, suspension, or annulment of
an act of a public authority that is deemed to violate the complainant's constitutional
rights.

44.    One of the potential policy actions to remedy this situation is the creation of
courts within the judicial branch that would concentrate on economic competition cases


                                         - 80 -
in which specialized judges could help limit the use of the ¨amparo¨ process only to those
cases with sufficient merits (Solano, del Villar and Garcia-Verdú, 2006).

Concluding Remarks

45.     Mexico is a country with low competition in several important markets. This is
the case of the telecommunications sector; particularly the fixed and mobile segments are
dominated         by      companies       with       significant       market      power.
The country also suffers from an infrastructure deficit in telecommunications due to a
lack of investment and sub-utilization of the existing infrastructure. Such is the case of
the fiber optic network of the CFE and the radio spectrum.

46.     Markets that operate within the context of network economies such as
telecommunications tend, in the absence of effective regulation, to the absolute
concentration with all the market distortions that this generates, such as unmet demand,
lower innovation and technological development, high prices and social welfare losses.
Therefore, regulatory interventions are needed to promote healthy competition in the
industry and get all the benefits of information and communications technology.
Progress in leveling the competitive playing field for telecommunications operators has
been made through the licensing of additional radio spectrum and the lease of part of the
fiber-optic network. Additional regulatory action is needed for the telecommunications
sector to play a more prominent role in the enhancement of the country's productivity and
growth.




                                          - 81 -
         ANNEX 4C. DEVELOPING A MORE COMPETITIVE FRAMEWORK FOR PUBLIC
                                 PROCUREMENT

1.      The existing national procurement law (therefore, the Act80) of Mexico was
introduced in 2000 and has undergone various amendments in 2008 and 2009
introducing, inter alia, the provision for subsequent offers, framework agreements and
electronic bidding, while secondary regulation and guidelines were issued in 2010.
Municipalities and some other organizations, notably PEMEX, have substantial
autonomy from this legislation. The law is similar to that for the Latin American region.
In this Napoleonic or Roman civil law framework, rules are codified and prescriptive,
and procedural formalities have traditionally been observed rather strictly. The
framework regulates procedures for public procurement in considerable detail for some
roles and functions such as tendering, small business support, committees and disputes,
but is relatively silent in other respects such as evaluation, reporting, coordination,
planning and contract management.

2.      The most recent World Bank Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR),
undertaken in 2007, identified issues including excessive regulatory complexity and a
need for more effective governance and coordination. The CPAR recommended, inter
alia, a more sharply defined, resourced and authoritative leadership function for the
Secretaría de la Función Pública (SFP); the use of framework agreements; a greater role
for the electronic procurement system (CompraNet); increased level of competition by
reducing the barriers to foreign firms; changes to the bid-opening procedures such that
firms are not eliminated because of simple arithmetic errors; the application of standard
documentation; an extension of the minimum bid opening times from the existing 20
days; streamlined procurement regulations; and changes to the methodology for engaging
consultants.

3.      The amendments advanced by the Government in 2009 and 2010 have taken
several important steps towards addressing these issues. These changes include
legitimizing the use of framework agreements (also defined as framework contracts in the
regulations81), a more comprehensive role for CompraNet, addressing some of the bid-
opening procedures, and an effort to streamline disputes by providing an out-of-court
conciliation process managed by the SFP.

4.      The introduction of framework agreements and the strengthening of the role of
CompraNet have potentially profound medium- and long-term benefits that should
significantly improve the practice of procurement in Mexico. The option of the reverse
auctions also represents a positive step forward in modernizing the practice of
procurement in Mexico by forcing the pace of new technology and expertise.

5.     The application of framework agreements and aggregation, as set out in Article 17
of the Act, is in itself a procurement reform program. Framework agreements should


80
   Ley de Adquisiciones, Arrendamientos y Servicios del Sector Publico. Diario Oficial de la Federación del 28 de Mayo de 2009.
81
   Cámara de Diputados del H. Congreso de la Unión. Reglamento DOF 28-07-1010, Diario Oficial de la Federación del 28 de julio
de 2010.

                                                           - 82 -
open the way for aggregation and/or streamlining the contracting process and the more
effective use of existing capacity ­ they are important mechanisms for raising the
performance of procurement and should benefit both buyers and suppliers including
small businesses.

6.     These instruments can be effective solutions to issues that have gone
unrecognized by the previous legislation, but are common in public procurement,
including circumstances where:
         There is frequent re-ordering based on the same (or similar) set of
           specifications;
         The volume required cannot be predicted;
         Economies of scale are possible;
         The required delivery dates cannot be predicted;
         Supply may be required over an extended period;
         Budget certainty is not available;
         Independent buying units within a Ministry or between different Ministries are
           duplicating each other's efforts and acquiring the same supplies;
         Small buying units lack the capacity to arrange and manage their contracts;
         Crisis planning (such as for natural disasters) cannot accommodate the time
           required for traditional processes;
         No single supplier is considered to have sufficient capacity; and
         A choice of suppliers is considered desirable, for example, to minimize the
           risks of stock-outs.
7.      Thus the widespread application of these instruments will change the procurement
training requirements, as well as increase efficiency, transparency and the quality of
planning and budget management.

8.      Framework agreements also mean that extensive contracting activities can be
arranged by a relatively small number of strategic procurement specialists and reduce the
duplication amongst departments independently arranging similar contracts. Thus,
existing scarce capacity in terms of numbers of trained procurement officials is more
effectively deployed. There also needs to be effective mechanisms for monitoring
decentralized users, and this can be provided by the more effective deployment of
CompraNet.

9.      Article 17 assigns the SFP significant powers for the facilitation and monitoring
of framework agreements, although the legislation apparently requires that these be
undertaken through a line agency (it is usual practice for the development and
management of framework agreements to be undertaken by a central agency). More
broadly, and complementing Article 17, Article 7 of the Act provides the SPF with wide
powers to develop policies and processes that are in the best interests of the state, and
provides that Agency with the authority to interpret the Act for administrative purposes.
These powers are essential, and may provide the basis for a more effective leadership role
in public procurement, which is required for framework agreements to deliver maximum
benefits listed above: international best practice includes a centralist role to ensure that

                                           - 83 -
the significant benefits of framework agreements, as well as infrastructures such as
CompraNet, are not lost to inter-agency rivalry. In order to take full advantage of these
new provisions there is a need for some strengthening of the roles and capacities of the
SFP. The SFP is responding with, inter alia, the development of a procurement
intelligence unit, representing recognition of the higher capabilities that are increasingly
required for this function.

10.     Article 14 of the Regulations referring to Article 17 of the Act imposes a range of
management requirements around framework agreements, which seem unnecessary and
could weaken this reform. An example is the need for at least five agencies to
participate, which seems to reflect a misconception about these instruments in the light of
the many international examples where framework agreements include just one agency.
Similarly there appears to be a need for inter-agency agreements. These issues may be
able to be circumvented by the scope of Article 7 as already noted. International best
practice is for the use of framework agreements to be able to be mandated, in which case
the SFP would be required to impose cross-sector monitoring on an ongoing basis rather
than simply facilitating and reviewing.

11.      A further potential benefit that will be found is that the wider use of framework
agreements can render Open Contracts (Article 47 of the Act) as obsolete, thereby
reducing the financial risks to the State. Open contracts do not precisely specify the
quantities to be procured within a contract but instead establish a range, where the lower
limit is commonly 40 percent of the upper limit. Despite this added flexibility, there is a
financial commitment that can now be avoided through the use of framework agreements.

12.     The second transformative amendment to the legislation is the enhanced role for
CompraNet. When launched ten years ago, it was an international leader but its functions
remained largely unchanged as a document management and publishing facility. Its
potential is substantially unused with most tenders being submitted by traditional paper
means. International practice is for such a facility to be taken much further into business
process re-engineering of work management and monitoring systems. In other countries
such as Korea and India, e-procurement is explicitly an economy-wide productivity
catalyst that drives modern technology into the business sector.

13.     The greater use of CompraNet (i.e., Articles 21, 26 and especially 27 of the Act)
is therefore a very positive development, and the mandated roles of this infrastructure
represent a good step towards realizing its full potential. The objective is now for
CompraNet to move from being a document management system to a transactions based
management system. Operational goals need to be established for this platform, and a
high level `road map' has already been produced. Such development would, as well as
increase transparency and efficiency, reduce simple procurement to a minor procedure
with minimal training requirements, and allow professionalization of procurement with
senior officials focused on more strategic procurement issues.



                                           - 84 -
14.    To be fully effective and integrated with procurement workflow and audit, the
wider role of CompraNet will require the greater standardization of documentation,
which constitutes an important reform by itself. In addition, it would be beneficial to
mandate the use of this facility for the uploading of bid documents (following a transition
phase). This would force the pace of technological adoption by suppliers, rather than the
slowest adapters influencing technological adoption as currently.

15.     Article 27 of the Act requires, inter alia, authentication by electronic means to
have the same evidentiary value as paper-based authentication. The legislation represents
an advance over many other international cases by avoiding any implication of digital
certificates; rather the legislation has simply set a standard and as such is best practice.
The appropriate standards for acceptable authentication are potentially ambiguous and
need to be defined by the SFP in terms of business requirements rather than leaving this
to the courts, which may not have the capacity to deal with it. It is important that the
rules governing online authentication are commensurate with the risks and do not raise a
high bar that is costly and unnecessary in the context of the risks to the State and which
would slow the deployment of technology. Article 45 of the Act allows for the
finalization and presumably the signing of a contract to be concluded electronically. This
can be applicable to smaller contracts such as those that arise in framework agreements.
For larger contracts, this practice would be inconsistent with normal business practice.

16.     International practice in this area is diverse, but an emerging trend and preferred
option should be for online registration and, if necessary, authenticated ex post, such as
during existing individual tender processes. This may be able to be addressed with
relative ease within the existing legislation under Article 7 of the Act, which should
enable online registration as the basis for the issuance of digital certificates, or preferably
the issuance of simple passwords common in many countries for this function. This will
enable a more rapid rollout of CompraNet in the business sector, while also ensuring
authentication as required. An ex-post authentication stage would provide greater
authentication than is currently required in the paper based system and also greater
authentication than is required in many jurisdictions worldwide that have robust
governance frameworks.

17.     The legislation has now established the foundation for substantial benefits to
emerge from the combining of CompraNet with Framework Agreements, including
Reverse Auctions under Articles 2 VIII, 28, 29 and 36 of the Act, further regulated in
Articles 38 and Section IV of the regulation and lineamientos82, respectively).

18.    Reverse Auctions are defined in some jurisdictions as variations of Framework
Agreements, although the technology will benefit the application of all types of
Frameworks.     The incorporation of reverse auction procedures has a role in
circumstances of strong competition and requires extensive market knowledge to avoid


82
     Secretaria de la Función Pública, Diario Oficial de la Federación del 9 de Septiembre de 2010.

                                                                 - 85 -
predatory pricing (low-balling) or collusion. Care is needed to ensure reverse auctions
are not disadvantageous to small businesses. Nevertheless, reverse auctions have already
shown some positive results and represent a positive step forward in modernizing the
practice of procurement in Mexico by forcing the pace of new technology and expertise.

19.    In addition to these transformative changes a number of other positive legal
aspects include the following:

       The legislation provides recognition of the need for capacity development in
       relation to procurement. Under Article 7 of the Act, the SFP becomes responsible
       for establishing training requirements, as well as position classifications for
       procurement officials. The positive aspect of this is that the centralization of this
       aspect lays a foundation for common professional standards and possible future
       accreditation across the public sector. The SFP should be resourced accordingly
       to deliver this function. It should also be noted that the enhanced role of
       framework agreements and CompraNet should significantly affect the training
       agenda.
       Article 21 of the Act requires online publications of the annual procurement plans
       from all the federal agencies. Furthermore, Articles 2 II, 25, 26, 29, 30, 43 of the
       Act call for agencies to publish in CompraNet all specific procurement activities,
       promoting awareness of business opportunities and furthering competition.
       Article 12 Bis and Article 53 of the regulations open the door to overdue value-
       for-money and Total Cost of Ownership assessments. These are important issues
       that could have also been raised in the hierarchy. As they currently are, these are
       focused only on assets. It would be desirable for these principles to be elaborated
       upon and carried further.
       Article 37 of the Act allows for the correction of simple arithmetic and
       typographical errors and should improve efficiency and reduce litigation.
       Article 22 of the Act establishes the requirement, roles and conduct of
       procurement committees. This is positive, although it may often be preferable for
       the legislation to envisage these committees having an advisory role to an
       accountable official, rather than a mechanism that could diffuse accountability. It
       is also unclear as to who is accountable if a committee does not perform
       adequately.
       Article 26 Ter. IV of the Act creates the figure of Testigos Sociales (social
       witnesses) in public procurement processes, which are representatives of the civil
       society of recognized professional, ethical and moral prestige. They participate as
       independent observers in the contracting procedure promoting transparency and
       diminishing risks of corruption. They produce reports, and in cases of possible
       irregularities, should denounce them before the respective authorities.
20.     A number of challenges remain, including that:




                                           - 86 -
     Article 33 of the Act allows short timeframes for advertising (20 or 10 days),
     which mean that for major projects the State may often fail to attract optimum
     bids.
     Strong rules remain for the protection of Mexican businesses especially small
     businesses (Articles 8, 14, 28 of the Act). The restrictions to competition are
     extensive such that the market cannot be depended upon to provide price signals,
     and it is necessary for provisions such as Article 38 to artificially provide
     guidance for what bid prices are deemed to be acceptable. These rules are not
     well conceived and are likely to weaken economic development by assuring local
     businesses of work regardless of how uncompetitive they are at the international
     level.
     Article 24 of the Act shifts accountability for multi-year planning from the
     agencies to the Secretary of Finance. This issue of forward budget commitment
     could be better managed by developing effective program planning approvals as
     part of the budget as well as the appropriate construction of the contracts
     themselves such as discontinuing open contracts in favor of framework
     agreements. Article 24 of the procurement law also requires agencies to comply
     with Article 50 of the Budget and Financial Responsibility Act: this appears to be
     an example of over-regulation as discussed elsewhere.
21.      Finally, a major economic player in Mexico is PEMEX for which all procurement
that is for substantive production is exempt from the procurement law. The definition of
substantive production is determined by the organization itself.

22.    Besides the aforementioned improvements of the legal framework, the SFP has
also carried out positive actions towards straightening the public procurement systems,
including the development of the terms of reference for key activities and allocation of
funds for procurement reform, specifically, strengthening of CompraNet, development of
framework agreement and reverse auction methodologies, professionalization scheme for
procurement officials, and information and analytical capabilities for management and
transparency.

23.     In summary, the regulation of procurement in Mexico has taken important new
directions to provide effective support to economic growth and good governance. The
provisions for framework agreements and the greater role for CompraNet are particularly
significant. These changes have the potential to lead to substantial benefits in public
administration and financial management, and should impact positively on the
operational environment. Consolidating these reforms will be an essential step and will
require changes in the role and expertise of the SFP, and extensions to the application of
CompraNet.        Other significant reforms include greater recognition of the
professionalization of the procurement function.

24.     The potential for further reform exists especially in the potential to structure the
legislation around the internationally recognized core principles with the Kelsen


                                           - 87 -
methodology, the adoption of alternative approaches to the support of small businesses,
and revisions to the PEMEX framework.




                                        - 88 -
                  ANNEX 4D. STREAMLINING BUSINESS REGULATIONS

1.      Redundant, poorly designed and implemented business regulations increase the
costs of firms and create opportunities for corruption. In 2000, the GOM took important
steps to improve the quality of business regulations through the creation of the Federal
Commission of Regulatory Improvement (Comision Federal de la Mejora Regulatoria or
COFEMER), which is an autonomous organism designed to supervise the development
and implementation of regulations affecting businesses and citizens. Over the years, this
reform effort lost some of its initial momentum. In addition, it did not include a
comprehensive review of the costs of regulations already in place.

2.      Yet, there was significant room to streamline existing business regulations which
lagged significantly practices applied in most OECD countries. Most transactions
required by the federal government had not yet migrated to electronic platforms, required
excessive documentation, and followed outdated processes imposing unnecessary costs
and generating delays in business operations. For the trading across borders indicator,
Mexico ranked 74 out of 183 countries in the 2010 Doing Business report. Until recently,
the process to conduct trade activities had been very complex demanding interactions
with more the 30 stakeholders. Regarding tax payments, over the last couple of years, the
GOM has implemented measures to facilitate these, including the introduction of
electronic filing systems for payroll taxes, property taxes, and social security. The
number of yearly payments was drastically cut from 27 to 6, which helped improve
Mexico´s Doing Business rank for paying taxes from 149 (out of 183 countries in 2009)
to 106 in 2010. Compliance time, however, remained excessively high compared to most
OECD countries.

The Zero Base Regulation Approach

3.      Cognizant of the economic costs imposed by unnecessary regulations, the GOM
has launched a new reform that seeks to move toward a Zero Base Regulation Approach.
This reform is a fundamental component of the broader competitiveness agenda of the
National Development Plan 2007-2012 and the 10-point structural reform agenda
announced in September 2009. The reform will eliminate and simplify procedures and
norms, keeping only those strictly necessary and justified, with the aim of reducing costs
imposed on businesses, facilitating the entry and exit of firms, and removing barriers that
hinder innovation. The simplification of some trade norms will also facilitate the entry of
Mexican enterprises to new export markets, complementing other public efforts to
negotiate free trade agreements with Brazil and several countries in Asia as part of a
larger strategy to diversify Mexico's highly concentrated export basket.

4.      The Zero Base Regulation Approach is a comprehensive and ambitious effort that
will be implemented in stages. It started in December 2009, when President Calderón
requested all ministries to review all business regulations and internal norms that regulate
public functions and identify those needed to be reformed or eliminated. The Ministry of
Public Administration (Secretaría de Función Pública, SFP) and the Ministry of
Economy (Secretaría de Economía, SE) were designated as the two institutions
responsible for coordinating the reforms of internal norms and business regulations,

                                           - 89 -
respectively. In March 2010, the two institutions presented a plan with procedures and
rules to be eliminated and streamlined.

5.      As an outcome of the review, the Ministry of Economy identified the 49
regulatory procedures that result in the biggest economic burden and whose
simplification could lead to annual savings of about 0.4% of GDP, according to
preliminary estimates. The economic impact was estimated on the basis of incidence (the
number of times that an individual or firm must comply with it) and the economic value
associated to the regulatory compliance (Figure 1). They are also linked to the eight
ministries that interact most with citizens and enterprises: Ministry of Finance (Secretaría
de Hacienda y Crédito Público), Ministry of Economy (Secretaría de Economía),
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (Secretaría de Agricultura, Ganadería,
Desarrollo Rural, Pesca y Alimentación, SAGARPA), Ministry of Environment and
Natural Resources (Secretaría de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales, SEMARNAT),
Ministry of Health (Secretaría de Salud), Ministry of Labor (Secretaría de Trabajo y
Previsión Social, STPS), Ministry of Energy (Secretaría de Energía) and Ministry of
Transport and Communications (Secretaría de Comunicaciones y Transportes, SCT). The
plan will be implemented in stages and completed by late 2011.

6.      The simplification process of these norms is being implemented in stages by the
eight ministries involved and is expected to be completed by late 2011. The first three
important packages of administrative reforms entail: (i) the simplification of tax
payments; (ii) the simplification of technical norms, exports requirements, registration of
patents and foreign investment; and (iii) the establishment of a single portal trade.




                                           - 90 -
        Figure 1. Procedures and Norms Imposing the Highest Economic Cost (by Ministry)




  Source: Ministry of Economy

Simplification of Tax Payments

7.       Over the last couple of years, the GOM implemented successful measures to
facilitate tax payments, including the introduction of electronic filing systems for payroll
taxes, property taxes and social security. This reduced the number of yearly payments
from 27 to 6, which increased Mexico's Doing Business rank for paying taxes from 149
(out of 183 countries) in 2009 to 106 in 2010. Despite this progress, Mexico's
compliance time remains substantially above the OECD average. The time to comply
increased particularly after the enactment of the Flat Rate Business Tax (IETU by its
Spanish acronym) in 2008.

8.      On June 30, 2010, President Calderón signed a decree simplifying tax
administration procedures. The decree includes five measures that seek to reduce the time
and resources that firms spend complying with fiscal obligations. The decree establishes
the following simplifications:

        The elimination of the monthly declaration of the Flat-Rate Business Tax (IETU).
        From now onwards, the IETU will be declared annually rather than monthly.
        The elimination of the annual declaration of the Value Added Tax (which is
        already declared on a monthly basis).
        The elimination of mandatory annual tax and social security contributions
        external audit reports.



                                            - 91 -
           Taxpayers with credit from the Cash Deposit Tax (IDE by its Spanish acronym)
           will be able to obtain a re-imbursement without the need for a review by a public
           accountant.
           The validity of the Electronic Signature, required for filling out tax forms, will be
           extended from two to four years.

9.      The GOM estimates that these measures will save taxpayers about MX$15 billion
(US$1.2 billion) each year. This is a 6% reduction in the cost that they currently pay to
comply with the whole tax scheme. Small and medium enterprises (SMEs) will be the
primary beneficiaries of the reform since they typically have fewer resources to hire
special advice to help them meet their tax requirements. In addition, it is estimated that
the time allocated to complying with fiscal obligations will be reduced by 40%. The
GOM also expects that the reform will decrease tax collection costs from 1.3%83 of total
tax revenues to less than 1%, close to the OECD average (0.98%).

Simplification of Technical Norms, Exports Requirements, Registration of Patents and
Foreign Investment

10.    In mid-August, 2010 the GOM launched the second package of reforms to
simplify business regulations which included: the first set of measures to harmonize
technical norms with NAFTA partners in order to cut transaction costs and gain quicker
access to the latest technologies; streamlined requirements for European and Latin
American exports; and simplified procedures to register patents and foreign investments.

11.     Harmonization of technical norms: Until recently, Mexico required certification
of compliance with its technical norms and product standards (Norma Oficial Mexicana,
NOMs) for products to be used in the country causing redundant testing and certification
as goods are produced and have been tested according to similar standards elsewhere.
NOMs are technical specifications that ensure that materials, products and processes
comply with sound environmental, health and safety standards. Each Ministry can issue
NOMs in its area of jurisdiction. Demonstrating compliance with a relevant NOM
requires the submission of samples to certified laboratories for testing and product
certification, taking time and involving costs. Delays often implied that by the time a
product was certified, a technologically superior product was already available in the
global market.

12.     To eliminate redundant testing and certification requirements and facilitate access
to capital goods and consumer products that embody the latest technologies, the GOM
has initiated a process of recognizing the equivalence between NOMs and international
product standards. This process will be implemented in phases, starting with specific
products and Mexico's NAFTA counterparts. The determination of the equivalence of
product standards will follow a careful analysis that will take into account: (i) that the
technical standards of NAFTA partners fulfill the same objectives of NOMs and (ii) that


83
     This is based on the performance of the last ten years.

                                                      - 92 -
the conformity assessment procedures used in the United States and Canada provide an
assurance that the goods to be imported comply with the technical regulations applied to
Mexican procedures.

13.     The process was launched with the harmonization of technical norms concerning
electronic appliances and data processing equipment. On August 17, 2010, President
Calderón signed a Decree that recognizes the equivalence of compliance with product
standards and conformity assessment procedures on electronic appliances and data
processing equipment with those used in the United States and Canada. The GOM
determined the equivalence of the following technical norms: (i) NOM-001-SCFI-1993
for electric and electronic appliances for domestic use; (ii) NOM-016-SCFI-1993 for
electronic devices for office use; and (iii) NOM-019-SCFI-1998 for data processing
equipment. The measure will enable these goods to be traded in the country with either a
certificate of compliance with the corresponding NOM or a certificate of compliance
issued by recognized US or Canadian certification bodies.84 Due to the volume of imports
of these products and the costs related to the redundant certifications, the Ministry of
Economy has estimated that the industry could save up to MX$2 billion (US$155
million) on a yearly basis. A second phase of harmonization is focusing on health
products starting with medical equipment and devices. In November 2010, the Ministry
of Health through the Federal Commission for the Protection against Sanitary Risk
(COFEPRIS) significantly simplified the evaluation process for medical devices that are
already certified by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and Health Canada.
The presidential decree issued in August 2010 authorizes the Ministry of Health to issue
general provisions to recognize that the requirements, tests, and evaluation procedures
requested by Health Canada and U.S. FDA are equivalent to those that the Mexican law
already contemplates.

14.     As a complement to the recognition of the equivalence of the NOMs with
international product standards, an amendment to the Regulation of the Federal Law on
Metrology and Standardization is in process. When approved, the amendment will allow
NOMs to be developed in a more expeditious way, using as reference international
standards.

15.      Facilitating export processes to Europe and Latin America: Mexico's exports to
the European and Latin American countries have shown an increasing trend in the last
few years, amounting to nearly 12% of total exports in 2009 (Figure 2), and the GOM
wants to facilitate a further diversification of the export basket. Traditionally, producers
who exported to those regions had to comply with 24 reporting requirements and obtain a
Certificate of Origin--a process that could take several days to complete. The Certificate
of Origin is the document attesting that a product is considered from Mexico because it
fulfills the requirements of production or transformation known as rules of origin. With
the introduction of the new norms, the Ministry of Economy reduced the number of
requirements by 70% and the time to obtain the Certificate of Origin to a couple of hours.


84
 Laboratories specified in the decrees: Intertek Testing Services NA, TUV Rheinland of North America,
Underwriters Laboratories and CSA International.

                                                - 93 -
In addition, the registry of Approved Exporters to Europe and Latin America was
homologated so that exporters to both regions can now submit a single application
instead of making the process twice. The trade facilitation measures are complemented
with the establishment of the Single Trade Window discussed below.

                             Figure 2. Exports to Latin America and Europe
                                        (as percent of total exports)

              8 
                                 Europe                                          7.6
              7 
                                 LAC
                                                                           6.2
                                                                     6.7                     6.6
              6 
                                                               5.5                     5.3
                                                      5.7
              5                           5.3
                                    4.4         4.5
                           4.6
              4      3.7

              3 

              2 
                     2004              2005     2006           2007        2008        2009

              Source: Banco de Mexico


16.     Simplification of foreign investment and patent registrations procedures and
expansion of the single enterprise window: Procedures for receiving and registering
foreign investment and registering patents have been simplified as of August 2010. In the
past, the Ministry of Economy required foreign investors to visit the Ministry in order to
submit the information required by the law; the information is now processed
electronically with the National Foreign Investment Registry. This change has reduced
compliance with about 70,000 yearly procedures and eliminated unnecessary costs to
investors. Procedures to register patents were also streamlined and can now be submitted
electronically through the portal tuempresa.gob.mx, which is the official website to
incorporate a company online which has been operational since 2008.

17.     Moreover, the GOM is expanding the services offered by tuempresa.gob.mx, with
the purpose of transforming it into a centralized portal that enterprises can use to comply
with most business regulations required by the federal government. In mid-2010, the
portal was expanded to allow the registration of permits to commercialize medicines and
to obtain health and transportation permits. Overall, the GOM expects that all these
measures will enable individuals and firms to save up to MX$20 billion (US$1.6 billion).




                                                      - 94 -
                          Table 2. Incidence of the simplified procedures (second stage)
                                                                                             Annual
                                         Procedure
                                                                                           Incidence85
        Harmonization of the technical norms system for electronic equipment                    59,493
        Simplification of requirements for medical devices that have FDA and Health               2,495
        Canada certificates
        Facilitate the export of Mexican products to Europe and Latin America.                 163,001
        Automation of the submission of information to the National Foreign Investment          70,000
        Registry
        Expand services offered by the electronic portal tuempresa.gob.mx including            147,319
        patent registration
 Source: Ministry of Economy

18.    Establishment of a Single Trade Window: According to the 2010 Doing
Business report (DB), Mexico ranks 74 out of 183 countries in the indicator Trading
across Borders. In regards to the time dedicated to comply with export/import
procedures, exporters and importers spend on average 14 days and 17 days, respectively.
There are approximately 30 different stakeholders involved (shipping agents, customs
brokers, exporters, importers, etc.); 40 documents (used throughout the supply chain,
non-tariff restrictions and regulations, customs, etc); 200 data (of which around 70% are
captured more than once); and 171 procedures to comply with non-tariff regulations
issued by 12 different institutions.

19.     To address these problems, the Government has initiated the development of a
Single Trade Window that will allow enterprises to comply with all trade related
regulations (e.g., customs clearances, and obtaining licenses as well as health,
environmental and other certificates) through a single electronic platform. Presently,
enterprises have to manage all these processes with separate federal institutions and, for
the most part, processes are not automated. By bringing all trade related processes under
a single electronic platform, compliance time and costs will be substantially reduced. A
significant reengineering of procedures, especially those of the Customs Administration
Agency, will accompany its creation, but existing health and environmental standards
will continue to apply. International experience has shown86 that the establishment of this
kind of tools results in improved efficiency and effectiveness of official controls and can
reduce costs to both governments and traders.

20.    The development of the Single Trade Window will occur in phases. The Ministry
of Economy and the Customs Administration Agency (Servicio de Administración
Tributaria) and SHCP, which cover more than half of all trade transaction processes, will
be fully integrated with the platform by September 2011; the Ministry of Health, the


85
 Number of times that an individual or firm must comply with it
86
 UN/CEFACT: United Nations Centre for Trade Facilitation and Electronic Business. (Recommendation
No. 33,, 2004).

                                                   - 95 -
Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, and the
Ministry of National Defense by January 2012; and another 6 institutions by June 2012.87
An international bidding process was conducted to select the contractor that will be
responsible for its development, and its execution has already begun. The contractor will
be responsible inter alia for (i) change management within all the public institutions
involved, (ii) the reengineering of processes, (iii) the development of the software and its
integration with the supporting hardware, and (iv) the development of e-learning modules
for the trading community. In addition, the contractor will support its operation during
the first five years of implementation. A Presidential Decree will be issued shortly
providing further support to the establishment of the Single Trade Window.

Conclusions

21.      The Zero Base Regulation process aims to improve the services that the
government offers, as well as to reduce the costs that they imply to citizens, small and
medium enterprises and the productive sector. The reform is expected to generate an
increase in productivity, given that enterprises will spend less time and fewer resources
complying with regulations and will be able to concentrate their efforts in their core
productive activities. This will be more significant in the case of small and medium
enterprises (SMEs) since regulatory compliance typically imposes a relatively higher cost
on SMEs relative to large firms as evidenced by the World Bank Enterprise Surveys. In
addition, reductions in compliance costs will make it more attractive for informal
enterprises to become formal, allowing them to obtain the benefits that formality bears
(e.g., increased access to finance). The reform enhances the relationship between citizens
and the GOM by promoting transparency and reducing the discretionary application of
rules and norms. It is estimated that as a result of the simplification process, in 2012,
around 70 percent of the governmental procedures that citizens and firms have to comply
with will take place through electronic means, which will imply significant improvements
in terms of time and quality.




87
  During the third phase, the Ministry of Public Education; the Ministry of Energy; the National Health
Service, Food Safety and Quality; National Institute of Anthropology and History; National Institute of
Fine Arts and Literature; and Federal Attorney for Environmental Protection and National Health Service.


                                                - 96 -
                                     ANNEX 4E: FINANCIAL SECTOR POLICIES


Introduction

1.      Over the last decade Mexico has put in place a modern regulatory framework, yet
the financial system is underdeveloped by comparison to other high middle income
countries and many important market segments remain underserved. A sound regulatory
framework and well capitalized banks helped the system weathered the global financial
crisis fairly well, and the deterioration in banks' credit portfolios experienced during
2009 is already undergoing a reversal. Notwithstanding this, the crisis exposed a number
of vulnerable areas and market segments which the GOM is now addressing. In addition,
constraints on private sector credit and other financial services continue to hinder
enterprises' growth and households' access to basic financial products. In this vein, the
GOM is deepening its financial inclusion strategy.

Mexican Financial Sector Development in International Comparison

2.      Despite a modern regulatory framework, the Mexican financial sector is small
relative to the size of the economy, and both credit and deposits have traditionally lagged
behind other high middle income countries. Domestic credit to the private sector as a
percentage of GDP was 21% in 2008, well below that of other high-middle income
countries, such as Brazil, Chile, Malaysia, Thailand and Turkey as shown in Figure 1.
This is also below a World Bank predicted benchmark of 48%, which considers Mexico's
level of economic development and population size. Commercial bank assets constitute
45% of GDP compared to more than 85% of GDP and 110% of GDP in Brazil and Chile,
respectively, and commercial bank deposits as a percentage of GDP are also low for a
high middle-income country (Figure 2).

       Figure 1: Domestic Private Sector Credit                                          Figure 2: Domestic Deposits
                   (percent of GDP)                                                            (percent of GDP)
 160                                                                        140.0              Domestic Bank Deposits / GDP (%)         MEX
 140
                                                                            120.0
 120                                                                                                                                    BRA
                                                           Mexico
                                                                            100.0
 100
                                                           Brazil
                                                                             80.0                                                       CHL
  80                                                       Chile
  60                                                       Malaysia          60.0                                                       MYS
  40                                                       Thailand
                                                                             40.0
                                                    21.1   Turkey                                                                       THA
  20
                                                                             20.0
   0
                                                                                                                                        TUR
       1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008                      0.0
                                                                                    1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008

Source: World Bank Development Data Platform, 2010

3.     Although the financial system is diverse, banks continue to dominate it holding
57% of total assets (Figure 3). Mutual funds, insurance companies and pension funds
have grown in recent years, especially the last category, but remain relatively small with
assets comprising about 20% of GDP. Assets of non-bank credit institutions and

                                                                   - 97 -
auxiliary institutions (ex: leasing and factoring firms, credit unions, Sofoles (Sociedades
Financieras de Objeto Limitado) and Sofomes (Sociedades Financieras de Objeto
Múltiple)) are less than 2 percent of total system's assets. The last two, which are the
largest non-bank credit institutions, are active in some niche markets such as certain
segments of the mortgage sector.

4.      Large foreign banks hold the largest share of Mexican financial system assets.
Concentration in the banking system is high by international standards, with the three
largest banks holding 76% of assets. The largest banks have historically competed on
infrastructure and not on differentiation in fees and services. Some studies have
hypothesized that the concentrated nature of the Mexican financial system may have been
detrimental to credit access.
              Figure 3: Mexican                      Figure 4: Largest Three Banks'
 Financial System Assets by Institution (2009)             Asset Concentration
                (percent of total)                        (percent of total assets)
                                                                    80                                      76

               Brokerage                                            70                                              70
               house, 5%          Pension 
                                   funds,                           60
                                    11%                                                                             56
        Insurance, 6%                                                                                                    Mexico
                                                                    50                                              50
     Nonbank credit                                                                                                 46   Brazil
     institutions, 2%                                               40
                        Mutual funds,                                                                                    Chile
                                             Commercial             30
                            9%                                                                                           Malaysia
                                             banks, 57%
                                                                    20                                                   Thailand

            Development                                             10                                                   Turkey
             banks, 10%
                                                                    0
                                                                         2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008


Source: Banco de Mexico, April 2009                             Source: Bankscope, 2010

5.      Although the financial infrastructure in Mexico has expanded relative to 2005
levels, the branch, ATM and Points of Sale (POS) infrastructure lags behind other
comparable countries (Figure 5). Branch coverage per 100,000 adults in Mexico is below
that of Chile and Turkey, while coverage of ATMs and POS lags substantially behind
those of Brazil and Turkey. Competition in the retail payments system has been limited
with six banks conducting 95% of all credit and debit card operations. Lack of
competition may have led to relatively high interchange fees and may be one of the
reasons for which the credit and debit card markets are not very developed relative to
other emerging markets (Guadamillas 2008).88 89




88
   Guadamillas, Mario (Editor). (2008), "Balancing Cooperation and Competition in Retail Payment Systems: Lessons
from Latin America." World Bank Financial Infrastructure Series. November 2008.
89
   Currently, credit and debit card payments and ATM transactions by clients of other banks are cleared and settled via
two switches owned by major banks, six of which conduct more than 95 percent of all card operations. The HHI
indexes (Herfindahl-Hirschman Index) of concentration show that competition is particularly lacking in the acquirer
side of the retail payment cards market (see Guadamillas 2008).

                                                           - 98 -
            Figure 5: Physical Presence of Financial Services: Branches, ATMs and POS infrastructure
                                               (per 100,000 adults)
                         Branches                                                    ATMs                                                    POS
      Mexico                                                   Mexico                                                Mexico

        Brazil                                                   Brazil                                                Brazil

        Chile                                                    Chile                                                 Chile

     Colombia                                                Colombia                                               Colombia

     Malaysia                                                 Malaysia                                              Malaysia

       Turkey                                                   Turkey                                                Turkey

                 0   5      10       15       20       25                 0   20    40        60   80   100   120               0   500   1000   1500   2000   2500   3000   3500



Source: CGAP Financial Access database 2010

                                     Figure 6: Map of National Distribution of Bank Branches
                                                       (per 10,000 adults)




                                    Without branches

                                    Low( < 1.03 branches per 10,000 adults)

                                    Medium( between 1.03 and 1.37 branches x 10,000 adults)

                                    High( > 1.37 branches x 10,000 adults)


                            Source: CNBV

6.       In addition, the banking infrastructure is very unevenly distributed within the
country, with the majority of municipalities lacking a single bank branch.90 As shown in
the map below, the central-western region has indicators above the national average,
while the north and southeast have lower access levels, suggesting the need to reach
marginalized populations. The 2009 amendments to the Law of Credit Institutions to
facilitate the use of banking through agents, and more generally competition in the
banking sector, have increased the amount of physical access points for formal financial
services at a rapid rate. Six months following the enactment of the amendments, the
network of bank agents represented 47% of the infrastructure of traditional bank branches
in the country. As a result, the percentage of municipalities without a single bank branch
dropped from 64% to 57%.




90
 Comisión Nacional Bancaria y de Valores (CNBV). (2010). Presentation on "Consideraciones sobre el Esquema de
Corresponsales Bancarios," Mexico City, January 25, 2010.

                                                                                   - 99 -
Performance of the Mexican Financial System during the Global Crisis and its
Aftermath

7.      Overall, the Mexican financial system endured the global financial crisis
relatively well due to improvements in prudential regulations and oversight as well as
bank risk management. Since the Tequila crisis of the mid-1990s, Mexico has built a
modern regulatory framework for the financial system along with strong institutions
responsible for its oversight. At the outset of the crisis, banks presented strong
profitability, reserves, and capital buffers. In addition, they had little exposure to complex
structured products and benefitted from a stable funding base since local deposits
constituted their main funding source. Notwithstanding this, the financial crisis exposed a
number of vulnerabilities and the need for a more systemic and macro-prudential
perspective to supervision.

8.      The portfolio quality of financial institutions deteriorated significantly in 2009 but
is now improving. The sharp economic slowdown, largely motivated by the fallout in the
U.S. demand for Mexican exports and a drop in cross-border capital flows, led to a
decline in asset quality. The average of non-performing loans of commercial banks,
which dominate the system, peaked at 3.6% in April 2009 but had fallen to 2.5% by
September 2010. The consumer credit portfolio was the most affected. These stresses
contributed to diminished bank profitability as well as flat credit growth. The banking
system, however, was able to weather these problems due to sufficient reserves and
capitalization levels (see Table 1). The Mexican stock market, which suffered a sharp
decline in June 2008, had recovered to its pre-crisis levels by the end of 2009, with
returns on Mexico's stocks, bonds and currency exceeding those in the U.S. and Brazil
for the first time since 2002.

              Table 1: Soundness Indicators of the Mexican Banking System* (percent)
                                              2005        2006       2007    2008    2009    2010 (Sept.)
  Non-performing loans (NPLs)               1.8         1.99         2.54    3.21    3.08   2.5
  Provisions/NPLs                           242.2       210.3        168 9   161.2   173.9 196.4
  Return on Assets                          1.7         2.2          2.0     1.2     1.3    1.4
  Return on Equity                          20.2        24.3         20 .9   13.0    12.8   13.3
  Capital Adequacy Ratio                    16.2        14.3         16.0    15.3    15.1   17.2
  Source: CNBV Boletin Estadistica Banca Multiple, Septiembre 2010
  *End of the year unless otherwise indicated.

9.       During the global financial crisis, private sector credit changed from double-digit
growth to stagnation but is now showing signs of recovery. As illustrated in Figure 7,
consumer credit fell by 32% from June 2008 through March 2010 as the portfolio
deteriorated and banks started to tighten underwriting standards, and reportedly increased
for the first time in March 2010. Credit growth in housing also slowed during the global
crisis period. Commercial credit, which constitutes close to 60% of total private sector
credit, fell towards mid-2009 but started to recover towards the latter part of 2010.


                                                    - 100 -
 Figure 7: Credit to the Non-Bank Private Sector                                                     Figure 8: Trends in Bank Credit to Mexican
               (millions of pesos)                                                                           Firms (percentage change)

                      1,800,000                                                                      35
                      1,600,000                                                                      30
                      1,400,000
                                                                                                     25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      23.70
  Millions of Pesos




                      1,200,000                                                                                                                                                                                               Total Firms with Credit
                                                                                                     20
                      1,000,000
                                                                                      Commercial
                       800,000                                                                       15                                                                                                                       % Small Firms with 
                                                                                      Housing                                                                                                                                 Credit
                       600,000                                                                       10
                                                                                      Consumer                                                                                                                                % Medium Firms with 
                       400,000                                                                       5                                                                                                                        Credit
                       200,000
                                                                                                     0
                             0




                                                                                                                   Dec 07




                                                                                                                                                                         Dec 08




                                                                                                                                                                                                             Dec 09
                                                                                                          Sep 07




                                                                                                                                                                Sep 08




                                                                                                                                                                                                    Sep 09
                                                                                                                                     Jun 07


                                                                                                                                                       Jun 08




                                                                                                                                                                                           Jun 09
                                                                                                                            Mar 07


                                                                                                                                              Mar 08




                                                                                                                                                                                  Mar 09
                                  Mar  Sep  Mar  Sep  Mar  Sep  Mar  Sep  Mar  Sep 
                                  06    06  07    07 08     08  09    09 10     10




Source: Banco de Mexico, Survey of Credit Market                                                   Source: Banco de Mexico, Survey of Credit Market
Conditions database, September 2010                                                                Conditions database, September 2010


10.     According to surveys by Banco de México, the percent of firms with bank credit
fell from close to 30% in mid-2008 to about 23% in mid-2009. Credit to large corporates
dropped sharply at the beginning of 2009 and began to recover towards the end of the
year. On average, the percent of all firms with bank credit peaked at 30% in 2008, with
small firms at 21% (Figure 8). These rates declined during the global crisis, reaching 25%
and 15% for the average of all firms and the average of small firms, respectively, in mid-
2009. Supplier credit--rather than bank credit--remains the main source of financing for
more than 80% of SMEs.

11.     The economic rebound and changes in credit practices in consumer lending have
resulted in improvements to bank credit portfolios. Prior to the financial crisis, consumer
credit was rising at a very fast pace spurred by loose underwriting standards. Default
rates in credit cards, which constitute 60% of all consumer credit in Mexico, peaked at
12.5% in June 2009 (not adjusted for charge-offs) before dropping to 7.3% in March
2010, causing banks to curb credit card loans. To reduce the repayment default risk, in
April 2009, the CNBV put in place new provisioning requirements for credit cards that
require banks to provision based on expected losses rather than incurred losses of the
credit card portfolio. Similar reserve requirements for mortgage loans and non-revolving
consumer credit were also issued by CNBV in October 2010, which should help improve
risk management by institutions.

12.     While the SOFOLES and SOFOMES represent a small percentage of assets and
do not pose a systemic risk at this juncture, they remain a vulnerable area of the financial
market. Mexico's non-bank lenders, SOFOLES (limited-purpose finance institution) and
SOFOMES (multiple purpose financial institutions) are non-deposit taking institutions
that play an important role in financing niche market segments that are underserved by
banks. SOFOLES are authorized to finance a single sector (such as mortgage lending),
while SOFOMES can undertake one or more credit activities. Poor risk management

                                                                                           - 101 -
practices in many SOFOLES along with the problem of the U.S. mortgage-backed
security market severely affected their portfolio, with many of them incurring significant
losses in 2009. Non-bank financial institutions such as Crédito y Casa and
Metrofinanciera had non-performing loans exceeding 50% and defaulted on their debt in
2009, and SOFOM Su Casita defaulted on its debt in October 2010. While the average of
non-performing loans for the sector had declined slightly to 4.2% in September 2010, a
number of institutions still had non-performing loans above 15%.91 Proposed regulatory
changes require SOFOLES to transform into SOFOMES (multiple purpose financial
institutions) by 2013 and continued deterioration in asset quality is likely to force
additional consolidation in the industry.

13.    The possibility of broadening the perimeter of regulation to include SOFOLES
and SOFOMES is under development. Currently, SOFOMES can initiate operations
without the authorization of Mexican authorities. However, there is discussion over
whether those entities which are active in the capital markets need to be regulated, in
function of their size and the risk they present to their creditors. These institutions have
been encouraged to migrate towards the "niche bank" structure created through
amendments to the Law of Credit Institutions at the end of 2009. These specialized
("niche") banks are limited in purpose (similar to SOFOLES), but can capture deposits,
access the payment systems directly, and are regulated by CNBV. However, they have
lower minimum entry capital requirements than those of commercial banks.

14.      Although public support during the global crisis was relatively more modest by
comparison to other OECD countries, it was still critical; development finance
institutions, in particular, played an important counter-cyclical role. Speculative
derivative positions by several large Mexican corporations caused unexpected
commercial paper defaults in October 2008 as the peso depreciated, damaging investors'
confidence in the credit quality of local issuers. The uncertainty caused by this event and
the global turmoil severely increased risk aversion in domestic markets, and the
Government had to step in to facilitate the refinancing of corporate debt and to prevent a
collapse of the nascent mortgage-backed security market.

15.     Development financial institutions continued to expand their portfolios during
2009 to address market dislocations and support credit flows to the corporate sector,
SMEs and the housing market. The total loan portfolio of the six development banks
doubled between June 2008 and June 2010, and has increased by 10% between June 2009
and June 2010 as shown in Table 2. Non-performing loans (NPLs) and coverage levels
are showing improvements relative to the early months of 2010 but have yet to return to
2008 pre-crisis levels. The Federal Mortgage Corporation (SHF) has been particularly
affected, with NPLs at nearly 10% in June 2010. On average, capitalization levels have
not changed significantly, but this average masks significant differences among
development banks.



91
  Housing development bank SHF is a major creditor to Su Casita and is involved in the restructuring
discussions.

                                                - 102 -
                          Table 2: Performance of Mexican Development Banks

                                                      June 2008        June 2009   June 2010
   Total Assets (million pesos)                       395,728          758,492     786,303
   Total Loan Portfolio (million pesos)               238,743          321,984     352,468
   Credit delinquency index                           0.93             1.45        2.06
   Coverage of non-performing loans                   418.67           366.20      217.02
   ROA accumulated                                    1.57             0.65        1.32
   ROE accumulated                                    10.70            7.14        16.09
   Capitalization Index (Total Risk)                  16.64            15.30       15.54
   Source: CNBV Quarterly Statistical Bulletins on Development Banks

Financial Sector Policy Interventions to Foster Stability and Responsible Access

16.     In the wake of the financial crisis, policies to strengthen stability and facilitate
financial inclusion have continued to play a prominent role in Mexico's development
agenda. Although the Mexican financial system proved fairly resilient to the global crisis
due to public policies implemented over the past decade, a number of vulnerabilities
emerged that the GOM is now trying to address. At the same time, the GOM is
vigorously pursuing a multi-pronged approach to expand responsible access to financial
services by supporting the development of innovative delivery channels, improvements to
the financial infrastructure along with consumer protection and education.

Promoting Financial Stability

17.      Over the past decade, Mexico has made remarkable progress in bringing its
financial regulatory and supervisory framework to international standards. The
institutional framework for financial regulation has been upgraded; the capacity to
monitor and manage risks has become stronger and more effective; and the safety net
arrangements have improved (see Box 1 for a summary of changes).

18.     The global financial crisis, however, exposed a number of vulnerabilities and
challenges. In particular, the crisis has highlighted the need for a more systemic approach
in prudential regulation and oversight. With the objective of moving towards a more
macroprudential approach, the GOM established in July 2010 an inter-agency Financial
Stability Committee. The Committee will ensure greater collaboration and the timely
flow of information among institutions and will lay the foundations for better monitoring
and management of potential systemic risks. The Committee is chaired by the SHCP and
comprises participation from Banco de Mexico, the CNBV, and the Insurance
Supervisory Commission (Comisión Nacional de Seguros y Fianzas.)

19.     In parallel, the GOM is strengthening its capabilities for crisis management
through the development of crisis simulation exercises conducted with World Bank
assistance. The SHCP, Banco de Mexico, the CNBV and the Deposit Insurance Institute
(Instituto para la Protección al Ahorro Bancario--IPAB) have all participated in these

                                                   - 103 -
exercises. Banco de México has also prepared contingency plans for all its critical
processes and its payment systems. A new CNBV regulation establishes that banks have
to develop continuity plans for all their crucial processes.

20.     Regulations on credit provisioning and credit to related parties are being
strengthened in response to vulnerabilities observed prior to and during the crisis. In
particular, the rise in consumer lending prior to the crisis raised concerns on the quality of
underwriting standards, prompting a revision of regulations on provisioning for consumer
credit and mortgages. In mid-2009, the CNBV modified the credit card provisioning
regulations from an incurred-loss to an expected-loss approach, following the guidelines
of the Basel Committee and recent proposals under consideration by the International
Accounting Standards Board. In October 2010, the CNBV issued a regulation on the
provisioning of non-revolving consumer credit and mortgages that involved a similar
change. The new measures will become effective in January 2011. The change is
expected to result in more robust underwriting standards and more sustainable credit
growth, as early recognition of loan losses could have potentially reduced the impact of
the recent financial crisis.




                                           - 104 -
Box 1. Fostering Financial Stability: Key Regulatory and Institutional Reforms (2000-2009)

        A summary of the main regulatory and institutional changes to strengthen financial
regulation and supervision follows.
 Issuance of regulatory accounting standards in accordance with international accounting
    standards (FSAP update 2006).
 Issuance of regulations by the National Banking and Securities Commission (CNBV) to
    strengthen prudential requirements and risk management in the banking sector that cover
    inter alia (i) capital adequacy-based early warning indicators to trigger prompt corrective
    action; (ii) standards for external auditors and credit institutions in relation to the provision of
    external auditing services; and (iii) corporate governance requirements for integrated risk
    management of credit institutions.
 Amendments to the Law of Credit Institutions (2004 and 2006) strengthening the framework
    for bank resolution. The first reform provides a modern system of early warnings and prompt
    corrective actions. The second reform provides cessation of payments as a trigger for bank
    resolution; provides for information exchange between relevant agencies; defines flexible
    options for closed-bank resolution based on the least cost criteria; and protects supervisors
    discharging their duties in good faith.
 Issuance by CNBV of regulations to enhance market disclosure and transparency that cover
    inter alia financial reporting requirements for financial group holding companies that are
    subject to supervision by CNBV and harmonize the disclosure of financial information by
    credit institutions.
 Enactment of a new Securities Markets Law (2005) that enhances governance by establishing
    inter alia the roles and duties of the management and boards of listed companies and
    applicable sanctions and facilitates access to capital markets by inter alia creating new
    corporate vehicles to facilitate stock market listing (2005).
 Enactment of amendments to the Law of Credit Institutions that inter alia have strengthened
    the autonomy of the CNBV by transferring it most of the regulatory powers held by the
    SHCP (including authority to issue and withdraw licenses for banks, and issue prudential
    regulations). The licensing authority for financial groups, however, remains with the SHCP.
 The CNBV was restructured to promote full consolidated supervision of financial
    conglomerates.
 The CNBV established a department for securities enforcement.

Facilitating Financial Inclusion

21.     The GOM has put in place a comprehensive strategy to expand access to
underserved segments of the population. Key pillars of this strategy are: (i) creating an
enabling regulatory environment for the use of innovative delivery channels in a safe and
cost-effective manner, (ii) enhancing critical financial infrastructure such as credit
bureaus and the payment systems, and (iii) strengthening the framework for consumer
protection as well as consumer education. Development finance institutions have also
been a crucial policy instrument to promote market development and inclusion. Although
important elements of this strategy have been implemented since the early 2000s (Box 2),
the strategy has gained pace during the last few years. A detailed account of the most
important reforms undertaken recently is presented below.


                                                - 105 -
22.     In the spirit of promoting innovative and cost-effective delivery channels, the
CNBV issued a regulation in April 2010 allowing commercial banks to contract mobile
phone companies to offer (low-value) financial services on behalf of the bank. To make it
effective, in early 2010, Banco de Mexico issued a regulation providing for limited
documentation requirements to open such low-value transaction accounts. These two
changes build on amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions (June 2009), which
permitted banks to contract third parties to provide financial services on behalf of the
bank. With more than 80 million active cell phone lines in Mexico for a population of
108 million92, the "mobile banking" channel has the potential to reduce substantially
geographic disparities in basic financial service provision. By moving financial services
beyond banks' traditional `bricks-and-mortar' infrastructure and shifting them to a lower
cost and more widely available channel, financial services can be offered profitably and
sustainably to segments of the population that are poorer or more remote, and that are
currently neglected by regulated financial institutions. Ultimately, these new technologies
can facilitate the use of formal financial services by a greater portion of the Mexican
population.


        Box 2. Expanding Responsible Access to Finance: Key Legal Reforms (2000-2009)

     A summary of the main legal and regulatory changes implemented to promote financial
     access during the last decade follows.

        Enactment of a legal framework to regulate Credit Information Bureaus (2001) that
        broadened the universe of participating lenders, improved data timeliness, and
        strengthened the protection of personal data.

        Enactment of the Law on Transparency and Ordering of Financial Services (2004),
        which established the Commission for the Protection and Defense of Consumers of
        Financial Services (CONDUSEF), and subsequent amendments in 2009, which
        strengthened its authorities. The main responsibilities of CONDUSEF are to (i) educate
        users of financial services, (ii) promote an equal and fair relationship between
        institutions and its users, (iii) inform the public on the cost and quality of services
        provided by financial institutions, (iv) facilitate arbitration services, and (vi) regulate
        marketing practices and financial contracts of credit institutions to ensure that consumers
        are aware of their rights and responsibilities.

        Enactment of amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions (June 2009), which permitted
        banks to contract third parties to provide financial services on behalf of the bank.



23.     While the enactment of the Law on Credit Information Bureaus was a critical step
in helping to expand the coverage of credit information bureaus, a number of institutional
gaps remained which recent amendments have tried to address. In May 2010, the law was
amended with the purpose of increasing the coverage and data quality of credit bureaus as


92
  Federal Telecommunications Commission (Comisión Federal de Telecomunicaciones--COFETEL).

                                                 - 106 -
well as the quality of services to consumers whose data is included in the credit bureau.
The legal amendments establish minimum requirements on the content of credit reports
and make efforts to improve data quality by requiring all credit bureaus to specify the
origin of data. It also attempts to provide information sharing guidelines and increase
incentives for information sharing between different credit bureaus. By strengthening
data quality and facilitating data sharing, asymmetries of information between borrowers
and financial institutions will be narrowed and lending institutions will gain access to an
improved set of records--all of which should facilitate access to credit. Better quality
data will also contribute to sounder credit portfolios. In addition, the law improves
consumer protection by defining penalties for credit bureaus that do not comply with
minimum service standards to consumers and provides clear grievance procedures for
consumers that consider their credit reports contain inaccuracies.

24.      Concerning the retail payments system, recent amendments to the Law for
Transparency and Order of Financial Services have reduced barriers to entry. One of the
perceived obstacles to the usage of retail payment cards has been the level of interchange
fees, i.e., the costs of a card payment realized on an open network. Lack of transparency
and insufficient competition in the retail payments system have been identified as
potential causes of these high fees. There are currently two switches that transmit card
payment operations between the merchant and the card issuer; these have been dominated
by a small number of major banks that until recently had no clearly defined entry
requirements and have a policy of differential pricing for transactions that favor their own
switch members, limiting competition between switches and incentives for new
participants. Amendments to the Law for Transparency and Order of Financial Services
enacted in May 2010 require connectivity between different service providers and
prohibit barriers to entry with the goal of encouraging greater usage by merchants and
cardholders and reducing transaction costs to consumers.

25.    To promote responsible access to finance, the GOM is complementing the above
measures with increased financial protection and literacy efforts. In particular, the Law
Protecting and Defending Users of Financial Services was amended in June 2009 to
substantially strengthen the National Commission for the Protection of Users of Financial
Services (Comisión Nacional para la Defensa de los Usuarios de las Instituciones
Financieras--CONDUSEF), and secondary regulation (circular) was issued in August
2010 providing greater detail on the implementation of the law. The circular issued by
CONDUSEF (i) defines the monetary sanctions applied to financial institutions that fail
to adhere to consumer protection regulations, (ii) provides specifications on the clarity of
loan contracts, (iii) allows clients to cancel loan contracts within a few days of loan
approval, and (iv) reduces penalties for closing bank accounts to facilitate greater
consumer mobility. In addition, CONDUSEF alongside CNBV, SHF and other regulatory
agencies are accelerating efforts to facilitate financial education. A World Bank
administered Trust Fund is supporting some of these initiatives.

26.    The GOM is using extensive data analysis to inform the design, implementation,
and evaluation of its financial inclusion strategy. In this context, it has produced two
major reports on the status of financial inclusion. It plans to conduct regular surveys on
the use of and access to financial services and to gather detailed information on the

                                          - 107 -
available financial infrastructure on a systematic basis. The first of these financial
surveys was conducted in 2009, and a major new financial inclusion survey will begin in
2011.

Medium-Term Policy Trends

27.     Going forward, the authorities envision a financial sector reform agenda that
continues to foster stability together with market development and inclusion. The GOM
plans to submit to Congress amendments to the Law of Credit Institutions (i) to further
strengthen the bank resolution framework by allowing P&A transactions including partial
deposit transfers and (ii) to define a framework for covered bonds in order to facilitate
long-term bank financing to the housing sector. In addition, the GOM intends to adopt the
recently announced Basel III recommendations. These are expected to require little
adjustment to Mexican banks, which were already subject to more stringent capital
requirements. On the securities front, the review of numerous regulations is underway
with the purpose of enhancing market transparency and investor confidence.

28.      In addition to their important counter-cyclical role, development finance
institutions will remain active policy tools to foster market development and financial
inclusion. In this vein, the World Bank is assisting the GOM with a review of their
governance framework.




                                         - 108 -
     ANNEX 4F. FOSTERING PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS FOR INFRASTRUCTURE

I.     Gaps in Infrastructure

1.      That infrastructure matters for development is no longer questioned. A plethora of
studies have shown its impact on growth, productivity, and poverty alleviation (i.e.,
Canning 1998, Reinikka and Svensson 1999, World Bank 2004, Calderón, Easterly and
Servén 2003, and Andrés et al 2009). Despite significant advances throughout the last
two decades, the quality and coverage of Mexico´s infrastructure is not adequate to
support high growth and poverty reduction. While its levels of infrastructure were
comparable to, if not higher than, those of East Asia in the 1970s, by 2010, the levels of
the latter have leapfrogged those of Mexico. Logistic costs in Mexico remain well above
20% of product value (particularly for SMEs) compared to about 8% in OECD countries
hampering the country´s competitiveness and export performance (Guasch 2006 and
Jordan et al 2009). Its highway coverage is quite low, 0.18 highway kilometers/km2 and
between 30% to 40% of state and municipal roads are in poor conditions (PNI 2007).
Coverage of potable water and
sewerage stands below 90% and 80%,                 Table 1. Global Competitiveness Index:
                                                      Mexico's Quality of Infrastructure
respectively. Mexico faces urgent
needs to increase its effective                  Sector          Global Ranking LAC Ranking
generation capacity by 6,000 MW.                Airports               65                2
Port and airports are in need of                 Roads                 62                8
capacity expansion as well. The                 Railways               76                2
World Economic Forum also points to               Ports                89                11
important gaps in infrastructure Source: World Economic Forum (2010)
ranking Mexico 69 and 79 on the
effectiveness and quality of its infrastructure, respectively (Table 1).
Telecommunications, railways and ports show the most acute weaknesses relative to
other countries, and roads and ports relative to other Latin American countries.

2.       Historically low investments explain much of Mexico´s shortcomings in
infrastructure. Excluding hydrocarbons, over the last three decades, the country has
invested less than 2% of GDP (rising to almost 3% during the last two years) versus 5.8%
in Chile, more than 6% in most East Asian countries, and as high as 12% in China. To
address its growth and poverty challenges, Mexico needs to invest at least 4% to 6% of
GDP (Fay and Yepes 2008). Given budgetary constraints and opportunities for efficiency
gains, a large share of that financing will have to come from the private sector. Thus, the
need to foster a proper environment for public-private partnerships (PPPs) in
infrastructure.

3.      Private participation in infrastructure has grown since the early 1990s but with
mixed outcomes. The Salinas Administration launched an ambitious concessions program
covering nearly 6,000 km of roads or 52 highways, as well as railroads. Poorly structured
contracts and the financial crisis of the mid-1990s led to the failure of most of those road
concessions forcing the GOM to a very costly rescue estimated at about US$ 15-20
billion. The second wave of concessions, starting in the early 2000s, advanced much

                                          - 109 -
better until the 2008 global financial crisis. Many of the earlier road projects were
tendered back to the private sector securing about US$ 10 billion (Figure 1). Tenders in
the port and airport sector have been reasonably successful, yet hampered with logistic
issues of access and modality connectivity. In the telecommunications sector, practically
all services have been tendered or sold to the private sector, but critical issues related to
limited effective competition are hampering the sector´s performance (see Annex 4b). In
the water sector, the extent of private participation has been limited and shown mixed
results, often due to financial constraints of municipalities. In electricity, the extent of
private participation has been constrained to the tendering of "green" field projects for
generation plants via the IPP and off-take type model.


            Figure 1. Investment Commitments to Mexican Road Projects with Private
                               Participation by Status, 1989-2009




       Source: World Bank and PPIAF, PPI Project Database * Adjusted by the US CPI


II.    Shortcomings of Mexico's PPP Framework for Infrastructure

4.       Several key challenges have limited private participation in the sector: (i)
institutional gaps; (ii) shortcomings in the legal framework; (iii) difficulties in financing
projects; and (iv) deficiencies in the structuring of projects. For the most part, these
problems are aggravated at the sub-national level. (See Infrastructure Public Expenditure
Review (2005) for an extensive analysis of how these issues have affected PPP
development.)

5.      Institutional constraints: As IPER (2005) highlighted, insufficient coordination
of investment planning, not only among agencies within each infrastructure sector but
also at the macro-policy level, and inadequate transparency and accountability have been
major stumbling blocks to PPP expansion.

6.      Federal ministries and agencies, and state and local governments have operated in
relative isolation in the planning and implementation of infrastructure spending which
has led to disparate sector outcomes. To a large extent, the requirements for infrastructure
planning in Mexico have changed, shifting the focus from public investment programs to
                                                - 110 -
strategic planning, including aspects related to the reorganization of the infrastructure
sectors, decentralization, private sector participation, pricing and subsidies, and financial
support.

7.      Policy coordination between the national and state governments is crucial to avoid
program duplication with conflicting incentives and operating rules. The process is least
fragmented in the electricity sector, which is largely managed from the center, but there is
also less experimentation. In other sectors, all three levels of government are involved
(especially municipalities in water and sanitation), and in the transport sector, several
federal agencies are involved (see Federal Toll Roads Institutional Reforms (2007)).

8.     Fragmented information systems together inadequate sharing of information
among actors makes accountability more challenging. Lack of systematic ex-post impact
evaluation has also weakened accountability, preventing adjustments to programs and
resource allocation.

9.     Legal framework: Mexico does not have a legal framework suited to the specific
challenges of PPPs. The Law of Public Works and Related Services and the Law of
Acquisitions, Leases and Services of the Public Sector are clearly not fit to the long-term
contractual structure of PPPs. In addition, elements of other relevant laws, enacted many
years ago, have posed hurdles to the implementation of an effective PPP progsram.
Examples are inability to extend concessions (save for the last fifth of the concession
period); lengthy and cumbersome procedures to assign needed studies and engineering
reports supporting PPPs projects; and ambiguities on the treatment of unsolicited
proposals, etc. The impact of these problems is quite significant increasing uncertainties
and risks to investors, which translate into higher cost of capital and higher tariffs or
subsidies, as the private sector demands premiums to address the associated risks. They
also cause delays in the preparation and adjudication of projects thwarting the number of
PPPs that can be developed yearly.

10.     Financing of PPP projects: Mexico is not immune to the standard financing
issues that usually affect PPPs, including difficulties to secure long-term financing,
syndication difficulties, refinancing issues and so on, with limited credit mitigation and
enhancement options available from the market. This challenge is aggravated by the
relative underdevelopment of Mexico's financial markets and low private sector credit as
percent of GDP (Annex 4e). All these issues increase the difficulties of securing
financing, limiting the appetite for PPP from private parties.

11.     Structuring of PPP projects: Gaps in procedures and the design structure of
projects have sometimes dampened the interest of potential sponsors, a problem that was
aggravated by the global crisis and heightened risk aversion of investors.

12.     State level issues: At sub-national levels, the above challenges are compounded
by credit worthiness and financing problems. While the potential for PPP at sub-national
levels (water and sanitation, solid waste, roads, etc) is extensive, their fiscal space is very
limited. Moreover, the credibility of their commitments to deliver on payments


                                            - 111 -
contractually agreed to concessionaires is often questioned by sponsors, thus limiting the
extent of sub-national PPP development.

III.     The Public Policy Response

13.    Aware of the acute infrastructure needs, the GOM formulated in 2007 an
ambitious strategy with credible and measurable targets of progress. The strategy
envisions that the private sector will have a critical role in infrastructure development and
has systematically been addressing the existing regulatory, institutional and financial
shortcomings to facilitate PPPs. The scope of the National Infrastructure Plan and the
program to foster greater PPPs in infrastructure are presented below.

A. The National Infrastructure Plan

14.     The GOM has defined an ambitious long-term strategy for infrastructure
development that seeks (i) to place Mexico among the top 30 countries on infrastructure
quality and coverage, (ii) to increase annual investments in infrastructure to more than
5% of GDP, and (iii) to secure at least 58% of that investment from private sources. In
the context of that strategy, it has launched the 2007-2012 National Infrastructure Plan
(Plan Nacional de Infraestructura, PNI). Investment targets for the period are US$240
billion or close to an average annual investment of 3% to 4.5% of GDP, of which about
58% is expected to be privately financed. This constitutes Mexico's greatest
infrastructure investment effort in 25 years. 93

15.    The national plan identifies over 300 projects in multiple sectors. The sectors that
require the highest investments are hydrocarbons and electricity followed by roads and
telecommunication (Table 2). As of 2010, 40% of the targeted investments has been
committed.




93
  This assumes that half of the additional tax revenues stemming from the Public Finance Reform bill sent to
Congress are earmarked for infrastructure.

                                                      - 112 -
         Table 2. National Infrastructure Plan: Investment Requirements and Targets by Sector
                                          Percent of    Private
                        Investment          Total       Share
         Sector                                                     2012 Targets
                       (USD billion)   Infrastructure (Percent of
                                         Investment     Total)
                                                                    Build or modernize 15,000
 Highways                 26.49          11.30%         44.60%
                                                                    kilometers.
 Railroads                 4.52           1.90%         44.90%      Build 235 kilometers.
                                                                    Build five new ports and increase in 3
 Ports                     6.55           2.80%         77.40%
                                                                    million TEUS the cargo capacity.
                                                                    Build at least 2 new airports and
 Airports                  5.45           2.30%         45.70%
                                                                    increase the capacity of other 26.
                                                                    Fixed and mobile line coverage of 24
                                                                    and 78 lines per every 100
 Telecommunications       26.12          11.20%         93.30%
                                                                    inhabitants, respectively. Increase
                                                                    internet usage to 70 million users.
                                                                    Coverage: potable water 92% and
 Water & Sewerage         18.64           8.00%         28.70%
                                                                    sewerage 88%.
                                                                    Increase effective generation capacity
 Electricity              35.07          15.00%              -
                                                                    by 6,641 Megawatts.
                                                                    Oil production 2.5 million barrels per
                                                                    day (bpd). Natural gas production 6
 Hydrocarbons             110.85         47.40%              -
                                                                    billion cubic feet per day. Increase
                                                                    refinery capacity to 1.4 million bpd.
 TOTAL                    233.69          100%              58%      Over 300 infrastructure projects.
 Source: PNI, 2007


B. Fostering PPP Development

16.     To promote PPP development and address the weaknesses noted above, the GOM
has formulated a comprehensive program, the main elements of which are (i) a
strengthening of the legal framework; (ii) enhancements to the institutional framework;
(iii) implementation of a comprehensive financial support program; (iv) provision of
special assistance to sub-national governments; and (v) modifications to the structure and
strategic approach toward PPP projects to take account of higher risk aversion due to the
global crisis. The details of these are presented below.

Legal Reforms to Support PPPs

17.    In October 2009, the Government announced a series of legal initiatives to
stimulate the execution of infrastructure projects. This reform package comprises a
proposal for a new Public-Private Partnerships Law (Ley de Asociaciones Público-
Privadas) together with amendments to a series of federal laws that would help expedite
PPPs. The proposed draft law for PPPs draws from international best practices as well as

                                                  - 113 -
Mexico's own experiences and tries to foster an adequate allocation of risks between the
public and private sectors. Key elements of the proposed draft law are:

       Embedding multi-year planning;
       Requiring public entities to conduct a rigorous viability analysis (including an
       environmental assessment) before launching the process;
       Setting clear principles, transparent processes and reasonable incentives for
       dealing with unrequested proposals;
       Defining mechanisms and conditions under which contracts can be modified or
       extended without changing risk allocation among the parties;
       Allowing for financing collateral and step-in rights. The bill would allow service
       providers to offer the assets and rights as collateral to lenders. Developers would
       be able to grant full step-in rights to project lenders in order to cure or avoid
       defaults and prevent negative impacts on the project's revenue flow;
       Clarifying circumstances that can result in contract termination and the process
       for dealing with the project's assets; and
       Identifying arbitration mechanisms in case of disputes. The bill proposes that
       parties resolve their disputes in respect of a PPP project by commercial
       arbitration. In the case of technical disputes, independent experts may be
       appointed.

18.    The law excludes areas that are reserved to the state under the constitution and
requires full compliance with Mexico's environmental legal framework. The draft law
was approved in principle by the Senate in April 2010 and in full by the Chamber of
Deputies in October 2010. It is now being discussed in the Senate.

19.    In addition, over the last couple of years, a number of states have issued their own
PPP laws, including Aguas Calientes, Baja California, Chiapas, Coahuila de Zaragoza,
Durango, Distrito Federal, Guanajuato, Jalisco, Mexico, Michoacán, Morelos, Nayarit,
Nuevo León, Querétaro, Sonora, Tabasco, Tamaulipas, Veracruz, Yucatán, and
Zacatecas. The rest have enacted amendments to their legislation in order to implement
PPPs.

20.      To address other legal restrictions that are hampering the effective development
of PPP projects, the GOM has prepared a package of complementary amendments to the
following laws: (i) Law of Public Works and Related Services (the "Public Works Law");
(ii) Law of Acquisitions, Leases and Services of the Public Sector (the "Acquisitions
Law"); (iii) Agrarian Law; (iv) General Law of National Property; (v) Federal Code of
Civil Procedure; and (vi) Federal Roads, Bridges and Auto Transports Law (the
"Highways Law"). These reforms seek to address a number of issues that are causing
delays, reducing flexibility in contract adjustments and increasing uncertainties and
transaction costs. In particular, the main issues being addressed are:

       Establishing simplified procedures for the procurement of engineering projects
       and studies (Acquisitions Law). The amendment proposes that, under certain
       circumstances, a simpler procurement process can be used to assign the


                                          - 114 -
       production of engineering project reports, cutting project cycle or preparation
       time significantly.
       Eliminating restrictions to the extension of concession terms (Highways Law).
       This amendment acknowledges that during the long life of a PPP contract a
       variety of circumstances may require changes to the original contract or the
       project. In particular, an extension of the concession term could be necessary to
       compensate for damages or additional work requirements. This is an efficient and
       easy way to compensate sponsors. In Mexico, however, extensions were not
       allowed until the last fifth period of the concession term. This restriction
       increased risks and the cost of capital, rendering projects much less attractive.

21.     The amendment to the "Highways Law" was enacted in October 2010. The
Government estimates that this change together with simplified procedures for the
acquisition of engineering projects could unleash US$4.5 billion of investments and
reduce project costs by 15% and execution time by 30%.

Addressing Institutional Gaps

22.     At the federal level, the SHCP has supported strategic planning to develop key
sectoral infrastructure programs. Besides financial support, FONADIN has played a
central role by providing technical advisory services at the federal, state and municipal
levels for the design and implementation of PPPs. This is reflected in the increased
number and amount of contracts in highways, water and solid wastes, urban mass
transportation and tourism.

23.    A few sub-national governments have also advanced in the planning and
accountability framework for PPPs. The PPP law of the State of Mexico, for example,
allows multiyear budgeting for infrastructure projects. Such enhancements along with
improved coordination within the state and with federal institutions have enabled an
important increase in the diversity, number, and amount of PPP projects in the state. Most
noteworthy are the integrated urban transport system for Ciudad Azteca-Tecamac, the
extension of the Avenue Solidaridad-Las Torres, the bypass Atizapán de Zaragoza­
Nicolás Romero, the bridge extension Madero-James Watt in the road sector; the
Regional Hospital Zumpago in the health sector; and the public recreational center
Centro Cultural Mexiquense de Oriente.  

Mobilizing Long-term Savings to Facilitate PPP Financing

24.     To increase private financing available to PPPs, the GOM has approved the
introduction of Equity Development Certificates (CCDs) as new structured securities.
CCDs are securities issued by trusts with a variable return linked partially or totally to the
underlying assets of the trust and are intended to raise long-term financing for
infrastructure projects and certain real estate projects. In December 2009, the CNBV
approved amendments to the General Rules Applicable to Issuers and other Stock




                                           - 115 -
Exchange Participants allowing the introduction of CCDs.94 Given the nature of risks
associated to such projects and to protect investors, the amendments contain strict
regulations on corporate governance and information disclosure applicable to the
issuers.95

25.     In addition, in June 2010, the National Commission for Retirement Savings
(Comisión Nacional de Ahorro para el Retiro--CONSAR) reformed the investment
regime of the pension funds (Sociedades de Inversión Especializada en Fondos para el
Retiro--SIEFORES) to allow them to invest a share of their holdings in structured
instruments, including CCDs. This amendment will allow greater diversification of
pension portfolios. The share of the portfolio that can be allocated to structured
instruments, including CCDs, changes with the purpose and risk profile of the
SIEFORES. In particular, SIEFORES 2 and SIEFORES 3-5 will be able to invest up to
10% and 15% of their portfolio, respectively. SIEFORES 1, more conservative and
targeted at participants close to retirement, will not be able to invest in them.96 The
impact of the reform could be very significant with SIEFOREs being able to invest over
US$11 billion in infrastructure projects. As of mid-2010, five CCDs had already been
issued, and several private equity funds had been set up to invest in CCDs. Since these
instruments are new to the Mexican market, it is expected that it could take some time
before institutional investors actively invest in them.

Financial Program to Support PPPs

26.    Through BANOBRAS and FONADIN, the trust fund managed by the former, the
government has developed a wide range of instruments to finance and support the
development of local financial markets for PPPs

27.     In 2007, the GOM created FONADIN to offer a comprehensive portfolio of
instruments in order to address PPP financing problems that emerge from market failures
or missing markets. From its creation until June 2010, FONADIN has promoted
investments in the amount of US$11.3 billion by making infrastructure projects bankable;
supporting projects with high social returns but insufficient financial returns; and bearing
the risk that the market is unwilling to take.

28.    Its financial products are divided into non-refundable and refundable. The non-
refundable are grants provided to support studies and project preparation tasks, and


94
   Development Capital Bonds are intended to raise equity to support the development of specific existing
or future projects, or the acquisition of shares of one or more companies. CCDs are similar to equity
securities, as neither the trustee nor the settlor have the obligation to pay any principal or interest thereon,
and any profit derived from the CCDs relates directly to the financial results of the underlying assets. CCDs
grant their holders certain rights on the profits and income earned on the investments made by the trustee
and, in any case, on the proceeds of the sale of such investments.
95
   CCDs must comply with the disclosure regulations of the Bolsa Mexicana de Valores (BMV) and
Comisión Nacional Bancaria y de Valores (CNBV). Other main features include: projects can only be
developed in Mexico, and investments can be brown or green fields.
96
   The regulation stipulates additional diversification restrictions, e.g., restrictions on the amount to be
invested per issue and on instruments issued by related parties.

                                                   - 116 -
contributions to make (desired) projects financially viable. Grants for studies and
engineering reports assist line ministries and sub-national governments with limited
resources and capacity to prepare solid projects. Grants for investment projects seek to
facilitate projects with high social/economic rate of returns but not fully financially
viable. (The project is typically assigned to the bidder that requires the minimum
subsidy.) Under the refundable products, FONADIN offers inter alia subordinated debt
and guarantees to investment projects; and risk capital to investment funds. Its
subordinate loans address the lack of long tenor loans to match the life of projects.
FONADIN can offer up to 25 year loans, which is an unusual tenor in the Mexican
market. Its guarantees (extended on a case by case basis) provide credit enhancements
and risk mitigation, which are not easily available in the Mexican market. Finally, its
capital contribution to equity funds seeks to leverage its own resources (on a 5 to 1
leverage ratio) for new PPP projects. In mid-2010, the Board of BANOBRAS approved
Operational Guidelines allowing FONADIN to participate as a minor investor in CCDs.
Table 3 summarizes FONADIN's products and conditions.

                          Table 3. FONADIN's Instruments to Support PPPs
               Non-reimbursable                                             Reimbursable
                                                    Risk        Subordinate
Contribution             Subsidies                                                           Guarantees
                                                   Capital         Debt
     Studies         Investment Projects              Investment Projects              Investment Projects
50% of the     Up to 49% of   Up to 49% of        Up to 20%    Up to 30% of      Up to 30%     On loans:
study costs    total          total investment.   of the       the equity of     of total      Up to 50% of the
               investments    If the project      capital of   the private       debt          loan amount
                              realizes an         investment   concessionaire                  Term: Up to 30
                              internal rate of    funds                                        years
                              return above the
                              projected, the                                                   On debt issues:
                              surplus is shared                                                Up to 50% of the
                              with FONADIN.                                                    value of the issue

                                                                                               Performance: On a
                                                                                               case by case

                                                                                               Political risk
                                                                                               On a case by case


29.   FONADIN increased substantially the number of projects supported during 2010.
The fund was authorized to invest MX$30.4 billion in 42 projects for 2010, up from
MX$22.1 billion pesos in 23 PPP ventures in 2009.97

30.     BANOBRAS is complementing PPP financing by FONADIN. About 22% of its
portfolio is credit to infrastructure projects, of which the share lent to PPPs is increasing


97
  The fund's projects authorized in 2010 were expected to attract total investments for MX$83.5 billion
pesos, including public and private resources compared to MX$59.4 billion in 2009. About 49 percent of
the funds authorized this year will be used to help make projects profitable.

                                                     - 117 -
on a yearly basis. The amount lent in 2009 was MX$18 billion, a threefold increase from
2007. BANOBRAS also lends to sub-national governments to support infrastructure
development, about 46% of its portfolio, and plays a major role in the syndication process
for PPP financing.

31.    In addition, both institutions often collaborate to provide PPP financing. For
example, since 2009 and in response to increased risk aversion due to the global crisis,
BANOBRAS and FONADIN have collaborated on a new product "stapled" financing,
where the former provides preferential debt to bidders and the latter complements it with
subordinated debt, up to 70% of total project costs.98 Bidders have the option to use
"stapled" financing or their own funding alternatives (see Box 1 for an illustrative
example).


                        Box 1: Stapled Finance for the Pacific North PPP Project

 BANOBRAS offered a 17 year credit up to US$291.1 million with an annual interest rate of 6.8%, and
 FONANDIN offered a 25 year subordinate credit up to US$124.7 million with an annual interest rate of
 8.6%.

Financing Support for PPPs at the Sub-national Level.

32.     In early 2010, BANOBRAS developed a new financial instrument in the form of
guarantees that backs state or municipal financial commitments to PPP projects. To this
end, its Board has approved Operational Guidelines to guide the use and applicability of
such guarantees. By September 2010, BANOBRAS had already issued five guarantees
for sub-national PPP projects. The potential impact of this new instrument is significant
since it opens the development of PPP projects at the sub-national level, where the needs
are staggering and the reliability of sub-national governments as credit worthy is often
questioned.

33.     BANOBRAS is also contributing to the development of credit markets for local
infrastructure by assisting in the accreditation of 225 municipalities with no access to
finance. In 2007, only 25% of Mexican municipalities used credit to finance their
infrastructure projects, and this coverage was even smaller for the less developed regions.
Thus, BANOBRAS designed the BANOBRAS-FAIS program, which uses the Social
Infrastructure Contributions Fund (FAIS), as a source of payment for the development of




98
   Stapled finance refers to a lending commitment provided by an investment bank that is advising a seller
in a public tender setting. The key features are that whoever wins the bidding contest has the option (but
not the obligation) to accept the loan offer; and the details of the loan are known in advance (loan size,
interest rate, etc.). It is not simply a method to speed up a public tender, or to eliminate the risk of a deal
falling through because the winning bidder cannot put together a financing package, the option of accepting
a preapproved loan affects the bidding, which becomes more competitive. The common structure is that,
provided that the bidder offers at least 25% equity, BANOBRAS extends senior debt and FONADIN
subordinated debt.

                                                   - 118 -
basic infrastructure.99 In the seven states where FAIS has operated, the mean coverage of
municipalities with credit increased from 20% to 41% between 2007 and 2009.

Adapting PPP Projects to Secure Private Sector Interest

34.     In light of the negative effects of the global crisis on the appetite of PPP sponsors
and lenders, and a couple of failed (deserted) PPP offerings, the GOM has changed the
way it offers projects so as to make them more attractive to the private sector. The main
changes include: (i) combining "greenfield" and "brownfield" projects and reducing the
project size to make financing easier; (ii) developing some projects as public works with
funds provided by FONADIN, and once constructed, awarding them as PPPs for
management, maintenance and rehabilitation; and (iii) developing some projects with
availability-based methods of payment so as to eliminate commercial risk. In addition,
the GOM is making a number of procedural improvements to be more responsive to
potential sponsors. Among others, it is extending the time for bidding document
acquisition and forming consortia; providing clarifications on conditions leading to the
execution of guarantees; and adopting financial closure terms suitable to new market
requirements.

Progress on PPP Investments and Development

35.     Despite the context of the global crisis, the implementation of the National
Investment Plan has resulted in a 30% increase in infrastructure investment during the
current administration. During the last 3 years, infrastructure investments (including
hydrocarbons) have amounted to an average of 4.69% of GDP on a yearly basis. This
represents a 40% completion of the target set out in the National Infrastructure Plan
(Figure 2 and Table 2). An 82% of infrastructure investment registered during the first
half of the administration corresponds to public resources, including budgetary
investment (US$71.2 billion), FONADIN resources (US$3.5 billion), and BANOBRAS
loans (US$2.5 billion). Private sponsors have considerably expanded their participation in
infrastructure investment with the private portfolio recording an overall increase of 44%
from 2006 to mid-2010. While this amount represents 18% of total new infrastructure
investments (below targeted levels), it constitutes an important progress considering the
special challenges posed by the global crisis.




99
     The program began operations at the municipal and state levels in 2007and 2009, respectively.

                                                    - 119 -
                      Figure 2. Investment in Infrastructure as Percent of GDP




Source: SHCP, 2010.




                                              - 120 -
                          Annex 5. Poverty and Social Impact Review


1.     The policy reforms considered in the proposed operation can increase the growth
potential of the Mexican economy and simultaneously have a positive impact on poverty
reduction. A stronger competition policy framework together with more forceful enforcement
can reduce poverty and inequality directly, by increasing purchasing power among the poorest
households relative to other income groups, as well as indirectly, by promoting higher
productivity and job creation. Improved competition in public procurement will result in fiscal
savings over the medium term that can be possibly be reallocated to social programs. In addition,
the empirical literature provides ample evidence that infrastructure development has a positive
impact on growth and productivity, as well as social outcomes. Lastly, gaps on financial access
remain acute in Mexico, and greater financial inclusion will allow lower income households to
manage social and economic risks better and participate in new economic activities.

Recent Poverty Trends in Mexico

2.      Mexico has one of the highest per capita income levels (US$13,400 in 2008) in the LAC
region, but a large percentage of the population still lives below the poverty line. According to
the National Council for the Evaluation of Social Development Policy (Consejo Nacional de
Evaluación de la Política de Desarrollo Social, or CONEVAL), the government agency with the
mandate to produce the official poverty estimates, the evolution of poverty rates over the last
eight years has shown a mixed record. Between 2000 and 2006, poverty rates declined
significantly: the extreme poverty rate (pobreza alimentaria) fell from 24.1% to 13.8% of the
population, and the moderate poverty rate (pobreza de capacidades) and the asset poverty rate
(pobreza de patrimonio) fell from 29.7% to 20.7% and from 53.1% to 42.6%, respectively. This
decline was partly reversed between 2006 and 2008, when the extreme poverty rate increased
from 13.8% to 18.2% percent, the moderate poverty rates increased from 20.7% to 25.1%, and
the asset poverty rate rose from 42.6% to 47.4% (see Figure 1).

3.      In absolute terms, the increase in poverty rates between 2006 and 2008 implied that an
additional 5 million people entered extreme poverty, 5.1 million people entered moderate
poverty, and 5.9 million people entered asset poverty. The rise in poverty rates coincided with
the increase in global commodity prices, which resulted in higher domestic fuel and food prices.
The increase in commodity prices preceded the onset of the global economic crisis in the fall of
2008, which resulted in a decline of 6.5% of GDP in Mexico in 2009, one of the sharpest
declines in the country's recent history. As a result, it is likely that poverty rates continued to rise
between 2008 and 2010. Mexico was particularly affected by the global economic crisis due to
its strong integration with the United States economy, which is its main trading partner (in fact,
the destination of over 80% of its total exports), as well as the principal source of foreign direct
investment, remittances and tourism. In fact, recent estimates by CONEVAL on trend poverty
using data on labor income (Indicador de la Tendencia Laboral de la Pobreza, or ITLP) from the
quarterly employment survey (Encuesta Nacional de Ocupación y Empleo) suggest that poverty
rates are likely to have risen between 2008 and 2010, reaching a maximum in the third quarter of
2009 and decreasing moderately thereafter. According to this index, poverty increased 20% from
the second quarter of 2008 to its peak in the third quarter of 2009, and in the second quarter of
2010 it was still nearly 16% above the level registered two years earlier (Figure 2).

                                                - 121 -
                Figure 1: Evolution of Official Poverty Rates in Mexico (1992-2008)
                                                                                                                 Extreme poverty                                  Moderate Poverty                                     Asset poverty
                                                                        80

                                                                                                                           69.0
                                                                        70
                                                                                                                                             63.7

                                                                        60
                                                                                       53.1             52.4                                                    53.6




                                            Percent of the population
                                                                                                                                                                                   50.0
                                                                        50                                                 46.9                                                                        47.2                47.0                                      47.4
                                                                                                                                             41.7                                                                                               42.6
                                                                        40

                                                                                                        30.0                                                    31.8
                                                                                       29.7                                37.4
                                                                        30                                                                   33.3                                  26.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                       24.7                24.7                                      25.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                20.7
                                                                        20                                                                                      24.1
                                                                                       21.4             21.2                                                                       20.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                       17.4                18.2                                      18.2
                                                                        10                                                                                                                                                                      13.8


                                                                         0
                                                                                   1992                 1994              1996               1998              2000                2002                2004                2005                 2006                 2008




                Source: CONEVAL



4.      In summary, the commodity price increase in 2007-2008 and the global recession of
2008-2009 have reverted a significant part of the gains in poverty reduction registered in Mexico
between 1996 and 2006, and revealed that the country remains highly vulnerable to external
shocks.

                  Figure 2: Evolution of the Poverty Trend Index (ITLP) in Mexico
                                         (2005 Q1-2010 Q2)
                                           1.20



                                           1.15
                   Index (2005 Q1 = 100)




                                           1.10



                                           1.05



                                           1.00



                                           0.95



                                           0.90
                                                                             2005 Q1
                                                                                         2005 Q2
                                                                                                   2005 Q3
                                                                                                             2005 Q4
                                                                                                                       2006 Q1
                                                                                                                                 2006 Q2
                                                                                                                                           2006 Q3
                                                                                                                                                     2006 Q4
                                                                                                                                                               2007 Q1
                                                                                                                                                                         2007 Q2
                                                                                                                                                                                   2007 Q3
                                                                                                                                                                                             2007 Q4
                                                                                                                                                                                                       2008 Q1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2008 Q2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2008 Q3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2008 Q4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2009 Q1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2009 Q2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2009 Q3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2009 Q4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2010 Q1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2010 Q2




                Source: Indicador de la Tendencia Laboral de la Pobreza (ITLP) from CONEVAL.




                                                                                                                                                               - 122 -
Main Social Transfer Programs in Mexico

5.      The most important social programs in Mexico (in terms of number of beneficiaries and
share of the budget) have focused on transferring income to poor households, while providing
incentives for human capital accumulation. The main poverty alleviation program at the federal
level is Oportunidades (formerly known as Progresa), which is a conditional cash transfer
program that begun in 1997. It currently benefits around 5 million households--close to 20% of
the country's total population. In 2010, its annual budget was approximately US$4.8 billion
dollars. This program is targeted to households living in poverty in both rural and urban areas
and provides monthly cash transfers conditional on regular school by children in primary,
secondary, and upper secondary education, and health clinic attendance by all family members.
The various evaluations of Oportunidades have shown that the program has contributed to
improve school attendance and the nutritional status of children.

6.       The transfers from Oportunidades have been important to prevent poor households from
falling into extreme poverty. According to estimates by CONEVAL, using data from the 2008
National Household Income and Expenditure Survey (Encuesta Nacional de Ingreso y Gasto de
los Hogares, or ENIGH), an additional 2.569 million people would have fallen into extreme
poverty in the absence of these targeted transfers. In response to the 2008-2009 global economic
crisis, the amount of the transfer to the beneficiaries was increased twice during 2008 to partly
offset the impact of higher energy and food prices. Since the monthly transfers were already
indexed to consumer price index inflation, these additional adjustments marginally increased the
value of the transfers in real terms. The transfers typically represent about 25 percent to 30
percent of total household income of beneficiaries. Thus, to the extent that the purchasing power
of the rest of their income was reduced as a result of the hike in energy and food prices, the
increase in transfers could not prevent a rise in poverty rates.

7.      Moreover, the redistributive capacity of the government in Mexico is moderate limiting
the potential for social policy as a poverty reduction tool. Thus, growth rates must accelerated for
further reductions in the poverty rate to materialize. As Figure 3 below highlights, periods of
rapid growth in Mexico, such as the period between 1996 and1998, coincided with a rapid
decline in all measures of poverty.100




100
   The simple correlation coefficients between the growth rate of real GDP per capita are -0.66 with extreme
poverty, -0.68 with moderate poverty, and -0.73 with asset poverty.
                                                  - 123 -
                                Figure 3: Relationship between Real GDP per Capita Growth
                                      and Official Poverty Rates in Mexico: 1992-2008
                                     Growth rate of real GDP per capita, PPP constant 2005 international $ (LHS axis)
                                     Extreme poverty (RHS axis)
                                     Moderate poverty (RHS axis)
                                     Asset poverty (RHS axis)
                                                                                                                   80
                                9

                                                                                                                   60
                                7

                                5                                                                                  40
                      Percent




                                                                                                                         Percent
                                3
                                                                                                                   20

                                1
                                                                                                                   0
                                -1

                                                                                                                   -20
                                -3

                                -5                                                                                 -40
                                     1992    1994    1996   1998    2000    2002    2004   2005    2006    2008

                  Source: Own calculations based on data from CONEVAL and the World Development
                  Indicators, World Bank.

Poverty and Distributional Impacts of Market Power and Monopolistic Practices in Mexico

8.      Consensus on the role of monopolies in explaining Mexico's economic
underperformance and persistent inequality is growing. Arias, Azuara, Bernal, Heckman and
Villarreal (2009), Chiquiar and Ramos Francia (2009), and Levy and Walton (2009), among
others, coincide on pointing out the importance of monopolies and rent seeking behavior in
explaining Mexico's poor economic performance over the past three decades.101

9.      Nevertheless, scant attention had been paid until recently to the poverty and the
distributional impacts of market power and monopolistic practices in Mexico. One notable
exception is the recent work by Urzúa (2008 and 2009), commissioned by CFC, which estimates
empirically the welfare cost and the distributional impact of the presence of pricing power in
certain groups of basic goods and services in the Mexican economy.102 Using data from ENIGH
on the quantity demanded and the share of total expenditure allocated to certain groups of goods
and services, organized by income deciles as well as by region (urban and rural) and state, the
author estimates a system of demand equations which, under certain assumptions, allow him to
obtain estimates of the welfare cost of non-competitive market structures.

101
    Arias, Javier, Azuara, Oliver, Bernal, Pedro, Heckman, James J. and Villarreal, Cajeme (2009), "Policies to
Promote Growth and Economic Efficiency in Mexico," IZA Discussion Paper No. 4740. Available at:
http://ideas.repec.org/p/iza/izadps/dp4740.html; Chiquiar, D. and Manuel Ramos-Francia (2009); "Competitiveness
and Growth of the Mexican economy," Banco de Mexico, Working Papers, No. 2009-11, November 2009. Available
at: http://ideas.repec.org/p/bdm/wpaper/2009-11.html; and Levy, Santiago and Michael Walton (2009), No Growth
without Equity?: Inequality, Interests, and Competition in Mexico, Washington, DC: The World Bank.
102
    Urzúa, Carlos M. (2009), "Efectos sobre el Bienestar Social de las Empresas con Poder de Mercado en México,"
Finanzas Públicas, Centro de Estudios de las Finanzas Públicas, H. Cámara de Diputados, Vol. 1(1), pp. 79-118.

                                                                      - 124 -
10.     Following the model developed by Creedy and Dixon (1998 and 1999) for Australia,
Urzúa (2008) assumes a linear demand, which allows him to simplify the formula for the welfare
loss of monopoly (i.e., the "Harberger triangle") as a function of observed expenditure on each
category of good or service and of its own price elasticity of demand. The formula is developed
for the case of a monopoly and of an oligopoly with k firms with conjectural variations. Urzúa
(2008) finds that the welfare cost of non-competitive market structures (either monopolies or
oligopolies) for the six groups of goods analyzed (corn tortillas, processed meats, chicken and
eggs, bottled juices, dinks and water, beer, and prescription and over-the-counter drugs) are both
significant in magnitude and have a regressive distributional impact. These groups of goods were
chosen because of their importance in terms of the share of expenditure allocated to them, and
the absence of competition as perceived by CFC through its work on the cases in those sectors
Table 1).103

11.     In particular, welfare losses (as a share of income) accrue disproportionately to poor
households, rural households, and households in Southern states (Chiapas, Oaxaca, Campeche,
Tabasco, Quintana Roo, and Guerrero). The reason is that poor households on average allocate a
higher share of their expenditure to food items than high-income households and these food
items are characterized by non-competitive provision.104 In urban areas, welfare losses from
market power to the poorest households (decile I) are on average 20% higher than welfare losses
to the highest income households (decile X), while in rural areas, welfare losses to the poorest
households (decile I) are on average 23% higher than welfare losses to the highest income
households (decile X). Moreover, for the first seven deciles (deciles I-VII), welfare losses are
greater for rural households than for urban households.




103
    CFC selected seventeen sectors where it considered the greatest competition problems were found. Data
availability also played a role in Urzúa's selection, as these groups of goods had data on unit value and total
expenditure in the ENIGH survey. Other important sectors selected by CFC for which no data on unit values were
available are: energy, telecommunications, cargo transport, passengers transport, personal and home care, financial
services for small and medium enterprises, insurance and bonds (seguros y fianzas), personal banking services, and
pension administration services.
104
     The welfare impacts are greater for households located in southern states because of their higher share of poor
and rural households. Poor households and households in rural areas tend to allocate a higher share of their
expenditure to food items, which are characterized by non-competitive provision. While it is possible that goods
markets are even less competitive in southern states than in the rest of the country, this possibility is acknowledged
but is not taken into account in the model used by Urzúa (2009).
                                                      - 125 -
                          Table 1: Expenditure Shares for Selected Goods in Mexico (2006)

Expenditure category                        National Rural Urban Expenditure category                      National Rural Urban
Corn tortilla                                    1.6    1.4    2.6 Other alcoholic beverages and tobaccos       0.1    0.1    0.0
Corn, other cereals and products                 2.1    1.9    3.3 Food consumed outside home                   6.9    7.3    4.7
Fried products from corn, wheat, and potato      0.1    0.1    0.1 Public transportation                        4.4    4.1    5.9
Beef, pork and other meats                       2.4    2.3    2.9 House cleaning products                      2.4    2.2    3.4
Processed meets                                  0.5    0.5    0.4 Home services                                1.7    1.8    0.8
Chicken meat and eggs                            2.0    1.8    2.9 Disposable paper, towels and diapers         1.2    1.1    1.4
Other meats                                      0.4    0.4    0.5 Other personal care products                 2.8    2.8    3.1
Fish and seafood                                 0.5    0.5    0.7 Personal care services                       0.6    0.6    0.4
Fresh cow milk                                   1.4    1.4    1.2 Education, culture and recreation           12.6   12.9   10.5
Other milks                                      0.3    0.2    0.6 Communications services                      9.6   10.0    7.3
Cheeses and other derivatives                    1.0    0.9    1.1 Housing                                     10.1   10.7    6.9
Oil and fats                                     0.3    0.2    0.6 Clothing, footwear and accessories           6.7    6.6    7.1
Vegetables and pulses                            2.8    2.5    4.8 Household utensils                           0.6    0.6    0.7
Fruits and honey                                 1.0    0.9    1.1 Prescription and over-the-counter drugs      1.1    1.0    1.6
Sugar                                            0.3    0.2    0.7 Hospitals and medical services               2.7    2.6    3.4
Other food items                                 2.3    2.4    2.1 Household goods                              3.2    3.0    4.3
Bottled juices, dinks and water                  1.8    1.7    2.3 Leisure articles                             1.1    1.1    0.7
Other non-alcoholic beverages                    0.1    0.1    0.1 Transportation                               0.9    0.9    1.0
Beer                                             0.2    0.2    0.3 Vehicles and parts                           4.0    4.2    2.6
Cigarettes                                       0.2    0.2    0.2 Diverse expenses and transfers               6.2    6.3    5.3
 Source: Table 2 from Urzúa (2008) using data from ENIGH 2006.

12.     In the case of a group of services (land transport, air transport, private education,
communications, energy, gasoline, electricity, gas, health and financial), Urzúa (2009) finds the
opposite result, namely, that the costs tend to accrue disproportionately (as a share of their
income) to high-income households. The reason is that high-income households on average
allocate a higher share of their expenditure to services compared to poor households.

13.     Nevertheless, the higher welfare effect in the goods markets outweighs the lower welfare
effect in the services markets, so the welfare loss of poor households is relatively higher as a
result of market power in the economy (Table 2b).




                                                         - 126 -
    Table 2a: Relative Welfare Losses from Market                  Table 2b: Relative Welfare Losses from Market
    Power for Selected Goods by Monetary Income                     Power for Selected Goods and Services by
                  Distribution (2006)                                   Monetary Income Distribution (2006)

     Urban Households              Rural Households                  Urban Households             Rural Households
                Relative                       Relative                          Relative                   Relative 
    Decile                        Decile                             Decile                     Decile
               Welfare Loss                   Welfare Loss                      Welfare Loss               Welfare Loss
       I           1.198              I           1.227
                                                                           I       1.154           I           1.175
      II           1.176             II           1.184
                                                                           II      1.141           II          1.143
      III          1.158             III          1.200                   III      1.127          III          1.162
     IV            1.134            IV            1.179                  IV        1.107         IV            1.146
      V            1.128             V            1.176                   V        1.104          V            1.145
     VI            1.109            VI            1.117                  VI        1.089         VI            1.093
     VII           1.073            VII           1.115                  VII       1.056         VII           1.094
     VIII          1.052            VIII          1.013                  VIII      1.039         VIII          0.999
      IX           1.036             IX           0.971                   IX       1.028          IX           0.962
      X            1.000             X            1.000                    X       1.000          X            1.000
  Note: Welfare losses are expressed relative to the loss of         NB: Welfare losses are expressed relative to the loss
  decile X.                                                          of decile X.
  Source: Urzúa (2008) using data from ENIGH 2006.                   Source: Urzúa (2008) using data from ENIGH 2006


                              Figure 4: Relative Welfare Losses of Non-competitive
                                         Markets across Mexican States




                       Source: Urzúa (2008)


14. Relative welfare losses due to market power show a clear geographical pattern (Figure 4):
(i) states in the south (in red) suffer a relative welfare loss which is at least 2.5 times higher the
relative welfare loss of the state with the smallest welfare loss (Baja California Sur, which is
normalized to 1.0); (ii) states in the center and northeast of the country (except for Querétaro,
which is in the next group) have relative welfare losses between 2 and 2.5 times those of Baja
California Sur; and (iii) states in the northwest of the country (except for Sinaloa, which is in the
previous group) have relative welfare losses between 1 and 2 times those of Baja California Sur.



                                                               - 127 -
15.    In sum, developing a stronger policy and enforcement framework for competition policy
can reduce poverty and inequality directly, by increasing purchasing power among the poorest
households relative to other income groups, as well as indirectly, by promoting higher
productivity and job creation.

The Impact of Infrastructure Development, Financial Inclusion and Better Quality
Regulations on Poverty

16.     Increasing the quality and expanding the quantity of infrastructure services through
greater private participation is likely to have a positive impact on growth and poverty reduction
as extensive empirical evidence supports. Infrastructure can affect growth through many
channels, including productivity effects, durability of private capital, and the demand and supply
of both health and education services.105106 The implications for the poor of limited access or low
quality infrastructure are significant (see Fay et al. (2005) and Calderón and Servén (2010),
among others).107108 Unsafe water and sanitation affect health outcomes, increasing mortality
rates for children under 5, while lack of reliable electricity and access to internet is associated to
weaker educational outcomes. Access to reliable and low cost electricity, as well as reliable
transportation, increase the productivity of the poor, allowing them to access jobs, engage in new
economic activities, and sell goods in markets.

17.     Improving the quality of business regulations will reduce transaction costs of enterprises
raising their productivity and will make it easier for the poor to develop new economic ventures
in the formal market with the resulting benefits of access to better suppliers and final product
markets, as well as easier access to finance.

18.     Empirical studies of finance in Mexico have provided evidence that reducing constraints
to finance can lead to greater firm growth and higher well-being of households. Using data from
10,000 firms across 80 countries, Beck, Demirgüç-Kunt, and Maksimovic (2005)109 found that
lack or insufficient financing constituted one of the key constraints to firm growth. McKenzie
and Woodruff (2007) found highly positive effects on profits from a randomized experiment
which gave cash and capital stock to small retail firms in Mexico. Djankov (2008)110 finds that
banked households have higher standards of living, 32% more per capita consumption and 88%
greater per capita wealth despite similar demographic and occupational profiles. Bruhn and


105
     Agénor, Pierre-Richard, and Blanca Moreno-Dodson. 2006. "Public Infrastructure and Growth: New Channels
and Policy Implications." Policy Research Working Paper 4064. The World Bank, Washington, DC.
106
    See also Romp and de Haan (2005), Calderon and Servén (2010), and Briceño-Garmendia et al. (2004) for an
empirical analysis of the impact of infrastructure on growth and productivity. Calderón and Servén (2010), in
particular, make a special effort to address endogeneity and reverse causation effects through their choice of
econometric techniques and by looking at the effect of cross-country differences in the level of infrastructure (not its
change) on subsequent growth.
107
    Fay, Marianne, Danny Leipziger, Quentin Wodon, and Tito Yepes. 2005. "Achieving Child-Health-Related
Millennium Development Goals: The Role of Infrastructure". World Development 33 (8): 1267-84.
108
    See Calderon, César, and Luis Servén. 2010. "Infrastructure in Latin America". Draft prepared for the Handbook
of Latin American Economies. Besides the impact on growth, Calderón and Servén estimate the impact of
improvements in the quality and quantity of infrastructure between 1991-1995 and 2001-2005 for different regions
of the world.
109
    Beck, T. Demirguc-Kunt, A., and V. Maksimovic. (2005). Financial and Legal Constraints to Firm Growth: Does
Firm Size Matter?", Journal of Finance.
110
      Djankov, S. P. Mirando, E. Seira and S. Sharma. (2008) "Who are the Unbanked?" February.
                                                           - 128 -
Love (2009)111 analyzed the expansion of the Mexican bank Banco Azteca in 2002, and found a
clear correlation between the bank's expansion and income growth among lower income groups.




111
      Bruhn, M. & Love, I., (2009). "The Economic Impact of Banking the Unbanked: Evidence from Mexico."
                                                          - 129 -
                                                           Annex 6. Mexico at a Glance
Mexico at a glance                                                                                                                                                     2/1 0
                                                                                                                                                                      1 4/1

                                                                                      Latin         Upper
Ke y D e v e lo pm e nt Indic a t o rs                                             A merica        middle
                                                                        M exico    & Carib.       inco me            Age distribution, 2008
(2009)
                                                                                                                                        Male                              Female

P o pulatio n, mid-year (millio ns)                                       107.4          566          993           75-79
Surface area (tho usand sq. km)                                           1,964       20,422       48,659
                                                                                                                    60-64
P o pulatio n gro wth (%)                                                    1.0          1.1          0.9
Urban po pulatio n (% o f to tal po pulatio n)                               77           79           75           45-49

                                                                                                                    30-34
GNI (A tlas metho d, US$ billio ns)                                       962.0        3,865        7,352
                                                                                                                    15-19
GNI per capita (A tlas metho d, US$ )                                     8,950        6,826        7,405
GNI per capita (P P P , internatio nal $ )                                 4,1 0
                                                                          1 1         10,496       12,763              0-4

                                                                                                                             6          4           2          0      2          4   6
GDP gro wth (%)                                                            -6.5            4.3         4.1
                                                                                                                                            percent of total population
GDP per capita gro wth (%)                                                 -7.5            3.1         3.2

( m o s t re c e nt e s t im a t e , 2 0 0 3 ­ 2 0 0 9 )

                                  .25
P o verty headco unt ratio at $ 1 a day (P P P , %)                           4             8           ..
                                                                                                                    Under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000)
P o verty headco unt ratio at $ 2.00 a day (P P P , %)                        8            17           ..
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                             75            73          71
                                                                                                                    60
Infant mo rtality (per 1,000 live births)                                    15            20          20
Child malnutritio n (% o f children under 5)                                  3             4           ..          50

                                                                                                                    40
                                   5
A dult literacy, male (% o f ages 1 and o lder)                              95            92          95
                                                                                                                    30
                                     5
A dult literacy, female (% o f ages 1 and o lder)                             91           90          92
Gro ss primary enro llment, male (% o f age gro up)                           1
                                                                             14             1
                                                                                           18           1
                                                                                                       11           20
Gro ss primary enro llment, female (% o f age gro up)                         1
                                                                             12             1
                                                                                           14           1
                                                                                                       10
                                                                                                                    10

                                                                                                                     0
A ccess to an impro ved water so urce (% o f po pulatio n)                   95            93          95
A ccess to impro ved sanitatio n facilities (% o f po pulatio n)             81            79          84                          1990         1995           2000       2007


                                                                                                                             Mexico                Latin America & the Caribbean



N e t A id F lo ws                                            19 8 0     19 9 0       2000         2009      a



(US$ millio ns)
Net ODA and o fficial aid                                        55         156            -58        149           Growth of GDP and GDP per capita (%)
To p 3 do no rs (in 2008):
  United States                                                     9        23            24         103             8
  Germany                                                          15         9            15          39             6
  Euro pean Co mmissio n                                            0         5             4          22             4
                                                                                                                      2
                                                                                                                      0
A id (% o f GNI)                                                 0.0         0.1           0.0         0.0           -2
A id per capita (US$ )                                             1          2             -1           1           -4
                                                                                                                     -6
                                                                                                                     -8
Lo ng- T e rm E c o no m ic T re nds                                                                                -10

                                                                                                                                              95                           05
Co nsumer prices (annual % change)                             26.3        26.7            9.5         5.3
GDP implicit deflato r (annual % change)                       33.4        28.1            12.1        4.3                              GDP                        GDP per capita


Exchange rate (annual average, lo cal per US$ )                 0.0         2.8            9.5        13.5
Terms o f trade index (2000 = 100)                              194         106            100        103
                                                                                                                     19 8 0 ­ 9 0 19 9 0 ­ 2 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 ­ 0 9
                                                                                                                            (average annual gro wth %)
P o pulatio n, mid-year (millio ns)                             67.6       83.2         98.0        107.4                        2.1                     1.6                1.0
GDP (US$ millio ns)                                          194,851    262,710      581,428      874,810                        1.1                     3.1                2.2
                                                                           (% o f GDP )
A griculture                                                    9.0         7.8            4.2        4.3                        0.8                    1.5                 2.0
Industry                                                       33.6        28.4           28.0       34.8                         1.1                   3.8                 1.3
  M anufacturing                                               22.3        20.8           20.3       17.2                        1.5                    4.3                  1.1
Services                                                       57.4        63.7           67.8       60.9                        1.4                    2.9                 2.6

Ho useho ld final co nsumptio n expenditure                    65.1        69.6           67.0       67.4                     1.4                       2.3                 3.2
General go v't final co nsumptio n expenditure                 10.0         8.4             1
                                                                                           1 .1       1 .6
                                                                                                       1                      2.4                       1.8                 0.8
Gro ss capital fo rmatio n                                     27.2        23.1           23.9       22.4                    -3.3                       4.7                 0.4

Expo rts o f go o ds and services                              10.7        18.6           30.9       27.8                        7.0                    14.6                4.3
Impo rts o f go o ds and services                              13.0        19.7           32.9       29.3                        1.0                    12.3                4.7
Gro ss savings                                                 22.0        20.3           20.5       21.7


No te: Figures in italics are fo r years o ther than tho se specified. 2009 data are preliminary. .. indicates data are no t available.
a. A id data are fo r 2008.

Develo pment Eco no mics, Develo pment Data Gro up (DECDG).




                                                                              - 130 -
                                                                                                                                                                           Mexico

B a la nc e o f P a ym e nt s a nd T ra de                  2000          2009
                                                                                                Governance indicators, 2000 and 2009
(US$ millio ns)
To tal merchandise expo rts (fo b)                         166,121       229,783
To tal merchandise impo rts (cif)                         174,458        234,385                 Voice and accountability
Net trade in go o ds and services                          -10,661        -4,602
                                                                                                         Political stability
Current acco unt balance                                   -18,684        -5,721
 as a % o f GDP                                                -3.2         -0.7                       Regulatory quality

                                                                                                                 Rule of law
Wo rkers' remittances and
 co mpensatio n o f emplo yees (receipts)                    7,525        22,153
                                                                                                     Control of corruption

Reserves, including go ld                                  35,577         99,892
                                                                                                                               0        25           50           75        100

                                                                                                          2009                     Country's percentile rank (0-100)
C e nt ra l G o v e rnm e nt F ina nc e                                                                                              higher values imply better ratings
                                                                                                          2000

(% o f GDP )
Current revenue (including grants)                                21.4         23.8             Source: Kaufmann-Kraay-Mastruzzi, World Bank

 Tax revenue                                                      10.6          9.6
Current expenditure                                               21.4         21.4
                                                                                            T e c hno lo gy a nd Inf ra s t ruc t ure                         2000          2008
Overall surplus/deficit                                           -3.4         -2.7
                                                                                            P aved ro ads (% o f to tal)                                         32.8        38.2
Highest marginal tax rate (%)                                                               Fixed line and mo bile pho ne
 Individual                                                         ..          28                               00
                                                                                             subscribers (per 1 peo ple)                                           27             90
 Co rpo rate                                                       35           28          High techno lo gy expo rts
                                                                                             (% o f manufactured expo rts)                                       22.4        19.4
E xt e rna l D e bt a nd R e s o urc e F lo ws
                                                                                            E nv iro nm e nt
(US$ millio ns)
To tal debt o utstanding and disbursed                     150,901         81
                                                                          1 ,821            A gricultural land (% o f land area)                                  55          55
To tal debt service                                        58,509         62,975            Fo rest area (% o f land area)                                       33.7        32.8
Debt relief (HIP C, M DRI)                                       ­             ­            Terrestrial pro tected areas (% o f surface area)                       ..        8.0

To tal debt (% o f GDP )                                      26.0             20.8         Freshwater reso urces per capita (cu. meters)                      4,090        3,846
To tal debt service (% o f expo rts)                          30.4             23.2         Freshwater withdrawal (billio n cubic meters)                       78.2            ..

Fo reign direct investment (net inflo ws)                   18,098          1 8
                                                                           1 ,41            CO2 emissio ns per capita (mt)                                        4.0         4.5
P o rtfo lio equity (net inflo ws)                             447         4,1 69
                                                                                            GDP per unit o f energy use
                                                                                             (2005 P P P $ per kg o f o il equivalent)                            8.0         7.6
  Composition of total external debt, 2009

                        IBRD, 10,143              Other multi-
                                                                                            Energy use per capita (kg o f o il equivalent)                      1,505       1,750
     Short-term,                                 lateral, 7,089
      21,492

                                                                                            Wo rld B a nk G ro up po rt f o lio                               2000          2009
                                                            Bilateral, 3,980
                                                                                            (US$ millio ns)

                                                                                            IB RD
                                                                                             To tal debt o utstanding and disbursed                             1
                                                                                                                                                               1 ,444        0,1
                                                                                                                                                                            1 43
                                                                                             Disbursements                                                      1,748       4,882
                                                                                             P rincipal repayments                                              1,330         669
                                                                                             Interest payments                                                    890         247
                                  Private,
                                  139,117
  US$ millions                                                                              IDA
                                                                                             To tal debt o utstanding and disbursed                                    ­           ­
                                                                                             Disbursements                                                             ­           ­
P riv a t e S e c t o r D e v e lo pm e nt                  2000          2009               To tal debt service                                                       ­           ­

Time required to start a business (days)                            ­           1 3         IFC (fiscal year)
Co st to start a business (% o f GNI per capita)                    ­           1
                                                                               1 .7          To tal disbursed and o utstanding po rtfo lio                      1,234        683
Time required to register pro perty (days)                          ­           74            o f which IFC o wn acco unt                                         723         611
                                                                                             Disbursements fo r IFC o wn acco unt                                 179        132
Ranked as a majo r co nstraint to business                  2000          2009               P o rtfo lio sales, prepayments and
 (% o f managers surveyed who agreed)                                                         repayments fo r IFC o wn acco unt                                    66          1
                                                                                                                                                                              13
  A ntico mpetitive o r info rmal practices                         ..         19.0
  Co rruptio n                                                      ..         17.8         M IGA
                                                                                             Gro ss expo sure                                                          ­          ­
Sto ck market capitalizatio n (% o f GDP )                        21.5         38.9          New guarantees                                                            ­          ­
B ank capital to asset ratio (%)                                   9.6          9.6


No te: Figures in italics are fo r years o ther than tho se specified. 2009 data are preliminary.                                                                           2/1 0
                                                                                                                                                                           1 4/1
.. indicates data are no t available. ­ indicates o bservatio n is no t applicable.

Develo pment Eco no mics, Develo pment Data Gro up (DECDG).




                                                                                      - 131 -
Millennium Development Goals                                                                                                                                                     Mexico


With selected targets to achieve b etween 1990 and 2015
(estimate clo sest to date sho wn, +/- 2 years)                                                                                        M e xic o


G o a l 1: ha lv e t he ra t e s f o r e xt re m e po v e rt y a nd m a lnut rit io n                               19 9 0           19 9 5              2000                      2008
                                     .25
 P o verty headco unt ratio at $ 1 a day (P P P , % o f po pulatio n)                                                  4.5              7.0                4.8                       4.0
 P o verty headco unt ratio at natio nal po verty line (% o f po pulatio n)                                               ..               ..             24.2                      47.0
 Share o f inco me o r co nsumptio n to the po o rest qunitile (%)                                                     3.9              4.3                3.9                       3.8
 P revalence o f malnutritio n (% o f children under 5)                                                               13.9                 ..              6.0                       3.4


G o a l 2 : e ns ure t ha t c hildre n a re a ble t o c o m ple t e prim a ry s c ho o ling
 P rimary scho o l enro llment (net, %)                                                                                 98                ..                   97                         98
 P rimary co mpletio n rate (% o f relevant age gro up)                                                                 88               97                   100                        104
 Seco ndary scho o l enro llment (gro ss, %)                                                                            55               58                    73                         90
 Yo uth literacy rate (% o f peo ple ages 15-24)                                                                        95               96                    97                         98


G o a l 3 : e lim ina t e ge nde r dis pa rit y in e duc a t io n a nd e m po we r wo m e n
 Ratio o f girls to bo ys in primary and seco ndary educatio n (%)                                                      97                ..                  100                         101
 Wo men emplo yed in the no nagricultural secto r (% o f no nagricultural emplo yment)                                  37               36                    37                         39
 P ro po rtio n o f seats held by wo men in natio nal parliament (%)                                                    12               14                     18                        23


G o a l 4 : re duc e unde r- 5 m o rt a lit y by t wo - t hirds
 Under-5 mo rtality rate (per 1 ,000)                                                                                   45               37                       26                      17
 Infant mo rtality rate (per 1,000 live births)                                                                         36               31                       22                      15
 M easles immunizatio n (pro po rtio n o f o ne-year o lds immunized, %)                                                75               90                       96                      96


G o a l 5 : re duc e m a t e rna l m o rt a lit y by t hre e - f o urt hs
 M aternal mo rtality ratio (mo deled estimate, per 1     00,000 live births)                                             ..              ..                       ..                     60
 B irths attended by skilled health staff (% o f to tal)                                                                  ..             86                        ..                     93
 Co ntraceptive prevalence (% o f wo men ages 1         5-49)                                                             ..             67                       70                      71


G o a l 6 : ha lt a nd be gin t o re v e rs e t he s pre a d o f H IV / A ID S a nd o t he r m a jo r dis e a s e s
 P revalence o f HIV (% o f po pulatio n ages 1  5-49)                                                           0.2                    0.3                   0.3                         0.3
 Incidence o f tuberculo sis (per 100,000 peo ple)                                                                 61                   44                    32                           19
 Tuberculo sis case detectio n rate (%, all fo rms)                                                               28                    28                    58                          93


G o a l 7 : ha lv e t he pro po rt io n o f pe o ple wit ho ut s us t a ina ble a c c e s s t o ba s ic ne e ds
 A ccess to an impro ved water so urce (% o f po pulatio n)                                                     88                      90                   93                           95
 A ccess to impro ved sanitatio n facilities (% o f po pulatio n)                                               56                      66                   76                            81
 Fo rest area (% o f to tal land area)                                                                        35.5                     34.6                 33.7                         32.8
 Terrestrial pro tected areas (% o f surface area)                                                               ..                       ..                   ..                         8.0
 CO2 emissio ns (metric to ns per capita)                                                                      4.3                      3.8                  4.0                          4.5
 GDP per unit o f energy use (co nstant 2005 P P P $ per kg o f o il equivalent)                               7.0                      7.0                  8.0                          7.6


G o a l 8 : de v e lo p a glo ba l pa rt ne rs hip f o r de v e lo pm e nt
                               00
 Telepho ne mainlines (per 1 peo ple)                                                                                  6.4              9.7                  12.6                        19.4
                                     00
 M o bile pho ne subscribers (per 1 peo ple)                                                                           0.1              0.8                  14.4                        70.8
                        00
 Internet users (per 1 peo ple)                                                                                        0.0              0.1                   5.2                        22.2
                               00
 P erso nal co mputers (per 1 peo ple)                                                                                 0.8              2.6                   5.8                        14.4



   Education indicators (%)                                       Measles immunization (% of 1-year                            ICT indicators (per 100 people)
                                                                  olds)
   125                                                            100                                                          100
                                                                                                                                90
   100                                                                                                                          80
                                                                  75
    75                                                                                                                          70
                                                                                                                                60
    50                                                            50                                                            50
                                                                                                                                40
    25
                                                                                                                                30
                                                                  25
     0                                                                                                                          20
                                                                                                                                10
           2000       2002        2004         2006        2008    0                                                             0

                                                                            1990    1995      2000      2007                           2000       2002       2004           2006          2008
                Primary net enrollment ratio


                Ratio of girls to boys in primary & secondary           Mexico      Latin America & the Caribbean                    Fixed + mobile subscribers         Internet users
                education




No te: Figures in italics are fo r years o ther than tho se specified. .. indicates data are no t available.                                                                      2/1 0
                                                                                                                                                                                 1 4/1

Develo pment Eco no mics, Develo pment Data Gro up (DECDG).




                                                                                   - 132 -
                      To
                  Los Angeles            115°W                                       110°W                                                  105°W                                           100°W                                        95°W                                90°W                                     85°W
                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                        Albuquerque
                                                                                                                                       To
                                                                      To                                                               Alamogordo
                                                                   Gila Bend
                 Tijuana
                            Mexicali                                                                                                                               UNIT ED STAT ES O F A MER I CA
                 Ensanada
                                                    Sonoita
                                     San                                                                                       Ciudad Juárez                              To
                                   Felipe                                                                                                                                 Midland
                                                                    Nogales                                                    Ri o




                                                                                                                                  Rio rav
                                                                                          Agua
                                BAJA




                                                                                                                                    oG
                                                                                          Prieta                                            ra n                                                                                                                            MEXICO                                           30°N




                                                                                                                                      Br
                                                                                                                                       o           d                             To




                                                                                                                                         a
                30°N         CALIFORNIA                                                                                                                                          San Antonio




                                                                                                                                                   e
                                                    Gu

                                                                         SONORA
                                                                                                            CHIHUAHUA




                                                                                          Yaqui
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To
                                                       lf


                                                                                                                                       Ojinaga                                                                            San Antonio
                                                               Hermosillo                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                          of




                                                                                 S
                                                                                 Si
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Houston


                                                                                   e
                                                                                   er
                                                                                                             Chihuahua                                                         Sal
                                                              C




                                                                                                                                                                                   a
                                                                                     ra
                                                                                     r




                                                                                                                                                                         Sie
                                                                          Guaymas
                                                                al




                                                                                                                                                                                   d
                                                                                                                                                                                   do
                                                         Santa




                                                                                                                                                                           e
                                                                   if




                                                        Rosalia




                                                                                                                                                                          rra
                                                                                          M                              Con
                                                                                                                             chos
                                                                     or




                                                                                            ad




                                                                                                                                                                            a
                                                                                                                                                                                             Laredo
                                                  BAJA                         Navojoa
                                                                                             d                                                                     COAHUILA
                                                                        ni




                                                                                                  re
                                                                                                  r
                                                                                                            Fue
                                               CALIFORNIA                                                       r   te                                                                 Frontera
                                                                           a




                                                                                                                                                                               Ma
                                                   SUR




                                                                                                                                                                                a
                                                                                                                                                                                          NUEVO
                                                                                                   O
                                                                                                   O
                                                               Loreto




                                                                                                                                                                                dre
                                                                                                       cc

                                                                                                                                                                                           LEON                                                   Gu l f of M e xi co




                                                                                                                                                                                 r
                                                                                                        c

                                                                                Los Mochis                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   25°N
                                                                                                       id

                                                                                                                                                                                                  Monterrey                Matamoros
                                                                                                        d

                25°N                                                                                                                                   Torreón
                                                                                                        en
                                                                                                        e

                                                                                                                                                                           Saltíllo
                                                                                                             ta SI
                                                                                                              a ll N




                                                                                                                                                                                        Or
                                                                                                                                                                                        Or
                                                                                                  Culiacán
                                                                                                                               DURANGO
                           PAC IF IC                                           La Paz                                                                                                                   TAMAULIPAS




                                                                                                                                                                                         ie
                                                                                                                     A
                                                                                                                     A
                                                                                                                     A



                                                                                                                                  Durango




                                                                                                                                                                                           nt
                                                                                                                         LO
                                                                                                                         LO
                                                                                                                         LO




                           OCEAN                                                                                                                                ZACATECAS




                                                                                                                                                                                            t
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Ciudad




                                                                                                                                                                                             a ll
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Victória
                                                                                                                          A
                                                                                                                          A
                                                                                                                          A




                                                                                                            Mazatlán
                                                               Cabo San Lucas
                                                                                                                                                             Zacatecas             SAN LUIS
                                                                                      AGUASCALIENTES                                                                                POTOSI                               Tampico
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        QUERÉTARO
                                                                                                                                                                                          San Luis
                 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                               NAYARIT Aguascalientes                                     Potosí
                 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      YUCATAN             Cancun
                                                                                                                                                       Ler




                                                                                                                                                                                                                    VERACRUZ
                                                                                                                                                        em




                 shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                        Tepic              a                                                                                                                           Merida
                 Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                   GUANAJUATO                                                                          Guanajuato                                        HIDALGO
                 endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                    110°W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Cozumel
                                                                                                                Puerto Vallarta                                    Guadalajara                    Querétaro                                  DISTRITO FEDERAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Pachuca                      TLAXCALA                  Campeche
                                                                                              20°N                                            JALISCO                                                                                                                                                   QUINTANA
                                                                                                                                                                                             MEXICO
                                MEXI C O                                                                MEXICO                                                                                                                      Jalapa          Bay of Campeche
                                                                                                                                                                          Morelia
                                                                                                                                                                                                CITY                                                                                                      ROO
                                                                                                                                                                                           Toluca                        Tlaxcala         Veracruz                                                             Chetumal
                                                                                                                                                   Colima                                                                      Citlaltépetl (5,747 m)
                                                                                                                                                                                          Cuernavaca
                                                                                                                                            COLIMA                 MICHOACAN                                        Puebla                                                      CAMPECHE
                                     SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                                      PUEBLA                                TABASCO
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Balsas                                                          Villahermosa                                       Gulf of
                                     STATE CAPITALS                                                                                                                                    GUERRERO              Chilpancingo                                                      Us
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             BELIZE   Honduras
                                     NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                             um
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Sie                Oaxaca                                   CHIAPAS           ac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        in
                                     RIVERS                                                                                                                                             Acapulco              rra               OAXACA                           Tuxtla
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Mad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           re de                                 Gutierrez
                                     MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                  l S u r Tehuantepec
                                                                                                                                                                                        MORELOS                          Puerto
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             15°N
                                     RAILROADS                                                                      0      100          200             300 Kilometers                                               Escondido                       Gulf of                 GUATEMALA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              HONDURAS
NOVEMBER 2008




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Tehuantepec




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD 33447R
                                                                                              15°N                                                                                                                                                              Tapachula
                                     STATE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              San Salvador
                                                                                                                    0     50          100     150        200 Miles
                                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EL
                                                                                                                                       105°W                                                   100°W                                               95°W                                                  SALVADOR
