                                          CONFORMED COPY


                                       LOAN NUMBER 8004-MX




       Loan Agreement
    (Strengthening the Business Environment for
Enhanced Economic Growth Development Policy Loan)


                    between


           UNITED MEXICAN STATES


                      and


INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
           AND DEVELOPMENT




             Dated December 13, 2011
                                LOAN AGREEMENT

         Agreement dated December 13, 2011, entered into between UNITED MEXICAN
STATES (“Borrower?), represented by its Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
(Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público - SHCP), and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank?) for the purpose of
providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this
Agreement). The Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of
(a) the actions which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are
described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and (b) the Borrower’s
maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic policy framework.

         Whereas the Borrower has informed the Bank that the proceeds of the Loan (as
set forth in the table in Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and for purposes of
supporting the Program), shall be used in conformity with the requirements of the
Borrower’s income, budgetary and public debt laws and the terms of this Agreement, the
Borrower and the Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:




ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
        constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
        the Appendix to this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE II — LOAN

2.01.   The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
        referred to in this Agreement, the amount of seven hundred fifty one million
        eight hundred seventy nine thousand seven hundred Dollars ($751,879,700.00),
        as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency
        Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this Agreement
        (“Loan?).

2.02.   As a consequence of the Borrower’s maintenance of an adequate macroeconomic
        policy framework and its satisfactory implementation of the Program, the
        Borrower may withdraw, or may cause BANSEFI to withdraw, the proceeds of
        the Loan in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Unless
        the Borrower’s representative designated in Section 6.01 of this Agreement




                                          -2-
        otherwise informs the Bank, the Borrower’s Representatives for purposes of
        taking any action required or permitted to be taken pursuant to this Section are
        the Director General of BANSEFI, or the Director General Adjunto de Banca
        Institucional of BANSEFI or any person or persons whom such representatives
        shall jointly or severally designate in writing.

2.03.   The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
        percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.

2.04.   The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
        equal to the Reference Rate for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread;
        provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of
        the Loan, the interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on
        such amount shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of
        Article IV of the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
        amount of the Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-
        payment continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the
        Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (e) of the
        General Conditions.

2.05.   The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year.

2.06.   The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
        provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.07.   (a)     The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
                of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
                (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
                amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
                Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any
                portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
                from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa, or from a Variable
                Rate based on a Variable Spread to a Variable Rate based on a Fixed
                Spread; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to
                all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
                outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate
                Collar on the Variable Rate.

        (b)     Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
                is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion?, as defined
                in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
                provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
                Guidelines.




                                           -3-
        (c)     Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or
                Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the
                premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on
                behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
                itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance
                with Section 4.05 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount
                allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section II of
                Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.08.   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions
        (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section II of the Appendix to this
        Agreement and relating to Cooperation and Consultation), the Borrower shall
        promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this
        Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request.


                            ARTICLE III — PROGRAM

3.01.   The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its results. To this
        end, and further to Section 5.08 of the General Conditions:

        (a)     the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of
                either party, exchange views on the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy
                framework and the progress in the implementation of the Program;

        (b)     prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the
                Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress in the
                implementation of the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall
                reasonably request; and

        (c)     without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
                Section, the Borrower shall, or shall cause BANSEFI to, promptly
                inform the Bank of any situation that would have the effect of materially
                reversing the objectives of the Program or any action taken under the
                Program including any action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this
                Agreement.


3.02.   (a)     The Borrower, through SHCP, shall enter into a contract (Contrato de
                Mandato) among SHCP and BANSEFI, satisfactory to the Bank,
                whereby:

                (i)     BANSEFI agrees to act as financial agent of the Borrower with
                        regard to the Loan, meaning that, inter alia, BANSEFI agrees to
                        represent the Borrower vis-à-vis the Bank for purposes of




                                          -4-
                        submitting Loan withdrawal applications to the Bank in form
                        and substance sufficient to justify disbursement by the Bank to
                        the Borrower of Loan proceeds in compliance with the terms of
                        this Agreement; and

                (ii)    the Borrower, through SHCP, shall cooperate fully with
                        BANSEFI to ensure that BANSEFI is able to comply with all of
                        BANSEFI’s obligations referred to in paragraph (a) of this
                        Section.

        (b)     The Borrower, through SHCP, shall exercise its rights and carry out its
                obligations under the Contrato de Mandato in such a manner as to
                protect the interests of the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
                Loan. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
                terminate, amend, waive or fail to enforce any provision of the Contrato
                de Mandato. In case of any conflict between the terms of the Contrato
                de Mandato and those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement
                shall prevail.



ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

4.01.   The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following, namely that a
        situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a
        significant part of it, will be carried out.


               ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.   The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following:

        (a)     that the Contrato de Mandato has been executed by the parties thereto;
                and

        (b)     that the Bank is satisfied with the implementation of the Program and
                with the adequacy of the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework.

5.02.   The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely, that the Borrower
        (in its legal opinion) and BANSEFI (in a separate legal opinion satisfactory to the
        Bank, issued by BANSEFI counsel acceptable to the Bank), indicate that the
        Contrato de Mandato has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and
        delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and BANSEFI and is legally binding upon
        the Borrower and BANSEFI in accordance with the Contrato de Mandato’s
        terms.




                                           -5-
5.03.   Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
        Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
        case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan
        which expire on July 18, 2012.


               ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   Except as set forth in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, the Borrower’s
        Representative is the Titular de la Unidad de Crédito Público of SHCP.

6.02.   Unless the Borrower’s representative designated in Section 6.01 above otherwise
        informs the Bank, the Borrower’s Address for the purposes of Section 10.01 of
        the General Conditions is:

        Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
        Unidad de Asuntos Internacionales de Hacienda
        Insurgentes Sur 1971
        Torre III, tercer piso
        Colonia Guadalupe Inn
        01020 México, D.F.
        Facsimile: 011-52-55-3688-1216
6.03.   The Bank’s Address is:

        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
        1818 H Street, N.W.
        Washington, D.C. 20433
        United States of America

        Cable address:          Telex:                  Facsimile:

        INTBAFRAD               248423(MCI) or          1-202-477-6391
        Washington, D.C.        64145(MCI)




                                          -6-
AGREED at Mexico City, Mexico, as of the day and year first above written.

                       UNITED MEXICAN STATES



                       By /s/ Alejandro Díaz de León
                                               Authorized Representative


                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT



                       By /s/ Gloria M. Grandolini
                                              Authorized Representative




                                 -7-
                                     SCHEDULE 1

      Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds; Access to Information

Section I.      Actions under the Program

The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program aimed at strengthening the
business environment for enhanced economic growth include the following:

A.      Enhancement of competition in the telecommunications markets and
        enhancement of competition, efficiency and transparency of public procurement.

1.      The Borrower, through CFE, SCT and Cofetel, has taken actions to enhance the
        competition in the telecommunications markets in the territory of the Borrower
        as evidenced by: (i) the issuance of a concession on July 5, 2010 to use a pair of
        fibers of the state-owned power utility's fiber-optic network for the provision of
        telecommunication services; and (ii) the issuance, through Decision (Acuerdo) of
        Cofetel dated December 14, 2009, of bidding documents (bases de licitación) for
        public bidding of multiple concessions for the use of radio spectrum in the
        bandwidths of: (a) 1.9GHz in eight of the nine spectrum regions of the
        Borrower’s territory, and (b) 1.7/2.1 GHz in the nine different spectrum regions
        of the Borrower’s territory, all for the provision of mobile telecommunication
        services.

2.      The Borrower, through SFP, has taken steps to enhance the competition,
        efficiency and transparency of public procurement of goods and services as
        evidenced by the enactment of: (i) a regulation of the Law of Acquisitions,
        Leases and Services of the Public Sector (Reglamento de la Ley de
        Adquisiciones, Arrendamientos y Servicios del Sector Público), issued by the
        President and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on July 28, 2010
        establishing, inter alia, the regulations for the use of framework agreements; and
        (ii) Guidelines on Acquisitions, Leases and Services and Public Works and
        Services related thereto (Lineamientos en Materia de Adquisiciones,
        Arrendamientos y Servicios y de Obras Publicas y Servicios Relacionados con
        las mismas), issued by SFP and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on
        September 9, 2010, establishing, inter alia, the rules for the use of reverse
        auctions (Ofertas Subsecuentes de Descuentos) in public procurement processes.

B.      Streamlining and Improving the Quality of Business Regulations.

1.      The Borrower, through SHCP, SAT and SE, has taken steps for the reduction of
        business transaction costs and the facilitation of trade as evidenced by: (i) the
        enactment of a Presidential decree simplifying and reducing the number of tax
        declaration and payment procedures, published in the Borrower’s Official
        Gazette on June 30, 2010; (ii) the execution of a contract between the Borrower,




                                           -8-
     through SAT, and a technology integration company for the development and
     operation of an electronic single trade window, dated November 11, 2010; and
     (iii) the enactment of four Ministerial Decisions that eliminate redundant
     certification requirements by recognizing the use, in the Borrower’s territory, of
     standards and conformity assessment procedures applied in the USA or Canada
     for electronic appliances and data processing equipment, issued by SE and
     published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on August 17, 2010.

C.   Fostering Access to Finance with Stability

1.   The Borrower, through SHCP and CNBV among other entities, has adopted
     measures to enhance the access to finance and the stability of the financial
     system as evidenced by the enactment of: (i) a resolution amending the General
     Provisions Applicable to Credit Institutions (including, inter alia article 325 Bis1
     of the said general provisions) to facilitate the supply of financial services using
     mobile phone accounts, issued jointly by SHCP and CNBV, and published in the
     Borrower’s Official Gazette on April 15, 2010; (ii) a decree amending the Law of
     Credit Information Societies including Articles 19, 20, and 42, to support the
     enhancement of coverage, data quality and consumer service provided through
     credit bureaus, issued by the President and published in the Borrower’s Official
     Gazette on May 25, 2010; (iii) a decree establishing the Financial Stability
     Council, issued by the President and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette
     on July 29, 2010; and (iv) prudential regulation strengthening provisioning
     requirements for mortgage loans and non-revolving consumer credit, issued by
     CNBV and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on October 12, 2010.

D.   Promoting Private Participation in Infrastructure

1.   The Borrower has taken measures to foster private investment in infrastructure as
     evidenced by the enactment of: (i) a decree amending the Law on Federal Roads,
     Bridges and Auto Transport to allow extensions of concessions during any of its
     stages, issued by the President and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette
     on November 4, 2010; (ii) a circular letter issued by CONSAR amending the
     investment regime of SIEFORES to authorize them to invest in structured
     securities up to 15% of their portfolio, depending on the risk profile of the
     relevant SIEFORE, published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on June 11,
     2010; and (iii) guidelines issued by the board of FONADIN allowing it to
     participate as a minority investor in private equity funds specialized in
     infrastructure with the purpose of promoting the creation of such funds, dated
     May 14, 2010.




                                         -9-
Section II.     Availability of Loan Proceeds

A.      General. The Borrower may, or may cause BANSEFI to, withdraw the proceeds
        of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional
        instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower.

B.      Allocation of Loan Amounts. The Loan (except for amounts required to pay the
        Front-end Fee) is allocated in a Single Withdrawal Tranche, from which the
        Borrower may, or may cause BANSEFI to, make withdrawals of the Loan
        proceeds. The allocation of the amounts of the Loan to this end is set out in the
        table below:

                                     Amount of the Loan Tranche
                                             Allocated
        Allocations                    (expressed in Dollars)

(1) Single Withdrawal                            750,000,000.75
Tranche

(2) Front-end Fee                                   1,879,699.25

(3) Amount due pursuant to                                        0
Section 2.07(c) of this
Agreement

TOTAL AMOUNT                                     751,879,700.00

C.      Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions.

        1.      No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless
                the Bank is satisfied (a) with the Program being carried out by the
                Borrower, and (b) with the appropriateness of the Borrower’s
                macroeconomic policy framework.

D.      Deposits of Loan Amounts. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:

        1.      all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank
                into an account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank;
                and

        2.      the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the
                Loan into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
                Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the
                Bank.




                                          -10-
E.   Excluded Expenditures. The Borrower shall use the proceeds of the Loan in
     accordance with its laws and shall not use them to finance Excluded
     Expenditures. If the Bank determines at any time that an amount of the Loan
     was used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall,
     promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the amount of
     such payment to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request
     shall be cancelled.

F.   Closing Date. The Closing Date is January 31, 2012.




                                     -11-
                                    SCHEDULE 2

                               Amortization Schedule


        The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on January 15,
2029.




                                         -12-
                                     APPENDIX

Section I.     Definitions

1.      “BANSEFI? means Banco del Ahorro Nacional y Servicios Financieros, S.N.C.,
        a Mexican development bank established pursuant to the Borrower’s Organic
        Law of the Bank of National Saving and Financial Services published in the
        Borrower’s Official Gazette on June 1, 2001, and serving as the Borrower’s
        financial agent for purposes of the Loan, or any successor thereto acceptable to
        the Bank for the purposes of this Program.

2.      “CFE? means Comisión Federal de Electricidad, the Borrower’s Federal
        Electricity Commission.

3.      “CNBV? means Comisión Nacional Bancaria y de Valores, the Borrower’s
        national banking and securities commission established pursuant to the
        Borrower’s Law of the National Banking and Securities Commission published
        in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on April 28, 1995 as amended to the date of
        this Agreement.

4.      “Cofetel? means Comisión Federal de Telecomunicaciones, the Borrower’s
        Federal Telecommunications Commission.

5.      “CONSAR? means Comisión Nacional del Sistema de Ahorro para el Retiro, the
        Borrower’s national commission for the retirement savings system, established
        pursuant to the Borrower’s Law of the Retirement Savings Systems published in
        the Borrower’s Official Gazette on May 23, 1996.

6.      “Contrato de Mandato? means the contract referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this
        Agreement.

7.      “Excluded Expenditure? means any expenditure:

        (a)    for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
               international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the
               Association has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the
               Association has financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit,
               or grant;

        (b)    for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
               International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
               by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
               (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
               revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the
               Borrower:




                                         -13-
Group           Sub-group             Description of Item
112                                   Alcoholic beverages
121                                   Tobacco, un-
                                      manufactured, tobacco
                                      refuse
122                                   Tobacco, manufactured
                                      (whether or not containing
                                      tobacco substitutes)
525                                   Radioactive and associated
                                      materials
667                                   Pearls, precious and
                                      semiprecious stones,
                                      unworked or worked
718             718.7                 Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                      thereof; fuel elements
                                      (cartridges), non-
                                      irradiated, for nuclear
                                      reactors
728             728.43                Tobacco processing
                                      machinery
897             897.3                 Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                      platinum group metals
                                      (except watches and watch
                                      cases) and goldsmiths’ or
                                      silversmiths’ wares
                                      (including set gems)
971                                   Gold, non-monetary
                                      (excluding gold ores and
                                      concentrates)

(c)     for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
        consumption;

(d)     for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
        which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international
        agreements to which the Borrower is a party;

(e)     on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
        Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
        United Nations; and

(f)     with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
        collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
        Borrower or other recipient of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower




                                  -14-
              (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action
              satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur.

8.    “Financial Stability Council? means Consejo de Estabilidad del Sistema
      Financiero, the Borrower’s council in charge of promoting financial stability,
      established pursuant to the Borrower’s Presidential Decree published in the
      Borrower’s Official Gazette on July 29, 2010.

9.    “FONADIN? means Fondo Nacional de Infraestructura, the Borrower’s
      National Fund for Infrastructure, established pursuant to the Borrower’s
      Presidential Decree published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on February 7,
      2008.

10.   “General Conditions? means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
      Development General Conditions for Loans?, dated July 31, 2010 with the
      modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

11.   “General Provisions Applicable to Credit Institutions? means the Disposiciones
      de Carácter General Aplicables a Las Instituciones de Crédito issued by the
      SHCP and CNBV and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on December
      2, 2005,as amended to the date of this Agreement.

12.   “Law of Acquisitions, Leases and Services of the Public Sector? means the
      Borrower’s Ley de Adquisiciones, Arrendamientos y Servicios del Sector Público
      published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette on January 4, 2000.

13.   “Law of Credit Information Societies? means the Borrower’s Ley para Regular
      las Sociedades de Información Crediticia published in the Borrower’s Official
      Gazette on January 15, 2002.

14.   “Law on Federal Roads, Bridges and Auto Transport? means the Borrower’s Ley
      de Caminos, Puentes y Autotransporte Federal published in the Borrower’s
      Official Gazette on December 22, 1993.

15.   “Ministerial Decision? means an Acuerdo issued by any of the Ministries
      (Secretarías) of the United Mexican States.

16.   “Official Gazette? means Diario Oficial de la Federación.

17.   “President? means the President of the United Mexican States.

18.   “Program? means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
      strengthen the Borrower’s business environment for enhanced economic growth
      and to achieve sustainable reduction in poverty, as set forth or referred to in the
      letter dated December 10, 2010, from the Borrower to the Bank, which includes




                                         -15-
        measures implemented by the Borrower during 2010 (as described in Section 1 of
        Schedule 1 to this Agreement) declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the
        Program.

19.     “SAT? means Servicio de Administracion Tributaria, the Borrower’s entity in
        charge of tax administration.

20.     “SCT? means Secretaría de Comunicaciones y Transportes, the Borrower’s
        Ministry of Communications and Transport.

21.     “SE? means Secretaría de Economía, the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy.

22.     “SFP? means Secretaría de la Función Pública, the Borrower’s Civil Service
        Ministry.

23.     “SHCP? means Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público, the Borrower’s
        Ministry of Finance and Public Credit.

24.     “SIEFORES? means Sociedades de Inversión Especializada en Fondos para el
        Retiro, the investment firms specialized in retirement funds, established pursuant
        to the Borrower’s Law of the Retirement Savings Systems published in the
        Borrower’s Official Gazette on May 23, 1996.

25.     “Single Withdrawal Tranche? means the amount of the Loan allocated to the
        category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche? in the table set forth in Part B of
        Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.


Section II.     Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

1.      The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
        Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

2.      Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
        in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered
        accordingly.

3.      Sections 5.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 5.09 (Financial Management;
        Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
        Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly.

4.      Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
        and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.




                                          -16-
5.   Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
     above) is modified to read as follows:

            “Section 5.06. Plans; Documents; Records

            …       (c)      The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
            invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures
            under the Loan until two years after the Closing Date. The Borrower
            shall enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records.?

6.   Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3
     above) is modified to read as follows:

            Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

            …       (c)     The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
            furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a
            report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
            request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Loan
            Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Legal
            Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.

7.   The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
     deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
     alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
     accordingly:


     (a)    The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure? is modified to read as
            follows:

             “‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in
            support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
            pursuant to the Loan Agreement.?

     (b)    The term “Financial Statements? and its definition are deleted in their
            entirety.

     (c)    The term “Project? is modified to read “Program? and its definition is
            modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project? throughout
            these General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program?):

            “‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in
            support     of      which      the       Loan       is    made.?




                                      -17-
-18-
