Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
*              ,o j/ A ufo-To
Report No. P-4318-JO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$27.5 MILLION
TO THE
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR A
SIXTH POWER PROJECT
May 6, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank aothorization.



HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1985               January 1986
Currency Unit = Jordan Dinar (JD)
US$1.00       = JD .393                   JD .368
JD 1.00       = US$2.54                   US$2.72
Exchange rate used in the Appraisal Report JD1 = US$2.63
GOVERNMENT OF JORDAN AND POWER ENTITIES' FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ATPS - Aqaba Thermal Power Station
G'Wh - Gigawatt Hour (1000 MWh)
HTPS - Hussein Thermal Power Station
ICB   - International Competitive Bidding
IDECO - Irbid District Electricity Company
IAEA - International Atomic Energy Agency
JEA   - Jordan Electricity Authority
JEPCO - Jordanian Electric Power Company
kWh   - Kilowatt Hour (1000 Watthours)
kV    - Kilovolt (1000 volts)
MEMR  - Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources
MVA   - Megavolt Ampere (1000 Kilovolt Ampere)
MW    - Megawatt (1000 Kilowatts)
MWh   - Megawatt Hour (1000 Kilowart hours)
toe   - Tons of oil equivalent



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
SIXTH POWER PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
Borrower:               The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
Beneficiaries:          Jordan Electricity Authority (JEA).
Jordanian Electric Power Company (JEPCO)
and Irbid District Electricity Company (IDECO).
Amount:                 US$27.5 million equivalent.
Terms:                  15 years, including three years of grace. at the
standard variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:        The proposed Bank loan would be made to the
Government. US$27.15 would be onlent to the three
beneficiaries: US$3.15 million to JEA. US$20.0
million to JEPCO, and US$4.0 million to IDECO on the
same terms as the Bank loan. The foreign exchange and
variable interest rate ri6ks would be borne by the
power entities. The remaining US$0.35 million would
be retained by the Government to finance a diagnostic
study of the power distribution system.
Project Description:    The project which is part of the Government's high
priority 1986-1990 least-cost program for the power
subsector includes: (i) rehabilitation and expansion
of the urban distribution network in JEPCO's and
IDECO's concession areas with the supply, construction
and erection of low- and medium-voltage lines, about
180 MVA of power and distribution transformer
capacity, and three-phase and single-phase consumer
connections; (ii) electrification of about 95 villages
(35 villages in JEA's area, 45 in JEPCO's area and 15
in IDECO's), with the supply, construction. and
erection of medium- and low-voltage lines and about 6
MVA of distribution transformer capacity, and
single-phase consumer connections; (iii) supply of
computer hardware and software and equipment and tools
for operation and maintenance with specialized hot
line work equipment and associated training;
(iv) consulting services to assist JEPCO and IDECO in
project engineering and construction supervision; (v)
consulting services to assist the Ministry of Energy
and Mineral Resources in undertaking a diagnostic
study of the existing power distribution system in
Jordan; and (vi) consulting services and equipment to
help JEPCO implement the recommendations of the
management information system study undertaken under
the Fourth Power Project. The project, when
completed, would initially extend the public
electricity supply to about 32,000 new urban and rural
consumers and improve the quality of service to about
73,000 existing consumers. It also would continue the
institutional development objectives initiated under
This document ha a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dutie Its contents may not otherwis be disclosed without World lank authorizaton.



-ii-
previous loans by providing assistance in introducing
new technologies, reducing system losses and improving
the power entities' management, planning and
forecasting capabilities. There are no major risks
associated with the project, although there are some
uncertainties concerning JEA's electricity sales.
Adequate provisions have been made to deal with this
risk.
Local           Foreign            Total
(US$ Millions)
Estimated Cost*:
JEA's Component                         1.12              2.59             3.71
JEPCO's Component                      13.48             26.80            40.28
IDECO's Component                       2.65             5.57              8.22
Diagnostic Study                        0.12              0.28             0.40
Base Cost                          17.37             35.24            52.61
Physical Contingencies                  1.19              2.46             3.65
Price Contingencies                     5.14             10.25            15.39
Total Cost                         23.70              _
Financing Plan:
Proposed World Bank Loan                -                27.50            27.50
Government Contribution                 0.15              -                0.15
JEA and Customer Contributions          1.55              0.25             1.80
JEPCO and Customer Contributions       18.40             16.60            35.00
IDECO and Customer Contributions        3.60              3.60             7.20
Total Financing                                      4Z95
Estimated
Disbursements:                                          Bank FY
1987     1988     1989      1990     1991
US$ Million-
Annual                              1.7      8.1       6.9      8.1       2.7
Cumulative                          1.7      9.8      16.7     24.8     27.5
Rate of Return: 13 percent.
Appraisal Report: Number 6075-JO, dated May 5, 1986.
Map: Number IBRD 19554.
* Cost estimates do not include import duties and taxes, from which the power
entities are exempt.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR A SIXTH POWER PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Bank
loan to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan of US$27.5 million equivalent to help
finance a Sixth Power Project. The loan would be for 15 years, including
three years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate. The Government
would onlend US$27.15 million of the Bank loan to the Jordan Electricity
Authority, the Jordanian Electric Power Company and Irbid District Electricity
Company on the same terms as the Bank loan. The power entities would bear the
foreign exchange and variable interest rate risks.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       A report entitled "Jordan Review of the Five-Year Plan" (No. 4129-JO,
dated May 1983) was distributed to the Executive Directors ic June 1983. An
economic mission visited the country in November 1985; its findings have been
included in the present text. 2/ Country data sheets are attached as Annex 1.
Recent Economic Developments
3.       Conscious of the country's limited natural resources, its relatively
narrow productive base and the sensitiveness of the economy to changes in its
oil-rich regional environment, the Government has pursued liberal,
outward-looking policies in trade, labor migration and foreign exchange. This
enabled Jordan to alleviate the effects of a very high natural population
growth rate (3.4 percent) through massive emigration stimulated by high
salaries in the neighboring countries and, until 1982, through rapid expansion
of domestic production fueled by an exceptionally high investment rate and
rapidly groving export demand. At present, a large part of Jordan's total
workforce is employed abroad. In addition to sizable workers' remittance
inflows, Jordan has benefited from large inflows of grant aid from neighboring
countries as well as from a rapid increase in regional demand for its
exports. During the period 1976-82, the yearly inflow of workers' remittances
and grants reached on average close to two-thirds of Jordan's GDP. The
abundant supply of these resources and a favorable entrepreneurial climate
enabled Jordan to maintain both very high consumption and investment rates.
4.       As a result, the Jordanian economy expanded rapidly with an annual
average GDP growth rate of over 10 percent in real terms during the 1976-82
period; almost full employment was reached. The overall balance of payments
remained strong despite a large chronic deficit in merchandise trade.
1/ This section is substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report
for the Jordan Water Supply and Sewerage Project (P-4294-JO), which was
distributed to the Executive Directors on April 28, 1986.
2/ References in the text which follows are to the East Bank of Jordan.



- 2 -
Although exports of goods and non-factor services (primarily agricultural
products, manufactured goods, tourism and exports of the new commodities,
fertilizers and potash) grew at a rapid rate of about 16 percent in real terms
during 1976-82, its small base in relation to imports led to a continuous
deterioration of the resource gap. These trade deficits, however, wiere almost
fully covered by factor income and transfers from abroad.. Government-
guaranteed external borrowing remained therefore within reasonable limits and
borrowing on commercial terms was reduced to a modest level.
5.       Beginning in 1982, however, the economic slowdown in the neighboring
countries has affected the Jordanian economy in many ways, leading to a
slowdown of domestic economic activity and a reduction in the inflow of
external transfers. The overall economic growth rate slowed to about
5.2 percent (in real terms) in 1983, still a satisfactory -performance
considering the unfavorable economic environment; foreign grant aid was about
23 percent lower, and workers' remittances stagnated while exports of
manufactured goods and services to neighboring countries declined. Imports
also declined, in line with the sizable reduction in public and private
investments.
6.       As a result, the current account deficit for 1983 showed only a
slight increase to $390 million. In 1984, the decline in mercbandise imports,
combined with an increase in exports of manufactured goods, contributed to
reducing the balance of trade from nearly $2.5 billion in 1983 to about $2.0
billion. Taking into account a slight reduction in official transfers, the
current account deficit fell to $269 million. Although preliminary estimates
for 1985 show imports declining (in current terms) and exports increasing,
reduced worker's remittances and grants more than offset the trade gains,
leading to a rise in the current account deficit to about 7.2 percent of GDP,
compared to 6.8 percent in 1984.
7.       With the decline in government revenues from grants, public
investment has been reduced, and the Government has further intensified its
domestic resource mobilization efforts through cuts in subsidies and improved
collection of direct and indirect taxes. The main concerns of monetary policy
have been mobilizing savings and controlling domestic liquidity. Private
savings have improved, but public saviags have continued to be negative
because of the high level of defense expenditures. To promote domestic
savings, greater discretion has been given to the Central Bank in adjusting
interest rates and banking commissions. As a result of increases in deposit
rates in 1983, savings deposits rose faster than the money supply. A parallel
situation materialized in 1984 and 1985 though both savings deposits and the
money supply grew at slower rates in those years. Together with a marked
decline in inflation to 3.9 percent in both 1984 and 1985, these increases
have resulted in interest rates becoming substantially positive again in real
terms.
Medium-Term Prospects
8.       Given the changed situation and outlook in the neighboring oil
producing countries, GDP growth in the 4-5 percent range as is projected by
the 1986-90 Plan appears feasible in the medium term. This projection assumes
a reduction in the exceptionally high level of investments achieved during the
early 1980s, which reflected the implementation of a number of large new
projects such as potash, fertilizer and a refinery. While the new, natural



- 3 -
resource-based industries have provided some new employment opportunities, the
economic slowdown and a rapidly increasing domestic workforce (para. 12) are
likely to change the manpower situation in Jordan from one of selective
shortages to one of general excess supply.
9.       The industrial sector (including mining, manufacturing and
construction) is expected to continue to lead the growth of GDP and exports.
The new industries have contributed one third towards incremental GDP during
1984-85. Together with an expansion of phosphate mining and cement
production, total industrial output would grow at an annual rate of about
6.2 percent for 1986-88 but slow down to an average rate of 4.9 percent per
annum for the period 1988-90. Since the rapid expansion of infrastructure and
private housing during the boom years of the 1970s and early 1980s has slowed
down substantially, the construction industry is likely to grow at a
substantially lower rate (3.5 percent per annum) during 1986-90. Thus,
industrial growth during the next plan period will have to rely increasingly
on the development of small and medium-scale higher technology manufacturing,
largely for exports. The'projected 5.7 percent per annum for industrial
growth (1986-90) assumes that adjustment of the industrial sector in this
direction will be achieved, inter alia through changes in protection policies
and improvements in export incentives.
10.      Increased demand for services by returning Jordanians, coupled with
their accumulation of savings and experience, is expected to stimulate private
investment and growth of special services to an average annual rate of
4.5 percent per annum in the next few years. However it is expected that the
transportation sector and the hotel industry, which at present have a large
surplus capacity, will undergo a period of consolidation. In the trade
sector, efficiency gains from modernization would likely be offset by
increased pressure from higher unemployment to expand the less efficient
informal trade sector. In contrast to the expected slow growth of traditional
private services, the prospects are favorable for special services which can
'ise Jordan's skilled labor in areas such as consulting, contracting, and
maintenance. Agriculture is projected to continue to grow by about 5 percent
per annum.
11.      The projections for the external accounts assume that exports of
goods and non-factor services would grow by an average rate of about 5.0
percent per annum in real terms for 1986-90. Exports from the output of
previous and new industrial, natural resource-based projects to the world
market would make the largest contribution to this growth performance. The
export projections for the late 1980s assume that adequate measures are taken
to develop Jordan's manufacturing exports. The import growth projections
assume that imports would slow down in line with the overall economic growth
rate. The fall in oil prices is expected to benefit Jordan by reducing its
1986 import bill by about $110 million, or 4 percent of its total merchandise
imports, assuming purchases are made at market prices.  Even though             I
merchandise exports are projected to approach a rate of increase of 5 percent
per annum while imports would grow at a lower rate, the trade deficit could
remain large and approach the $3.0 billion mark in 1990. In relation to GDP,
however, the resource gap is expected to show a further decline from about 44
percent in 1985 to about 28 percent in 1990. Unlike the past, net workers'
remittances and foreign grants, which are likely to decline, will not be
sufficient to meet the growing trade deficit. Jordan therefore would have to
rely more on external borrowing (para. 15). To maintain its prudent debt



- 4 -
management, Jordan vill need to combine external borrowing with increased
efforts to mobilize domestic resources, particularly in the public sector.
Social Issues
12.      Due to the substantial migration of Jordanian workers to neighboring
countries and the rapid economic growth, the labor market situation has been
characterized until recently by selective manpower shortages. However,
according to recent manpower projections, supply of labor in Jordan in the
medium term is likely to show selective surpluses, particularly throughout
certain categories of skilled professionals. In 1985, it is estimated that
300,000 Jordanians were working abroad compared to a total domestic employment
of about 645,000. Domestic employment includes a relatively large number of
foreign workers currently estimated at about 143,000, half of whom are
unskilled. A comprehensive manpower and training plan as well as improvements
in vocational training are needed to help ensure that the education and
training system is geared to meet both domestic and external demands for
manpower.
13.      The Government continues to emphasize social issues in the 1986-90
Five-Year Plan. Although the social indicators are relatively favorable in
most sectors, social services are unevenly distributed across income groups
and between urban and rural areas. Housing remains a problem despite the boom
in 1978-80, mainly because housing costs have far exceeded the means of the
lower income groups.
External Assistance
14.      With the large, chronic trade deficit offset by inflows of
remittances and foreign transfers, the current account of the balance of
payments was on average in equilibrium through 1975-81. Net workers'
remittances increased from about $160 million in 1975 to about $980 million in
1984. In 1985, however, they decreased to $843 million reflecting the
economic recession in the Arab Gulf countries. Following the Baghdad Arab
Summit Conference in November 1978, which pledged assistance of about $1.2
billion per year over a 10-year period, net foreign grant aid rose from
$400-500 million in 1977-78 to about $1.3 billion in 1980 and 1981; it
declined to some $0.8 billion in 1983 and to $0.6 billion in 1985. In 1986 it
is expected to remain at $0.6 billion. This decline was the main reason for
the current account deficits of $390 million in 1983, and $330 million in
1985, both of which were financed largely by external borrowing and partly by
drawing on reserves. Jordan's reserves have remained, however, equal to three
months of imports. The external public debt outstanding and disbursed reached
$2.5 billion at the end of 1985 (about 66 percent of GNP defined to include
workers' remittances). External debt service payments amounted to $317
million in 1985 or 9.7 percent of total exports of goods and services.
15.      Jordan's impressive growth. pragmatic economic and social policies
and efficient economic management have helped to attract large amounts of
foreign assistance. The grant component of this foreign assistance is
projected to decline gradually in real terms over the next few years. The
projections on that basis indicate a need for average gross external borrowing
of about $1.0 billion over the 1986-1990 period, mostly in later years. While
bilateral and multilateral sources can be expected to provide the bulk of
external resources, Jordan is likely to resort increasingly to the financial



markets, and this would result in a hardening of loan terms. On these
assumptions, the debt service ratio as a percentage of exports of goods and
services is projected to reach 12.6 percent by 1990. Given this outlook and
the country's record of prudent management, Jordan remains creditworthy for
Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS 11
16.      Jordan has received 21 Bank loans totalling $524.4 million 21 and 15
IDA credits totalling $86.1 million (net of cancellations) of which all the
credits and four loans have been fully disbursed. Project implementation and
disbursement performance have been generally satisfactory. In recent years,
disbursements have amounted to about 55-65 percent of appraisal estimates, and
this disbursement percentage has generally been higher than the average for
the EMENA Region. The IDA credits have financed projects in key sectors, such
as education, highways, water supply and sewerage, power, irrigation and
tourism. By mid-1978, Jordan had attained a stage of economic development
where it could be considered creditworthy for Bank lending and had reached a
GNP per capita level that exceeded IDA limits. IDA lending was thus
discontinued after March 1978. IFC has made loans and equity in Jordan with
total commitments of $94.8 million.  Annex II contains a suinmmary statement of
Bank loans and IDA credits, and IFC investments as of March 31, 1986.
17.      Under its last two development plans, Jordan has aimed at
restructuring its economy to achieve a wider manufacturing base, to reduce its
dependence on external grants, and to spread the benefits of development among
different regions. The Bank's strategy has been tailored to support those
objectives and in particular is designed to help the Government: (a) to
diversify the country's economic base and promote exports; (b) to alleviate
manpower and infrastructure constraints in the productive sectors; and (c) to
encourage more balanced growth and distribution of social services among
regions and income groups, with particular emphasis on low-income groups.
18.      Within this broad framework, past lending has emphasized support for
capital infrastructure and manpower development. Since 1962, Bank Group
lending has focussed on water supply and sewerage, power and energy
development, education and urban and municipal development. The Bank Group
has also lent for irrigation, agricultural and industrial credit,
transportation, tourism, and recently became involved in the health sector
with a loan for a Primary Health Care Project. In addition, the Bank Group
has financed technical assistance for developing and implementing a plan for
expanding phosphate rock mi-ing. An engineering credit was made in FY75 to
help prepare a large project for potash production from the Dead Sea via solar
evaporation, for which a loan was approved in September 1978. These projects
have been designed with an emphasis on institution building to assist the
agencies involved to develop their capabilities to plan, prepare, and
implement projects on their own. In addition to the proposed power
1/ Substantially unchanged from Part II of the President's Report for the
Jordan Water Supply and Sewerage Project (No. P-4294-JO), which was
distributed to the Executive Directors on April 28, 1986.
2/ Including Jordan Water Supply and Sewerage Project for $50 million.



distribution project, future lending would include projects for manpower
development, transportation, water supply and sewerage, urban development,
power generation expansion, and industry and mining. IFC has provided loans
and equity contributions for a major fertilizer project and for projects in
the construction materials subsector. It has also assisted the capital market
and leasing ventures.
19.      The Bank has recently helped the Government to review the energy,
water supply, health, urban and education/training sectors, and the Bank's
economic and sector work will continue to focus on strengthening the
macroeconomic and sector base for our lending program. The Bank's economic
work program aims to deepen and broaden the well-established policy dialogue
with the Government in priority areas: (i) development planning, with a focus
on resource mobilization and allocation; (ii) industrial and trade policies,
including technology transfer and export strategy/promotion and industrial
subsector studies; (iii) regional development and equity and efficiency of
government revenues and social expenditures; and (iv) manpower development.
These subjects are crucial because the substantially tighter balance of
payments situation expected for the rest of the decade calls for increased
efforts to step up domestic resource mobilization, to stimulate manufactured
exports and to optimize resource allocation, while making particular efforts
to reduce rural and urban poverty.
20.      At the end of 1985, the actual Bank Group share in Jordan's total
external public debt was estimated at 8.4 percent, and its share in debt
service was 7.4 percent. In 1987, the Bank Group's shares in debt outstanding
and in debt service are expected to be about 6.5 and 9.4 percent, respectively.
PART III - THE ENERGY AND POWER SECTOR
A. ENERGY SECTOR
21.      Resource Base and Government Strategy. With the exception of solar
and wind energy, Jordan's known energy resources are limited and consist of
oil shale deposits, some tar sands, a small hydropower potential, and a few
low temperature geothermal sources. To date, no commercially exploitable
coal, lignite, uranium or oil and gas reserves are known to exist. Oil shale
and solar energy are unlikely to contribute significantly to the future supply
of commercial energy given present technologies and current and projected
energy prices. There is also uncertainty about the extent and viability of
geothermal resources, as well as the full development of the remaining
hydropower potential, which is hampered by issues of riparian rights. Thus,
Jordan is entirely dependent on imported oil for its commercial energy needs.
Currently, the Government is undertaking a program to rationalize petroleum
exploration with the participation of international oil companies. Unless a
commercial discovery of oil or gas is made, however, the prospects of domes-
energy resources making a significant contribution to meeting the country's
commercial energy needs appear bleak in the foreseeable future. Increasing
economic constraints facing the country underscore the importance of
government efforts, through conservation and other means, to reduce oil
imports, which nevertheless have increased in value terms by 68 percent
between 1980 and 1984.
22.      The Bank's Energy Sector Study (No. 4012-JO) carried out a detailed
review of the sector and recommended a comprehensive action plan, which



focussed on the development of domestic energy resources and improved energy
conservation, pricing and planning and strengthening the sector's
institutional framework. Based on discussions of this action plan, the
Government has developed an energy policy aimed at reducing the relative
impact of the oil import bill on the country's balance of payments. The
strategy includes: (i) improving the efficiency of consumption and supply of
energy; (ii) adopting pricing policies that ensure economic efficiency and
financial viability of energy sector entities; (iii) improving energy
planning; (iv) developing economically domestic energy resources (oil/gas,
solar and wind energy and oil shale); (v) strengthening energy sector
institutions in planning, management and technical areas; and (vi) developing
consistent subsectoral least-cost investment programs as a basis of sectoral
development. Good progress is being made in implementing this strategy, as
discussed below.
23.      Energy Consumption.  Gross energy consumption grew at an annual
average rate of about 8 percent between 1980 and 1985 and reached 2.7 million
toe. This represents a decline from the 15 percent growth rate between 1970
and 1980 and is attributable mainly to the slow-down of the economy.
Nevertheless, energy intensity between 1980 and 1985 increased from 1.5 toe to
1.8 toe/l,000 JD of GNP, which is high compared to similar medium-income
countries and reflects the commissioning of additional energy-intensive
industries and expansions to existing ones. The Government is currently
undertaking a program of energy conservation. Under the Energy Development
Project (Loan 2371-JO), energy audits have been completed in key industries
and the power plants, and funds have been provided in the new Five Year Plan
for the implementation of the audits' recommendations. The Government has
also set up an advisory unit within the Ministry of Energy and Mineral
Resources (MEMR) to provide technical advice on building and home insulation
and heating and cooling. Based on the expected continued slower growth in the
economy and the above conservation efforts, gross energy consumption is
forecast to grow at an annual average rate of about 5 percent from 1985
reaching about 3.4 million toe by 1990.
24.      Petroleum Product Pricing.  The prices of petroleum products are set
by the Government and revised periodically. Since 1979 the Government has
been phasing out subsidies that had been used after 1973 to buffer the economy
from the adverse impact of higher energy prices; and it is the Government's
policy to end petroleum product subsidies by 1989, an understanding which was
reaffirmed during negotiations for the proposed loan. Currently, largely
because of the fall in the price of oil, prices of petroleum products are
above their economic costs, and the petroleum subsector is a net contributor
to the government budget. Despite the recent fall in international oil
prices, the Government's present policy is to maintain the prevailing retail
prices in order to mobilize resources for the national budget.
25.      Institutional Framework.  In the past, the sector was plagued with
problems of inadequate coordination and planning due to the large number of
public and private institutions. In late 1984, the Government created the
MEMR with the responsibility of formulating policies on pricing and
development of the energy sector. Since the ministry is still in its
formative stages, there is a need to strengthen its capabilities. A program
of training and recruitment is under way, the emphasis of which is to increase
capabilities in planning and pricing. The European Economic Committee, the
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), and the Bank are providing
assistance.



-8-
B. POWER SUBSECTOR
26.      Subsector Organization.  Several entities are involved in the
development and the operation of Jordan's power subsector: (i) the MEMR is
responsible for the development, coordination and pricing policy formulation
for the subsector and for regulating the operation of the private enterprises
in the power subsector; (ii) the Jordan Electricity Authority (JEA), a
financially and administratively autonomous government-owned utility created
in 1967, is responsibleJfor the formulation of plans for the overall
development of the power subsector, the construction and operation of
generation and transmission facilities, for virtLally all publicly supplied
electricity, bulk sales to large industries and the distribution companies,
and for the distribution of electricity in the areas under its jurisdiction.
JEA is also responsible for the formulation of the national rural
electrification program in consultation with the Ministry of Planning and
MEMR; (iii) the Jordanian Electric Power Company (JEPCO), a private company
owned by the public, JEA and the municipalities, distributes electricity in
the city of Amman and its environs (about 70 percent of total electricity sold
at the medium-and low-voltage levels in 1985); and (iv) the Irbid District
Electricity Company (IDECO), which is a semi-private company owned by JEA, the
municipalities of the Irbid and Mafraq governorates, and by private
investors. IDECO's service area encompasses the governorates of Irbid and
Mafraq, except the Jordan Valley area which is entrusted to JEA, and its sales
in 1985 amounted to about 15 percent of total electricity sold at the medium-
and low-voltage levels.
27.      Manpower Development and Training.  The labor force employed in the
electric power subsector has grown from about 3,500 employees in 1980 to about
4,200 in 1984, and labor productivity from 250 MWh sold per employee in 1980
to about 390 MWh in 1984, which is a relatively high productivity rate
compared to other countries in the region. Overall, the three power entities
are well managed and appropriately staffed and organized. JEA was reorganized
on the basis of the recommendations of management consultants appointed under
Credit 386-JO. It has training programs overseas and at a local training
center, which train staff in technical, financial and administrative services,
and is working on a proposal from the Japanese Government to provide for a
more comprehensive training facility to cover all required services for the
power subsector as a whole. The introduction of hot line work techniques
included in the project would involve the training overseas of selected
maintenance crews and training personnel for the three entities. JEPCO's
staff is, on the whole, well qualified; although improvements are still needed
in various areas including managecent, organization, and finance. In order to
address this gap, a management study, financed under the Fourth Power Project
(Loan 1986-JO), identified major issues and outlined a strategy for addressing
them. JEPCO has started to implement recommendations on financial management,
and the proposed project would include the implementation of organizational
recommendations and improvements in personnel management and in operations and
maintenance (para. 38). Finally, while IDECO's operations are reasonably well
managed, improvements are needed in its organization and management,
particularly in finance, operations and maintenance. Some of these weaknesses
are being addressed under the ongoing Energy Development Project (Loan
2371-JO), which represents the first Bank operation with IDECO. A study to
outline a strategy for strengthening IDECO's capabilities in the area of
financial planning is currently in progress. The diagnostic study under the
proposed project would outline measures to improve operations and maintenance
(para. 38).



28.      General Characteristics of the Electric Power System.  Jordan's power
subsector has grown very rapidly. Total installed generating capacity in the
country increased from about 30 MW in 1970 to about 692 MW in 1985, and the
distribution system has expanded in unison with the growth in generating and
transmission capacities. By the end of 1985, installed generating capacity in
the three utilities alone was 608 MW, of which 60 percent was oil-fired steam
units at the Hussein Thermal Power Station (HTPS), 30 percent was gas turbine
plants firing heavy fuel oil and the remaining 10 percent consisted of diesel
generator plants. In addition, industries own a total of about 84 MW of
installed capacity in steam and diesel units which are connected to the public
supply system. The first stage of a new oil-fired power station, Aqaba
Thermal Power Station (ATPS), is under construction with Bank assistance, and
the first of the 2x130 MW units is expected to be cgmmissioned in late 1986.
The transmission networks consist of 1320 circuit-km and substation capacity
totalling 1370 MVA.  A 400 kV transmission line between the ATPS and Amman
South substation, to be operated initially at 132 kV, is currently under
construction and is expected to be commissioned in 1986. Distribution
networks consist of 3220 km, with substation capacity of 1670 MVA.
29.      Power System Losses.  Total power system losses are presently
estimated at about 16 percent. Losses in the distribution system are about 12
percent, which are relatively high when compared to the economically
achievable levels of about 6-8 percent. Consequently, as part of its general
power system efficiency improvement program, the Government has initiated,
under the on-going Energy Development Project, a Load Research and Management
Study, with the assistance of consultants, which would (i) identify the
sources and nature of distribution system losses and provide recommendations
and an action plan to reduce them, (ii) provide information on consumer
characteristics for tariff design, and (iii) propose recommendations on load
management. Pased on this study which is expected to be completed by June
1987, the Government and the power entities would provide the Bank with an
action plan for reducing distribution system losses over the next five years.
30.      Electricity Consumption.  Electricity consumption has grown at an
average rate of about 19 percent per year since the early 1970s to about 1,770
GWh in 1985, or 709 kWh per capita, which is slightly higher than for similar
middle income countries. The growth rate declined slightly to about 1.5
percent between 1980 and 1985 due to the slowdown of the economy and is
forecast to grow at an annual average rate of about 10 percent between 1985
and 1990. Access to public electricity supply is now about 87 percent of the
total population; and rural electrification has expanded rapidly, with access
to public electricity supply increasing from about 25 percent of rural
population in 1975 to about 85 percent at present. In the next five years
access should reach about 100 percent of the urban and about 90 percent of the
rural population. Between 1990 and 1994, the growth of demand is expected to
average about 6 percent per year and about 5 percent thereafter.
31.      Power Pricing.  Electricity rates as of April 30, 1986 were on
average about 125 percent cf the economic cost of supply, based on an economic
cost for crude oil of $14.40 per barrel. The average electricity prices to
all consumers, with the exception of rural domestic consumers, are above their
respective economic costs. The average price to the rural domestic consumers
is about 90 percent of economic cost, while the average for the domestic
consumer category as a whole is 128 percent of economic cost. The tariff
structure consists of peak demand and time-of-day energy rates for bulk supply



- 10 -
to the distribution companies and large industries and for medium scale
industries, increasing block rates for domestic consumers and public
buildings, a flat energy rate for commercial consumers, a declining block rate
for small industrial consumers, and a fixed charge per month for domestic and
small industrial consumers. For industrial consumers, there is also a penalty
for poor power factor. In late 1984, electricity tariffs were changed by:
(i) the introduction of uniform tariff structures for the various consumer
categories throughout the country; and (ii) differential adjustments in
electricity rates which led to an average increase of about 8 percent in the
average revenue per kilowatt-hour sold to final consumers.
32.      While the tariff structure has been adjusted, it could still provide
greater incentives for industrial consumers and water pumping and heating
operations to shift part of their electricity demand to off-peak periods. An
energy pricing study is being undertaken by the Government, with financing
from USAID, which will review the economic cost of supply and design tariffs
for the various consumer categories, taking into consideration economic
efficiency in consumption, financial viability of the power entities and the
Government's social objectives. Terms of reference for the study are being
finalized with Bank assistance; and the Government and the Bank would exchange
views on the results of the study, expected to be completed by December 31,
1987, and on the steps to be taken to implement its recommendations.
33.      Experience with Past Lending.  The proposed loan would be the seventh
Bank Group lending operation in the energy sector. The first two, Credit
386-JO (1973) for $10 million and Credit 570-JO (1975) for $5 million, with
cofinancing from the Kuwait and Arab Funds, were designed to support
government efforts to expand the development of Jordan's power generation
capacity by financing three steam power units and a gas turbine at the HTPS,
the reconditioning of the Marka diesel power station, and a study to plan the
development of transmission and distribution grids in the southern region.
The steam units and diesel station are operating satisfactorily.   Loan
1688-JO (1979) of $15 million financed the development of the national
transmission network and the extension of public supply of electricity to 33
villages in the areas served by JEA. The combined Project Completion Report
(PCR) for the two credits (June 1982) and the PCR for Loan 1688-JO note that
the projects fully accomplished, and in some respects exceeded, their
objectives. Loan 1986--JO (1981) of $25 million covered parts of the
development programs of JEA and JEPCO for the period 1981-1984. The project
has been satisfactorily completed, and a PCR is being prepared. Loan 2162-JO
(1982) for $35 million, with cofinancing from a number of bilateral and
multilateral institutions, assisted JEA in covering the foreign exchange cost
of a new thermal power station at Aqaba with a total cost of about $250
million. The implementation of the project is proceeding with only minor
delays.
34.      Finally, the Energy Development Project (Loan 2371-JO (1984) of US$30
million) with cofinancing from USAID and EEC was designed to support the
Government's implementation of the action plan for the sector. It covered the
foreign exchange cost of parts of the development programs of JEPCO's and
IDECO's power distribution system, as well as assistance to the Government in
petroleum exploration, energy conservation and planning, with the objective of
improving Jordan's overall energy efficiency. After a delay in meeting the
effectiveness conditions, implementation of the project is now proceeding
satisfactorily.



- 11 
35.      Rationale for Bank Involvement.  Bank Group operations in the power
subsector have been designed to support the development of a rapidly expanding
and modern power system. The major objectives of these operations are the
institutional development of the power entities, introduction of a pricing
policy that would ensure their financial viability and economic efficiency in
electrical consumption and the progressive interconnection of the power system
to provide reliable and economic power supply. IDA/Bank lending has also been
an important catalyst to attract other external financing for the energy
sector. Finally, the Bank's sector work has been instrumental in helping the
Government develop a comprehensive strategy for the energy sector, including
the power subsector. While, as discussed above, significant progress has been
made in all these areas, more remains to be done in generating and
distributing electricity to keep up with forecasted demand and in electrifying
rural areas. During a period in which growth of electricity demand is
expected to be less robust than in the past, it becomes more important than
ever to focus on those aspects which increase efficiency in the subsector.
Thus, through our lending operations, our objectives in the subsector are to
assist the power utilities to increase their financial autonomy and operating
efficiency (through introducing new technologies for the distribution network
and reducing power losses); and to improve power system planning and
coordination of demand forecasting, investment planning, accounting, reporting
and management information systems. The proposed project would enable the
Bank to continue and expand its efforts towards achieving the above
objectives, while building on the achievements under the previous loans and
the Energy Sector Study.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.      The proposed project was identified in August 1984 and appraised in
October 1985. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. April 21-25, 1986.
The Jordanian delegation was headed by Mr. M.S. Arafah, Director General of
the Jordan Electricity Authority. A Staff Appraisal report entitled "Jordan
Sixth Power Project" (No. 6075-JO), dated May 5, 1986, is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. The main features of the loan and
project are given in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III. A map
showing the project sites is attached.
37.      Proiect Obiectives and Description.  The main objectives of the
project are to assist the Government in: (i) improving the efficiency with
which energy is supplied by expanding electricity supply from the grid in
order to substitute for petroleum products, mainly kerosene for lighting and
diesel fuel for isolated power generation, thus saving valuable foreign
exchange; (ii) implementing some major investments that would contribute to
the improvement of Jordan's power syscem efficiency; and (iii) continuing the
institutional development in the power subsector, initiated under the previous
loans, by providing assistance in introducing new technologies, reducing
system losses and improving the power entities' management, planning and
forecasting capabilities.
38.      The project is part of the Government's high priority 1986-1990
national least-cost program for the power subsector. It includes:
(i) rehabilitation and extension of the urban distribution network in JEPCO's
and IDECO's concession areas with the supply, construction and erection of
about 1200 km of medium- and low-voltage lines, about 180 MVA of power and
distribution transformer capacity, and three-phase and single-phase consumer



- 12 -
connections; (ii) electrification of about 95 villages (35 in JEA's area, 45
in JEPCO's and 15 in IDECO's), with the supply, construction and erection of
about 510 km of medium- and low-voltage lines and about 6 MVA of distribution
transformer capacity and single-phase consumer connections; (iii) supply of
computer hardware and software and equipment and tools for operation and
maintenance with specialized hot line work equipment and associated training;
(iv) consulting services to assist JEPCO and IDECO in project engineering and
construction supervision (390 staff months); (v) consulting services to assist
the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources (MEMR) in undertaking a
diagnostic study of the existing power distribution system in Jordan with the
objective of defining measures to improve its operational and technical
efficiency (40 staff months); and (vi) consulting services (70 staff months)
and equipment to help JEPCO implement the recommendations of the management
information system study (para. 27).   The consulting services under (vi)
above would provide for the services of experts to assist JEPCO in undertaking
specific studies to cover: (i) its organizational structure with definition
of functional responsibilities, job analysis and description, staffing needs
and an action plan for implementing the recommendations; (ii) review and
development of formal consumer services procedures with the introduction of
up-to-date techniques for customer information systems to improve the
capability to respond rapidly to inquiries and complaints; and (iii) review
and development of a modern materials management system. The experts would
also assist JEPCO in implementing the recommendations of the studies. Terms
of Reference for the Diagnostic Study and the JEPCO studies have been reviewed
by the Bank and are satisfactory.
39.      Project Cost and Financing Plan.  The total cost of the project,
including physical and price contingencies but excluding interest during
construction, is estimated at about $71.7 million, of which $48.0 million (67
percent) is foreign exchange. Cost estimates do not include custom duties and
taxes, from which the power entities are exempt. Estimates are based on
anticipated January 1986 prices derived from detailed data provided by the
power entities and discussed with the Bank and quotations received recently
for equipment, materials and services similar to those included in the
proposed project. Given the advanced stage of design and the routine nature
of most of the project components, total physical contingencies are estimated
at about 7 percent of the base cost. Price contingencies have been computed
as follows: for international prices, 7.2 percent for 1986, 6.8 percent for
1987-1988, 7 percent for 1989; 7.1 percent for 1990 and 4 percent thereafter;
and for local prices, 5 percent for 1986 and 7 percent thereafter.
40.      The proposed Bank loan of $27.5 million would cover about 57 percent
of the foreign exchange requirements and 38 percent of the total cost of the
project. The balance would be financed by the power entities' internal cash
generation and customer contributions and a small contribution from the
Government for the diagnostic study. The proposed Bank loan would be made to
the Government for 15 years, including a three-year grace period. The
Government would onlend $27.15 million of the proposed loan on the same terms
and conditions to JEA ($3.15 million), JEPCO ($20.0 million) and IDECO ($4.0
million), under subsidiary loan agreements satisfactory to the Bank, the
execution of which would be a condition of effectiveness. The power entities
would bear the foreign exchange and variable interest rate risks. The
remaining $0.35 million would be retained by the Government for use by the
MEMR for the diagnostic study of the power distribution system.



- 13 -
41.      Procurement and Disbursements.  Procurement arrangements are
summarized below:
Procurement Method
Project Components                       ICB       LCB      Other      Total
--US$ millio    i
Power Distribution Equipment and         35.17
Materials (15 contract packages)        (20.69)
Autoreclosers and Hot Line Work                               1.79 b/
Equipment (5 contract packages)                              (1.79)
Diesel Units a/                                               0.30
(-)
Installation/Erection Works               4.11    22.64
(4 contract packages)                    (1.72)      (-)
Diagnostic Study                                              0.50
(0.35)
Engineering Services                                          4.99
(1.35)
Management Information System                                 2.15
(Expert services and equipment)                              (1.60)
TOTAL PROJECT COST                 39.28    22.64       9.73      71.65
(22.41)     (-)      (5.09)   (27.50)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank.
a/ Available in JEA's warehouses.
b/ Limited International Bidding.
The goods and services to be procured have been grouped into 6, 12 and 9
packages for the JEA, JEPCO and IDECO components, respectively. All items to
be financed by the Bank would be procured in accordance with the Bank's
procurement guidelines. For equipment to be procured under International
Competitive Bidding (ICB), local suppliers would be allowed a margin of
preference equal to the existing rate of custom duty applicable to nonexempt
importers or 15 percent of the c.i.f. price of such goods, whichever is
lower. As there are limited number of manufacturers for the specialized
equipment such as autoreclosing circuit breakers and hot line work equipment
and the relative amounts involved are small, procurement would be through
Limited International Bidding. Local procurement procedures have been
reviewed and found acceptable to the Bank. All contracts for works and
equipment and materials to be financed by the Bank costing over $250,000 each
would be subject to prior Bank review. Consultants would be selected in
accordance with Bank guidelines.
42.      The proposed loan would be disbursed over a five year period as
follows: (i) 100 percent of the foreign expenditures of directly imported
equipment and materials or 100 percent of the local ex-factory cost of goods



- 14 -
manufactured in Jordan; (ii) 45 percent of total cost of contracts procured
through ICB procedures for installation and erection works; and (iii) 85
percent of local expenditures and 100 percent of foreign expenditures for
consultants for JEPCO's components and for the diagnostic study. The
estimated disbursement schedule in the Loan and Project Summary is somewhat
shorter than the standard disbursement profile for similar projects, which is
seven years on average. This is in recognition of the fact that the project
entities are good performers, previous experience in project execution has
been very good, project preparation is quite advanced, and the project itself
is straight-forward. In order to expedite disbursements, a Special Account
(revolving fund) of $2.0 million, equivalent to an average of about four
months disbursements, would be opened by the Government and replenished on the
basis of standard documentation for eligible reimbursable expenditures.
Disbursements for contracts below $50,000 equivalent would be claimed under
statement of expenditures, documentation of which would be retained for review
by Bank missions. The loan closing date would be June 30, 1991.
43.      In order to assist JEPCO in crucial preparation activities and the
MEMR in undertaking the diagnostic study of the power distribution system,
retroactive financing of up to $300,000 is proposed for costs incurred after
December 1, 1985, for consultants, recruited in accordance with Bank
guidelines.
Project Implementation
44.      The proposed project would be implemented by JEA, JEPCO, IDECO and
the MEMR for the diagnostic study.   Implementation of the proposed project,
which is part of the extension and reinforcement of the existing electricity
distribution system, is within the capabilities of the entities whose
engineering departments are well-staffed. Consultants are included under the
project to assist JEPCO and IDECO in some specific tasks related to the
preparation of bidding documents, evaluation of bids and construction
supervision. With regard to JEA, it has the in-house capability to carry out
its relatively small component of the project.   JEPCO and IDECO are expected
to maintain the same firms for these tasks as those undertaking the
engineering design, whose performances have been satisfactory to all concerned.
45.      JEPCO's and IDECO's programs for the rehabilitation and expansion of
the urban distribution networks are based on studies carried out by their
staff with the assistance of consultants. The methodology and results of the
studies have been reviewed by the Bank and are satisfactory. With regard to
upgrading the network in Amnman, which started in 1982 with Bank assistance
(Loans 1986-JO and 2371-JO), the Bank has reviewed the scope of the remaining
work with JEPCO, and it has been agreed that JEPCO would provide the Bank by
December 31, 1986 with an action plan to ensure completion of this upgrading
operation by 1990. For the rural electrification component, the project
design constitutes the least-cost alternative for providing electricity
service to the villages concerned. The technical specifications of equipment
and materials to be used were reviewed by the Bank and are satisfactory.
'While consulting firms assisted both JEPCO and IDECO in the preliminary design
and preparation of the proposed project, it should be noted that previous Bank
assistance in manpower development enabled the staff of both companies to
substantially increase their participation. The preparation of detailed
design and tender documents for procurement of goods and services is underway
and expected to be completed by December 1986. Land requirements and



- 15 -
rights-of-way for the project components have been secured. Installation and
erection of the facilities covered under the proposed project would start in
September 1987 and are expected to be completed by December 1990. Upon
comfissioning, the facilities would be owned, operated and maintained by JEA,
JEPCO and IDECO.
46.      The project is expected to have no adverse effects on the environment
and in fact would have a positive impact by providing a cleaner and less
hazardous form of lighting through electricity than can be provided by
kerosene lamps.
Financial Performance of JEA. JEPCO and IDECO
47.      The combined power subsector's financial position, although
containing certain short-term weaknesses is generally satisfactory, and long
term projections indicate an improving financial position. Investments in
electric utility assets for JEA, JEPCO and IDECO as of December 31, 1985
amounted to about $600 million at book cost, of which about 69 percent had
been invested from 1982 through 1985. For 1986 through 1994, it is estimated
that an additional $o24 million will be invested. Despite this ambitious
program, the combined subsector obtained 32 percent of its total investments
from internal sources for 1982-1985; and projections indicate about 40 percent
of the 1986-1994 investments would be raised from internal sources. As
investments are very intensive in certain years and benefits are derived over
more than 30 years, the short-term yearly self-financing levels show wide
variations. For instance, the fall in self-financing levels in 1987-88
(discussed below) largely reflects the expiration of the grace period for
loans for the Aqaba Phase I project.
48.      Revenue Covenant.  The current revenue covenants for the three
entities, established under previous loans, require that the following
self-financing levels be achieved: for JEA, 25 percent in 1981 through 1983
and 35 percent in 1984 and thereafter; for JEPCO (after the payment of taxes
and dividends) 25 percent in 1982 and 1983 and 35 percent in 1984 and
thereafter; and for IDECO (after taxes and dividends) 20 percent for 1984
through 1988 and 30 percent in 1989 and thereafter. At the time these
covenants were formulated, the financial targets were considered attainable in
the light of the least-cost investment programs of JEA and JEPCO and the
projected average growth in the electricity demand of about 13 percent
annually from 1981 to 1995. However, due largely to the recent downturn in
the economy, prospects for future growth are less optimistic; an expected
average growth rate of only about 8.5 percent per year appears achievable over
the period 1985-1994.
49.      Thus, neither JEA nor JEPCO would be able to meet the self-financing
levels in the timeframe originally envisaged without further increases in
tariffs. JEA would not be able to meet the 35 percent level until 1989 and
JEPCO not until 1988. As electricity rates are currently above the economic
cost of supply (para. 31), the Government is reluctant to increase them over
the short-term only to meet the self-financing target of 35 percent and has
requested that the levels be lowered for these years. On the basis of
financial projections agreed with JEA and JEPCO and which assume improvements
in operational efficiency, the maximum self-financing level that JEA would
attain in 1986-1988 and JEPCO in 1986-87 under the prevailing circumstances
would be about 25-30 percent. These levels of internal cash generation,



- 16 -
however, would be adequate to covor the local components of JEA's and JEPCO's
investments after meeting operating expenses, debt service and payment of
dividends. Since the foreign exchange requirements of on-going projects have
already been secured, and the financial position of JEA and JEPCO would remain
sound with the lower self-financing levels, these lower levels are
acceptable. It has been agreed that the Government and JEA and JEPCO shall
take all measures required to enable JEA and JEPCO to maintain a
self-financing ratio of at least 25 percent (after taxes and dividcad payments
in the case of JEPCO) for 1986 and 1987, 30 percent for 1988 and 35 percent in
1989 and each year thereafter, computed on the average capital expendituares
for electricity operations for the current and preceding year.
50.      With regard to IDECO, the self-financing level of 20 percent for
1984-88 and 30 percent thereafter, agreed under the previous loan, is
reasonable considering the rather large investment required to achieve the
Government's plan for electrifying the villages and towns in the Irbid area
and rehabilitating the existing network. It has been agreed to repeat the
existing covenant under the proposed loan.
51.      Due to the financially sensitive effects of fuel prices, exchange
rates, operating expenses and costs involved in construction, the financial
projections should be kept under annual review. Thus it was also agreed that
the Government and the three entities should review, at least three months
before the end of each fiscal year, the adequacy of revenues to produce, on
the basis of a forecast, satisfactory to the Bank, the agreed self-financing
level for the following year; and on the basis of the above review, take the
measures required to achieve the agreed self-financing levels. This review
would pay particular attention, in the case of IDECO, to financial weaknesses
stemming from IDECO's provision of services to rural areas (para. 54).
52.      JEA's past financial performance has been generally satisfactory,
although the economic slow-down and the corresponding decline in electricity
sales as well as the energy conservation program are reflected in reduced
revenues. JEA's self-financing level, which was 42 percent in 1983 (including
a fuel subsidy which JEA had been receiving from the Government) and 29
percent in 1984 (without the fuel subsidy which was removed in 1984), is
projected to be 22 percent in 1985, thus falling somewhat short of the
covenanted level (para. 48). Despite the economic slowdown and resulting
decline in the growth of sales (estimated at about 8.5 percent annually during
1986-1994), JEA's financial position though 1994, assuming no tariff increases
or government fuel subsidy, is expected to be satisfactory, provided JEA
continues its program to maximize efficiency and control wages, salaries and
administrative expenses. It would meet all of its annual operating expenses
and debt service, and provide a self-financing level of 46 percent of its
large long-term investment program. JEA's debt service coverage is expected
to average about 1.5 during 1986-1994. Under Loan 1986-JO, JEA agreed to
obtain the Bank's prior approval for any new long-term borrowings unless the
net revenue for each year during the term of the debt (before depreciation and
interest) was at least equal to 1.5 times the projected debt service
requirement for such years on all its debts. In order to provide JEA the
flexibility to raise the funds required for its planned construction program
in a timely fashion, it has been agreed that JEA would not incur any debt in
any one year over the equivalent of $1.0 million without prior Bank approval
if its debt service coverage would be less than 1.5.



- 17 -
53.      JEPCO's past financial perfornman:e has been generally satisfactory,
although its sales and revenues were also affected by the economic slow down.
JEPCO's self-financing levels were 29 percent in 1983, 47 percent in 1984 and
expected to be about 34 percent in 1985. JEPCO's financial performance in
1986-1994 is expected to be satisfactory. JEPCO would provide about 50
percent of its 1986-1994 construction requirements from internal sources, and
its debt service coverage during this period would average 1.3. As with JEA,
it has been agreed that JEPCO would not incur any debt over $1 million in any
one year without prior Bank approval if its debt service coverage would be
less than 1.5.
54.      IDECO's financial performance has been generally satisfactory.  Its
self-financing levels have been 30 percent in 1982, 75 percent in 1983, and 31
percent in 1984 due to a rescheduling of a major portion of its long-term
debt, not paying dividends in 1983 and reducing its construction program by 35
percent. With the subsidy granted to offset the effects of the recent tariff
modifications (discussed below), internal sources are projected to provide
about 52 percent of IDECO's construction requirements for 1986-1994. Because
so much of IDECO's service is to rural areas, the tariff actions taken by the
Government in December 1984 (para. 31) reduced IDECO's average tariff by 10
percent per kWh, while the price of electricity purchased from JEA per kWh
increased by 15 percent. To offset this loss of revenues to IDECO, a rural
subsidy from JEA was established. The Government, in the context of the
annual review of the self-financing levels, would continue to take the
necessary measures to offset IDECO's financial losses for rural
electrification (para. 51). IDECO on its part would continue its program to
improve efficiency and control costs. Provided that IDECO gets the required
subsidies, or other measures are taken sufficent to meet its revenue
requirements for 1986-1994, IDECO's financial performance would be
satisfactory and its debt service coverage would average about 1.3 for
1986-1994. Due to IDECO's rather high debt/equity ratio and low debt service
coverage, it was agreed that IDECO would not incur any debt without prior Bank
approval if its debt service coverage would be less than 1.5.
Reporting, Accounting, Billing and Audit
55.      The accounting systems of JEA, JEPCO and IDECO are all adequate, and
a committee of representatives of the three entities is reviewing measures to
unify the three accounting systems. JEA maintains a uniform system of
accounts, which has worked well but been in operation for some time. In view
of JEA's significant growth in recent years, consultants are currently
reviewing the adequacy of its accounting system and the computer requirements
for the future. Implementation of JEPCO's new accounting system and training
of accounting staff are underway with the assistance of consultants provided
under Loan 1986-JO. With regard to JDECO, consultants included under the
Energy Development Project outlined a plan to strengthen the company's
capabilities in financial planning, management and control; and some
recommendations regarding meter reading, billing and collections are already
being implemented. Recommendations regarding accounting and financial control
are being reviewed, and a new accounting system, conforming to those used by
JEA and JEPCO, is expected to be in place by January 1987. As of September
1985, JEA's, JEPCO's and IDECO's accounts receivable were equivalent to 45, 69
and 52 days' billings, respectively. JEA's receivables are within acceptable
limits, and JEPCO's represent a reduction from 96 days in 1984. In the case
of IDECO, difficulties were due to arrears mainly from supplying electricity



- 18 -
for water pumping. Measures are now being taken to collect the arrears, and
agreement has been reached that all necessary actions will be taken to ensure
that the entities' accounts receivable do not exceed 45 days' billings.
56.      Existing auditing arrangements are generally satisfactory; and JEA,
JEPCO and IDECO have appointed independent auditors, satisfactory to the
Bank. Audit reports have been submitted as agreed within five months of the
end of the year. The three entities have agreed to continue the existing
auditing arrangements, with the addition of satisfactory arrangements to audit
the Special Account and statements of expenditures. Finally, the
comprehensive set of key indicators, agreed under previous loans, has been
satisfactory for purposes of monitoring the technical and financial
performance of the three entities and would be continued for the proposed
project.
Proiect Benefits and Risks
57.      The proposed project is part of the Government's high priority five
year prSgrasn for the power subsector. It would continue the Government's
rural electrification program, which represents the least-cost means of
extending electricity service to the beneficiaries. Its rural components
would involve the electrification of 95 villages and initially extend public
electricity supply to about 4,200 new rural consumers. The urban
rehabilitation and extension components would provide about 73,000 existing
urban consumers with an improvement in the quality of service that has been
characterized by frequent outages and brown-outs and would initially connect
about 28,000 new urban consumers.
58.      The benefits accruing from the project would be substantial but are
difficult tc quantify.  In assessing these benefits, improvements in the
quality of life and bringing electricity to rural areas for the first time are
important factors. However, using revenues from electricity tariffs and
customers' contributions and fuel savings to the economy as proxies of the
benefits accruing from this project, rate of return (ROR) estimates were made
for each project component, as well as for the total project, and the ROR for
the total project is estimated at about 13 percent. The ROR underestimates
the economic rate of return on the project, since other unquantifiable
benefits such as the higher quality of electric lighting over kerosene
lighting, the greater convenience of household electric appliances and
improved service (reliability, stable voltage, etc.) were not taken into
consideration in the evaluation of project benefits. In addition, the urban
rehabilitation component involves the replacement and standardization of
equipment, the benefit of which is not fully captured. However, the total
project is justified, since the ROR is above the opportunity cost of capital
to Jordan.
59.      Finally, the project would continue the Bank's assistance to Jordan
in strengthening sector institutions started under the previous loans. This
assistance would be in introducing new technologies, reducing system losses
and improving the power entities' management, planning and forecasting
capabilities.
60.      There are no major risks associated with the proposed project.
However, there is some uncertainty surrounding likely JEA electricity sales.



- 19 -
A sensitivity analysis with a 10 percent reduction in sales indicates that JEA
would incur net operating income losses.  However, the revenue
(para. 49), which requires that the Government take action to etur4e the
financial viability of JEA, would offset the risk.
PART V  -  RECOMMENDATION
61.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 6, 1986
Washington D.C.



ANNEX I
-20 -                                     Page I of 7
PACE I
JOIDAN                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SUllT
JORDANI                            UERENIOR CIOUPS (WIGHTD AVRAS) fa
NM                      (MosT Rs       usfITIMAY) lb    -
sul   SRNY              MInDDLK INCOmE         NinDa INCOMC
i19wLb     197C   R sItTE&it     H. AFrICA & KID EAST    LAT. AMEICA  CAR
a  (nAn. sq. Do
TOTAL                             97.7        97.7       97.7
AGRICULTURAL                       12.0       14.0       14.8
0W FPR CAPITA CUSS)                   ..          ..       1640.0 Ic         1134.9                  1875.9
1cY COesWxIO  PER C: -:&
(KILOGRAMS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)     127.0      211.0      706.0             623.9                    993.1
POPULATION AMD VITaL STIMICS
FOPULATION.HID-YEAA (RTHUSANDS)   1195.0    2299.0     3247.0 Id
URBAN POPULATION (I OF TOTAL)     42.7        50.5       71.6              49.0                     17.7
POPULATION PROECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (nILL)                          1.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (HILL)                           17.0
POPULATILON MUHENTrM                                    2.0
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      17.3       23.5       33.2              37.8                     48.0
PER SQ. KM. ARI. LAND           141.4      164.2      203.9             470.1                     91.t
POPULATION AGE STRUCIURE (X.
0-14 YRS                        64.4       45.8       46.7              41.5                     38.5
15-64 TYES                      51.4        51.0       46.4              53.0                     57.1
65 AND ABOVCE                    A.          3.1        2.8               3.3                      4.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE CR)
TOTAL                             3.1        3.0        2.7               2A.                      2.4
URBAN                             5.2        4.7        4.0               4.4                      3.6
CRUDE BliTH RATE (PER THOUS)      47.4        47.6       45.0              *0.0                     30.9
C     RUD DATH RATE (PER TKOUS)    19.9       15.5        6.0              11.5                      3.0
CROSS REPOROUCrION RtArE           3.5         3.5        3.6               2.8                      2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPrORS. ANNUAL (TNDUS)         ..
USERS (C OF MARRIED OIN)          ..        22.0  .    26.0              21.4                     45.3
INHX OF FOOD PtOD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                    Z20.0        79.0       71.0              95.1                    109.6
PElt CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (C OF REQUIREMENTS)    96.0        97.0       131.0             113.2                   113.2
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)        62.0        60.0        1.0              77.8                     69.4
OF VIlQI ANIMAL AND PULSE       15.0       15.0       16.0 If            17."                    34.2
CHILD CAGES 1-4) DEATH RATE       22.9        15.'        5.0              12.8                      4.8
LIFE EXPECT. AT SEINrH (YEARS)    46.9        54.1       64.0              57.8                     64.8
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER TROUS)    135.5        97.5       62.0              96.8                     59.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (CPOP)
TOTAL                           21.3         ..        60.0              67.2                     65.3
URBAN                           48.6         ..        100.0             93.4                     76.5
RURAL                            2.1         *-        65.0              45.8                     44.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
CZ OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..         ..        73.0              45.9                     56.3
URBAN                             *-         *-        94.04             63.0                     73.4
RURAL                             ..         ..        34.04a            28.6                     25.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        5800.D      3780.0      900.0 /c         4331.0                   1909.7
POP. PER NURSING PERSON          1930.0 /h  1480.0     1990.0 7;         1645.0                    808.2
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           560.0     1350.0      520.0 /c          621.6                    362.0
URBAN                           390.0 lb  1120.0      680.0 7F          545.0                    422.0
RURAL                            ..       5460.0        ..             2511.3                   2716.7
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..        36.5       45.7 If           25.7                     27.5
iOSLIC
AVERASE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                            5.3         6.1        6.7 /c.i
URBAN                             5.5        ..
RURAL                            5.1         ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONSIROOG
TOTAL                             ..         ..         6.5 /ic.
URSAN                             ..         ..
IIURAL                           .            ..                           ..
PERCENTAGE OF DWELLINGS WITl ELECT.
TOTAL                            17.0        ..        66.0 7 .i
URBAN                           39.2         ..        90.0   f
RURAL                            1.6         ..        30.0 I1



-21 -                                          ANNEX I
Page 2 of 7.
tAUt 2
JORDAN                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHVET
JORDAN                               RFSINCa nOUFS tWcOrcwmn AVERAGES) la
6ST                     (St0Sl RCCINT CSTDIATE) lb
RCGNT SI DDL. tINCe.                     IUDIlLE INCHES
196Dz k    197nhb  SSTDtTUL       N. AfRICA 4I Ie.AST       LAT. AritICA & CAL
ADJUSTED ENROLIJCNT RATIWS
PFIWACI I  TOTA                   77.0        72.10      103.0 IC            19.8                     106.7
KALE                   94.0        7q.0       103.0 le           103.7                     108.5
FmacLE                 59.0        65.0        0o.0 7             7 .2                     104.t
SRCONDAIYT TUTAL                  25.0        33.U        77.0 /c            42.9                     44.2
KALE                   36.0        41.0        79.0 7W-           5U.9                      42.7
FOULS                  13.0        24.0        76.0 77            34.6                     44.9
VOCATIONAL (S or SEOUMAIRY)          2.7         3.0         6.9 Ic            10.0                      13.3
PUPIL-TAOCER. RATIO
FKINAW                            34.0        39.0        32.0 Ic            29.7                      X9.9
SECONDAlY                         20.0        23.0        2L.0 7c            18.8                     16.7
lIoTu
PASSENER CANITHOUSAND POP            3.7         6.7        30.7 /1            17.8                     46.U
L4DIO RECUIVURS/TOUSAND POr         37.8       160.9       174.3              175.9                    32H.3
TV SCEIVERS/TKOUSAND POP             ..         20.0        64.0               51.2                     112.4
NEWSPAPER ("0At1. GENEIUL
INERST") CIRCULATION
PER TgOUSNAID POPULATION           Ih.3        24.4        54.4               37.2                      61.1
CINA ANNUAL AITENDANCE/LQPITA        3.2        '2.9         5.3 IA             2.4                      2.4
trn  PCnC
TOTAL LAUR FORCE (mTOUS)           432.0       569.0       720.0
iDEAL (PERCENT)                    5.0         5.6         6.9               11.0                     23.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             44.0        34.0        20.0 ft            42.4                      31.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                26.0         9.0        20.0I              27.9                     24.3
PARTICIPATION UTM (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             25.5        24.7        22.2               26.2                      33.5
IALE                              46.7        45.5        39.8               46.2                     51.3
FOUL!                              2.7         2.b         3.1                5.8                      15.9
ECO-O- C DEPENDENCY RATIO            1.9         2.0         2.3                1.8                      1.3
-  DIMRIMIS
PERCENT OF PRIVATE ItOGE
RECEtIVO BY
HIGHEST 52 OF dOlSEOLDS
HICHEST 201 OF HOUSEHOLDS
L0WZST 201 OF KOUSEHOLOS
LOWEST 402OF HOUSEHOLDS            ..
vaun TAts GOUPS
rsTmuTED A3SOLUTE POVERTY INCIE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URNL41                                                   230.0 /f           226.3                     288. 3
RUL                                                      100.0 7T           134.0                    185.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBN                                                     206.0 /f           431.5                     519.8
UJXAL                                                    135.0 /f           326.0                    359.7
ESTDIATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERY INCOME LEV1EL C.)
URIW                                                      14.0 /l
UIRAL                              .                      17.0 it            29.0
NOT AVAILAILE
NOT APPLICABLE
NO T E S
/a  The grasp averues for each indicator arm populatiorwighted aritlmetic nmanf.  Coverage of countrien
song the indicators dapends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unlear otherwise notcd, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and I9bl; "Oata for 197" beauen
1969 and 1971; and data for "Host Recent Estisat" bateun 1981 and 1983.
/c  East lank only;  Id 1983 East lank population is 2.5 tilUon;  l. 1972; /f 1977; /g 1980; lh 1962;
/i 1979.
JUNE. 1985



- Y2 -                                   ANNEX I
Page 3 of 7
DEFINNIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notec Although thede aremdrwn fsouresgnerailyjudpd the most authoritative and reliabl it shoul also be noted thai they may not be internationally
comparable beause of the lack of tandanrdised deEftiomu sd concpts ud by different countries in colleting the data. The dat are nonethelks uaeul to
decrie orders of atude indicate trend and charcrize etain major di   between countries
The refmnce groups are (I) the -e country goup of the ubject utry and (2) a country group with somwhat higher avege icome 'han the country
group othe subjet country (except for 'High Inome Oil Exportces group where"Middle Income North Arrica and Middle East ischowen becaus of stronger
soc-uladtura Eflinities). In the refence group dats the ecroage are population weighted aritbhnetic means for each indicator and howsn only when majority
orthe countries ina group ha data for that indicator. Sine the coseag ofcountries among the indiatamrdepends on the availability ofrdta nd isnot uniform.
caution must be exercised in ting averag ofatone indicator to anoter Thebe aerp are only useful in catapanng the value ofone indictor at a timen aong
the country and reference groups.
AREA (thousand sq.kmn.)                                        Crue $ih Nate (per t:housd-Number of li ve births in the ycar
Total-Total surface are comprising land area and inland waters;  per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                      Crude Dea Rate (per thousandj-Number of deaths in the year
Agr:iEftul-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or   per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops. pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to  Gross Repwodrion Rate-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                          will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates: usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current       in 1960. 1970, and 1983.
market prices, calulated by same conversion method as World     ,,  Pha.siV-Aceprs, Amal (rhoumadrl-Annual num-
Bank Atlas (198143 basis); 1953 data.                         hberofacceptors ofbirth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                  family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite,    FeryfPlaUi-User (percentofemaredswneors-The percen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal deec-  tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form ofcon traception. Women
1982 data.                                                     of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                groups.
Total Pups  a_, Mid-Year (rthusands)-As of July 1; 1960. 1970.  FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data.
Urba  Poplatin (prcen of otal-Rato ofurba  to    Indx of Food Pmdrodion Per Capia (I 969- 71 = 100)- Index of per
Urban Po         pdifferet defi-Ratio O f urban  to  total     capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population;aiamontdeounties;           maya 1983cdata          excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countrie  1960. 1970. and 1983 data.     include primary comnodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
APoplaion Prcrn                                                which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. cffee and tea are
Population in year 20W-The projection of population for 2000.  exluded); they comprise cereals. root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on  vegetables, fruits. nuts. sugarcane and sugar beets. livestock. and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates. mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
inernational migration in the base year 1980. thcse parameters  on national average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.            Per Caa Spply of Calries (per ofrequireasears)-Comput-
Stationarv populanon-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from caloric equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long perod, while age-specific  per capita per day. Availabk supplies comprisc domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net teproduction rate= 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exdude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also  food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constanL and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature, body weights,
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replawcment kvel.                                      waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Poptdation Monsenmaan-ls the tendency for population growth to  Per Capta Spply of Proeinr (rans per dy)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replaceinent-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is, even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is mcasured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which I0 grams
the year *. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.arc lower than those of
ment level from year t onward, 1985 data.                      75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
-p        D ey                                                 average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqkcm.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-  Supply. 1961, 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.               Per Capita Protein Supply oes Anima and PohIe-Protein supply
Per sqkcn. agriulnrwa land-Computed as above for agricultural  of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day; 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                           1970 and 1977 data.
PoplAtdn Age Snare (perceas)-Children (0-14 years), work-    COd (ages I-4J Death Rate (perkrousandj-Number ofdeaths of
ingage(15-64years).andretired(65yearsandover)aspercentage      children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.             group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Popuaton Groerh Rae (pereen)rI-totea-Annual growth rates of    from life tables; 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.   HEAL2H
P!paato Growth Rare (percent)-rbAn--Annual growth rates        Life Expectancy at Bith (years)-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.    infant would live if prevailing patters of mortality for all people



ANNEX I
- 23 -                                      Page 4 of 7
at the time of of its birth were to smy the same throughout its life;  Pui-teacher Rato - prbhoy. and secondary-Total students en-
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                    rotled in primary and seconday lewis divided by number of
1s a Mortalt Rate (per thousaa)-Number of infants who die    teahe  in the corresponng levels
before reaching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
year, 1960. 1970 and 1913 dati.                              CONWSMfl1ON
Acm  to S*  Watr (parcent Of pePdnaa-t0u4 erb ae,d           Pbsseager Gus (per dhurst ppawklej-Naseager can corn-
teal-Number of people (total, urban, and runt) inth resonable  prime motor car mating ls than eight persoui; exludes anbul-
a s to safe water wpply (includes trated surface wate  or    ancs, heas and niliutry vehicles.
untreated but uncontaminated water sucb a; that from proectt  Ami  Receve (per ths.i-popullli-All typs of recivm
borehoks. springs and ssutary weDls) - percentap of %hir respec-  for radio broadcts to genea public per thousand of populadon;
ive populations. In an urban ara a publc founam or standpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countrie, and in years when
located not more than 2;O meers from a hour may be oindetd   registration of radio wts was in effcmt data for rencnt yea  amy
as being within reasonabk access or that house. In rual areas  wt be comp tabl fince most cowries aboli liiog
reasonable acc  would imply that the houswife or mmbn of the
houslbold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  TVRriSftir(per tubspIik-TV receivers for broadcat
in fetching the fanmily's water needs.                       to general public per tousand population; excudes unlicnd TV
in fetchig tsel family's waterneeds.countr                                       d in coun   in yuars wmhen rgisaution of TV wnsets
Access to Excete DIWspoa (percent of populatiau)-to4ml mien,  inefc
and rara-Number of peopk (total urban, and rural) sarved by
excreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Afrawuer GCncal.. (per diheisadpepubti)-Shows th aver-
Excreta disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or  age ciulation of 'daily gna  interest newspaper," defined as a
without treatment, o' human eacreta and waste-water by water-  periodical pubcabtion devoted primarily to recording gena news
borne systems or the use of pit privies and sinilar installations.  It is considered to be daily" if it appea  at lest four tinme a wck.
Pbpalon per Physicin-Population divided by number of prac-   CAn Antd AltendAce per Ciaa per Year-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university level  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Popula on per Nwsing Perso-Population divided by number of  drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses, assistant nurses,
practical nurxs and nursing auxiliaries.                         OR FORCE
Rhlte  per HopWal Bed-tot4alek, an, rarl-Populaticn           Tot Labor Fore (rthbasds)-Economically active persona, in-
(total, urban, and rural) divided by their rspective number of  duding armed forces and unemployed but exduding housewives,
hospital beds available in public and pinvate, general and speiized  students, etc., covering population of all ages Definitions in
hospitals and rehabiitation centers. Hospitals are eslabjshmnts  anous countias am not comparable: 1960, 1970 and 1933 data.
peanenutly staffed by at least one physician. Establishmcnts prov-    PFesl (pervee-Female labor forec as percentage of totl labor
iding principaly custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals,  force.
however, includ: health and medical onters not permanntdy staffed  Apicabar (pjrcfft)-Labor forcn in firming. forestry, hunting
by a physian (but by a medical assistant nurse, midwife, etc.)  and fishing as percntg of total labor force; 1960, 1970 and 1990
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a lmited range  data.
of medicai facilities.                                        Iuhstry (percentj-Labor force in mining, construction. manu-
Admi.sios per Hopital Be-Total number of admissions to or    facturing nd electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.     force; 1960, 1970 and 1980 data-
wa' Rtwe (per)_-we4la dfimb-ft icipation
HOUSING                                                      or activity rates are computed as totaL mnak and fmale labor foce
Av-ee Sze of Houehol (pers  per vousehol-tornal. elan,       as percentages of total, mal and female population of aD ages
andreal-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  rcspetivdy, 1960. 1970, and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
iiving quarters and their main mcals. A boarder or lodger may or  particpation ratesrefectingage-e suoctureofthe population, and
may 1- -t be induded in the household for statistical purposes  long time trend. A few estimtes are from national sources
Avraen   Nruer of Person per Room-toaal, mrbn, and real-     Economc Depedenwy Rai-Ratio of population under IS, and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rural   65 and over to the working age popuation (those aged 1564).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.               INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Percentage of Dweinp BK wit Elkrir--rotul, ean, mad real-    Plertge of Toer  Dispostleme (boeh i cash ad kind)'-
Conventional dwelings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by totad house-
tage of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively,      hold income.
ElIUCATION                                                   POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adjsed Enrolunt Ratios                                       The following estimates are very app,oximate measures of poverty
Primary school - total. male and femak-Gross total, male and  levels, and sbould be interprted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all ages at the primary level as prcentages of  EsthUedAbsOhISe Povety Incens Level rUSpr capita  rbe
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  ad real-Absolute poverty income level is that income levd
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years others do not. The  below which a mniumal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordablt
are refkcted in the ratios given. For some countries with univarsal  Esiued Relorty lacmw Itvd (USSCper _ail-wroa
education, gross enrollment mnay exeed 100 percent since somoe  and rel-Rural relative poverty income levd is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personad incomne of the country. Urban evel is
age,                                                         derived from the rural levd with adjustmet for higher cost of
Secondary shool - total, male and female-Compited as above;    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Estmaed Poani Betw Absolhre Pownwy Incom  Levd (per-
mary instruction; provides generaL vocational or teacher training  cenr)-arban - real- Percent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspond-  who are 'absolute poot"
ence courses are generily excluded.
Vocatonal Fnrlmeit (percent of secondsy)-Vocational institu-           Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical industriaL or other programs which operate   Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary insitutions.                            June 1985



- 24 -
._ 5 f 7
JuRwN - ECNaC uuDDA
Pqlulatim 2.6 miicim (1984) I/
CI per cmitas US$ 1,710 (1983 Y..&
I                 Ammmt                                           A_1 GLU    110
lndiator               (illim US at               Actl (at 1980 priam)                            Pft,lctd (at 1980 els)
awret prices)
1984             1979   1980   1981   1982   1983    19S.  1985 3J  196   187   198    199   1990
Goss din.tic pwe.ct       3,960               6.5   12.0   6.7    7.8   5.2       3.2    3.2      5.1    4.9   5.2    4.7    4.7
Agdrictue               289            -27.9   30.5    3.0    2.0   3.0       2.0    3.2      5.0   5.0    .0    5A    5o
kitry                 1,030             17.7   14.9   11.7    2.6  -0.1      5.8   4.1       6.2    5.6    6.6    5.0    4.9
swvioa                2,111              7.8   12.2   3.      8.0    2.0      3.0    3.5     4.5    4.6    4.6    4.6    4.6
Qtuatiom                  4,584              13.5  -2.1   14.5   9.0    6.1       O.6    2.2      4.1    4.8    5.2    4.0    4.3
IMe 1,274                                   14.0   25.8   33.4    2.9  -16.9   -7.0  -20         5.9   4.8    5.4    4.5    4.7
Exports GFS               1,847              20.4   24.4   13.0   0.8    4.5   -5.9    7.0        5.1    4.7   4.7    5.4    4.
7Wors of G1S              3,745             26.4   -1.7   19.0    6.8    2.9      7.6    2.0      4.2    4.6    5.0    4.2    4.2
tcse Netimal Pndhct       3,771              6.4   10.4    8.6    7.5    3.4      0.1    1.2      5.8    3.5   3.6    1.9    2.1
OP Deflator                             86.1  10D.0  11L.6  117.5  121.0   12.5  129.6    13ml
aldme  alto                              333   3.35   3.07   2.4   2.76    2.6    2.4         2J.
She of GE' at Marke Price CZ)                  I_g Aw1  iocaa
(at curnt prices)                          (at mt   pries
1975    198D    1985                   1980-5               198-90
osa nt_;t1' Pmobact                                  95.8   100.8  105.2                        53                   4.9
Ariasbu                                           8o      6.7    7.7                        2.6                  5.0
Ih-txy                                           24.0   29.0   27.6                        4.1                   5.7
Services                                         61.0   55.8   56.2                         4.0                  4.6
OM-_atim                                             124.5  110.0   120.6                       5.8                  4.5
CEO" 1nwat   t                                        27.3   41.6    32.0                      -2.0                  5.0
Exports of G5S                                        37.2   48.4    50.8                       2.7                  5.0
Ispot of GE'S                                        92.5   99.0    96.4                        33                   4.5
a"n timial P1 o.dt                                   100.0  100.0     0O                        3.9                  3.6
Net Factor lni                                        4.2   -0.8   -5.2                          -                    -
Ose htAod  Savin                                    -24.5  -10.0  -20.6
An Z of GNP
(at owznt prime)
1975       1980       1985
JMIC E~
ntic   1emes                       24.8        23.3      28.0
Oxzuf laxI1bes                     37.6       34.6       34.9
-- tmy Sw                         -12.8      -11.3       -69
Zits1 E i tudie                    23.6       23A        17.8
Foregm FPluing                     34.8       283        23.0
of ai"  foreip grace             30.0        20.9      11.5
1980-65    1985-90
OnER nmRSa
rasR(                             8.4        6.2
Swing Rate                     -07         -0.9
IIrt  aaticity                    0.6        0.9
1  East Bhlc oly.
I Preliinry estimate based on the revised eris of natinal acomats to be dimacaed with the tkw, ijaid, u        n itto
fur  long ter xeidete abad diat aze cmzndezs caital trnmsfer
3/ freLieinary estinte.
amn tCZ
May1906
&W Da



- 25 -
ANM I
Pme 6 of 7
JODN - eLWA  TUE
unt                                         Annual Q h Rates
blIator                (millim U$ at              PIctual (at 1910 pi)                                    Projected (at 1964 Pr-cs
wtwzt pces)
1964              1979   1980   1961   1962   1983   1984       1965,4/ 1986   1967   1988   1969  1990
hchudie qworts / 2/   679                   23.6   22.7   22.6    0.5   -5.6   49.8        1.1    8.6    4.1    4.3    6.3   4.5
Pd_ma.y  f             40.               21.1   16.7   13.7   27.0   10.9   31.0        9.      5.9    3.5    3.6    7.5   3.5
IMIfaus                 275              27.4   28.4   34.6  -29.9  -39.8  121.3       -5.8   1.3    4.7    4.9    5.1  5A
hrhauiie  inort 2        2,779              17.0   -21    20.3    7.3    5.7  -7.7         1.7    4.1    4.6    5.1    4.1   4.2
Food                   420                7.9    0.5   31.6   20.0  -16.8  -6.5         2.3    3.5    4.2    4.6    3.4   3.7
adP"Ia=                533               10.8    1.4   15.2   27.9  -0.4  -4.5          3.2    5.1    4.9    5.2    4.7   4.7
1lhnety and equit  421                   13.0   20.7   50.4    6.9  -21.4  *265        -1.6    4.6    4.4    4.7    4.3   4.3
Otltr                 1,405              27.0  -20.5  -14.    13.5   68.7    34         2.6    3.6    4.8    5.3    4.0   4.2
PRLM                                          ({19w )                                         (1m-I)
aport price im             -               84.2  100.0  114.7  125.   114.6  124.8        95.7  :02.6  109.5  119.7  131.0 143.2
liot prie iu               -               80.7  100.0  121.8  123.8  113.1  119.0        986   99.7  103.   110.0  117.2 125.1
Ti   of trade iuiex        -               104.   100.0   94.2  10.3  101.3  104.8        97.1  102.9  105.9  18.8  111.7 114.5
itimi of Merchanise &ade (Z)                          hm_1 Amial Qmth Isee
(at awint prize) 5/                               (St consat  P )
1979      191.    1959                            I_ __85       low_
SPOrSP1                                          100.0     100.0    100.0                              14.3          5.3
:iiY                                           57.6      59.5     47.1                              16.5          4.8
MUNAwtung                                      42.       40.5     52.9                              10.0           5.8
Jq2os                                            10D.0   100.0    10D.0                               3.0          4.5
Food                                           17.1      15.0      14.8                             -0.4           3.9
fotmlsa                                        12.6      19.1     20.0                               4.9          4.9
i4A&izft  ad euipe                             32.8      22.3      21.6                             -89            4.6
other                                          37.5      43.5     43.7                              15.4           4.5
Sare of htal Epxts (Z)                       S9ae of lbtal liorta (Z)
DUE=1G CI F 7_                                           1975       1983                              1975         1983
Omlpud miket    _                                       17.6        4.9                              (2.6        46.3
De_w1qiig idlmt ecniin                                   70.2       82.0                              29.2         46.5
of i&ich Ara countries                                 42.4       63.3                              19.8         43.6
(hltaUy plumed ecc_zi                                    12.2       13.1                               8.2         7.2
1/ E-ludirg re-exports.
i2  Total exports and imports am tur  fra lhe Ministry of PluD4's caticoal awomts in onstant 1980 prices. Appmpriate deflators (frm
RED  and CA, adjusted by the eb!a    t i- ex)  r used for pnmry eports, .i for food, oil, sod capital good. ixports; inaftuemd
eport mu! other imports m   teted a resid.1.
3/ IcudI food, ipboahe. and potash.
4J Predimnary estimts.
51 tblums my naot sdu  to li.                                                                                  E4 QCP-C
Aril 986
0185Sp4



- 26 -
AI= 
14e 7 of 7
W - BAN OF PAYs, MMUL CMP  ND aE s
*uilim' of U4 at cwest pri)
hcetu                                     Pzojected
1979  l960  1981L  192   1983  1964  1965  1986  1987  1968  1989   1990
prelim.
BALNCE OF PATI
zEts of 8ad  & swims1E89  2496  3144   318   30i   3187  3270  3538  3873  4275  4752 
Of SQick lrcb.Mise fob.    402   575   735    751   560   757   780   943  1050  1198  1390  1590
Warhn r       _it    6W0   794  1033  10X   1110  1237  1123  1144  I100  1258  1319  1364
hgoft of bods & senri        2872  3459  4491  4580  4243  4170  4200  4511   5001  5643  6325  70a3
Of idcl:  lerchidise fco.   1957  2398  3170  3239  306  2784  2761  2826  3150  3583  4012  4484
trier  tsmttes   80    154   158   177   201   254   280   294   306   315   323   330
Net tr fisfe                 1046  133B  1305  1060   813   714   600   600   60    600   60D   600
Grist auc     t blare          -7   374   -41  -336  -389  -269  -330  -373   -5    -768  -973  -M21
Priete diZectinvestmit         26    27    67    91    24    75    75    75    75    75    75    75
LTIoI (net)                   193   232   274    242   306   460   186   352   576   855  1069  L327
Official                    143   240   283   27    164   161   166   223   279   318   319   318
Privat                       50    -8    -9   -29   1b2   299    20   129   297   537   750D   I9
Otir cqiits                    20  -265  -256  -173    165  -431         0      -      -      -     -      -
am     in        s           -23   -369   -43    175   -06   165   166   -54   -3   -161  -171  -190
XnteStirm.1  seere           1215  1586  1503   1211  1075  1240  1074  1128  1250  1411  1581   1M
Of Wich. GId                   82   MO    198    194    00   200   7W    200   200   200   200   W00
Remerves  -   mt  of import  5.1   5.5   4.0   3.2   3.0   3.6   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0   3.0
SERNUL CAPEDL SD DS
Gros Diaburass                250   306   408   375   449   625   381
t    _osicmi Iow.           151   133   126   184   234   218   236
fl                       13      9      3     4      2      0      0
Odr                     138   124   123   18    232   218   236
Nzrmesimu.1louIs             99   173   282   191   215   407   145
Official eq xorteudits    2    97    159    94    10        0      0
IRM                       4    22    19    11    28    26    36
Otbnr mltilateral         7    14       6    30    29    20    13
pri--e                   86    40    98    56   148   361    95
:.n   debt
D&t -    and
disbrd                    1048   1266  1480  1685  1940  2336  2522
Official                765   993  1226  1464   1615  1718  1884
P_ivtee                 283   273   254   221   326   618   638
Uwlimrsmd debt             863  121    995   831   896   790   536
ebt srvice
Thrl servie puezats          96   133   201   193   212   282   317
lest                     40    58    66   6&    88   117   122
Pbst sas Zexorts            5.1   5.3   6.4Z   6.12   72   8.8a   9.72
Wdr  BUk tin  khm
of dishursuints             6*   10.1   5.4    4.42   6. 7   4.12   t&
of debt   vice              0.C   1.1%   1.72   2.    3AZ   4XZ         Z
of debt astaing & diab   6.72  842   L3I   8.22   L.e   8.12   d.41
kurege interest ste (2)       5.3   6.8   5.3    6.0   7.3   5.9    as
MaNge marity (yms)           21.4  14.8  17.7  20.1  14.1  14.4  11.0
Iang s        (y.r)          4.7   3.8   4.3    5.0   3.3   4.2   4.5
As 2 of Dbt OAttanding
at erd of Mst bet Te    r (1964)
awritry Stanaze of debt Qtstsalirg
Muwities due witbin 5 yenrs                       52.6
Maturities dua within 10 yease                    99.7
Intent stlucu   of debt otastaidg
ktenst die within first yar                       5.2
M0l8%p. 5
April916



-27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JbRDAN a/
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1986)
US$ Million
Amount
(less cancellations)
Number   Year       Borrower       Purpose             Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Fifteen credits      Jordan
fully disbursed                                                 86.1        -
Four loans fully
disbursed                                             75.9
1893     1980                 Urban Development        21.0                 9.4
1986     1981                 Power IV                 25.0                 2.3
2068     1982 d/              Education IV             25.0                15.2
2162     1982                 Power V                  35.0                12.5
2213     1983                 Water Supply and
Sewerage               17.0                 6.6
2246     1983 d/              Education V              18.8                17.4
2334     1983                 Urban Transport          30.0                27.6
2371     1984                 Energy Devt. I           30.0                15.3
2378     1984 d/              Education VI             40.0                39.9
2425     1984                 Eight Cities
Water Supply
and Sewerage            30.0                15.2
2463     1985          "      Multi-Mode
Transport               30.0                30.0
2483     1985                 Greater Amman
Water Supply
and Sewerage            30.0                24.4
2531     1985                 Primary Health Care      13.5                13.5
2587 c/  1985                 Urban Development II    28.0                 28.0
2614 c/  1986                 CVDB II                  15.0                15.0
2633 c/  1986                 Manpower Devt.           10.2                10.2
TOTAL b/                                              474.4      86.1     282.5
of which has been repaid        17.5       4.1
Total now held by Bank/IDA b/ 456.9       82.0
a/  The status of the above projects is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
b/  Includes exchange rate adjustments.
c/ Not yet effective.
d/ Education IV and Education V loans are substantially committed. Bidding
under Education VI loan is progressing.



- 28 -
ANNECX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1986)
US$ Million---
Year          Obligor           Type of Business       Loan    Equity    Total
1974     Jordan Ceramic Ind.
Co. Ltd.            Ceramic Tiles             1.6      0.2        1.8
1975/    Jordan Fertilizer
78/81/82   Ind. Co.            Phosphatic Fertilizer  79.5 1/   8.7        88.2 l1
1979     Jordan Lime and
Silicate              Building Materials       2.5      1.3        3.8
1979     Jordan Securities    Money & Capital
Corp.                  Market                           0.7        0.7
1980     Jordan Leasing
Co. Ltd.             Leasing                           0.3        0.3
Total Commitments                             83.6 1/  11.2       94.8 1/
Less Commitments Repaid, Sold or
Cancelled                                     60.7 1/   0.6       61.3 1/
Total Commitments now held by IFC                  22.9     10.6       33.5
Total Undisbursed                                -       -
1/ Includes a $50.0 million loan managed by IFC on behalf of other
participants.



- 29 -
ANNEX III
RASJEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
SIXTH POWER PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section 1: Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken by agency to prepare the
project:                                     14 months
(b)   Agencies which prepared the project:         Jordan Electricity Authority
(JEA); Jordanian Electric
Power Company (JEPCO); Irbid
District Electricity Company
(IDECO)
Cc)   Date of first presentation to the Bank:    August 31, 1984
Cd)   Date of departure of appraisal mission:    October 24, 1985
Ce)   Date of completion of negotiations:          April 25, 1986
(f)   Planned date of effectiveness:               October, 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1. Government and JEA, JEPCO and IDECO to take all required measures: (i) to
enable JEA and JEPCO to maintain self financing level of not less than 25
percent for 1986 and 1987, 30 percent for 1988 and 35 percent in each year
thereafter; and (ii) to enable IDECO to maintain a self-financing level of
at least 20 percent for 1986 through 1988 and not less than 30 percent for
1989 and thereafter (paras. 49 and 50).
2. Government, JEA, JEPCO and IDECO to review the adequacy of revenues to
produce, on the basis of a forecast satisfactory to the Bank, the agreed
self-financing levels for the following year and take the measures
required to achieve the agreed level (para. 51);
3. JEA, JEPCO and IDECO to stay within agreed debt limitation covenants
(paras. 52-54); and
4. JEPCO to provide the Bank, by December 31, 1986, with an action plan to
complete the upgrading of the network of Amman by 1990 (para. 45).



IERD 19554
.   g}jj~      MtMHIUA4               0 bS  Y  R  I A  N
' ,'          A_VEI 5,w,8                                     ~~~~~A R A B 
ARAEPUB LA 
Cr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
3..          t-     .:-,-.-   h     M      kgh2             Y          \  \ 
'/  -                                                                                         An/\
j       4- '-             I       9         Slth     ;2F\Z                                            JORDAN
A,                                                     SIXTH POWER PROJECT
LAJJUN                     ~~MAIN GENERATION AND TRANSMISSION SYSTEM
TRANSI ,AISS     NEIWORKA
UndeV roCnsruiisson  Ln
o       Themal TSIXTH   PoRmw StaROJE
,.,2   1t  .. :Po
Tl.h                                                                             In Op,,   :    U erato
230 kV Transmission Line
El MAUl( \<Elfft>^" pff                      __ _   i132 kV Tranmision Uines
.RJE-ntVA" -                                                 66 kV Tmumrissian Linie
*   Power Stadioam
a. awd  ;                           D        Tronsannver Substoian
IL     Refinry
A      Cerment Plant
o      Ones. Towns. Vilkae
-  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-National Highways
\ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ /, /ios Roo
E. j.X  d  /                                   El ----__eond os
Mudfloft
Rivers
Ocupied Terrimoris
\ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ /  /onlc'   R l                                                     M
T.~~~~~~a
\ Jf e ;S b ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_                                                                 _  -   /   * _ _ _ _ _ . '   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
\ 4e                                                           /                  ___*  --   \to o E~~~ -                              -
q   c   wq   lu  al                          1__S                                 - _ _e~~~~~~~~~~~~vi  NF 
_~~~~~~~~~~                                                                   .     V,,. '- -                    -:
0  Ii  iii  10  dO   ,.                     -   n...   ~              . -       .     SA- D.      A  .  .
_-      _                               /-                                   ~             A      -            a u a,  S P OAR    U 1
-  -3fiU                           * _  _  _  _            ^ v,e.d -- .
MARCH l9E16



