Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12853
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JORDAN
SIXTH POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 2710-JO)
MARCH 16, 1994
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUI'VALENTS
Currency Unit                        =      Jordan Dinars (JD)
JD 1.00                              =      1,000fils
JD 0.68                              =      US$1.00
JD 1.00                              =      US$1.47
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter                              =     3.281 feet (ft)
1 kilometer                          -     0.621 mile
1 kilogram (kg)                      -     2.205 pounds (lb)
I ton (1,000 kg)                     =     1.102 short ton (sh ton)
=     0.984 long ton (lg ton)
I barrel (bbl; 0. 1S9 m)             =     42 US gallons (gal)
I kilowatt (kW)                      =     1,000 Watts
I Megawatt (MW)                      =     1,000 kW
1 kilowatt hour (kWh)                =     1,000 Watthours (Wh)
I Gigawatt hour (GWh)                =     1,000,000 kWh = 1,000 MMh (=106 kWh)
I kilovolt (kV)                      =     1,000 volts (V)
1 kilovolt ampere (kVA)              -     1,000 volt amperes (I kVA)
1 Megavolt ampere (MVA)              =     1,000 kVA
1 kilo liter (1o0 ")                       6,28981 American barrels
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
DCC             Distribution Control Center
EDF             Electricite de France
ESS             Energy Sector Study
ESAL            Energy Sector Adjustment Loan
ESAP            Energy Sector Adjustment Program
ICB             International Competitive bidding
IDECO           Irbid District Electricity Company
JEA             Jordan Electricity Authority
JEPCO           Jordanian Electric Power Company
LPG             Liqutfied Petroleum Gas
LRMC            Long-Run Marginal Cost
LV              Low Voltage
MAED            Model for Analysis of Energy Demand
MIS             Management Information Services
MIT             Ministry of industry & Trade
MOP             Ministry of Planning
MRI             Management Resources International
MV              Medium Voltage
MVA             Mega Volt Amperes
O&M             Operations and Maintenance
PCR             Project Completion Report
SAR             Staff Appraisal Report
toe             tons of oil equivalent
Financial Year = Calendar Year



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
March 16, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Jordan
Sixth Power Project (Loan 2710-JO)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report ohi Jordan - Sixth Power Project
(Loan 2710-JO)" prepared by the Middle East and North Africa Regional Office,
with Part II prepared by the Borrower.
This project, the seventh in Jordan's energy sector, aimed at increasing
the capacity, reliability and efficiency of the country's electric power system
through distribution investments and institution-building components. Although
delayed about eighteen months by the onset of the Gulf war, implementation of the
project's physical components was carried out satisfactorily -- with some minor,
and fully justified, changes in project scope. Studies and training included in
the project also contributed to strengthen the planning and engineering
capabilities of main sector institutions.   However, the devaluation of the
Jordanian dinar in late 1988 and the Government's unwillingness to grant
offsetting tariff increases to the country's three power utilities resulted in
a drastic deterioration of their finances and their inability to comply with main
financial covenants from 1989 onwards.   Measures to restore  the utilities'
finances have recently been agreed with the Bank under the Energy Sector
Adjustment Loan (No. 3651-JO) approved in October 1993.
Accordingly, the project's outcome is rated as satisfactory, its
institutional impact as modest and its sustainability as likely (on the basis of
recent agreements reached under the ESAL).
The Project Completion Report is thorough and informative.  No audit is
contemplated at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
I their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discLosed without World Bank authorization.|






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JORDAN
SIXTH POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 2710-JO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                  ii
PART I - BANK EVALUATION
I.    BACKGROUND
II.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION                             1
III.  PROJECT COSTS                                                  2
IV.   PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION                                3
V.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                         4
VI.   PROJECT RESULTS                                                5
VII.  PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY                                         9
VIII. BANK PERFORMANCE                                              11
IX.   BORROWER PERFORMANCE                                          11
X.    PROJECT RELATIONSHIP                                          11
XI.   CONSULTANT SERVICES                                           12
XII.  PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA                                12
XIII. SUMMARY AND LESSONS LEARNED                                   13
PART II - BORROWER'S COMMENTS                                       15
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of thcir
ofrncial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CONTENTS (cont'd)
PaQe No.
PART III - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1      RELATED BANK LOANS AND/OR CREDITS                          20
Table 2      PROJECT TIMETABLE                                          21
Table 3      LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS                                  22
Table 4      PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                     23
Table 5      PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN                           24
Table 6      PROJECT RESULTS                                            26
A. DIRECT BENEFITS                                         26
B. ECONOMIC IMPACT                                         27
C. FINANCIAL IMPACT                                        28
D. STUDIES                                                 29
Table 7      STATUS OF COVENANTS                                        30
Table 8      USE OF BANK RESOURCES                                      33
A. STAFF INPUTS                                            33
B. MISSIONS                                                34
C. COSTS                                                   35



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JORDAN
SIXTH POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 2710-JO)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Sixth Power Project
in Jordan, for which Loan 2710-JO in the amount of US$27.5 million was
approved on June 26, 1986. The loan was closed on November 30, 1992, a year
and five months behind schedule. It is presently 96 percent disbursed, and
the last disbursement was on November 12, 1992.
The PCR was prepared by the Industry and Energy Operations Division of
the Middle East and North Africa Regional Office. Preparation of this PCR was
started during the Bank's final supervision mission of the project in
September 1992 and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the
Loan Guarantee and Project Agreements, supervision reports, correspondence
between the Bank and the Borrower and internal Bank memoranda.






ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JORDAN
SIXTH POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 2710-JO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.          In June 1986, the Bank approved a loan of US$27.5 million to the
Government of Jordan for improving the efficiency and reliability of the power
subsector. The loan was primarily intended for procuring material, equipment
and associated engineering services for the distribution component of the
1986-90, national, least-cost program of the power subsector. The proceeds of
the loan were for extending public electricity supply to new customers;
improving the quality of service to existing customers; reducing system losses
and improving the management practices of the utilities; furthering
institutional development; introducing new technologies; and improving the
planning and forecasting capabilities of the utilities.
Obtectives
2.          The main objectives of the project were to: (i) decrease the
country's dependance on petroleum products, for isolated power generation, by
extending public electricity supply and, thereby, saving foreign exchange;
(ii) increase the reliability of electricity supply from the grid; and (iii)
improve system efficiency by implementing several components of the power
subsectors' investment program. (para. 2.1).
Implementation Experience
3.          The main components of project implementation were the
rehabilitation and extension of the urban distribution network in the
Jordanian Electric Power Company (JEPCO) and Irbid District Electricity
Company (IDECO) concession areas, the electrification of villages (35 in the
Jordan Electricity Authority (JEA) area, 45 in the JEPCO area and 15 in the
IDECO area) and technical assistance through consulting services, studies and
state-of-the-art technology. The strengthening of the urban distribution
network was successfully implemented with the entities going well beyond the
original scope of the project to meet the unexpected increase in demand from
returnees of the Gulf war. The rural electrification program was also
successful, to the extent that the implementing agencies modified project
design to suit local conditions. JEPCO, in particular, modified the selection
of villages to be electrified to ensure a prudent use of resources. The
studies component was well managed by the Ministry of Energy and Mineral
Resources (MEMR) resulting in three timely follow-up studies. The consulting
and engineering services component were well executed and exceeded
expectations at the start of project implementation. The completion of the
Sixth Power Project was delayed by one year and five months mainly because of
the devaluation of the Jordanian dinar (JD) in 1988 and the Gulf war in 1990.
Actual costs were on a par with estimates at appraisal.   (paras. 5.1 to 5.5).



iii
Results
4.          The project achieved its principal objective of improving system
efficiency and reliability in the power subsector. By extending public
electricity supply to a larger cross section of the population, the project
has helped to decrease dependance on diesel fuel, which was being used as a
source for electricity. Operations have gone beyond expectations in all the
components of the project despite the intervening Gulf war. However, the
impact of the devaluation of the JD has caused serious financial problems for
the entire power subsector. Notable achievements include the following: the
quality of life of over 73,000 existing customers improved with the
rehabilitation of the urban distribution network; about 28,000 new customers
benefitted from the strengthening of the urban distribution network; and about
4,000 new customers benefitted from the electrification of 98 villages, which
extended the public electricity supply to almost 90 percent of the rural
population. (paras. 6.1 to 6.8, 6.17 and 6.18).
5.          With respect to the financial covenants, the pre-devaluation
period (1986-1988) is significantly different from the post- devaluation
period (1989 till date). Prior to 1988, the project entities had maintained a
satisfactory level of performance in the self-financing levels and a near
satisfactory performance in the debt service and average collection period
covenants. However, after the devaluation of the JD in October 1988, the
performance has been dismal. The financial problems of the project entities
have been further exacerbated because the Government has not made adjustments-
in electricity tariffs to combat the build up in losses and has been unable to
service debt. Thus, the devaluation of the JD and the absence of tariff
increases have contributed to the poor performance in the later years of the
project. (paras. 6.9 to 6.16).
Sustainabilitv
6.          The sustainability of the project looks promising, despite the
financial crisis of the utilities. The project has contributed directly to
the infrastructure of the power subsector by installing medium- and low-
voltage overhead lines and underground cables and by building main substations
and distribution substations. Further rehabilitation of the distribution
network in other areas is possible, based on the life of the equipment and the
material presently in use. The rural electrification program is nearing
completion, and the target of electrifying remote villages is possible now.
The project has contributed directly to manpower development and institutional
building by way of studies and consulting and engineering services. The
sustainability of the project has been amply demonstrated by the immediate
response to the recommendations of the diagnostic study; the starting of a
procurement department in JEPCO; and the installation work carried out by the
respective entities. (paras. 7.1 to 7.6).
Findings and Lessons
7.          Project results indicate that the benefits meet targets set at
appraisal. The project closing date was extended by one year and five months,
mainly due to the intervening Gulf war, which forced procurement delays for



iv
JEPCO and IDECO. Project implementation was satisfactory. The utilities
undertook some laudable reassessments of the project, JEPCO in particular,
correcting problems encountered during project implementation. The lessons
learnt include the need for: (i) linking projects to optimize resources and
ensure successful implementation performance; (ii) the development of in-house
capabilities for procurement and engineering services; and (iii) timely action
on the part of the Borrower (Government) to stem any decline in utility
performance. (paras. 13.1 to 13.4).






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JORDAN
SIXTH POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 2710-JO)
PART I
PROJECT IDENTITY
Proiect Name:      Sixth Power Project
Loan No.:          LN 2710-JO
RVP Unit:          Middle East and North Africa
Country Department II
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Sector:            Energy
Subsector:         Power
BACKGROUND
1.1         Jordan's known energy resources are limited, and oil imports have
been rising steadily as a percentage of total imports. The increasing
economic constraints facing the country underscore the importance of
government efforts to reduce oil imports. Towards this end, the Bank's 1990
sector review recommended a comprehensive action plan, which focussed on: the
development of domestic energy resources, energy conservation and improved
pricing and planning. Good progress has been made in implementing the Bank's
recommendations.
1.2         In the power subsector, the Bank's major objectives have been the
progressive interconnection of the power system to provide a reliable and
economic power supply and the institutional development, including improvement
of planning capabilities of the three power companies. The previous loans, LN
1986-JO, LN 2162-JO and LN 2371-JO have appropriately addressed these issues
(Ref. Part III, Table 1) and have satisfactorily enhanced power subsector
development.  Significant progress has been made in all these areas.  The
Bank's participation in the sector has also been an important catalyst for
cofinancing.
1.3         Despite the important achievements in the power subsector, more
remains to be done in generating and distributing electricity to keep up with
forecasted demand, in electrifying rural areas, in improving the management of
the sector and in developing the institutional and financial capability of the
three power companies.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
2.1         Proiect Objectives.  The project was supported by Loan 2710-JO
(US$27.5 million) given to the Government of Jordan in June 1986. The loan
was part of a continuing series of loans: it was the seventh Bank group
lending operation in the energy sector. The main objectives of the project
were to: (i) help improve the efficiency with which energy is supplied by
expanding the electricity supply from the grid (as a substitute for petroleum
products, mainly kerosene for lighting and, to a lesser extent diesel fuel for



2
isolated power generation); (ii) continue the implementation of some major
investments that would help Jordan's power system efficiency; and (iii)
continue the institutional development objectives initiated under the previous
loans by providing assistance in introducing new technologies, reducing system
losses and improving the power entities' management, planning and forecasting
capabilities.
2.2         Project Description.  The project was designed to supply and
install necessary equipment and material, including the associated engineering
services for the implementation of the distribution component of the 1986-90,
national, least-cost program for the power subsector. It was originally
designed to include:
a) the rehabilitation and extension of the urban distribution
network in the JEPCO and IDECO concession areas with the
supply, construction and erection of about 390 km of 11-kV
and 33-kV lines, about 810 km of 380-V lines and about 180
MVA of power and distribution transformer capacity and
three-phase and single-phase consumer connections;
b) the electrification of about 95 villages (35 in the JEA
area, 45 in the JEPCO area and 15 in the IDECO area), with
the supply, construction, and erection of about 510 km of
33-kV and 380-V lines and about 6 MVA of distribution
transformer capacity and single-phase connections;
c) consulting services to assist JEPCO and IDECO in project
engineering and construction supervision;
d) the implementation of the recommendations of the management
information system (MIS) study undertaken under the Fourth
Power Project (LN 1986-JO);
e) the supply of computer hardware and software and equipment
and tools for operation and maintenance using specialized
hot-line work equipment and associated training; and
f) consulting services to undertake a diagnostic study of the
existing power distribution system in Jordan with the
objective of defining measures to improve managerial,
operational and technical efficiency.
PROJECT COSTS
3.1         The total cost of the project at appraisal was US$71.6 million, of
which about 67 percent was for foreign exchange. The actual local cost
component was higher, at about 35 percent, and the foreign cost component was
lower, at about 65 percent, for a total project cost of US$70.81 million,
which was about one percent less than the appraisal estimate (Ref. Part III,
Table 5). The reasons for the closeness between appraisal costs and actual
costs are discussed below. For convenience, the project costs are discussed
under the executing agencies as a component.



3
3.2         JEA Component.  The original allocation for JEA was US$4.9
million, about 7 percent of the total project cost. Local costs were 73
percent lower, and there was a decrease of about 16 percent in the foreign
cost component, resulting in an overall decrease of about 34 percent from the
original estimate. The decrease in costs can be attributed to the effective
handling of financial resources by JEA and the postponing of the procurement
of hot-line work equipment. Further, the substantial decrease in local costs
can be attributed to the inability of JEA to come up with counterpart funds
for the project due to poor financial performance.
3.3         JEPCO Component.  The original allocation for JEPCO was US$55
million, about 77 percent of the total project cost. Local costs for JEPCO
were about 9 percent higher while foreign costs were about 5 percent higher,
resulting in an overall increase of about 6 percent in the JEPCO component.
The higher expenditures by JEPCO can be attributed to the additional equipment
that needed to be procured to handle the unexpectedly high demand for
electricity due to Gulf war returnees. The expenditures would have been
higher if not for the prudent use of resources by JEPCO, specifically its
increasing focus on the urban element and modifying the selection of villages
for electrification. The increase in local costs can be mainly attributed to
the increase in the scope of work performed by JEPCO.
3.4         IDECO Component.  The original allocation for IDECO was US$11.2
million, about 16 percent of the total project cost. Local costs for IDECO
were about 17 percent higher while foreign costs were about 43 percent lower,
resulting in an overall decrease of about 24 percent from the original
estimate. The increase in local costs was due to the installation work
carried out by IDECO staff. The decrease in both foreign costs and the total
cost of the component can be mainly attributed to the use of other sources
(the Kuwait Fund) to procure equipment and material that were originally to be
procured under this loan. It must be noted that some of the funds made
available by reduced IDECO expenditures enabled JEPCO to procure additional
equipment/ material.
3.5         MEMR's Component.  The original allocation for MEMR was US$0.5
million, less than 1 percent of the total project cost. There was no change
in the local costs, but there was a marginal 3 percent increase in foreign
costs, resulting in an overall increase of about 2 percent in the original
estimate. The increase in foreign costs can be attributed to the additional
three studies that were carried out based on the recommendations of the
diagnostic study.
PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
4.1         The scope and scale of the project reflected both the ongoing Bank
activities at the time of project design and the investment plan of the power
subsector. There was a general agreement on project design and organization
among all concerned parties, i.e., the Bank, the Government of Jordan and the
executing agencies--JEA, JEPCO and IDECO. The project was timely in view of
the then ongoing projects, as well as in its support of Jordan's long-term
energy needs. The roles and responsibilities of the institutions and agencies
handling project implementation were well defined and understood.



4
4.2         The rehabilitation and expansion of the urban distribution
network, specifically in the cities of Amman and Zarqa for JEPCO and in Irbid
and Ramtha for IDECO, was necessary as the networks were reaching their
maximum capacity, and, without reinforcement, the losses would have further
increased and the quality of service deteriorated significantly. The quality
of service to existing customers was addressed by reinforcing existing medium
and low voltage lines, as well as by expanding existing overloaded transformer
substations.
4.3         Rural electrification has been a key part of the Government's
policy for improving living conditions and for stemming the migration of
families to urban areas.  The rural electrification component was part of the
national rural electrification program, prepared by JEA in collaboration with
JEPCO and IDECO, covering 900 villages to be electrified in the period 1981-
2000.  It was mainly intended to displace kerosene being used for lighting
and, to a lesser extent, for electrical appliances (radios, televisions,
refrigerators and hot plates) in households.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
5.1         There were two extensions of the loan closing date.  The first was
for one year and the second was for five months.  The project was progressing
satisfactorily until the effects of the October 1988 JD devaluation and the
1990 Gulf war began to surface. The JD devaluation affected project
implementation because the project entities suffered huge financial losses and
had trouble mobilizing counterpart funds to finance the local costs of their
respective components.  The financing difficulties were further exacerbated by
the Government's reluctance to make any tariff adjustments.  The Gulf war also
played a role, in that, procurement contracts were held up, causing delays in
the delivery of equipment and material. Thus, project implementation suffered
due to problems outside the control of the executing agencies.
5.2         JEA completed its procurement activities ahead of schedule.  It
carried out the installation work using its own and local resources, thereby
saving foreign exchange. Funds originally allocated for installation were,
thus, used to procure more equipment and material. JEA decided to defer the
hot-line working equipment and training package until the completion of a
study by Canadian consultants, financed with external sources. After this
study is complete, JEA intends to acquire the equipment on the basis of
bilateral funding arrangements. (Ref. Part III, Table 4).
5.3         During the initial stage of project implementation, JEPCO was
assisted by the consultants (Kennedy & Donkin) in the procurement process.
JEPCO progress in procurement was slow, and, hence, contracts were being
delayed.  In order to hasten the process, JEPCO opened an exclusive in-house
procurement department. Progress was dampened first by the JD devaluation
and, subsequently, by the Gulf war. The JD devaluation brought JEPCO debt
servicing and liquidity problems. JEPCO was also facing financial viability
problems with the electrification of the originally selected villages, which
substantially decreased its ability to generate counterpart funds. JEPCO made
a prudent decision to focus on the urban element where there was an increased
willingness to pay.  By obtaining an increased consumer equity contribution,



5
JEPCO was able to overcome the counterpart fund problem. The list of villages
to be electrified was modified, based on financial viability criteria. The
effects of the Gulf war were seen as the returnees contributed to a
substantial increase (24 percent for the two-year period following the end of
Gulf war) in electricity demand. JEPCO had to make minor adjustments in its
procurement packages and seek additional 'ources in order to cater to this
unexpected demand. The implementation of the MIS study, which was to be
carried out by JEPCO with assistance from MRI of USA consultants, was stalled.
JEPCO carried out a large part of the implementation on its own, and the
services of MRI were used minimally. (Ref. Part III, Table 4).
5.4         The implementation performance of IDECO was proceeding
satisfactorily (85 percent on schedule) until progress began to suffer, due
once again to the impact of the JD devaluation and the effects of the Gulf
war. Like JEA, IDECO carried out installation work using its own resources in
order to save foreign exchange. IDECO requested a change in procurement
packaging, preferring a Distribution Control Center (DCC) package to replace
some of the originally planned equipment. The Bank had to turn down this
request as the DCC was not economically viable due to its substantial costs
and low level of benefits. IDECO made some wise decisions to ensure a more
efficient handling of its resources. It used other sources (the Kuwait Fund)
to procure distribution transformers (originally to be procured under this
loan) and canceled one transformer package as the delivery schedule was beyond
the closing date. The latter was funded using other sources, enabling monies
to be freed up and used, primarily, by JEPCO. This flexibility in the
movement of funds between project entities has been beneficial to project
implementation and completion. (Ref. Part III, Table 4).
5.5         The studies component of the project was well managed by MEMR.
The diagnostic study was carried out by EDF, France, and was completed on
schedule with substantial savings. Based on the recommendations of the
diagnostic study, three other studies were commissioned, these were
efficiently handled and satisfactorily completed. (Ref. Part III, Table 4).
PROJECT RESULTS
6.1         The project achieved its overall objectives.  It helped in
completing the rehabilitation and strengthening of the urban distribution
network in the JEPCO and IDECO concessions areas, thereby improving the
quality and reliability of electricity supply for a total of over 73,000
existing customers and contributing towards a reduction in losses. It aided
in extending public electricity supply to about 98 villages, thereby
increasing the access of rural consumers to electricity (and decreasing the
use of kerosene) and, thus, improving the quality of life for about 32,000 new
customers. JEPCO and IDECO also acquired hot-line working equipment,
including associated training to reduce downtime during maintenance and during
fault repair, thereby improving the reliability of the electricity supply.
The project further enhanced the project engineering and construction
supervision capabilities of JEPCO and IDECO, and studies contributed towards a
better understanding of the key issues in the Jordanian distribution system.
(Ref. Part III, Table 6A).



6
6.2         JEA exceeded its target (35 villages) and completed the
electrification of 38 villages. Of these 38 villages, 7 were electrified by
isolated diesel units as this was found to be the least cost way of
electrifying villages more than 8 km from the grid. The JEA rural
electrification program included the laying of 72 km of medium voltage (MV)
overhead (OH) lines, 83 km of low voltage (LV) lines, and 10 km of LV
underground (UG) cables; and the installation of 35 distribution transformers,
adding a capacity of 1.75 MVA. Against these targets, about 131 km of LV
lines and 72 km of MV lines were laid; 35 distributions transformers were
installed with a net installed capacity of 2.75 MVA. In all, 1,970 new
consumers were targeted to benefit from the JEA component; against which 1,454
single-phase connections and 30 three-phase connections were achieved.
6.3         The JEPCO urban rehabilitation and extension component was
targeted mainly to the Amman and Zarqa areas and was to benefit 60,000
existing consumers and 25,000 new consumers, respectively. It included the
laying of 160 km of MV-OH lines, 375 km of LV lines, 180 km of MV-UG cables
and 275 km of LV-UG cables. It also covered the building of 4 main
substations, contributing 40 MVA capacity and 250 distribution substations
contributing 115 MVA capacity. Its rural electrification program was targeted
to 45 villages and included the laying of 108 km of MV-OH lines, 140 km of LV-
OH lines and 18 km of MV-UG cables, as well as the installation of 52
distribution transformers contributing to 2.6 MVA capacity. Against these
targets, the combined JEPCO achievement was the laying of 486 MV lines and
1,302 LV lines; and the addition of 167 MVA of power transformer capacity and
219 MVA of distribution transformer capacity. In all, 25,000 new consumers
and 60,000 existing consumers benefitted from the urban component and 1,840
new consumers benefitted from the rural component; against this, 65,650
additional single- phase and 4,100 additional three-phase consumer connections
were made.
6.4         The IDECO urban rehabilitation and extension component was
targeted mainly to the Irbid (Stage III) and Ramtha areas and was to benefit
12,800 existing consumers and 2,700 new consumers, respectively.  It included
the laying of 25 km of MV-OH lines, 105 km of LV lines, 25 km of MV-UG cables
and 55 km of LV-UG cables. It also included the building of 4 main
substations, contributing 25 MVA capacity and 15 distribution substations
contributing 2.25 MVA capacity. Its rural electrification program was
targeted to 15 villages and included the laying of 43 km of MV-OH lines, 37 km
of LV-OH lines and 4 km of MV-UG cables, as well as the installation of 18
distribution transformers, contributing 0.90 MVA capacity. In the rural
electrification component, IDECO achieved its target of electrifying 15
villages; 34 km of MV-OH lines were laid; and 14 distribution transformers
were installed, contributing 0.5 MVA capacity. In all, 25,000 new consumers
and 60,000 existing consumers were to benefit from the urban component, and
1,840 new consumers were to benefit from the rural component. New consumer
connections for 337 households were made in the process of electrifying 15
villages.
6.5         MEMR was responsible for managing the diagnostic study component
of the project, which was carried out by EdF, France. The recommendations of
the study led to three more studies--the Amman Master Distribution Plan, the



7
Customer Management Study, and the Distribution Data Base Study. The
judicious use of time and resources by MEMR enabled the successful completion
of the diagnostic study and of the three extension studies, which have
provided useful results and recommendations for the Jordanian authorities to
consider.
6.6         The overall objectives did not change during project
implementation. However, the executing agencies made prudent decisions as to
the use of resources in order to handle project implementation more
efficiently. JEA and IDECO directed the funds allocated for installation work
to procure additional equipment and, thus, save foreign exchange.
Installation work was carried out by their own staff. JEPCO increased its
focus on the urban element as there was an increased willingness to pay
compared to the rural element. However, it carried out the electrification of
intended villages based on financial viability. To make up for the shortage
of counterpart funds, JEPCO increased equity contributions from urban
consumers and was successful in obtaining it.
Institutional Performance
6.7         The project entities--JEA, JEPCO, IDECO and MEMR--performed
satisfactorily, both in terms of execution and the completion of respective
project components.  Further, there is evidence that they have made efficient
use of their resources and adapted project design to local conditions.
Reallocating funds based on the priority and needs of the situation with
minimal external assistance are indicators of growing experience in dealing
with the Bank. Also, compared to previous loans, project implementation did
not suffer much from procurement or disbursement delays caused by the project
entity.
Training
6.8         The project has contributed to the human resource development of
the energy sector through training activities and consultant services. JEPCO
and IDECO benefitted from training on hot-line working equipment; JEPCO and
IDECO benefitted from foreign consultants who assisted them in engineering
services and construction supervision during project implementation. MEMR
used the services of Electricite de France (EDF) for the diagnostic study and
the three follow-up studies. The recommendations and results of these studies
have already been implemented in some cases and are still to be implemented by
the respective participating agencies in others.
Financial Performance
6.9         JEA.  During the processing of this loan, it became obvious that
JEA would not be able to meet the covenanted 35 percent self-financing level
required for LN 1986-JO and LN 2162-JO for 1986 through 1988. The underlying
reasons were a higher capital expenditure program and a slower growth in
electricity demand than originally envisaged. At negotiation time, the
Government requested, and the Bank agreed to, a downward revision of financial
targets. The financial targets under this loan required JEA to achieve (a)
self-financing levels of 25 percent in 1986 and 1987, 30 percent in 1988 and



8
35 percent for 1989 and after; (b) a debt service coverage of at least 1.5
times; and (c) an average collection period of at least 45 days. Against
these targets, the performance of JEA has been mixed--satisfactory during the
period 1986-88 but unsatisfactory since 1989. (Ref. Part III, Table 6C).
6.10        JEPCO.  The financial targets under this loan required JEPCO to
achieve (a) self-financing levels of 25 percent in 1986 and 1987, 30 percent
in 1988 and 35 percent in 1989 and thereafter; (b) a debt service coverage of
at least 1.5 times; and (c) an average collection period of at least 45 days.
Against these targets, the overall performance of JEPCO has been satisfactory.
For the period 1986 until 1988, JEPCO met its self-financing level and debt
service targets and was marginally higher in the collection period target.
However, in 1989 the performance of JEPCO was unsatisfactory; since 1989 there
has been an improvement in achieving self-financing and collection period
targets but the debt service target has not been met.  (Ref. Part III, Table
6C)
6.11         IDECO.  The financial targets under this loan required IDECO to
achieve (a) self-financing levels of 20 percent 4n 1986, 1987 and 1988, and 30
percent in 1989 and thereafter; (b) a cebt service, coverage of at least 1.5
times; and (c) an average collection period of at least 45 days.  Against
these targets, the overall performance of IDECO has been satisfactory. For
the period 1986 until 1988, IDECO easily mnet its self-financing and debt
service targets and, marginally, in the c2l1ection period covenant. However,
since 1989, IDECO performance has been unsatisfactory.  (Ref. Part III, Table
6C).
6.12        Prior to the substantial devaluation of the JD starting in October
1988, JEA, JEPCO, and IDECO were financially viable and were meeting their
financial indicators with regard to self-financing and debt service ratios.
However, as a result of the adverse financial impact of the 1988/89 JD
devaluation, and the absence of any increases in tariffs until October 1990,
these utilities have been unable to meet their respective debt service
payments or finance new investments from their own resources. Over the past
three years, the utilities' modest investments have had to be financed mainly
through new borrowing. Unless action is taken soon, the financing of future
investments (about JD 525 million or about US$870 million) over the next 8
years will have to come from government sources.
6.13        The government did increase tariffs, but only selectively for,
principally, large industries and hotels.  Such increases have had no effect
on the revenue situation of the utilities as the corresponding cost increases
nullified the tariff increases. The low tariff position has had a very
detrimental effect on the financial performance and structure of the power
utilities.  For the period 1989 to 1991, the utilities incurred a combined net
loss of about JD 42.7 million (about US$63.7 million). These losses forced
the power utilities to seek government assistance to meet annual debt service
commitments on foreign loans. In 1991, the utilities' combined internal
sources of funds were sufficient to meet only 61 percent of their debt service
obligations. However, the government has recently began to bear the burden of
meeting the utilities' debt service obligations.



9
6.14        The impact of the JD devaluation worsened the foreign exchange
losses of the utilities. Since 1988, the utilities have incurred foreign
exchange losses of JD 146 million. These losses represent 200 percent of
their combined equity and about 1.6 times their annual electricity revenue.
In short, the financial performance of the utilities has been poor and
unsustainable, leading to severe liquidity problems for all three companies.
6.15        The Government has requested a Bank Energy Sector Adjustment Loan
(ESAL) to address, besides other issues, the financial crisis of the
utilities. The ESAL is expected to be appraised in February 1993, and Board
presentation is due for June 1993. Until such time, the utilities will
continue to be hampered by financial difficulties.
Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
6.16        At appraisal, the ERR was calculated for both the entire power
subsector and for the project components individually, with benefits measured
as existing tariffs and consumer contributions. An adjusted ERR was also
computed to account for the benefit from fuel savings arising mainly from the
substitution of electricity for kerosene in lighting and appliance use. The
ERR was calculated to be 12 percent for the entire subsector, 4 percent for
JEA, 13 percent for JEPCO and 6 percent for IDECO. The adjusted ERR was
calculated to be 13 percent for the entire subsector, 12 percent for JEA, 14
percent for JEPCO and 7 percent for IDECO_ At the time of PCR preparation,
the ERR was calculated to be 10 percent f= the entire subsector, 3 percent
for JEA, 10 percent for JEPCO and 5 percent for IDECO. The adjusted ERR was
calculated to be 10 percent for the entire subsector, 12 percent for JEA, 10
percent for JEPCO and 6 percent for IDECO. The underlying reason for the
differences in rates of return can be attributed to the decline in oil prices:
the kerosene and diesel replaced were worth less than the electricity
supplied. The minor changes in capital costs, O&M costs (increased from 1
percent to 2 percent) and changes in benefits (lower tariffs) also caused
variations in the ERR at the time of PCR preparation. (Ref. Part III, Table
6B).
Environmental Aspects
6.17        The project had no major adverse effects on the environment.
There were no serious concerns with regard to environmental regulations, other
than the impact on aesthetics due to the laying of overhead transmission lines
or underground cables. In addition, the project had a positive impact by way
of providing a cleaner and less hazardous form of lighting to the rural
population by replacing kerosene with electricity as the source of (lighting)
power. This also improved the quality of life for the rural population as it
enabled households to use electricity for appliances like radios, televisions,
refrigerators and hot plates; previously, the use of these appliances was
limited.
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
7.1         There is a good prospect that the project will provide a net
benefit throughout its life. However, correcting the financial position of



10
the utilities and adjusting electricity tariffs commensurate with production
costs, to realize positive financia'. and economic benefits, is necessary if
this is to happen. As economic activity in Jordan grows, there is bound to be
an increasing demand for electricity.  To meet this demand, the utilities
would have to take up investments in generation, transmission and
distribution. The uncertainty in oil prices must also be taken into account.
To meet the challenges ahead, the government should take quick action to
restore financial soundness to the utilities. Electricity pricing policy by
the government should be redesigned to seek economic and/or financial
viability, whichever is higher.
7.2         Also of concern to the government is the effectiveness of the
rural electrification program. JEPCO, in particular, has demonstrated during
project implementation that the costs of the rural electrification program far
outweigh the benefits. The willingness to pay of the rural consumers does not
translate into cost effectiveness.  This should signal the government that it
needs to introduce some intervention measures to appropriately change the
program in order to obtain positive net economic and financial benefits.
Prolect Impact
7.3         Physical.  The project's impact on the physical environment
consisted of acquisition and installation of equipment and instruments and the
advancements in urban distribution and rural electrification. The acquisition
of equipment and instruments improved productivity and access to
data/information in the respective implementing agencies.  The strengthening
of the urban distribution network and the expansion of the rural
electrification network contributed to the reliability of power and the
effectiveness of the power-supplying authorities in Jordan.
7.4         Technology.  The project's impact on the technological environment
was demonstrated in the acquisition of hot-line working equipment, which is
state-of-the-art technology.  The hot-line work equipment increased the
reliability of the system by decreasing the downtime during maintenance and
during fault repair.  The use of consultant services from the advanced
industrialized countries for engineering and construction, and for the
diagnostic and three additional studies, enhanced the knowledge base of the
Jordanian counterparts who worked along with the consultants. With the supply
of electricity being made available to a larger segment of the population
through the rehabilitation and expansion of the distribution network, the use
of more electrical appliances in both rural and urban areas became possible.
7.5         Social.  The project's impact on the social environment consisted
of improvements in the urban distribution network and in the rural
electrification of villages.  The strengthening of the urban distribution
network improved the efficiency of supply and reduced transmission line
losses. The rural electrification program also helped keep villagers from
migrating to urban areas.
7.6         National and Local.  The project's impact at the national level
was to reach rural consumers in remote pockets of the country, improving the
quality and reliability of electricity supply, displacing kerosene as a



11
lighting source and enhancing the usage of electrical appliances. At the
local institutional level, JEA, JEPCO, and IDECO all benefitted by way of
overall development--through improvements in infrastructure and facilities,
improvements in human resources and better trained staff.
BANK PERFORMANCE
8.1         The Bank's overall performance in this project was satisfactory.
The Bank initially provided an Energy Sector Studv (ESS) and had two ongoing
projects, LN 1986-JO and LN 2371-JO, which led to the preparation and
appraisal of this project. An updated ESS was conducted towards the end of
the project. The Bank's performance in the identification and preparation
stage of the project cycle was good. The Bank took an active interest and
played a key role in the implementation of the project. When the adverse
financial impact of the macroeconomic situation became apparent, the Bank
undertook extensive sector work and suggested remedial measures.
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
9.1         The Borrower's performance during prioect preparation was
satisfactory.  The Borrower assisted in the preparation of the project by
providing all the necessary inputs and documentation and displayed strong
commitment for and ownership of the project throughout the implementation
period. The strength of the Borrower's performance was in identifying the
needs and priorities of sector developments, which led to minor modifications
in the scope of certain components under this project.
9.2         There were no major weaknesses on the Borrower's side in project
implementation. The participating agencies showed a keenness in the execution
of the project. The entities demonstrated judicious choice in the expansion/
reduction in the scope of the project, based on prudent use of resources
criterion. The main problems facing the utilities resulted from external
shocks due to devaluation of the JD and the impact of the Gulf war.
9.3         There was an improvement in the project management skills of the
participating agencies. The staff and consultants working on project
implementation were well managed. Records indicate that the training
activities and the consultant services were performed on time, within the
budgeted amount. JEPCO has improved its handling of procurement affairs since
its last venture, and, for a second time, IDECO performance is commendable.
PROJECT RELATIONSHIP
10.1        This project was the seventh Bank operation in the energy sector
in Jordan.  The relationship between the Bank and the Borrower (Government of
Jordan) has grown with each new project. The relatively smooth project
execution bears testimony to the collective experience and was marked by
excellent rapport, good communication/correspondence and the production of
useful results.
10.2        The relationship between the Bank and the project entities--JEA,
JEPCO, IDECO and MEMR--has also grown with each new project.  JEA has had the



12
most experience with Bank projects, and this was well demonstrated with a
completion much ahead of schedule.  This was the third Bank-related project
for JEPCO and the second for IDECO.
10.3        The Borrower's relationships with the other relevant parties in
the project--consultants Kennedy and Donkin, EwBank Preece from the UK, MRI
from the USA and EDF from France--were prQfessional and highly effective. The
cooperation between the consultants and the Jordanian authorities aided the
Borrower in more than just the services provided, i.e. in the transfer of
technology, the use of state-of-the-art equipment and the quality,
standardization and timeliness of project implementation.
CONSULTING SERVICES
11.1        JEPCO and IDECO used the services of UK consultants, Kennedy &
Donkin and Price, Cardew and Rider (now Ewbank Preece Ltd.), respectively, for
the preparation of detailed engineering designs and for specifications for the
expansion and rehabilitation of the urban distribution network and the
electrification of villages.  The same consultants were used subsequently for
engineering services and construction supervision during project
implementation. The services of MRI (USA) was used, minimally, by JEPCO for
the implementation of the financial planning and control study. Both JEPCO
and IDECO made limited use of the above consulting services.  The in-house
staff who were trained by the external consultants to take over the required
tasks and responsibilities performed satisfactorily.  MEMR used the services
of EDF for the diagnostic study as well as for the subsequent three additional
studies. (Ref. Part III, Table 6D).
PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
12.1        The legal agreements and the staff appraisal report (SAR) were
comprehensive and well detailed. However, there were two issues/concerns that
could have been better addressed: (i) Obviously, this project faced two major
shocks: the devaluation of the JD and the Gulf war. The devaluation added to
the financial problems of the utilities.  By not adjusting electricity
tariffs, the government only exacerbated the situation. The intervening war
resulted in a slowing down of the project, mainly due to procurement delays.
These problems were highlighted during the discussions between the Bank and
the government, but due to socio-economic reasons the government was unable to
take remedial measures. Timely action could have minimized the adverse
financial consequences.  (ii) The SAR did not contain project monitoring
guidelines and indicators, the standard Annex which is a part of every SAR.
Instead, under the finance section of the report, it was stated that the
project entities' performance (technical and financial) would be monitored
using the comprehensive set of key indicators agreed under Loan 2371-JO (LN
2162-JO for JEA). It would be better to treat the projects as independent
projects rather than link them for monitoring purposes.
12.2        Most of the data required for the preparation of the PCR was
available at the Bank. Information and data relating project implementation
and project results were obtained directly from the project entities during
the PCR mission. However, certain streamlining procedures would have been



13
helpful in the development of project data bases. For example, introducing an
effective procurement monitoring system might have removed some of the
impediments to procurement monitoring and project execution. However, this
issue would be better addressed in a Bank wide forum than in a PCR for a
specific project.
12.3        Sometimes we see monthly progress reports, quarterly reports,
annual reports and supervision mission reports. There is no need for so many
reports, particularly when there is common material contained in them. The
quarterly reports submitted by the participating agencies need to reflect in
greater detail the actual progress of the project.  The progress report
submitted by the project entity should contain project information on project
progress, including performance indicators, disbursement, contract status and
any variance between appraisal estimates and actual costs.  The participating
agencies should ensure the timely submission of audited financial reports to
enable feedback and corrective measures from the Bank.
SUMMARY AND LESSON LEARNED
13.1        The project achieved its principal objectives despite the setback
in the financial situation resulting from the JD devaluation; the intervening
Gulf war, which brought about a lot of uncertainty during its progress and an
unexpected spurt in demand after; and the extensions in closing dates.  There
were modifications in project scope by the executing agencies to adapt project
design to local conditions.  JEPCO and MEMR also had an expanded scope due to
increased demand and to the recommendations of the diagnostic study,
respectively.  In the case of JEPCO, the economic and financial viability of
project elements, particularly the electrification of villages, necessitated
the prudent use of resources.  The diagnostic study was completed ahead of
schedule and offered recommendations for additional studies addressing
specific concerns.  It was possible to carry cut these studies due to the
availability of resources, as well as to the importance given to the studies.
Project cost was almost on par with appraisal estimates, and there was a
downward shift in the economic returns--both aggregate and individual
components.
13.2        The project resulted in substantial improvement in the quality of
service--it improved reliability for over 73,000 urban existing consumers and
reduced distribution losses, due to the rehabilitation of the distribution
network.  It also extended public electricity supply to about 27,700 new urban
customers; improved the quality of life by electrifying 98 villages (38 in the
JEA area, 45 in the JEPCO area and 15 in the IDECO area), thereby affecting
over 4,210 new rural consumers; strengthened the technological capability of
the utilities by providing for the latest equipment--autoreclosers and hot-
line working equipment; enhanced project engineering and construction
supervision capabilities; provided training for operating autoreclosers and
hot-line work equipment; and increased understanding of the problems and
concerns of the distribution system by way of the diagnostic study and the
three additional studies. Added to these gains were the growth in
infrastructure through the installation of equipment and material and the
transfer of technology through foreign consultants, training activities and
studies.



14
13.3        There was a general consensus among borrowing agencies that the
1988 JD devaluation and the intervening 1990 Gulf war affected project
implementation, causing delays and hampering progress. The inability of the
government to provide tariff adjustments and address the financial situation
of the utilities due to social and political considerations was disappointing.
The Bank felt, however, that the borrowing agencies made progress in
conforming to procurement policies and guidelines.
13.4        The main lessons learned under this prcject were:
(i)    The linking of projects helps in optimizing resource
usage and ersures more successful implementation;
(ii)   Flexibility in the reallocation of funds is
necessary to meet changing requirements that arise
out of project execution;
(iii)  The scope of specific project components can be
appropriately defined to accommodate modifications
without affecting overall objectives;
(iv)   There is a need for timely interventions to combat
unexpected crises--natural and man-made--that arise
during project execution.. Delays prove to be
costly;
(v)    The development of in-house procurement capability
and engineering services enhances the progress of
project implementation;
(vi)   Social and political consequences can affect the
government's ability to meet debt service
obligations and provide other relief measures to
utilities;
(vii)  Private entities have more flexibility than public
entities to alter project scope without sacrificing
overall objectives, thereby ensuring net economic
and financial benefit.
(viii) When a government introduces large macroeconomic
adjustments, like devaluation, it is important for
Bank to negotiate the impact across all sectors in
the economy.



15
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JORDAN
SIXTH POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 2710-JO)
PART II - BORROWER'S COMMENTS
Jordan Electricity Authority (JEA)
1.          The Borrower studied all the data and information contained in
statistical tables No. 1 to 8 in part III of PCR as prepared by the Bank and
found that all data is complete, adequate and accurate.
2.          The analysis contained in Part I of the PCR as prepared by the
Bank seems realistic, comprehensive and well detailed.
3.          The Bank performance during the project period was satisfactory.
The Bank took an active interest and played a key role in the identification
and preparation stage of the project cycle as well as in the implementation of
the project. When the adverse financial impact of the macroeconomic situation
became apparent the Bank undertook extensive sector work and suggested
remedial measures.
4.          Generally no complaints for delays in payments from the Bank to
the contractors were reported.
5.          The main lessons learned that may be relevant for the future could
be: Flexibility in the reallocation of funds is necessary to meet unexpected
changes in the requirements which might arise during the project
implementation.
6.          The Borrower's performance during project preparation was
generally acceptable. The Borrower provided all necessary data and submitted
all required documents to the Bank during the evolution of the project
(project identification, pre-appraisal and appraisal phase) and implementation
stage of the project.
7.          The main lessons learned that may be relevant for the future could
be as follows:
a.    The private sectors such as JEPCO and IDECO should
develop Engineering departments in order to reduce
their dependent on foreign consultants in their
distribution project.
b.    The private sectors should also develop in-house
procurement capability.
c.    The scope of specific project components can be
appropriately defined to accommodate modifications
without affecting overall objectives.



16
d.    The private sectors have more flexibility than public
sectors to alter project scope without sacrificing
overall objectives.
e.    The unexpected crises such as Gulf war and devaluation
of the JD prove that the Borrower should purchase the
external materials necessary for the project
immediately without delay.
8.          This project was the seventh Bank operation in the energy sector
in Jordan.   Therefore the relationship between the Bank and the Borrower has
grown with this project and run smoothly with good communication and useful
results.
9.          The relationship between the Bank and the project entities, JEA,
JEPCO, IDECO and MEMR has also grown well specially JEA which had the most
experience with the Bank projects and this was well demonstrated with
completion of JEA part of the project much ahead of schedule.
Jordan Electric Power Company (JEPCO)
10.         The adequacy and accuracy of the factual information contained in
Part III shall be verified upon being made available.
11.         The analysis contained in Part I of the PCR shall be commented on
upon being made available.
12.         The Bank's performance has been satisfactory throughout the
various phases of the project, with frequent communications cementing the
relationship with the Borrower. The Project was very clearly defined and the
implementation was smooth. The mutual cooperation of the Bank and the
Borrower has had a marked effect on the success of the Project.
13.         The Borrower fully thought out and raised the Project according to
well-defined plans, and has successfully channeled the loan proceeds to the
improvement of the system and customer service.
14.         There has been a good working relationship between the Bank and
the Borrower. Ideas were dealt with effectively, developed and implemented to
their fullest. Two-way communication ensured that the project went smoothly
and with cooperation.
15.         However, due to the currency risk item in all IBRD loans, we have
in recent years found that IBRD loans, i.e. 1986-JO and 2371-JO and now 2710-
JO, would never be an economical and constructive way for the development of
the JEPCO system. The following figures are indicative: Amount of the three
IBRD loans - 28,134,383 JD; Payments already made - 7,607,264 JD; Interest due
including exchange differences - 7,780,503 JD; Currency risks on payments that
have been done only - 5,403,804 JD; JD devaluation - 3,392,662 JD.
16.         In addition, and after persistent inquiries to IBRD and other
concerned parties, we still cannot get information as to how their risks are
calculated. We have requested the information several times from the frequent



17
Bank missions since they are extremely vital to us in helping us assess,
evaluate and verify an assortment of financial matters, but to no avail. The
continuous fluctuation of all currencies like the JD and even the "strong"
ones like the Dollar and the Pound affects us as a borrowing party drastically
instead of helping us. Since IBRD loans are intended to help the borrowers,
we kindly again request that the Bank explain to us how currency risks are
calculated. In addition, we hope that the Bank will also verify that the sum
of money being claimed from us under this item are correct, keeping in mind we
have been paying them in good faith.
Irbid District Electricity Company (IDECO)
17.         Information contained in statistical tables in part III are
correct:
a.    Table 1 IDECO participated in Loans 2371 and 2710
only.
b.    Table 2 and 3 concerning World Bank information.
c.    Table 4 concerning IDECO's components are completed.
d.    Table 5 - Project cost
IDECO component at appraisal
Local cost         :     3.60 M US$
Foreign cost       :     7.60
Total              :    11.20
IDECO's actual cost
Local cost               4.259 M US$
Foreign Cost             4.322
Total cost               8.581
e.    Table 5 - Allocation/expenditure
Original allocation
Equipment                3400000 US$
Installation       :      360000
Total              :     3760000
Actual expenditure
Equipment                3805045.20 US$
Installation       :     0
Total              :     3805045.20
f.    Table 6 - Project results
i.    Ideco completed the rehabilitation of the
Urban parts in Irbid & Ramtha.
ii.   15 villages were electrified.
iii.  Ideco acquired a main frame computer
equipment.



18
g.    Project results: financial impact
1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991
Self-fin. level (X)
Covenanted 20.00 20.00 20.00 30.00 30.00 30.00
Actual      48.00 43.00 72.00 -7.61  4.21  9.61
Debit Services (X)
Covenanted   1.50  1.50  1.50  1.50  1.50  1.50
Actual        1.63  1.26  1.14  1.06   .94  1.26
Collection (days)
Covenanted  45    45    45    45    45    45
Actual      40    52    48    72    117   88
18.         Comment on the analysis contained in part I of the PCR.  Project
details contained in Part I also correct from Ideco point of view.
19.         Project objectives.  The main objectives were to improve system
efficiency by implementation new investments and by introducing new
technologies.
20.         Project cost.  The original project cost was US$11.2 million,
foreign cost was financed by the World Bank while the local cost was financed
by Ideco own resources.
21.         Project design.  The scope of the project concerning IDECO's
components was the rehabilitation and expansion of the Urban distribution
network in Irbid and Ramtha and to electrify 15 villages in the Rural area.
22.         Project implementation.  The main items was implemented as
scheduled, one procurement package (computer hardware) was introduced later on
and approved by the World Bank.
23.         Project results.  The project achieved its objectives from IDECO's
point of view it helped in completing the rehabilitation and improving the
urban distribution network in Irbid and Ramtha. Also 15 villages were
electrified.
24.         Bank Performance.  The Bank performance was good throughout the
life of the project.
25.         The Bank's staff were very cooperative and they did their best to
answer our questions, and they continue to do so during the life of the
project.
26.         There were no delays during the appraisal process.
27.         The Bank's performance was satisfactory.
28.         The main lessons are:  Project cost should be well defined.



19
29.         The loan utilized to improve the system and to electrify another
15 villages, this result was achieved. IDECO's performance was satisfactory
in overall.
30.         Ideco staff performance was good during preparation stage, they
did their best to benefit from the Bank's experience to prepare the project.
31.         Ideco staff perform well they got experience from previous loan to
prepare tender document. All tender documents and evaluation reports were
prepared by Ideco's staff.
32.         Ideco's performance was unsatisfactory.  Ideco should appoint a
manager and an accountant to follow the project implementation.
33.         Ideco's staff prepare all tender document and evaluation reports
for this project only one tender document prepared by the consultant (PCR).
34.         The main lessons are to define project and project cost, appoint a
staff to follow-up latest technologies on the financial and manufacturing
process.
35.         Project relationship.  Both side did their best to complete the
project. A very good relationship with other parties.



20
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JORDAN
SIXTH POWER PROJECT
(LOAN 2710-JO)
PART III - STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1
RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Loan/Credit No.                 Description/                 Year of
Title                       Purpose                    Approval    Status
LN 1986-JO   Three components--JEA, JEPCO, Energy         May 1981   Completed
Fourth     Dept. (MIT). Laying of transmission                    PCR dated
Power    lines, extension and reinforcement of                     Jul. 1989
Project    transformer substations, electrification
of villages, consultant services, and
staff training. US$25 million.
LN 2162-JO   Construction of 2 X 130 MW oil fired         May 1982  Completed
Fifth     seawater cooled steam power station,                    PCR dated
Power    laying of transmission lines, and                         Jul. 1989
Project    consultant services. US$35 million.
LN 2371 -JO   Five components--petroleum exploration,     Dec. 1983  Completed
Energy     power distribution, energy conservation,                PCR dated
Development  renewable energy and energy planning.                   Aug. 1991
Project    To support key investments for the
improvement of Jordan's overall energy
efficiency and for power subsector
development. US$29.3 million.
Energy     A study of the main issues pertaining to    Feb. 1983
Sector    the Jordanian Energy Sector along with       Feb. 1990  Grey Cover
Study     proposed strategy for its development.        (Update)    Report
Energy     The objectives of the ESAP are to (i)       Jun. 1993   Appraisal
Sector     improve sector efficiency through            (exptd.)   Feb. 1993
Adjustment   comprehensive policy and institutional                  (exptd.)
Program    reforms; (ii) help energy sector
(ESAP)    institutions to cope with the
adjustment problems resulting from recent
macroeconomic developments; (iii) put in
place policies and programs to enable
efficient, long-term energy resource
development.
Comments:
The related bank loans have aided substantially in improving the efficiency and reliability of
the power subsector. At the present time, the Government has requested Bank assistance
for an ESAP, which forms a critical part of a macroeconomic adjustment program.



21
TABLE 2
PROJECT TIMETABLE
ITEM               DATE             DATE                  DATE
PLANNED          REVISED               ACTUAL
Identification         November 1983                      August-September 1984
Preparation              March 1984       March 1985         July-August 1985
Appraisal Mission         July 1985      October 1985    October-November 1985
Project Brief          January 1985    September 1985        December 1985
Loan Negotiation       December 1985      March 1986            April 1986
Board Approval          February 1986      April 1986            May 1986
Loan Signature                                                  June 1986
Loan Effectiveness      October 1986    December 1986         December 1986
Loan Closing             June 1991         June 1992          November 1992
Loan Completion          March 1993
Comments
(1) Appraisal Mission members: Ms. Z. Ladhibi (Engineer), Messrs.
W. Hamlet (Financial Analyst) and Mr. S. O'Brien-Kumi (Economist).
(2) Extensions in loan closing date to accommodate the completion of
procurement activities delayed mainly because of the devaluation of the JD
and effects of Gulf war.



22
TABLE 3
LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS
Bank                              Disbursements in US$ million
Fiscal      Quarter           Cummulative Amounts and Percentages
Year                     Appraisal        Yo       Actual         Yo
FY87          III            0.84        3.04        0.05        0.18
IV           1.67        6.07         0.39        1.42
FY88           I             3.16       11.49        1.11        4.04
11           4.65       16.91        3.24        11.78
III          7.23       26.27        4.07        14.80
IV           9.80       35.64         5.71       20.76
FY89           I            11.53      41.91         8.13       29.56
11          13.25       48.18       11.92       43.35
III         14.95       54.36       12.41       45.13
IV           16.65      60.55        13.70       49.82
FY90           I            19.15       69.64       15.96       58.04
11          21.65       78.73       18.82       68.44
III         23.22       84.44       19.64       71.42
IV          24.79       90.15        20.29       73.78
FY91           i            25.47       92.62       21.16       76.95
II          26.15       95.09       21.31       77.49
III         26.83       97.55       21.68       78.84
IV          27.50       100.00       21.71       78.95
FY92           i                                    22.46       81.67
22.70       82.55
III                                 24.10       87.64
IV                                   25.02       90.98
FY93           i                                    25.45       92.55
11                                  25.69       93.41
III                                 26.30       95.64
________ __   lV.IV
Comments:
As of November 12,1992 equivalent currency disbursed is about US$26,312,064
leaving an undisbursed amount of US$1,187,936.



23
TABLE 4
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
indicators/Components                 Appraisal                    Actual
[Aj JEA's component:
Extension of rural electrification  ^ Installation of equipment           Installed
program to improve public           * Training for hot-line               Deferred
electricity supply in JEA            work equipment
area; supplies, installation, and
training for hot-line work
equipment.
[B] JEPCO component:
Rehabilitation and extension of     Urban distribution network
urban distribution network in       * Installation of equipment           Installed
JEPCO concession area;              * Consulting services           Satisfactorily complied
extending rural electrification     * Training for hot-line               Complied
program to improve public            work equipment
electricity supply in JEPCO         * lmplementaion of MIS study      Partially complied
area; enhancement of project        Rural distribution network
engineering and construction        * Installation of equipment           Installed
supervision capabilities; supplies  * Consulting services           Satisfactorily complied
installation, and training
for hot-line work equipment;
implementation of MIS study.
[C] IDECO component:
Rehabilitation and extension of     Urban distribution network
urban distribution network in       * Installation of equipment           Installed
IDECO concession area;              * Consulting services           Satisfactorily complied
extending rural electrification     * Training for hot-line               Complied
program to improve public            work equipment
electricity supply in IDECO         Rural distribution network
area; enhancement of project          Installation of equipment           Installed
engineering and construction        * Consulting services           Satisfactorily complied
supervision capabilities; supplies
installation, and training
for hot-line work equipment.
[D] MEMR component:
Diagnostic study of power             Consulting services           Satisfactorily complied
distribution system in Jordan
with the objective of defining
measures to improve its
managerial, operational and
technical efficiency.



24
TABLE 5
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
(in US$ Million)
A. Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate            Actual
Local  Foreign           Local  Foreign
Project Component         Costs  Exchange  Total   Costs Exchange  Total
Costs                    Costs
[A] JEA component                    1.55    3.40    4.95    0.41      2.85     3.26
[B] JEPCO component                  18.40   36.60    55.00   20.00   38.50    58.50
[C] IDECO component                  3.60    7.60    11.20    4.23    4.32      8.55
ID] MEMR diagnostic study            0.15    0.35    0.50    0.15      0.36    0.51
Project Cost            23.70   47.95    71.65   24.79   46.02   70.81
Comments:
(1) Physical and price contingencies have been allocated to appropriate components.
(2) Project entities are exempt from taxes.
B. Financing Plan
Appraisal Estimate              Actual
Source                Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign   Total
(a) IBRD/World Bank                   0.00   27.50   27.50     n.a.     n.a.    n.a.
(b) Domestic
- Government contribution            0.15    0.00    0.15      n.a.     n.a.    n.a.
- JEA & customers' contributions      1.55    0.25     1.80    n.a.     n.a.    n.a.
- JEPCO & customers' contributions   18.40   16.60   35.00   20.00    18.50   38.50
- IDECO & customers' contributions   3.60    3.60    7.20      n.a.    n.a.     n.a.
23.70   47.95    71.65    n.a.    n.a.     n.a.
Comments:
(1) Foreign exchange risks are borne by the power entities.
(2) Customers' contributions = fees paid by customers to
be connected to the network.
Note: n.a. = not available



25
TABLE 5
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
C. Allocation/Expenditure of Loan Proceeds
Project               Original         Revised          Actual
Component              Allocation       Allocation     Expenditures
[Al JEA component
- Equipment                       2,400,000        2,900,000      2,833,475
- Installation works               500,000                0              0
- Additional                                         169,500         13,007
Subtotal                 2,900,000         3,069,500      2,846,482
[B] JEPCO component
- Equipment                      16,240,000       16,990,000     19,422,317
- Installation works               750,000           750,000        207,914
- Consultants' services           2,000,000        1,250,000        481,934
- Additional                                       1,110,500             0
Subtotal                18,990,000        20,100,500     20,112,164
[C) IDECO component
- Equipment                       3,400,000        3,400,000      3,835,562
- Installation works               360,000           360,000             0
- Additional                                         219,800             0
Subtotal                 3,760,000         3,979,800      3,835,562
[D] MEMR component
- Diagnostic Study                 350,000           350,000        361,477
- Additional                                            200              0
Subtotal                   350,000          350,200        361,477
[El UNALLOCATED                     1,500,000               0              0
Total                  27,500,000        27,500,000     27,155,686



26
TABLE 6
PROJECT RESULTS
A. DIRECT BENEFITS
Indicator           Appraisal         Closing Date          Comments
Estimate           Estimate
New customers with    27,200 new urban   Exceeded targets   Reaching full
public electricity   and 4,210 new rural                   potential
supply               customers
Quality of service   72,800 existing     Exceeded targets   Potential to address
urban customers                       more overloaded NWs
No. of villages             35 JEA             38 JEA      Nearing the 100%
electrified               45 JEPCO           45 JEPCO      rural electrification
15 IDECO           15 IDECO     target
Infrastructure       Equipment & matrl.       Installed    Enhances infrastructure
development          Data bases/banks        Completed    capability
Human resource       Training                Completed     Enhances
development          In-house & external     Completed     human resource
consultants                          capability
Expertladvisory         Completed
services            _



27
TABLE 6
PROJECT RESULTS (cont'd)
B. ECONOMIC IMPACT
Appraisal Estimate       PCR Preparation
Without     With     Without     With
Fuel      Fuel       Fuel       Fuel
Saving    Saving     Saving     Saving
For JEA             4.0%      12.0%      3.0%      12.0Yo
For JEPCO          13.001     14.0%     10.0%      10.0%
For IDECO           6.0%      7.0%       5.0%       6.0%
Total Project      12.0%      13.001    10.0%      10.001
Underlying Assumptions:
a) Opportunity cost of capital = 1 0%, Economic life = 30 years.
b) Project cost, including physical contingencies, at Jan. 1986 prices.
c) The economic cost of supply, excluding LRMC of distribution, was estimated
at 30.4 fils/kWh for urban and 33.47 fils/kWh for rural households.
d) Operations and maintenance cost of about 1 % of total capital costs per year
at appraisal has been changed to 2% of total capital costs.
e) The following growth rates in the number of consumers were used:
1993-2000 = 4% p.a.; 2001-2005 = 3% p.a.; 2006-2020 = 2% p.a..
f) Specific consumption per connected rural household at project completion were:
JEA = 430 kWh/year, JEPCO = 900 kWh/year and IDECO = 825 kWhlyear.
g) Electricity consumption was forecast to grow at the following annual average
rates: 1985-1990 = 1 0%; 1990-2000 = 8%; 2000-2005 = 6%; after 2005 = 4%.
h) For urban households, specific consumption was assumed to be:
JEPCO = 2,800 kWh/year and IDECO = 1,200 kWh/year.
i) Specific consumption was assumed to grow at 2% per year. Consumption was
adjusted for losses of about 20% for gross generation to serve the final
rural consumer and about 17% to serve the final urban consumer.
j) Benefits were measured as (a) incremental net sales valued at the urban and
rural electricity prices; (b) incremental revenues from connection charges
at US$135 per consumer; and (c) fuel savings.
k) Different average prices were used, based on specific consumption levels
in the new market areas: JEA = 66 fils/kWh (US$0.173/kWh); JEPCO -
56.28 fils/kWh (US$0.148/kWh) for urban and 51.3 fils/kWh (US$0.135/kWh) for rural;
IDECO = 48 fils/kWh (US$0.126/kWh) for urban and 52.5 fils/kWh (US$0.136/kWh) for rural.
I) Fuel savings: Difference between household expenditure on kerosene and
expenditure on electricity for lighting. JEA = JD 21/year; JEPCO = IDECO = JD 13/year.
m) Additional Fuel savings: Difference between annual rural household expenditure
on operating its TV set on acid battery and the expenditure on equivalent
amount of electricity. JEA = JD 42/year; JEPCO = JD 45/year; IDECO = JD 46/year.



28
TABLE 6
PROJECT RESULTS (cont'd)
C. FINANCIAL IMPACT
.| 1986     1987     1988     1989      1990     1991
Self-financing Level (%)
JEA    Covenanted      25.0     25.0      30.0     35.0      35.0     35.0
Actual          34.4     24.5     43.0   (137.0)   (553.7)   (276.1)
JEPCO Covenanted       25.0     25.0      30.0     35.0     35.0      35.0
Actual         37.0      33.0     34.0    (41.7)     19.8     26.7
IDECO  Covenanted      20.0     20.0     20.0      30.0     30.0      30.0
Actual         48.0      43.0     32.0    (39.2)    (39.0)    99.5
Debt Service Ratio (X times)
JEA    Covenanted      1.50     1.50      1.50     1.50      1.50     1.50
Actual          1.24     1.00     1.04     0.63      0.53     0.55
JEPCO  Covenanted      1.50     1.50      1.50     1.50      1.50     1.50
Actual          1.76     1.62     1.41     0.98      0.74     0.83
IDECO  Covenanted      1.50     1.50     1.50      1.50     1.50      1.50
Actual          1.63     1.26     0.97     0.72      0.56     0.87
Average Collection Period (days)
JEA    Covenanted       45        45       45       45        45       45
Actual           75       60        70       79       121       85
JEPCO  Covenanted        45       45       45        45       45       45
Actual           48       57        56       74        76       50
IDECO  Covenanted       45        45       45       45        45       45
Actual           40       52        48       65       106       62
Comments:
(a) Impact of JD devaluation in 1988/89 is reflected in dismal performance in the
last three years.
(b) With no adjustment in tariffs the poor self-financing levels and the inability to
service debt has contributed to declining performance.



29
TABLE 6
PROJECT RESULTS (cont'd)
D. STUDIES
Name of        Purpose as defined     Status              Impact of
Study            at Appraisal                              Study
Diagnostic Analysis    With a view to  Completed        Number of recommendations
of Jordan's Power   defining methods    in May 1987.    both long- and short-term
Distribution        of improving its   19.5 man-months. for improvements to the
System - Phase I     management,       US$158,000.      system. More detailed
EDF France          technical, and                      long-term analysis
operational                        suggested; leading to
efficiency.                        Phase II - 3 additional
studies.
Data Base Study          not defined   Completed        Analysis of computerized
in Sept. 1989.  management systems of
3 man-months.   Jordanian utilities.
Plan of action for
modifications.
Distribution Master      not defined   Completed        Enhances forecasting
Plan for Amman                         in Oct. 1989.    capabilities of loads
8 man-months.   and target network up to
2010. Standardization
of equipment, guidelines
for maintenance of LV and
MV networks.
Customer Management      not defined   Completed        Analysis and improvements
Improvement Study                      in Aug. 1989.    to existing system.
6 man-months.   Techno-economic analysis
to implementation of
recommendations.



30
TABLE 7
STATUS OF COVEKATS
Agreement     Section    Status                                      Description of Covenant                       Comments
Loan           4.01         PC                             Govt. to review with JEA, JEPCO, and            Govt. currently
IDECO three months before the                  considering
beginning of each fiscal year their             recommendations of the
projected financial performance for             Bank's recent Energy
following fiscaL year and to take               Sector Study.  if
action to ensure achievement of                 implemented these would
agreed financial objectives (S.4.02             heLp to achieve
of PAs with JEA, JEPCO, and IDECO).             compliance.
4.02        PC                              Govt. to ensure that JEA arrears on             JEA's accounts receivable
electricity sales are maintained at             are marginally above the
levels not exceeding 45 days from              covenanted level.
billing date.
PA--JEA        3.03         OK                             JEA to take out insurance consistent            Complied with.
with appropriate utility practices or
to make other satisfactory
alternative arrangements.
3.04        OK                              JEA to monitor its operational and              Monitoring results
financial objectives using indicators           submitted on a regular
satisfactory to the Bank and to                 basis.
provide the Bank with the results of
such monitoring on a regular basis.
3.05        PC                              JEA to maintain arrears fron                    Same as in 4.02 above.
electricity consumers at levels not
exceeding 45 days from bilLing date.
4.01        OK                              JEA to maintain adequate accounting             Adequate records
records and to have them properly              maintained and audited
audited and to submiit audited                  accounts submitted on
accounts to the Bank within 5 months            time.
of the end of each fiscal year.
4.02        NC                              JEA to achieve self-financing ratios            Targets not met in 1989.
of 25X in 1986 and 1987, 30X in 1988,           Financial restructuring
and 35X in 1989 and all subsequent              discussed under proposed
years.                                          ESAL.
4.03        NC                              JEA not to incur without Bank                   Not complied with.  See
agreement any L-T debt exceeding               4.02 above.
equivalent of USS1 million unless JEA
financial forecasts indicate that its
debt service coverage ratio would be
at least 1.5 times during the term of
that debt.
PA--JEPCO      3.03         OK                             JEPCO to take out insurance                     Complied with.
consistent with appropriate utility
practices or to make other
satisfactory alternative
arrangements.



31
TABLE 7
STATUS OF COVENATS (cont'd)
Aoreement    Section    Status                                     Description of Covenant                     Comments
3.04        OK                            JEPCO to monitor its operational and           Monitoring results
financial objectives using indicators         submitted on time.
satisfactory to the Bank and to
provide the Bank with the resuLts of
such monitoring on a regular basis.
3.05        OKC                           JEPCO to prepare and provide to the           CouipLeted.
Bank an action plan for upgrading Its
6.6-kV distribution network.
JEPCO to implement above plan by              Under implementation.
1990.
3.06        PC                            JEPCO to maintain arrears from                Same action as uider Loan
electricity consumers at levels not           4.02 above.
exceeding 45 days from biLling date.
4.01        01t                           JEPCO to maintain adequate accounting         Adeqte records
records and to have them property             maintained and audited
audited and to submit audited                 accounts submitted on
accounts to the Bank within 5 months         time.
of the end of each fiscal year.
4.02        NC                            JEPCO to achieve self-financing                Same action as under PA
ratios of 25X in 1986 and 1987, 30X           4.02 above.
in 1988, and 35X in 1989 and aLl
subisequent years.
4.03        NC                            JEPCO not to incur without Bank                See PA 4.02 above.
agreement any L-T debt exceeding
equivalent of USS1 mitlion unless
JEPCO financiat forecasts indicate
that its debt service coverage ratio
would be at Least 1.5 times during
the term of that debt.
PA--IDECO      3.03        OK1                            IDECO to take out insurance                   Complied with.
consistent with appropriate utility
practices or to make other
satisfactory alternative
arrangements.
3.04        Ol                             IDECO to monitor its operational and          Monitoring results
financial objectives using indicators         submitted on a regular
satisfactory to the Bank and to               basis.
provide the Bank with the resutts of
such monitoring on a regular basis.
3.05        PC                             IDECO to maintain arrears from                Same action as unider PA
electricity consumers at levels not           4.02 above.
exceeding 45 days from billing date.
Same action as urider Loan 4.02 above.
4.01        OK                             IDECO to maintain adequate accounting         Adequate records
records and to have them properly             maintained an  audited
audited and to submit audited                 accounts submitted on
accounts to the Bank within 5 months          time.
of the end of each fiscal year.



32
TABLE 7
STATUS OF COVEN ANS (cont'd)
Agreement      Section    Status                                       Description of Covenant                         Comments
4.02        NC                               IDECO to achieve self-financing                   Same action as PA 4.02
ratios of 25X In 1986, 1987, and                 above.
1988, 30X In 1989 and all subsequent
years.
4.03        NC                               IDECO not to incur without Bank                   See PA 4.02 above.
agreement any L-T debt exceeding
equivatent of USSI million unless
IDECO financial forecasts indicate
that its debt service coverage ratio
would be at least 1.5 times during
the term of that debt.
NC = Not coeplied with.
PC a Partly comptlied with.



33
TABLE 8
USE OF BANK RESOURCES
A. STAFF INPUTS
(In Staff-weeks)
Stage of        Planned   Revised   Actual    % of
Project Cycle       Total    Total     Total    Total
Through Appraisal
Oct. - Nov. 1985                              41.7   34.10%
Appraisal through
Board approval
May 1986                                      13.3   10.87
Supervision
starting July 1986
through PCR mission
September 1992                                67.3   55.03%
Total                                122.3
_-                    _         I         _                --



34
TABLE 8
USE OF BANK RESOURCES (cont'd)
B. MISSIONS
Stage of        Month/      Number Days    Specialization    Performance   Types
Project         Year          of     in      Represented       Rating       of    Comments
Cycle                      Persons  Field                     Status    Problems
Identification   Aug.-Sep. 1984     4      15  PWR, ECO, FA, C                            a/
Preparation     Jul.-Aug.1985       3      15   PWR, ECO, FA                              b/
Appraisal       Oct.-Nov. 1985      4      1B  PWR, ECO, FA, C
Supervision        Jul. 1986
Feb.1988          2     10      PWR, FA                1               c/
Nov.1988          3     10   PWR, ECO, FA              1               d/
Oct.-Nov. 1989      5      15    ECO, PWR,               3      F        el
FA, ESP (2)
May 1990         2      10     ESP, FAIC               3     F
Jul. 1991        2       7      ESP, C                 2     F
Completion/PCR
Sep.1992          1     10         C                   2      F        Ui
Comments:
a/ Along with supervision of LN 2371-JO
b/ Along with supervision of LN 1986-JO, LN 2162-JO and LN 2371-JO.
c/ Along with supervision of LN 2162-JO and Preparation of Power VII.
dl Along with PCR mission of LN 1986-JO and LN 2162-JO.
e/ Along with supervision of LN 2371 -JO.
Two members of disbursement mission joined supervision team
to clarify use of Special Account by project entities.
V Along with ESAL pre-appraisal mission.
Note:
Specialization: PWR - power engineer, ECO - economist, ESP = energy specialist,
FA - financial analyst, C = consultant.
Performance Rating: minor problems = 1, moderate problems = 2, major problems = 3.
Types of problems: P-procurement, F-financial, 0-operational, T-technical.



35
TABLE 8
USE OF BANK RESOURCES (cont'd)
C. COSTS
Stage of        Total $         Avg. $ Cost           Avg. $ Cost
Project            Cost of        of HQ Activities      of Fid. Activity
Cycle                Staff         per Mission            per Mission
Inputs          member                member
Through Appraisal
Appraisal through                       N 0 T
Board Approval
AVAI LABLE
Board Approval
through                                  O N
Effectiveness
M I S
Supervison



