                                               Documentof
                                             The World Bank

                                       FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                 ReportNo. 33786-GA




          INTERNATIONALBANKFORRECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT


                                        PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                                           FOR A PROPOSED

                               NATURALRESOURCESMANAGEMENT

                                   DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN

                              INTHE AMOUNT OFEURO 12.2 MILLION
                                   (US$15MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                    TO

                                     THE GABONESEREPUBLIC




                                             October 19,2005




Environmental, Rural & Social Development (AFTS3)
Gabon Country Management Unit
Africa Region


This document has arestricted distributionand may be usedby recipients only inthe performance o ftheir
official Duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                 CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
                                     Currency Unit= Euro      (e)
                             1.OO =US$1.22985 (August 31,2005)

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                     January 1- December 31


                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFD     Agence Francaise de De`veloppement (FrenchDevelopment Agency)
AfDB    African DevelopmentBank
ANPN    Agence Nationale des Parcs Nationaux (National Agency o fNationalParks)
BEAC    Banque des Etats d'Afrique Centrale (CentralBank of CentralAfrican States)
CAS      CountryAssistance Strategy
CFAA     CountryFinancialAccountability Assessment
COMIFAC  Inter-Ministerial Commission for Central African Forests
CPAR    CountryProcurementandAudit Review
DGI     Direction Gknkrale des ImpSts (General Directorateo f Taxes)
DGMP    Direction Gkndraledes Marchks Publics (General Directorateof Public Tenders)
DPL     DevelopmentPolicy Loan
EITI     ExtractiveIndustriesTransparencyImitative
EU       EuropeanUnion
FESP     Forest, Fisheries,Biodiversity andEnvironmentSector Program
FFG      Fundfor FutureGenerations
FIAS     ForeignInvestment Advisory Service
GEF      Global EnvironmentFacility
GPRSP    Growth andPovertyReductionStrategyPaper
IFC      IntemationalFinance Corporation
IMF      IntemationalMonetaryFund
IPDP     IndigenousPeopleDevelopment Plan
MIGA     Multilateral InvestmentGuaranteeAgency
MDGs     MillenniumDevelopmentGoals
MEFEPEPN Ministdre de I'Economie Forestidre, des Eaux, de la Ptche et de I'Environnement, chargk de la
         Protection de la Nature (Ministry of ForestEconomy, Water, Fisheries,and Environment,in charge
         ofNatureProtection)
MMEPRH   Ministdre des Mines, de 1'Energie, du Pktrole et des Ressources Hydrauliques (Ministry of Mines,
         Energy, Petroleum, andHydraulic Resources)
MTEF     Medium-TermExpenditureFramework
NGO     Non-GovemmentalOrganization
NRM      NaturalResources Management
OED      Operations EvaluationDepartment
PFM      Public FinanceManagement
PFE      Projet For& Environnement (Forest and EnvironmentProject)
PSFE     Programme Sectoriel For& PEches, Biodiversitk et Environnement (Forest, Fisheries,Biodiversity
         and EnvironmentSector Program)
RFP      ResettlementPolicy Framework
SNBG     Socie`te`Nationale des Bois Gabonais (NationalCompanyof GaboneseTimber)


            Vice President:                         Gobind T. Nankani, AFRVP
            Director:                               Ali M.Khadr, AFC07
            Sector Manager                          JosephBaah-Dwomoh, AFTS3
            Task Team Leader:                       Laurent Debroux, AFTS3

                                                                           FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
                                                     TABLEOF CONTENTS

       I. INTRODUCTION                                                                                             1

       11.   COUNTRY CONTEXT                                                                                       1
                A.      RECENTECONOMICDEVELOPMENTSINTHE GABONESE REPUBLIC                                          1
                B.      MACROECONOMICOUTLOOK AND DEBT SUSTAINABILITY                                               3
                C.      THE NATURAL RESOURCES SECTOR CONTEXT                                                       5

       111.     THE GOVERNMENT'SPROGRAM                                                                            12

       IV.      BANKSUPPORTTO THE GOVERNMENT'SPROGRAM                                                              14
                A.      LINKTOCAS                                                                                  14
                B.      COLLABORATION WITH IMFAND OTHERDONORS                                                      15
                C.      RELATIONSHIP TO OTHERBANKOPERATIONS                                                        15
                D.      LESSONSLEARNED                                                                             16
                E.      ANALYTICAL UNDERPINNINGS                                                                   17

       V.       THE PROPOSEDOPERATION                                                                              18
                A.      OPERATIONDESCRIPTION                                                                       18
                B.      POLICYAREAS                                                                                19

       M. IMPLEMENTATIONOFTHEOPERATION                                                                             30
                A.      FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE                                                                       30
                B.      IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING AND EVALUATION                                                  30
                C.      POVERTY AND SOCIALIMPACT                                                                   31
                D.      SUPERVISION                                                                                32
                 E.     FIDUCIARYAND FINANCIALMANAGEMENT ASPECTS                                                   33
                 F.     ENVIRONMENTALASPECTS                                                                       36
                 G.     RISKSAND RISK MITIGATION                                                                   37

                                                         ANNEXES

        ANNEX 1: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENTPOLICY                                                                       39
                 PART I:    FORESTRY, FISHERIES,BIODIVERSITY AND ENVIRONMENT                                       39
                 PART11: MINING                                                                                    67
        ANNEX 2: OPERATIONPOLICY MATRIX                                                                            101
        ANNEX 3: INDICATORS OF PROGRESS TOWARDS SECONDTRANCHERELEASE                                               102
        ANNEX 4: MATRIX OF DONORS' POSITIONINGINSUPPORT OF THE FESPPROGRAM 106
        ANNEX 5: FUNDRELATIONS NOTE                                                                                107
        ANNEX 6: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE                                                                               109

        Map - IBRDNo. 34299
        The First Natural Resources Management Development Policy Loan was prepared by an IBRD team consisting of: Laurent
        Debroux (Forestry Specialist, AFTS3, Task Team Leader), Giuseppe Topa (Lead Forest Specialist, AFTS3), Mohammed
        Bekhechi (Lead Counsel, LEGEN), Mehmaz Teymourian (Country Manager, AFMGA), Rick Tsouck Ibounde (Economist,
        AFTP3), Boubacar-Bocoum(Mining Specialist, COCPO), SilvanaTordo (Sr. Energy Economist, COCPO), Kieran Kelleher(Sr.
        Fisheries Specialist, ARD), Robert Robelus (Sr. Environment Assessment Specialist, AFTSI), Dan Aronson (Consultant,
        AFTSI),Francesco Sam0 (Consultant, AFTPC), Emile Finateu (Sr. Financial Management Specialist, AFTFM), Bella Lelouma
        Diallo (Sr. Financial Management Specialist, AFTFM), Sheela Reddi (LanguageProgram Assistant, AFTS3), Emmanuel Fiadzo
        (Economist, AFTP3), Andrea Kucey (Operations Officer, AFC07), Mpoy Kamulayi (Lead Counsel, LEGAF), Renee Desclaux
        (Finance Officer, LOAG2), Agnes Albert-Loth (Sr. FinanceOfficer. LOAG2). PacomeKossv(Consultant. AFTS3).

This document has a restricted distribution and may be usedby recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


                                            ...
                                           111




 NATURAL RESOURCESMANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT POLICY LOAN

                         LOAN PROGRAMSUMMARY
                                 AND

Borrower:     The Gabonese Republic

Amount:       12.2 million (US$15 million equivalent).

Terms:        Loan. Fixed Spread Loan (FSL) with a commitment-linked amortization
              schedule, payable in 15 years, including 3 years o f grace, at six months
              LIBOR plus fixed spread for FSLs denominated inEuros ().

Description:  The proposed loan (NRM DPL) aims to improve the efficiency o f natural
              resources management in Gabon, to increase its impact on poverty
              alleviation, to protect the environment, and to reduce the country's
              dependence on declining oil resources. It covers renewable natural
              resources-forests,    fisheries, biodiversity and environment-as   well as the
               country's mining(mostly manganese) and oil sectors.

              With regard to forest, fisheries, biodiversity and environment, the proposed
               loan will support the reform agenda set forth in the M a y 2004 Letter o f
               Sector Policy which will be implemented through the national multi-donor
               Forest, Fisheries, Biodiversity and Environment Sector Program (FESP). The
               proposed loan will also support Gabon's participation in the Extractive
               Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) for oil and miningrevenues, and it
               will lay the foundation for broader reforms in the mining sector. Policies
               supported by the proposed loan focus on enhancing transparency,
               accountability and law enforcement, on improving the business climate, on
               ensuring equitable sharing o f revenues, and on protecting the resource-base
               and natural ecosystems.

               The proposed loan i s featured in the base-case scenario o f the Country
               Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Gabon. It consists o f two tranches: on
               effectiveness 4.1 million (US$5 million equivalent) will be disbursed on the
               basis o f prior actions met before negotiations; and 8.1 million (US$lO
               million equivalent) will be disbursed after second tranche conditions are
               completed. It i s complemented by a US$lO.O million GEF grant for national
               parks and biodiversity conservation.

               Under a CAS high-case scenario, the proposed loan would be followed by a
               second Natural Resources Management Development Policy Loan (DPL2)
               covering the same policy areas and designed to deepen and consolidate the
               implementation o freforms introducedunder the present operation.

Benefits:      The proposed Loan would support Gabon's poverty reduction and
               diversification strategy in key sectors o f the economy: forest, fisheries and
               mining. It would help increase the State's and local communities' share of
               the natural resources rent, and would generate additional employment and
               economic activities. It also gives priority to accountability and participatory

                                           iv


              processes, to securing users' rights, and to community-based management
              initiatives. It will help put in place a level playing field to promote
              responsible entrepreneurs rather than rent-seeking behaviors. The main
              benefits o f the FESP will depend mostly on the government's capacity to
              improve transparency and efficiency in the allocation o f forest, fisheries and
              mining concessions, to secure tax collection, to transfer a share o f these
              revenues to local communities, to curb illegal logging, fishing and mining,
              and to increase investors' confidence leading to additional job creation.
              Benefits will also arise from local communities being able to exert customary
              rights on their forests and other natural resources. Participatory management
              o f national parks and ecotourism may generate some level o f employment
              and revenues to the local population, but the real size o f such benefits
              remains unclear. With regard to the EITI, the DPL i s likely to have a positive
              impact on the transparent management o f oil revenues, Gabon's main source
              o f income. The participatory approach and the emphasis on transparency and
              accountability involved in the FESP and the EITI will help step up civil
              society's participation in the debate on better use o f Gabon's exceptional
              natural resources endowment. The proposed DPL will also support Gabon's
              sustainable development by protecting its renewable natural resources
              endowment, including forests, fisheries, biodiversity and other environmental
              services.

              Policies supported by the proposed DPL will also directly benefit the global
              community and will be implemented through a US$10 million GEF grant,
              among others.

Risks:        The proposed Loan carries non-negligible risks. The four main risks pertain
              to: (i) shift inGovernment priorities; (ii) of law enforcement inthe field;
                                                          lack
              (iii)delays inbudget allocations andweakfinancialmanagementcapacity;
              and (iv) misperception by local or international stakeholders o f the Bank's
              strategy with regard to natural resources management. Key mitigation
              measures are embedded inthe DPL's policy matrix.

Estimated
Disbursement: The proposed Loan amounting to 12.2 million (US$15 million equivalent)
              consists of two tranches:

                   (1) 4.1 million (US$5 million equivalent) will be disbursed upon
                        effectiveness on the basis o fprior actions met before negotiations;

                   (2) 8.1 million (US$lO million equivalent) will be disbursed after
                        second tranche conditions are completed.

Implementing
Agency:       The Ministries o f Finance; Forest, Fisheries and Environment; Mines and
              Petroleum; and Planning.

ProjectIDNo.: PO70196

                                                       1

                                         I.INTRODUCTION

1. The proposed Natural Resources Management Development Policy Loan (DPL1) in an
amount o f 12.2 million (equivalent to US$l5.0 million) i s featured in the base-case scenario of
the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Gabon that was discussed by the Board on May 24,
2005 (document number R2005-0102). This loan covers renewable natural resources-forests,
fisheries, biodiversity, and environment-as         well as the country's mining (mostly manganese)
and oil sectors. It i s complemented by a US$lO.O million GEF grant for biodiversity
conservation.

2. The operation's overall objectives are to increase the contribution o f renewable natural
resources to national income to help reduce the country's heavy dependence on declining oil
resources while protectingthe natural resource base, and more generally to improve the efficiency
and equity o f the management o f Gabon's natural resources. It focuses on strengthening the
policy and institutional framework for the management o f natural resources, notably through
greater transparency and accountability and better enforcement o f laws and regulations. Under a
CAS high-case scenario, the proposed DPLl would be followed by a second development policy

implementation o f reforms introducedunder DPLl.
loan (DPL2) covering the same policy areas and designed to deepen and consolidate the


3. Regarding forests, fisheries, biodiversity, and environment, the proposed DPL1 would
support the reform agenda set forth in Gabon's Letter o f Sector Policy. The Letter was adopted in
2004 and will be implemented through the multi-donor-supported national Forest, Fisheries,
Biodiversity and Environment Sector Program (FESP).'

4. The proposed DPLl will also support the Government's participation in the Extractive
Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) for oil and miningrevenues. In the case o f the mining
sector, it would also lay the foundation for broader reforms.


                                    11.COUNTRY CONTEXT

A.       RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS

5. A resource-rich count?. Gabon has about 1.4 million inhabitants. It i s one o f Africa's most
urbanized countries with approximately 75 percent o f the population living in two major urban
centers and about fifty smaller towns. The ruralpopulation i s widely dispersed over the hinterland
where access i s difficult. Immigrants account for a significant proportion o f the population,
mostly in urban and coastal areas. Gabon i s the fourth largest oil producer and exporter inAfrica.
Since the 196O's, oil has been the major driving force inthe economy. In2004, oil accounted for
43 percent o f GDP, 81 percent o f export earnings and 55 percent o f Government revenues. Gabon
i s also well-endowed with forests, fisheries, and mineral resources. It is Africa's second largest
exporter o f timber, and it has the second largest deposit o f manganese inthe world.

6. Hinh per capita income, but with widespread poverp. In 2004, Gabon's per capita income
was estimated US$5,439, being one o f the countries with the highest wealth indicator in Africa.
However, this does not reflect equitable development and improved standard o f living for the
majority o f the population. As a measure o f its relatively poor social indicators, Gabon i s ranked

`Programme    Sectoriel Fori%, Pkches, Biodiversitt! et Environnement (PSFE)

                                                    2

number 122 out of 177 countries on the UNDP's Human Development Index. Most o f Gabon's
social indicators lag behind those o f other middle-income countries.

7. Declining oil production and the need for economic diversification. Since 1997, Gabon has
been experiencing a gradual decline in oil output because its current oil fields are aging,
Exploration has not revealed the existence o f any significant new oil deposit. Following the
recent increases in oil prices, additional fields that had previously been considered non-
commercial have been opened.
However,      the   production    i s                 Figure 1. Oil Productionin Millions of Barrels
expected to decline over the next
two years, to 11 million tons a               160 ,  -           - I -




year, as compared to 17 million           v1  140 -
tons in 1998. Between 2004 and            -2  120
2008, it i s expected to decline by       2L. 100
about 4.8 percent annually, on            c
                                          0    80
average. The government i s aware         .-Po 60 -
that oil dependency i s no longer a       =    40 -
feasible policy option for Gabon.              20 -
It is also aware that no single                 0  '
                                                        I

alternative   resource    could be
exploited on a sustainable basis at
a rate capable o f offsetting the                                           Year
                                          Source: IMI: lislimalca
projected shortfalls in petroleum
revenues. In view of these constraints, the Government o f Gabon i s taking steps to diversify
sources o f growth and employment. Promising areas of economic diversification include are
mining, forestry, fisheries, as well as new sectors like tourism, information and communication
services, and technology. Gabon will also need to ensure the sustainability o f its natural resource
base and protect the environment.

8.  Growth. While economic growth has recovered somewhat from the setback o f the late
nineties, it remains modest. While the overall macroeconomic environment has remained stable
since 2000, the economy has been vulnerable to fluctuations in oil prices as well as to a declining
trend in oil production. Real GDP growth recovered from -1.9 percent in 2000 to 1.4 percent in
2004 (Table 2). The combination of higher oil prices and improved economic policies led to
better-than-projected economic performance in2004.

9. Fiscal policy. Since 2002 fiscal policy has generally been consistent with macroeconomic
objectives. The Government continued its consolidation o f public finances in 2003 and 2004,
with the budget posting a surplus o f 7.8 percent of GDP in 2004. Gabon has been successful in
curtailing the growth o f recurrent expenditure by reducing the proportion of recurrent expenditure
to GDP from 19.9 percent in 2000 to 16.4 percent in 2004, and the wage bill from 6.4 percent to
5.9 percent of GDP over the same period. Moreover, the Govemment i s assessing the public
expenditure framework for social services and poverty reduction in the context o f a Growth and
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (GPRSP), currently under consideration. However, low
execution rates of the investment budget and gaps between allocated and executed budgets
continue to hamper the efficiency of public spending and the delivery o f public services. The
Government has recently reduced tax and custom exemptions, improved the collection o f tax
arrears, and increased the mobilization o f non-oil revenue from 12.2 percent o f GDP in 2001 to
13.4 percent in2004 (Table 1).

                                                    3




               Table 1: Gabon Key EconomicIndicators2001-2004
                                  -
                                                              2001 2002     2003   2004
                                                                                   Prel.
                 RealGDP growth (% per year)                  2.0    0.0      2.6   1.4
                   Oil (% per year)                           -5.7   -1.4     6.8  -1.0
                   Non-oil(% per year)                         5.3   0.6      1.0   2.3
                 Inflation (endperiod) (% peryear)             1.o   0.4      3.5  -0.6
                 Gross investment/GDP(%)                      25.8  24.4     24.0  24.3
                 Gross nationalsavings/GDP(%)                 36.8  29.6     33.5  34.8
                 Revenue/GDP(%)                               34.0  31.5     29.8  29.1
                   Oilrevenue/GDP                             21.8   17.7    16.2   15.7
                   Non-oilrevenue/GDP                         12.2   13.9    13.6   13.4
                 Total expenditure/GDP("h)                    30.8   28.1    22.4  21.6
                 Primary budgetbalance/GDP(%)                  3.2   3.5      7.4   11.5
                 Overalibalance (excludinggrants)/GDP (%)      3.2   3.4      7.4   7.5
               Source: IMF andWorld Bank

10. Inflation. Although high oil prices will generate additional liquidity as reflected in the rising
level o f money supply, the level o f inflation i s expected to remain at its present low level, which,
on average, stood at 1.2 percent during the period 2000-2004. However, the price level in
Libreville will continue to reflect price distortions produced by the oil price boom. It should
however be noted that the main source high inflation ever experienced in Gabon was not oil
induced but resulted from the devaluation o f the CFA franc in 1994, which caused domestic
prices to rise by 36 percent. The pegging of the CFA franc to the  since 2002 and the generally
sound monetary policy pursued by the sub-regional central bank (BEAC) reduced the average
inflation to 1.O percent.

11. Management of oil revenue. In1998 the Government passed a law to set up a Fundfor Future
Generations (FFG). Under this legislation, the FFG i s earmarked to receive 10 percent o f
projected oil revenues, 50 percent o f "windfall" revenues, and accumulated interest. To this end,
the Government has been making regular deposits to the FFG account inBEAC since 2002. The
FFG held a balance o f 60 billion CFA francs as o f February 2005. Together with the recent
adhesion to the EITI, the revenue management policy adopted by the authorities suggests a move
towards better governance and transparency inthe management o f non-renewable resources,

B.       MACROECONOMIC OUTLOOK AND DEBT SUSTAINABILITY

 12. Stable though modest growth. Despite the challenge o f declining oil output, prospects for the
medium term indicate stable, though modest, growth. A combination o f higher oil prices and
improved economic policies in Gabon result in more optimistic forecasts for economic growth in
the future than envisaged a few years ago, assuming the continuation o f higher oil prices,
continued prudent fiscal management, and successful export diversification. Investment inrubber
production, ongoing expansion o f the agri-business sector, as well as more efficient management
of the forest, fisheries and mining sectors should boost the non-oil GDP growth rate from about
2.3 percent in 2004 to 3.5 percent on average from 2005 to 2008 (Tables 1 and 2). The expected
gains in the non-oil sectors should somewhat offset the declining oil production to achieve an
average GDP growth rate o f about 1 percent during the period 2004-2008. The projected high
prices for oil and manganese would also help the external position. The external current account

                                                 4

surplus at 10.2 percent o f GDP in 2004, is forecast to decrease to about 6.5 percent in 2006. In
terms o f the composition o f GDP, while the oil sector accounts for close to 70 percent o f GDP at
present, it is expected that over the medium term, the share of the non-oil sector will account for
more than 50 percent o f the GDP.

             Table 2: Gabon Key Economic Indicators 2005-2008
                               -
                                                          2005    2006     2007    2008
                                                          Proj    Proj     Proj    Proj
              RealGDP growth(%per year)                    2.0     0.2     0.7      1.o
                 Oil (%per year)                          -0.6     -8.6    -8.0     -7.0
                 Non-oil (%per year)                       3.0     3.5     3.5      3.4
              Inflation(endperiod) ("YOper year)           1.o     2.0      1.4     1.5
              Gross investment/GDP(%)                     22.7    22.3     22.2    21.4
              Gross nationalsavings/GDP (%)               38.1    38.2     39.2    40.1
              RevenueiGDP ("YO)                           32.4    32.2     32.2    32.1
                 Oilrevenue/GDP                           16.9     16.7    15.6     15.1
                 Non-oilrevenue/GDP                       15.5     14.6    16.6     17.0
              Total expenditure/GDP (%)                   19.6    20.7     21.0    21.3
              Primarybudgetbalance/GDP ("YO)              13.8     12.3    10.4     10.2
              Overallbalance(excludinggrants)/GDP (%)     10.8     9.5      8.4     8.2
             Source: IMF andWorldBank

13. Debt management. Gabon has historically borrowed extensively to support its expansionist
economic policies. This approach has left the country with costly debt and relatively heavy debt-
service ratios. While the debt i s manageable over the longer term, high debt-service ratios pose a
problem in the short run, constraining the possibility o f redirecting fiscal resources to improve
public service delivery. Most external debt i s owed to official bilateral creditors, inparticular to
France. For this reason, there is less risk o f an unforeseen increase in the interest cost of debt,
unlike other middle-income countries that raise most o f their financing needs in capital markets.
Thanks to high oil prices and satisfactory performance under an IMF program, Gabon has
strengthened its overall debt management in the past two years. Due to better liquidity
management, the country's payments to banks and commercial institutions in settlement of debt
have been regular. With the approval o f the IMF Standby Arrangement, the Paris Club took note
of the country's improved macroeconomic and fiscal performance. In June 2004, it reached an
agreement with the Govemment o f Gabon to reschedule part o f the country's external debt. The
Paris Club consolidated around 717 million, which resulted in a reduction in debt service to
Paris Club creditors from 953 million to 270 million over the life o f the debt.

    Table 3: ExternalAccount Indicators and FinancingRequirements 2005-2008
                                                     2005       2006         2007       2008
                                                     Proj.      Proj.        Proj       Proj
      Exports' (annual % change)                      13.9       -8.8        -8.7        -8.5
      Imports3(annual % change)                       7.7        -0.2        -13.9       2.5
      Current accountbalance/GDP (%)                  13.7       12.2        10.2        10.1
      Capitalaccountbalance/GDP ("YO)                -10.6       -8.6        -8.5        -8.2
      Overallbalance/GDP(%)                           3.1        3.6          1.7        1.9
      Financinggap (% of GDP)                         0.0        0.0          0.0        0.0


 Current dollar terms.
 Ibid.

                                                     5


     Source: IMF andWorld Bank updatedJune 2005
14. The external debt stock has decreased from 63.1 percent o f GDP in 2001 to 50 percent in
2004. It i s projectedto fall further to 42.4 percent in2006 (Table 4). The latest debt sustainability
analysis indicates that this decline i s due to three factors: (a) less rapid decline in oil receipts due
to higher prices and less rapidly declining production volumes; (b) moderate non-oil growth; and
(c) continued fiscal adjustment that results in no financing gaps. The baseline analysis indicates
that the external debt to GDP ratio decreases continuously, financing gaps disappear, and that
debt service ratios peak within the next five years and decline thereafter. One key assumption
underlying this trajectory i s the growth of non-oil GDP which i s projected to average 3.5 percent
in2004-2010.

     Table 4: ExternalDebt Exposure Indicators 2001-2006 (inpercent)
                                                     2001     2002   2003     2004    2005     2006
      External Debt stock/GDP                         63.1    62.7    55.9     50      45.5     42.4
      External Debt-service ratio/exports             24.2     9.8    13.7    14.1     12.8     13.5
      External Debt-service ratio/ revenue            40       16.2   23.4    33.7     29.2     33.1
     Sources: Government of Gabon, IMF, andBank staffestimates

15. Proiected Government Exuenditure. The IMF Staff Report for the fourth review o f the Stand-
By Agreement includes the present operation, and shows that no financing gap remains in the
government expenditures projectedfor the period 2006-2008 (see Table 3).

16. Bunk Exposure. Creditworthiness indicators are moving in the right direction although the
preferred creditor ratio will continue to increase due to bilateral debt being paid down and new
financing from bilateral sources principally inthe form o f grants. To mitigate this risknew IBRD
lending will be aligned with the continuity o f reforms, including those inthe forestry, mining,and
fisheries sectors.

       Table 5. IBRD Debt Exposure Indicators
                                             2001      2002      2003     2004     2005      2006

              IBRDDS/ public DS               1.9       2.6       2.5      2.5      2.3       2.3
      Preferred creditor DS/ public DS (%)    13.2      3.8       25.2     15.7    17.5      17.1
                 IBRDDS/ XGS                  0.7       0.7       0.7      0.7      0.9        1
           IBRDTDO ($US million)               55        50       49        38      37        52
     Sources: Government o f Gabon, IMF, andBank staffestimates



C.       THENATURALRESOURCES SECTOR CONTEXT

17. To foster shared and sustainable growth, some o f Gabon's challenges consist o f (i)
improving efficiency and equity in the use o f the country's public resources, both natural and
financial; (ii)diversifying the economy by improving the investment climate for responsible
private sector development; and (iii)     improving governance, through improved transparency and
accountability in the use o f public resources and service delivery. The management of natural
resources i s central in this agenda. Key features o f the oil sector context are presented in section
11-Aabove, The present section focuses on Gabon's other main natural resources, namely forest,
biodiversity and environment, fisheries, and mining.

                                                     6



Forests

18. Gabon has a rich endowment in forest resources. They are diverse, abundant and apportioned
for various uses, including biodiversity and wildlife conservation, sustainable production o f
timber and non-timber products, and tourism and environmental services. The total area o f
tropical forest amounts to around 21 million hectares, o f which less than 2 million hectares is
classed as secondary forest or fallows. A large part o f forest area i s unexploited and relatively
inaccessible. Around 16 million hectares i s classified by the World Resources Institute as "large
areas inl o w access tracts" defined as forest areas at least 2 kilometers (km) from public roads and
incontiguous blocks of at least 1,000 square km.With a per capita forest area of 22 hectares, the
pressure o f population on the forest resource i s significantly lower in Gabon than inmost African
timber-supplying countries. With a total reported o f 2.7 million cubic meters per year, Gabon i s
the largest exporter o f raw timber in Afkica. The forest sector i s the country's second largest
employer and earner o f foreign exchange, accounting for 15 percent o f total foreign exchange
earnings. Exports are estimated at US450 million per year, over 60 percent o f which go to
China.

19. Of Gabon's 21 million hectares of rainforest, around 10.7 million hectares are allocated as
concessions for commercial timber production. Roughly half o f them are very large (over
200,000 hectares) and under concession contracts with fewer than a dozen international logging
companies. The other half i s held by a large number o f small- and medium-scale, mostly non
professional, permit holders who rent out their permit to larger companies for a fee (`tfermage").
The 10.7 million hectares currently under logging permits represent the vast majority o f Gabon's
productive forest estate, estimated at around 13 millionhectares. The rest o f the forest areas are in
rural areas or under protection status4.

20. Despite its importance, the forest sector has only recently been regarded by the Government
as a strategic economic resource. While a new Forest Code was adopted in December 2001 and
forest institutions have been somewhat strengthened, the sector has remained relatively
unstructured. Inan economy dominated by the oil sector, Gabon has not focused on forests as a
source of national income and state revenues. This sector has contributed relatively little to the
country's economic and social development. The procedures used to allocate logging permits
were administrative and final decisions were made on a discretionary basis. Until recently, the
fact that a handful of investors, high-ranking civil servants, and members o fpolitical or economic
elites reaped most o f the benefits from forests remained a widely accepted notion and an
unchallenged reality in the context o f Gabon. Traditionally modest, the forest sector's direct
contribution to state revenues was proportionately significantly lower than this sector's
contribution in countries like Cameroon, the Central African Republic, and the Republic o f
Congo. The 2004 Finance L a w updated a forest taxation system that had been established in 1944
and never revised until 2004 (nominal area taxes had actually remained the same for 60 years).
Until 2004, there were about 10 different taxes, but the actual recovery of these taxes was
unmonitored and unreported. Defaulting contracts were not cancelled, and new contracts
continuedto be awarded to defaulting individuals and companies.

21. According to the 2001 Forest Code, Gabon's national forest estate i s to be divided into two
broad categories: (i) permanent forest estate, comprised o f protection forests (national parks
                        the
and other protected areas) and of production forests (to be managed under sustainable forest


  See official map of forest concessions and national parks in Gabon as o f November 30, 2004, posted o n
the website o f the Ministry o f Finance inFebruary 2005 (http:/fm,finances.gouv.ga/fiscforet.htm).

                                                     7

management plans'); and (ii) rural forests located mostly in proximity o f villages and which
                                  the
are to be managed by local communities. Logging in the rural domain i s to take place under
small, short-term permits usually called "coupes familiales" or through community forests.
However, the distinction between the permanent and the rural forest estates has not been mapped
out on a national scale. The boundaries o f permanent and rural forests have not been discussed
with local populations and have not been demarcated on the ground. In practice, the spatial
distribution o f various types o f logging permits result from unorganized allocation inresponse to
individual requests. Inseveral cases, logging titles overlap with each other.

22. Local price setting and international sales o f major timber export species are controlled by a
marketing board called SocietB Nationale des Bois Gabonais (SNBG). Created in 1975, the
SNBGhadthe monopoly for the international trade of Gabon's two maintimber species (okoumC
and ozigo) and was loaded with a series o f other regulatory and statistical functions. As with
comparable marketing boards, this entity was able to make large surpluses when demand and
international prices peaked, while making heavy losses during market downturns, which the
central government and forest companies were forced to absorb. The most recent o f SNBG's
financial  crises were in 1998 and inthe period 2001-2003. Most surpluses made by SNBG were
reportedly used to expand the organizational structure, and to support a burgeoning and highly-
paidbureaucracy.

23. Enforcement o f laws and contracts has been plagued by lack o f sufficiently specific
regulations, and delays and exceptions granted on a discretionary basis. Non-compliance by well-
connected individuals and companies was generally tolerated, resulting in a sense o f unfairness
and insecurity that discouraged more law-abiding investors. The highcosts o f the lax enforcement
environment in terms o f forgone revenues and resource sustainability i s something the
Government has recently come to recognize. They are costs that the Government i s no longer
willing to pay. It has likewise realized the effects of poor forest management and governance on
its own international standing, and its ability to attract more responsible investors. Greater
transparency, public accountability, regulatory effectiveness, and fiscal responsibility are also
related to the credibility o f Government's action-a         necessary condition for modernizing the
sector and removing bottlenecks which have hampered its performance inthe past.

24. In the rural domain, the old system o f "coupes familiales" served local elites more than
village people, and it was often used by industrial companies as a way to escape fiscal and
environmental obligations that apply to larger logging permits in the permanent forest domain.
Four years after the adoption o f the new forest code, no one community forest has been created,
and the basic regulatory and incentive framework to enable communities to developing such
forests i s still missing.

25. The baseline situation prior to the reformprocess this operation helped set inmotion refers to
the beginning o f 2004. At that time: (i)   allocation o f commercial forests was made exclusively on
an administrative basis and no plan existed for shifting to a more competitive and transparent
allocation system; (ii)   the list o f concessions, the names o f concessionaires and their position in
relation to fiscal, environmental and other legal obligations represented highly confidential
information which could not be disclosed to the public or development partners; (iii)the
unorganized spatial distribution o f logging rights resulted in a patchwork o f small permits for
which sustainable management plans could hardly be implemented, and in overlaps between
permits; (iv) the Govemment was inclined to maintain SNBG as a marketing board and possibly

  Large concessions in the permanent forest estate are called Concessions ForestiBres d 'Aminagement
Durable (CFAD)or Permis Forestiers Associb (PFA).

                                                   8

expand its mandate to other species beyond okoume and ozigo, despite the increasingly strong
opposition o f the private sector; (v) the tax regime remainedlargely unapplied: recovery rates for
2002 and 2003 were below 10 percent6; (vi) the design and implementation o f management plans,
an important innovation which the 2001 forest law made mandatory for all concession holders,
was started by only a few companies while the Government gave little signs o f determination to
enforce this measure; (vii) some important regulations needed to enforce the 2001 forest law on
the ground were missing; and (viii) the credibility o f control operations undertaken by the forest
administration was low. Overall, there was an expectation that little improvement would occur
unless changes proposed by various stakeholders were adopted and forceful measures were taken
against non-compliant companies. Given the limited transparency o f the sector, it was also felt
that Gabon's governance efforts would not be recognized domestically and internationally, unless
a thirdparty couldbe associated with control operations.

26. The process of reform started in 2004. The recognition o f these issues and resolve to
purposefully address them in large measure led to the commitments made in the Letter o f Sector
Policy approved in M a y 2004 by the Government under the leadership o f the President, in the
context o f the preparation o f the present operation and o f the dialogue with the IMF. The Letter
laid out a bold agenda for forest sector reforms. Sections concerning production forests call for
public disclosure o f all holders o f logging contracts, and their status with respect to fiscal and
other contractual obligations. Discretionary, administrative allocation o f forest permits i s to end,
to be replaced by a more transparent and competitive award process. Forest permits held by non-
complying operators are to be returned to the national forest domain. The Letter moreover
prescribes a moratorium on all new allocations until the new competitive and transparent award
system i s operational. The SNBGi s to be radically transformed. Its monopoly is to end and it i s to
be stripped o f all publicly-funded regulatory functions that it performs on behalf of the
Government.

27. The Letter o f Sector Policy reaffirmed the Government's determination to enforce the rule
that all companies and individuals holding concessions must prepare and submit for approval
management plans and that non compliant concessionaires would lose their rights over the forest.
This particular measure supports a trend towards responsible forest management which is already
underway within part o f Gabon's private sector. Incompliance with the 2001 Forest Code and in
response to increasingly demanding foreign markets-particularly        in Europe-private    operators
have made progress in designing sustainable forest management plans, some o f which have begun
to be implemented. To date, management plans have been prepared for around 3 million hectares
-some30percentoftheconcessionarea, andhavebeen, orareintheprocessofbeingapproved
by Gabonese forestry authorities.

28. The Letter o f Sector Policy also gives priority to the enforcement o f the forest taxation
measures that had been introduced in the 2004 Finance L a w after a long negotiation with the
private sector and in the context of the preparation of the present operation in dialogue with the
Bank and the IMF.These measures included: (i)      the replacement o f about 10 pre-existing types o f
forest fees with two fees only, based on the area of the concession and actual volume o f timber
harvested; (ii) the updating of the area fee to a level that prevents speculative acquisition o f large
areas by rent-seeking operators; (iii)the introduction o f joint responsibility and liability by
concessionholders and logging companies concerningthe payment o f forest fees and taxes (when
the concession holder and logging company are separate entities); and (iv) the creation o f a


 As of January 2004, the Government had been able to recover less than 10percent of the forest revenues
for 2002 and 2003. As of January 2005, following improved tax collection discipline during 2004, it had
recovered30.6 percent of 2002,2003 and2004 tax arrears (US$8.9 million out ofUS$27.3 million).

                                                 9


collaborative framework enabling the forest administration, the revenue department and customs
to work together to follow up on and secure payment o f forest sector fees and taxes.

Biodiversity andEnvironment

29. Gabon has potential in ecotourism. It i s endowed with rich faunal and floral wildlife and a
variety o f landscapes, including an 800 lun coastline. It belongs to the Congo Basin rainforest
ecosystem, the world's second largest area o f contiguous rainforest. It contains three Terrestrial
Ecoregions as defined by WWF as the world's most outstanding examples o f each major habitat
types: the Congolian Coastal Forest, the Northwestern Congolian Lowland Forests and the
Western Congolian Forest-Savanna Mosaic. In addition, there are significant stands o f central
African mangroves along the coast and patches o f Congolian-Zairean swamp forests in the
northeast. Furthermore several priority freshwater systems occur withinthe country as well as the
coastline and marine ecosystems. In recognition o f the ecological integrity o f these ecosystems
Gabon recently was placed 12* out o f 146 countries evaluated-and       first in Africa-in  the 2005
Environmental Sustainability Index (ESI). Gabon's political stability and low rural population
density distinguish it from most other Congo Basin countries, and it offers comparative
advantages for biodiversity conservation and for ecotourism. Gabon looks at tourism as a
significant  source o f income in the medium and long term, and i s taking steps to develop
ecotourism and related economic activities. However, ecotourismremains constrained by limited
investments inhotel, services and infrastructure, and expensive air fares.

30. Environmental protection has traditionally been perceived as an obstacle to development and
economic growth. Until a few years ago, basic procedures for environmental protection, such as
environmental impact assessments, were not required, except for projects financed by
intemational donors whose policies require such assessment. Environmental management was
characterized by a large number o f extraction permits, little transparency in the decision-making
process, and long delays in response due to out-dated legislation inherited from the colonial era
("Rdglementation sur les dtablissements classds"), all o f which reduced the incentives to comply
with environmental legislation. In 1993, the Government adopted an Environmental Framework
Law ("Code de I'Environnement" Law 16/93 o f August 26, 1993) and started the establishment
of an environmental management system including the strengthening o f a Directorate General for
Environment (DGE) within the Ministry in charge o f environment and forest. This effort resulted
inthe adoption o f various implementing regulations including a decree on environmental impact
assessment (Decree 405 o f May 15, 2002) and various guidelines for sectoral environmental
impact assessment.

31. On biological diversity and natural ecosystems, which are perhaps the most critical
environmental issues in Gabon, before the new forest code was adopted in 2001, less than 5
percent o f Gabon's territory was placed under protection status. From a legal perspective, the
level o f protection for these areas was weak due to little clarity in the legal framework. In
practice, these areas were often managed on the basis o f ad-hoc arrangements under the impetus
o f extemally-funded projects. In some cases, legally-awarded logging and mining concessions
overlapped with protected areas. The Forest Code, adopted by the Law 016/01 o f 2001, clarified
the legal status o f protected areas and introduced the concept o f national parks, the highest level
of biological protection recognized worldwide. The Code establishes six categories o f protected
areas: (i) strict nature reserves; (ii) and plant species sanctuaries; (iii)
                                      animal                                        wildlife reserves;
(iv) nationalparks; (v) game ranches; and (vi) zoological gardens.

32. Starting in 2002, Gabon considerably expanded its network o f protected areas. A network o f
thirteen national parks encompassing the country's diversity of natural habitats and covering 2.8

                                                     10

million hectares, i.e., 10.6 percent o f the national territory, was created through presidential
decrees. In 2003, the Conseil National des P a m Nationaux (CNF"),                    an inter-ministerial
government committee, was established to oversee the process leading to the development o f the
parks, effective conservation o f biodiversity and promotion o f eco-tourism. The Government also
set an official target that the national network o f protected areas should reach 4 million hectares,
i.e. 15 percent o f the national territory, which means that an additional 1.2 million hectares are
still to be created.

33. The baseline situation prior to the reform process which the present operation helped set in
motion refers to the beginning o f 2004. At that time, only the first steps in establishing the new
protected areas network had been completed. Communication and coordination among the
administrations in charge o f parks, oil, mining and forestry was poor. The jurisdiction o f the new
parks overlapped with old forest concessions as well as oil and mining concessions. Most
importantly, adequate legislation on national parks was missing, including the rules for changing
the status and declassifying national parks and allowing alternative use o f land. Moreover, the
institutional framework was unclear: both the CNPN and the Ministry of Forests claimed
responsibility for managing the newly-created parks and for developing eco-tourism, but neither
had the capacity to actually do so on the ground.

34. Initial responses to the above challenges are contained in the M a y 2004 Letter o f Sector
Policy that was developed in the context o f the present operation. These call for: (i)          adopting a
new legislation on national parks; (ii)establishing adequate institutional capacity to manage
national parks; (iii)settling situations where logging and mining concessions overlap with
national parks; and (iv) identifying additional areas for biodiversity conservation and ecotourism
to meet the national target o f 4 millionhectares under protection status.

Fisheries

35. Fisheries also represent a potential growth sector. At over 40 kg per capita, Gabon's fish
consumption i s among the highest inAfrica. Recorded fishproduction in2004 was 45,000 metric
tons. In terms o f biological potential the annual yield o f the fisheries has been estimated at
230,000 tons, but reliable estimates o f the sustainable level o f productionhave not been made and
despite a recent survey o f deeper waters, the limits o f the resource base are not well

36. The baseline situation prior to the reform process which this operation aims to help set in
motion refers to the beginning o f 2004. The fisheries sector was marked by a weak policy and
governance fiamework, especially with regard to industrial fishing. The resource-base remained
largely unknown. Some species and some regions o f the Gabonese marine domain were thought
to be overexploited, while other species and other regions appeared to remain underdeveloped.
However, these estimates were not supported by a comprehensive inventory or a systematic
monitoring. There was little transparency on licensing and collection o f fees, and little capacity
for monitoring and control. A consolidated list o f individual licenses and international agreements
was not made public. Because o f limited institutional capacity, the allowable catches and exports
were not actually controlled, and the fisheries department relied on unilateral declarations from
companies. The number o f boats operating in Gabonese waters was not monitored. Illegal fishing
was believed to be important, but quantitative information was missing.




  The estimated yield cited above i s biological in character and does not necessarily reflect the quantity of
fish that canbeharvested economically.

                                                  11

37. The Government saw improved management o f the fisheries sector as a prospective revenue
earner in addition to its role as an alternative source o f local food. Coastal fishing can potentially
improve food security and increase cash income for poor communities and households.
Improving the economic management o f industrial licenses and agreements, halting illegal
activities, reducing the allowable catch in regions where the resource-base i s under threat, and
opening the southern grounds to sustainable exploitation all hold substantial potential to increase
the benefits from industrial off-shore fisheries.

38. The Letter o f Sector Policy adopted in May 20.04 embodies this new vision for the
development o f the fisheries sector. It calls for setting aside a number o f over-exploited marine
areas, for the adoption o f a new Fisheries Code and implementing regulations, for the
simplification o f the fiscal regime, and for the implementation o f a modern comprehensive
control system. These provisions, although still fragmented, are an initial expression o f the
Government's willingness to engage in a far-reaching reform process to increase the sector's
contribution to the economy while securing the natural resource base. However, the absence o f a
comprehensive strategic sector analysis still makes it difficult to develop an accurate vision for
long-term development o f the sector or to identify and move forward with solid reforms.

Mining

39. Gabon has important geological reserves and a long history o f mining, especially o f
manganese and uranium. However, compared to other countries with similar mineral
endowments, the contribution o f the mining sector to the country's wealth has remained small,
Gabon has the second-largest deposit o f manganese inthe world. It i s the third-largest producer o f
manganese, with currently known resources estimated to be sufficient for exploitation for 50 to
100 more years at the current level. Besides manganese, mining activities are restricted to
artisanal production o f gold and diamonds and, to a lesser extent, excavation o f construction
material, Gabon i s considered to have good mining potential and several mineral deposits have
been identified over the years such as iron ore (566 million metric tons with a grade o f 64.24
percent Fe) and columbium (16.7 million metric tons with a grade o f 1.75 percent niobium
pentoxide-Nb205). A number o f small but high-grade gold deposits have been identified ineleven
regions inGabon with the most significant being the Bakoudou deposit hosting 3.9 million tons at
a grade o f 6.4 grams per ton.

40. Industrial mining sector in Gabon i s currently represented by Comilog-a         company that has
been producing manganese for about four decades. The company now produces about 2 million
tons o f manganese per year which represents about 3 percent o f the GDP o f the country. The
manganese ore produced in Moanda, near Franceville in the southeastern part o f the country, i s
transported via the 600 lun-long transgabonese railway to the port o f Owendo near Libreville.
Comilog and its contractors employ about 1900 people and paid over US$lO million in various
taxes in 2001. About U S 2 5 million was paid to employees including to cover their social
security in 2002. Nevertheless, the miningpotential o f the country i s not reflected in its current
miningoutput. Potentialminingoutput is estimated to be capable o f generating about US$300 to
400 million annually inrevenues in the long term if a favorable investment environment exists
and the appropriate regulatory systems are inplace.

41, The baseline situation prior to the reform process this operation aims to help set in motion
refers to the beginning o f 2004. Gabon's mining sector in 2004 i s characterized by: (i)a
restrictive mining code with cumbersome procedures and discretionary powers; (ii)           a complex
and inefficient titling system; (iii) contradictions in the fiscal terms between various legal and
contractual documents; (iv) inexistent environmental management plans; (v) absence of a

                                                     12

structured mechanism for sharing revenues with local communities; (vi) insufficient geo-
scientific data base and limited promotional capabilities; (vii) an obsolete institutional set up with
unclear and sometimes overlapping responsibilities, and understaffed departments.


                            111.THE GOVERNMENT'SPROGRAM

42. The Government's Natural Resources Management Program (NRMP) falls within the broader
framework o f the policies outlined in the `Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper' and in the
development vision document `Gabon 2025'.8 Against the backdrop o f the expected decline inoil
revenues, both documents emphasize non-oil private-sector-led growth, economic diversification,
reduced public spending, creation o fjob opportunities, and delivery o f social services to ensure
that the fruits o f economic growth benefit the poor more directly. The new policies point to
natural resources, especially renewable resources, as the obvious sectors to turn to in order to
mitigate the short-term effects o f declining oil revenues and to create the foundation for
sustainable socioeconomic development.

43. The NRh4P covers three sectoral programs: the Forest, Fisheries, Biodiversity and
Environment Sector Program (FESP); the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI);
and the Mining Sector Reform Program. Although they have converging .objectives, these
programs have been developed independently and have reached different stages o f development
at thisjuncture.

44. The Forest, Fisheries. Biodiversit?, and Environment Sector Program (FESP). The FESP i s a
multi-donor country-led program developed by the Government to provide a common sector
development framework for government institutions, development partners, the private sector,
NGOs, local communities, and other interested parties active in the field o f forests, fisheries,
biodiversity and the environment. The FESP was designed jointly by the Government and its
partners to ensure the conservation and sustainable use o f renewable natural resources, to
contribute to the diversification o f the national economy, and to benefit the local, national and
global community. It provides for investments to facilitate and strengthen the implementation of
the institutional and policy reform agenda spelled out in the 2004 Letter o f Forest, Fisheries,
Biodiversity and Environment Sector Policy.

45. The Policv Dimension of the FESP. The Letter o f Forest, Fisheries, Biodiversity and
Environment Sector Policy, approved by the Council o f Ministers in M a y 2004, i s the FESP's
policy foundation. The Letter was developed in the course o f the policy dialogue between the
Government, the Bank, the IMF, and other development partners involved in the preparation of
the proposed operation. It includes a particularly bold and detailed forests reform agenda
(presented inparagraphs 26, 27 and 28), while laying out initial policy guidance and foundations
for governance inthe biodiversity and environment sectors (see paragraph 34) and inthe fisheries
(see paragraph 38). The reform agenda outlined in the Letter builds upon the legislative work
undertaken on forests and the environment beginning with the publication o f the forest law in
2001; and translates into action measures that were implied but not explicit in earlier policy
statements. This agenda includes the following measures among others: (i)             establish adequate
legislation on parks and protected areas; (ii)     establish adequate institutional capacity to manage
the newly created parks; (iii)    extend the protected areas network from 2.8 to 4.0 million hectares;

  As an IBRD country, Gabon's relations with the Bank do not require it to prepare a PRSP. Nevertheless,
the Government decided to embark o n such an exercise to acknowledge its poverty concerns, and to
develop effective strategies to reduce poverty and to promote sustainable shared growth.

(iv) enforce key prescriptions of forest law including the mandatory implementation of
management plans for production forests and strengthen forest control inthe field; (v) implement
the forest fiscal regime adopted in 2004; (vi) implement a program of public disclosure for
information related to logging activities; (vii) introduce a transparent and competitive system for
allocation of logging permits; (viii) adopt a moratorium on new concessions until the new
allocation system i s established; and (ix) stop the monopoly and any other regulatory function of
SNBGand restructure the entire company.

46. The Investment Dimension of the FESP i s represented by a five-year investment program
estimated at US$lOO million including loans, grants, and NGO participation-in                  addition to
Govemment funding. It includesthe following components and subcomponents.

                        The Forest, Fisheries,Biodiversity and EnvironmentProgram(PSFE).
             Component                                      Sub-component
          1. Forests
                             Sustainable managementproductionforests
                             Promotion of forest-based industries
                             Securingforest tax collection
                             Biodiversity protection outside national parks
          2. Fisheries
                             Resources inventories and sector knowledge
                             Improving the legal and regulatoryframework
                             Promotion ofjsheries-based industries
                             Monitoring andprotection ofjsheries resources and ecosystems
          3. NationalParks
                             Improving the legal and institutional framework
                             Biodiversity protection andparticipatory management of theparks
                             Awareness raising and communication
                             Promotion of eco-tourism
          4. Environment
                             Protection of the overall environment -Impact assessments
                             Promotion of income generating environmental services
          5. Institutional Strengthening
                             Monitoring & Evaluation, Financial and Human Resources Management
                             Strengtheningofjeld services
                              Training and research
                             Environmental information and communication
                             Enhancing private sector, civil society and local communities participation

47. Based on its full description ina Govemment program document, the FESP will be translated
into annual work-plans to be prepared and monitored in a participatory manner by the
Govemment incollaborationwith its development partners.

48. The FESP will strengthen the role of national institutions, local communities, the private
sector, and civil society in the implementation and oversight of natural resources management
programs. It will reinforce the capacity of the Ministry of Forests, Fisheries and Environment
(MEFEPEPN), of the Tax Directorate (DGI) and o f the soon-to-be created National Agency for
National Parks (ANPN)' at the central level and in the field, to perform regulatory and law
enforcement functions. The FESP will mark the withdrawal o f state and parastatal institutions


  See para 30: the Conseil National des Parcs Nationaux (CNPN) was created in2003 as a transition step
towards an Agency for National Parks (AWN) that will be created shortly, through the Law on National
Parks that i s underpreparation.

                                                   14

from production and marketing functions. It will also help improve these institutions' capacity to
manage human and financial resources and to become more accountable for results. The FESP
will secure implementation o f the Letter o f Sector Policy, including its public disclosure,
transparency, and law enforcement measures.

49. The Extractive Industries Transparencv Initiative (EITI). Gabon has declared its intention to
implement the worldwide Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) which aims to
increase transparency on oil and mining revenues by institutionalizing reconciliation between
payments made to the Government by oil and mining companies and payments received by the
Government from oil and mining companies. Inthis context, the Government has undertaken to
ensure regular and accessible publication o f these revenues and payments. An independent audit
will ensure reconciliation between payments and receipts. In line with EITI criteria, the
Government also intends to actively engage companies and civil society in the design,
monitoring, and evaluation o f the implementation process. Other EITI criteria adopted by the
Government include the development o f a public, financially sustainable work plan including
measurable targets; a timetable for implementation o f the Initiative; and an assessment o f
potential capacity constraints.

50. The Mining Reform Proaram. The Government has drafted a road map that focuses on
governance as the main instrument to reform the mining sector. Under the leadership of the
MinistryofMines, Energy, Oil.and Hydraulic Resources (MMEPRH), the miningreform agenda
seeks to increasejob opportunities and other socio-economic benefits for the country. To that end,
the Government aims to attract responsible investments. The main pillars o f the mining agenda
include: updating the legal framework to bring it in line with international good practices;
reviewing the licensing, environmental and social protection systems for industrial mining;
designing an efficient mechanism for sharing revenues with local communities; building
institutional capacity, improving law enforcement capacity; and improving the incentive
framework for artisanal mining in order to improve its social and economic impacts and to
mitigate the environmental ones.


              IV.BANKSUPPORTTO THE GOVERNMENTPROGRAM

A.       LINKTOTHECAS

5 1. The present operation i s the first o f two Natural Resources Management DPLs included inthe
base case and the high case scenario o f the 2005 CAS, respectively. These two operations are key
in supporting the two pillars of the CAS: (i)     strengthening the management o f public resources,
both natural and financial, for improved social outcomes; and (ii)       improving the investment
climate to foster sustainable, private sector-led growth. With regard to the first pillar, the
proposed D P L aims to make management o f natural resources more transparent and participatory,
to empower local communities and to increase the capture o f the rent by public entities while
ensuringthe sustainability o f the resource base. With regard to second pillar, the proposed DPL
aims to create more favorable conditions for responsible private investment and job creation in
 sustainable forests and fisheries use, in timber processing, ecotourism and mining. By removing
distortions and providing for strengthened enforcement o f law and regulations, the proposed DPL
will contribute towards a level playing field for socially and environmentally responsible
 operators. It aims to discourage short-term rent-seeking behaviors that are detrimental to the
population and to the environment. The decisions made and actions undertaken made by the
 Government with regard to natural resources management since early 2004 create a unique
window o f opportunity to deepen sector reforms and ensure their sustainability. The proposed

                                                  15

DPL will be crucial to ensure the momentum is maintained, and expanded to the whole range of
naturalresources.

52. The proposed operation integrates a main trigger that would allow the shift from the base-
case to the high-case CAS lending scenario Le., the effective abolition o f SNBG monopoly,
which i s also a condition for the disbursement o f the second tranche. Conversely, backtracking on
forest reforms, notably the moratorium on the allocation o f logging permits before a transparent
and competitive allocationsystem i s implemented, would trigger the low case.

B.       COLLABORATION WITH THE IMFAND OTHER DONORS

53. IKF. InM a y 2004, the Executive Board o f the IMF approved a 14-month, US$102 million
Standby Arrangement, which expired in July 2005. The main thrust o f the program supported by
the IMF was to reestablish macroeconomic stability and promote economic diversification
through comprehensive structural reforms. The IMF focus on transparency and economic reforms
was instrumental in helping the Government initiate the forestry reform. Simplification o f the
fiscal regime and improvement o f collection rates in forestry taxation, as well as restructuringo f
the SNBG, featured prominently in the IMF Stand-By Arrangement. All quarterly reviews were
satisfactorily concluded. The Government has expressed an interest in a multi-year follow-up
program with the IMF, which it would treat as precautionary (i.e. it would refrain from drawing).
as long as Gabon's external position remains strong. Progress in natural resources management
reforms i s expected to contribute to the process o f diversification o f the economy and i s likely to
be taken into consideration by the IMF when evaluating further support for Gabon's economic
program.

54. Other donors. Gabon's natural resources management program i s supported by several
donors working in close coordination with each other. France, EU, AfDB, among others, have
expressed their intention to use the FESP program to coordinate their assistance. A matrix
showing the pledges of the various donors to the FESP was prepared before the multi-donor
appraisal mission in June 2005 (Annex 4). France intends to support this program through
technical and financial assistance to forestry-related institutions and to forest companies to design
and implement forest management plans. AfDB has taken the lead in supporting the fisheries
component o f the program with a focus on artisanal fisheries. FA0 played an important role in
defining  the institutional strengthening component o f the FESP as well as the guidingprinciples
for fisheries management. The EUand the U S are engaged in supporting the national parks. With
regard to the mining sector, the EU and France will provide technical assistance to improve the
legal framework and enhance institutional capacity.

C.       RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER BANK OPERATIONS


grant will complement the IBRD resources provided under the proposed DPLl. The GEF grant
55. The GEF vroiect for national uarlrs and biodiversitv management. A US$10 million GEF

would finance primarily the creation o f the new National Park Agency (ANPN),the creation o f
essential park infrastructure, park surveillance and design o f park management plans, as well as
the protection o f wildlife in production landscapes and the identification o f new protected areas.
While there i s strong synergy between the proposed DPL and the GEF grant, each o f the two
operations can be justified on its own merit and can be implemented independently o f the
progress made on the other.

56. The Diversification Support Project. The CAS high-case scenario foresees a FY09
Diversification Support operation that will build on the recommendations o f advisory work

                                                  16

provided through the Foreign Investment Advisory Services (FIAS) and the EITI. This operation
would act as an umbrella to promote diversification and job creation in selected non-oil sectors,
The first and second natural resources management DPL will help set the policy framework for
this project by promoting the adoption of governance and transparency reforms insectors that are
critical for Gabon's economic diversification. The proposed DPL i s in line with the recent FIAS
diagnostic o f the business climate which recommended strengthening governance and the rule of
law andreforming the tax system.

D.       LESSONS LEARNED

57. The design o f the proposed D P L was informed by: (i) lessons leamt through the Forest
                                                              the
and Environment Project for Gabon that was closed in 2002 (PFE), as detailed in the Project's
ICR and OED review; (ii) CAS completion report; (iii)two Quality Enhancement Reviews
                             the
carried out in the course o f the preparation o f this operation; (iv) OED and QAG exercises
conducted on comparable projects in the subregion such as the Third Structural Adjustment
Credit for Cameroon; and (iv) Bank experience with mining sector reforms.

58. OED rated satisfactory overall the PFE project which closed in 2002, but considered that its
sustainability was unlikely. While the PFEhelpedimprove the knowledge base on Gabon's forest
resources and institutions, and helpedprepare the 200 1Forest Code and the L a w on Environment
(which was adopted in 2003), it also demonstrated that laws and regulations alone cannot
generate real changes on the ground in the absence o f high-level political support, a well-
structured reform agenda, and field enforcement efforts. This experience suggested that the forest
and environment sector could not be expected to reform itself from within and that it was
necessary to expand the dialogue on sector reforms to include the central financial authorities, the
Prime Minister's office, the civil society, and possibly the Presidency. It also demonstrated that
Bank financing can be more effective when based on achievement o f results rather than on
reimbursement o f expenditure, as was done intraditional sector investmentloans.

59. The 2005 CAS Completion Report drew three important conclusions which are relevant to
the proposed operation: (a) Gabon's future depends on its capacity to better use its natural
resource endowment; (b) the Bank needs to remain present, maintain candid dialogue, and ensure
wide dissemination and ownership o f initiatives; and (c) there i s a need to invest in capacity
development within the civil society. All three lessons are taken into account inthe design o f the
proposed DPL in support o fthe FESP, the EITIand the miningreformprogram.

60. From vrevious-forestand biodiversip overations in the Region. Lessons drawn from previous
forest and biodiversity operations in the region indicate that, to ensure success o f reforms and
implementation efforts:
     0   Development partners should work not only with the executive branch o f the
         Government, but with a broader range o f partners including the legislature, the public at
         large, NGOs and the private sector.
     0   Wherever possible, preference should be given to multi-donor approaches and country-
         driven sector-wide programs rather than to isolatedprojects which are less likely to have
         an enduring impact.
     0   Getting the framework right and ensuring high-level Government buy-ini s even more
         important than physical investments. Unless healthy institutions are created and
         distortions eliminated, results on the ground cannot be achieved.
     0   Gradual shifting from a system where access to resources i s inexpensive and awarded on
         a discretionary basis, to a system where access follows stricter rules and fees are set

                                                   17

        through open competition may render illegal extractiona more appealing option for some
        operators. It i s therefore essential to accompany policy reforms with efficient monitoring
        systems inthe field.
    0   Sector reforms, especially with natural resources, are long-term efforts. Hence, they
        require long-term commitment by the government and its partners. It i s key for the Bank
        to stay engaged through appropriate instruments in support o f the reformers on a
        continuedbasis all the way to the completion o f the reformprocess.

61. Mining sector. Lessons have been learned from similar Bank-supported reform processes in
Bolivia, Burkina Faso, Democratic Republic o f Congo, Ghana, Mali, Peru, and Tanzania, and
from a Bank review on mining sector reform in Latin America". These experiences indicate that
improving the enabling environment increases the ability o f a country to attract and retain
appropriate private investment. For instance, Ghana in the late 1980s undertook significant
reforms, supported by the Bank and other donors, to improve the enabling environment for
private sector investment in mining. The result has been a four-fold increase in gold production,
an improved mining investment climate and the privatization o f state-owned mining enterprises.
Experience with establishing capacity for environmental management in other countries, mainly
in Latin America, indicates that the central agency mandated with environmental responsibility
needs to adopt an integrated approach and establish close linkages with sectoral agencies in
implementing environmental policies and regulations. A participatory approach needs to be
adopted to take into account the social dimensions o fmining.

E.      ANALYTICALUNDERPINNINGS

62. Forests and biodiversitv. The proposed DPL builds upon a comprehensive body o f analytical
work undertaken by the Government, donors and NGOs, under the PFE and during the
preparation o f the FESP. The main studies covered the following topics:
  0   Biodiversity: a nation-wide assessment o f existing protected areas, various biological
      surveys, an assessment o f ecotourism potential and an analysis o f the legal framework
      pertaining to biodiversity led to the creation o f the nationalparks network in2002.
  0   Community forestry i s a new concept in Gabon. A study proposed several options that need
      to be piloted in the field in the framework o f the FESP. A mechanism to monitor progress
      inthesepilot community forests andto facilitatepublic informationneeds tobeestablished.
  0   Fiscal reforms integrated inthe 2004 finance law, as well as the restructuring o f the SNBG,
      which are cornerstones o f the Government's forest agenda, were based on two sets o f
      studies and workshops commissioned by the Government since early 2000.
  0   The AFD i s currently supporting an economic assessment o f the timber sector's
      contribution to the national economy, which may provide the basis for a future economic
      observatory o f the forest sector.
  0   Institutional strengthening: the investment and capacity-building dimension o f the FESP i s
      largely based on the institutional assessment conducted by the FA0in2004 and 2005.

The proposed DPL also builds upon analytical work completed in other Central African countries
facing similar challenges. However, the understanding o f the dynamics o f the forest sector in
Gabon still needs to be sharpened on specific issues, such as the development of national
entrepreneurship.




~~




 lo
  A MiningStrategy for LatinAmerica andthe Caribbean, 1996.

                                                  18

63. Fisheries and mining. Although basic information i s available, the analytical background is
probably less advanced with regard to the fisheries and mining sectors than in the forest and
biodiversity areas. In the fisheries sector, a preliminary survey indicates that Gabon's pelagic
resources are degraded under current harvesting levels, althoughthese data need to be confirmed.
In the mining sector, a recent diagnostic highlighted the importance of some urgent reforms,
namely the restructuring o f the mineral rights licensing procedures, the sharing o f mining
revenues with local communities, and the improvement o f environmental management o f mining
activities. The proposed D P L l specifically aims to improve the sector knowledge base and to
help design future policy improvement in these two sectors. In addition to basic transparency
measures, the proposed D P L l will support the completion o f a socio-economic                and
environmental review o f both sectors. These exercises are expected to provide the foundation for
subsequent policy improvement and decision-making to be supported by the planned DPL2.

64. Social. environmental and economic imvact assessments of the FESP. In April 2005, the
Government commissioned a socio-environmental impact assessment (EIA) covering the entire
scope o f the FESP program. The study recommended a social and environmental mitigation plan
including an Indigenous People Development Plan and a Resettlement Policy Framework whose
continued implementation will be supported by the proposed DPL. At the same time, the
Government also conducted an economic impact assessment for the FESP, whose
recommendations are reflectedinto the design o fthe FESP program and o fthe proposed DPL.

65. Financial manaaement. The preparation o f the proposed DPL was informedby a sector-level
fiduciary risk assessment whose recommendations are summarized in section VI-E. More
recently, the Bank, EU, AfDB, France and the IMF have also jointly initiated an overall analysis
of public expenditures, a review o f public finance management and an assessment o f the national
procurement system. The preliminary findings of these studies, which are still ongoing, concur
with those o f the sector-level fiduciary risk assessment, and support the financial management
arrangements described insection VI-E.


                              V. THE PROPOSEDOPERATION

A.       OPERATIONDESCRIPTION

66. The development objectives o f the proposed operation are to increase the contribution o f
natural resources to national income, and to help reduce the country's heavy dependence on
declining oil resources while protecting the resource base and improving management efficiency.
This operation represents the IBRDcontribution to support: (i)the implementation o f the FESP;
(ii)Gabon'sparticipationintheEITI;and(iii)Gabon'seffortstoreformtheminingsector.
    to                                             to

67. The proposed DPL will help the Government manage renewablenaturalresources as strategic
assets for its long-term sustainable growth and environmental balance. At the same time, it will
emphasize the notion o f forests, biodiversity and minerals as public property to be managed to the
benefit o f the population at large and of future generations. A number o f cross-cutting themes are
common to all four DPL policy areas: transparency in the allocation o f natural resources use
rights; effective mechanisms for setting prices, strengthening the rights o f vulnerable groups,
collecting taxes and sharing revenues with local communities; public participation and
empowerment of local communities; sustainable management o f the resource base and protection
of the environment; and enforcement o f laws and agreements.

                                                    19

68. The proposed12.2 million DPLl (equivalent to US$15 million) consists o f two tranches: on
effectiveness 4.1 million (equivalent to $5 million) will be disbursed on the basis o f prior actions
met before negotiations, and 8.1 million (equivalent to $10 million) will be disbursed after
second tranche conditions are completed.

69. The following sections describe the four policy areas covered by the proposed operation:
Forests; Biodiversity/Environment; Fisheries; and Mining/Oil. In order to facilitate a more
comprehensive understanding o f the issues and solutions at hand, this description will deal not
only with the content o f the present D P L l but will also outline the measures that, under the
appropriate high-case conditions, would be supported by the planned DPL2 which would follow
seamlessly upon satisfactory completion o f the present operation. Under the 2005 CAS, this
second operation would be presented to Board in FY 2008. It would have a single tranche in an
amount o f8.1 million (equivalent to US$lO.O million).

70. Natural resources management DPLl and DPL2 form a programmatic package o f support to
Gabon's Natural Resources Management Program. The proposed two-tranche design o f DPL1,
combined with DPL2, aims to provide the visibility and continued political commitment that are
necessary to sustain a long-term reform itinerary, while at the same time keeping flexibility to
integrate future analytical work and policy developments into the program.

71. Annex 2 "Policy Matrix" summarizes the policy measures supported under the present DPLl,
as well as those already identified for support, under appropriate conditions, by the DPL2. It
indicates the expected outcomes from the programmatic support comprised o f DPLl and DPL2. It
also includes actions relating to financial management which are described in Section V1.E on
Fiduciary and Financial Management Aspects.

B.      POLICYAREAS

72. The four policy areas supported by the proposed DPLl and DPL2, as well as the associated
challenges faced by the Govemment, are outlined in sections 1I.C and 111. The present section
focuses on the content and expected outcomes o f the specific measures supported by the DPLl
and DPL2, inconjunction with other development partners.

Policy Area 1- Forests

73. Challennes. The forest reform program i s the most detailed and comprehensive undertaking
supported by the proposed DPL.Under this policy area the Govemment intends to re-organize the
commercial forest sector, reconfigure Gabon's forest landscape, and set the stage for a more
socially, economically and environmentally coherent land-use planning taking into account non-
industrial forest uses. To this end, it intends to review all logging permits, repossess those that are
in the hands of non-compliant companies and individuals, step up the enforcement o f fiscal
measures and the obligation to prepare sustainable management plans, strengthen forest controls
in the field, change the mode of access to permits from discretionary to transparent and
competitive, and maintain a moratorium on the allocation o f new permits until the new
transparent and competitive allocation procedures are enacted, eliminate pricing distortions and
bottlenecks to industry development coming from the SNBG, and introduce procedures on forest
use that protect the rightso f indigenous people and other forest-dependent rural poor.

74. The challenges o f this transition are both o f a technical and a political nature. On the
technical side, it includes closing legal loopholes and filling regulatory gaps, making new
technology and equipment available to monitor forest operations in the field, sharpening staffjob

                                                20

descriptions to ensure accountability at all levels, stepping up monitoring and associating third-
party observers to monitor operations, and usingpublic information as a tool for transparency.

75. On the political side, the measures included in the operation have been endorsed by the
Government and supported by the Presidency at the time o f approval o f the 2004 Letter of Sector
Policy. Nevertheless, one can expect that implementation o f these measures will face resistance
from companies and individuals whose personal interests may be undermined. Based on the list
of logging titles disclosed by the Government in March 2005, 327 permits totaling 7.5 million
hectares (i.e., 76 percent the 468 existing permits and 68 percent o f the 10.7 million hectares
under concession) were not current with payment o f forest fees and taxes for 2002, 2003 and
2004. Several o f concerned companies and individuals have agreed to specific repayment
schedules as a condition for maintaining their concessions. Of these, some will enter into joint
ventures with larger industrial companies. Several small permit holders committed to paying their
dues and staying in the forest business will be given a chance to re-group their concessions into
larger management units to lower the cost and facilitate implementation o f forest management
plans, and to benefit from technical support. Companies willing to expand their supply may seek
partnerships with concession-holders who do not have technical or financial capacity to maintain
it inthe more tight and regulated business environment. Nevertheless, it can be expected that a
significant number o f individuals, including civil servants and other important figures, will be
among those facing the choice to follow through with their fiscal and environmental obligations
or be forced to relinquishharvesting rightswhich have longbeen a source o f easy rents.

76. Actions taken bv Government prior to negotiations reveal strong leadership and high-level
commitment to the reform agenda. They include: (i)the adoption on August 9, 2004, by
Presidential decree, o f a moratorium on the allocation o f new logging permits until transparent
competitive procedures are established; (ii)  the disclosure to the public, through the Government
website in February 2005 and through the press in March 2005, o f the list and map o f logging
permits with the indication of whether each individual permit complies with sustainable forest
management and with fiscal obligations; and (iii)      the decision taken in December 2004 by the
Presidency that the SNGB monopoly on timber sales will end by January lst,          2006. These three
prior actions were completed before appraisal.

77. The list o f logging permits posted on the Government's website in February 2005 shows a
total o f 468 permits for a total area o f 10.7 million hectares. The list o f permits which did not
comply with their fiscal obligations in 2002, 2003 and 2004 published inthe press inMarch 2005
shows 327 permits for a total o f 7.5 million hectares, i.e. 76 percent the existing permits, and 68
percent o f the total area under concession. This i s the first time these figures regarding the use o f
Gabon's public resources are made public.

78. The conditions-for the release of the second tranche i s a set o f five mutually reinforcing
measures that are groundedinthe 2001 forest code and inthe 2004 finance law. All five measures
are currently under preparation, and are expected to be completed within one to two years after
the proposed D P L becomes effective and the first tranche i s disbursed.

79. The first measure pertains to sustainable forest management plans and timely delivery o f
services to private operators. The forest department will review, and approve, reject or request
additional information, all forest management plans no later than six months after their
submission by the concession holders. All approvals, rejections and requests for more information
will have to be accompanied by a technical justification based on forest management regulations
adopted in consultation and in agreement with the Bank. A s o f February 2005, about 3 million
hectares had management plans already submitted or in an advanced stage o f preparation. The

                                                   21

forest administration will review these plans, indicate necessary improvements and, once the plan
i s approved, confirm the concession contracts in accordance with the new forest code. Although
little progress has been made so far in the other 7.7 million hectares under logging permits, it is
expected that some o f them, mostly small permit holders, will regroup or merge into larger
concessions, as called for by the forest code. Other concessions will have to be gradually returned
to the public domain. Forest management plans also include wildlife protection and social
measures.

80. The second measure consists o f the continued enforcement o f the forest fiscal regime set
forth inthe finance law o f December 30, 2003. This includes effective tax collection, cancellation
of permits that do not comply with the area tax by the end o f each fiscal year, and agreement with
the Bank prior to submitting any amendment to this fiscal regime. According to the revenue
department, the 2002,2003 and 2004 arrears amount to US$18.4 million, for the forest area-based
tax only. The lists o f logging permits with their fiscal and forest management status that were
published in January and March 2005 suggest that companies and individuals which are not
current with their taxes are also late with the preparation o f forest management plans. It i s
expected that a significant number o f permits will have to be cancelled on both grounds, thus
leaving the remaining permits with more environmentally and fiscally responsible operators.
According to the moratorium declared in August 2004, forests returned to the public domain
should not be re-allocated through discretionary procedures, as was the case inthe past".

81. The third measure consists in the recruitment o f an internationally-recognized third-party
observer to assist the forest department in monitoring logging activities and to ensure public
information on forest controls and penalties. Indeed, strengthening fiscal discipline, canceling
non-compliant permits and maintaining the moratorium may render illegal logging more
appealing to a number o f less responsible companies. Illegal logging and lack o f law enforcement
inthe field would undermine the whole reformprogram. Therefore, the enforcement capacity of
the forest administration needs to be strengthened and the monitoring system needs to become
more transparent. This third-party observer will participate in field missions and report on
compliance o f these missions with official procedures. It will also be mandated to help clarify
control procedures, to assist the forest department with technologies such as computerized geo-
positioning, to set up a case tracking system, to ensure public information on forest controls and
penalties, and to involve local civil society inforest monitoring. Given the nature o fthis mandate,
serious consideration should be given to entrusting it to a specialized NGO working in
partnership with local civil society. Using third-party observer i s part o f a broader package of
institutional capacity buildingthat also includes provision o f training and equipment to the forest
department.

82. The fourth measure pertains to the re-allocation o f areas returned to the public domain, It
consists o fthe adoption o f transparent procedures and criteria for the auctioning o f forest permits,
along with the adoption o f a participatory three-year plan for future forest permits. This plan
consists o f a map and a table showing the number, location and size o f concessions that are
proposed for allocation in the coming three years. This plan will analyze the rationale for
allocating new concessions based on economic, environmental and social considerations, It will
take into account the real demand for new concessions in Gabon, the risk o f collusion, and the
scope for developing alternative forest uses such as community forests, biodiversity conservation
or non-extractive environmental services. It will be developed in a participatory manner, and will
serve as a basis for local consultations that need to take place prior to the effective allocation of


I' In2004, about 1 million hectares were returned to the public domain but most of these areas were re-
allocatedthrough administrative procedures before the moratorium came inforce inAugust 2004.

                                                  22

any concession. By supporting this process, the proposed DPLwill help secure local users' rights,
diffuse conflicts over forest lands, and promote community forests, new protected areas and
innovative ways o f usingenvironmental services. By promoting more transparent procedures for
the allocation of future logging permits, the DPL will help improve the business climate and
provide all operators with equal opportunities to access new forest concessions. It will also help
the State and local communities capture a higher share o f the forest rent.

83. The fifth measure consists o f completing the restructuring o f SNBG which will not be
entrusted with monopoly nor regulatory function and will not overlap with public mandates. In
line with the decision adopted by the Council o f the Presidency (Conseil de Cabinet de la
Prksidence) in December 2004, the SNBG will cease completely to exercise its monopoly in the
marketing o f Gabon's main timber species (okoume and ozigo) starting January lst,              2006.
SNBG's restructuring will ensure that in the future this organization will play no marketing,
production or regulatory functions on behalf o f the State and/or financed partially or totally,
directly or indirectly by the Government. At this stage, it i s understood that the most natural
course o f development for the SNBG would be for it to become an association o f timber
producers who join forces on a voluntary basis to finance and benefit from services that are more
effectively performed inbulk and by a specialized unit.

84. Follow up actions/trimers under the DPL2. These following measures will be considered as
prior actions to negotiate the DPL2 which should liaise seamlessly with the present operation
with a view to consolidating and bringingto fruition its achievements: (i)   increasing transparency
on, and starting the reorganization o f rural forests; (ii)
                                                          passing a share o f forest revenues to local
communities; and (iii)   setting up a national forest sector observatory using a computer and GIS
integrated system to track timber flows and payment o f related fees, and based on the tripartite
Forest-Taxes-Customs commission set by the 2004 Finance Law.

85. Rural forests are forests located in proximity o f villages and on lands customarily controlled
by local communities. It is inthese forests that for the past many years, local people have been
granted the right to cut a fixed number o f trees for own use or trade (thispractice i s called coupes
familiales or family tree harvests). However, this system was diverted from its initial purpose as
industry and urban elites have gradually taken control o f and exploited the coupesfamiliales in
the name o f rural people, leavingthese people with only marginal benefits to enjoy. Reorganizing
the rural forests will start with the disclosure o f detailed information concerning the list of
beneficiaries o f coupefamiliales and with the issuing o f annual reports on loggingpermits located
inrural lands, including community forests. Inthe meantime, a new mechanismwill be adopted
to transfer a share of forest revenues to local governing bodies inforest areas. Inaddition to these
measures focused on the rural forests, the DPL2 would also enhance institutional capacity to
monitor the forest sector through the setting up an economic observatory o f the forest sector,
using a computerized system to follow physical flows o f commercial timber and the flow of
payments o f forest fees from the stump to the port.

 86. Outcomes. The proposed DPLl and the prior actions leading to DPL2 aim to support a
thorough modernization o f Gabon's forest sector, to increase the sector's contribution to the
economy in terms o f employment, revenues and rural development, and to establish a level
playing field for responsible companies interested in developing forest business in Gabon.
 Successful implementationo f this operation will mark a decided break with the past discretionary
and exploitative logging model to a modern and more socially and economically efficient system
based on sustainable forest management prescriptions. Outcomes include: (i)       the creation and use
of instruments for improved sector governance and sustainable management o f forest ecosystems;
 (ii) demonstrationthattheGovernmentisdeterminedtofullyenforcethenewrulesofthe
     the

                                                  23


game; (iii)  the elimination o f pricing and market distortions stemming from SNBG monopoly on
international timber sales; (iv) a more open and attractive investment environment for investors
engaging inresponsible forest management activities inGabon, and an increase inemployment in
the timber industry; (v) the empowerment o f local communities in managing natural resources
and accessing direct benefits from their exploitation.

87. Quantifiable outcomes are expected inthe form of: (i) sharp raise inthe percentage o f areas
                                                              a
incompliancewith sustainable managementprescriptions (i.e. under approved management plans
or in the process o f developing management plans according to agreed schedules) which should
move from current 30 percent to a targeted 80 percent by the end o f DPL2; (ii)    a sharp increase in
forest revenues and o f the tax recovery rates which should move from 30 percent during the
period 2002-2004 to an estimated 80 percent at the end o f DPL2; and (iii)    an increase o f financial
revenues transferred to local communities which would go from zero to meaningful amounts at
the endo fDPL2.

PolicyArea 2 BiodiversityandEnvironment
                 -

88. Challenges. While the Government has made significant progress in establishing a network o f
national parks, several challenges remain to be addressed. Challenges in the field o f biodiversity
and the environment include: (i)forest and mining concessions overlapping with parks and
protected areas have been and are being granted due to poor communication among the park,
forest and mining administrations; (ii)     there i s no law that regulates national parks including
changes in the level o f protection and possible declassification o f parks in case the government
decides to allow alternative use in these areas; (iii) the institution for park administration need to
be strengthened12 especially at the field level; (iv) local community participation in park
management must be enhanced; and (v) environmental impact assessments need to be more
 systematically applied.

 89. Actions taken by the Government prior to negotiation. In preparation for negotiating the
present operation the Government has drafted a new law covering all aspects related to the
 creation, management and declassification o f national parks. This law will formally create the
Agency for National Parks (ANPN).The text that will be presentedto the Parliament for approval
has been reviewed and found satisfactory by the Bank. Once approved, this law will help resolve
 many o f the cases where forest and mining concessions have been granted in national parks.
 According to this new law, no forest and miningpermits will be allowed to move forward before
possible declassification o f national parks or portions thereof has been considered by Parliament
 and approved by law, and before an equivalent offset has been created. The second action taken
 by the government prior to negotiations is the disclosure o f a list and a map o f oil and mining
 permits located within and aroundnational parks. This action provides the basis for reviewing the
 boundaries o f permits or parks and for developing socio-environmental mitigations plans as
 foreseen inthe context o f the secondtranche o f the DPL1,

 90. The conditions for the release of the second tranche will help the Government improve its
 capacity to monitor the state o f the environment and the social and environmental impacts of
 development programs, starting with the forest, fisheries and mining sector^.'^ The two conditions


 l2The Conseil National des P a r a Nationaux (CNF") was created in 2002 as a transitory step towards the
 Agency for National Parks (AWN) that will soon replace the CNF". Neither the CNPN nor the AWN
 have effective capacity inthe field.
 l3The Government intends to develop new mechanisms that can generate economic benefits based 0%
 environmental services. In that regard, the D P L will help explore carbon sequestration, conservation

                                                     24

consist of: (i)continued implementation o f the FESP socio-environmental mitigation plan
including the indigenous people development plan and the resettlement policy framework; and
(ii) carryingoutofsocio-environmentalimpactassessmentpriortoanynewindustrialmining
     the
project. Meeting these two targets will foster Government's efforts to build capacity within the
General Directorate o f the Environment under the MEFEPEPN. It also implies carrying out
systematic public consultations programs and engaging more actively with non-governmental
organizations, local communities and other civil society groups for the implementation o f the
FESP Indigenous People Development Plan and the FESP Resettlement Framework. This
monitoring capacity, while initially focused on forest, fisheries and mining activities, can later
apply to other areas o f Gabon's diversification agenda such as infrastructure, other industries and
urban development. The quality of implementation of the FESP socio-environmental plan will be
assessed by a third-party specialized expertise recruited by the Govemment under terms of
reference developed inconsultation with the Bank.

91. Follow uu actiondtrinners under the DPL2. Two measures would trigger the DPL2. Both
measures pertain to the continued implementation o f the new law on national parks. The first one
would consist o f maintaining the integrity o f national parks and keeping them exempt o f any
industrial mining, logging, or fishing activities, unless the park has first been declassified and an
equivalent offset has been created in accordance with the law. Indeed, the national parks were
created inareas that are also suitable for industrial mining, fishingand logging. Although the new
parks are likely to attract considerable external resources in the form o f conservation projects,
they also involve foregone revenues from extractive activities that could have been developed
were it not for the parks. The D P L will help sustain inter-ministerial coordination to secure
consistent land use planning and to avoid overlapping o f non-compatible land uses. By doing so,
it will increase the sustainability o f Gabon's national parks network and the sustainability of
associated conservation initiatives. The second trigger would consist o f adopting management
plans for 4-5 priority national parks and their buffer zones. This measure aims to foster policy
implementation on the ground. It i s expected to strengthen biodiversity conservation and
participatory management at the local level in selected priority areas while at the same time
providing pilots that can be replicated in other portions o f the national parks network. These two
measures will be considered as prior actions to negotiate the DPL2 which should liaise seamlessly
withthe present operation to consolidate its achievements.

92. The GEF grant associated with the proposed DPL provides direct support to the effective
management o f the newly-created national parks. Insynergy with other donors' projects, it will
help protect three of the thirteen parks and develop eco-tourism and participatory management o f
the buffer zones. The GEF project will also strengthen the capacity o f the Agence Nationale des
Parcs Nationaux (ANPN)incharge of managing the parks, and will help set up a Foundation for
sustainable financing o f the national parks network. The draft law on National Parks, which the
GEF project will help implement inthe field,        mandates the proposedANPN to closely work with
central and local government agencies, private sector and NGOs. Insynergy with other donors'
projects, the GEF grant will support the development o f a national ecotourism strategy, and the
drawing up of management plans for key national parks ina participatory manner. Progress under
this project will be monitoredthrough the "tracking tool" inline with the recommendations ofthe
World Commission on ProtectedAreas Management Effectiveness.

93. Outcomes. The following outcomes are expected o f the proposed D P L l and DPL2: (i)                new
legislation will be in place to regulate national parks and their integrity will be protected from


concessions, biological prospecting or other non-extractive uses o f the forests. Given the innovative nature
o f this work and the uncertainty o f outcomes, no specific measure is included inthe DPL policy matrix.

                                                   25

overlapping permits and encroachment by industries; and (ii)         the ministries in charge o f forest,
fisheries  and mining will be able to monitor social and environmental impacts o f operations in
these sectors inconsultation with the civil society.

Policy Area 3 Fisheries
                -

94. The proposed DPLl i s a first step in support o f the Govemment's efforts to build a
sustainable and responsible fisheries sector, as stated in the 2004 Letter o f Sector P01icy'~.Inthe
framework o f the FESP, it complements activities supported by other development partners. It
focuses on industrial fishing, and aims to set the stage for a long-term reform process that will
need to be pursued through the DPL2. As with forests and biodiversity, it is expected to foster
political interest in support for key sector reforms and implementation on the ground. Technical
assistance to achieve these objectives would be providedby the FAO, which offers synergies with
the regional NANSENprogram and the regional GEF-funded shrimp by-catch reduction program.

95. Actions taken bv the Government prior to negotiation consist of: (i)             disclosing the list o f
existing fishing licenses and tax collection status; and (ii)    defining the rules o f a geo-positioning
system for monitoring industrial fishing. The first action -similar to the one completed in the
forest sector- i s a starting point that will provide minimum transparency on the current state o f
the industrial fishing sector as well as a basis for a more comprehensive knowledge-base to assess
various reform scenarios. The second action was completed with the adoption o f the presidential
decree o f February 25, 2005, which mandates all fisheries ships in Gabonese waters to operate a
satellite-based geo-positioning system connected to the fisheries department. This aims to keep
the fisheries department informed o f all industrial activities in Gabonese waters in real time. It
sets the stage for strengthening control o f industrial fisheries and curbing illegal harvesting,
Further government and donors' effort in this area will focus on effective implementation and
expansion o f the satellite-based monitoring system, which will be part o f the trigger for moving
on to DPL2.

96. The conditions for the release of the second tranche consist of: (a) completing a
comprehensive socio-economic and environmental review o f the industrial fishing sector; and (b)
designing and enforcing conservation measures aimed at protecting and/or restoring populations
o f fish in over-exploited and/or fragile marine areas. First, the sector review will gather the
analytical backgroundthat i s needed to define policy and institutional reforms aimed at increasing
economic benefits for the country while ensuring sustainable management o f the resource base. It
will look at the state of the fish stocks, at existing licensing and agreements systems, at the
taxation regime and at the social and environmental impacts o f industrial fishing. It will
determine how much progress can be achieved in the industrial fishing sector in terms o f
employment, fiscal revenues and other socio-economic benefits, and to protect the resource-base,
and what the conditions are for these improvements to materialize. It will be conducted in a
participatory manner. Second, the design and enforcement o f conservation measures aimed at
protecting and/or restoring populations o f fish in over-exploited and/or fragile marine areas will
be considered as a concrete effort to implement new policies on the ground and prevent depletion
of the resource-base. Marine areas under threat o f biological over-exploitation will be closed for
industrial fishing. Such measures will build upon efforts that are already ongoing: since 1999 the
most threatened shrimp areas are officially closed two months a year (Decision 675Ministry o f
Fisheries, December 9, 1999). DPLl will help enforce and gradually fine-tune and expand such
decisions as further data and experiences from other countries become available. These efforts

~     ~~




 l4The objective of"maximizing production" for the fisheries sector that is stated inthe Letter ofPolicy, is
understood as being interpreted withinthe context o f "sustainable exploitation" or "optimizing production".

                                                  26


will lay the groundwork for a nationwide master plan and monitoring system to be adopted and
enforced under DPL2

97. Follow uu actions/trinners under the DPL2.Following on the participatory analytical process
initiated under DPL1, the DPL2 would support the adoption o f key recommendations from the
fishing sector review. These recommendations would aim at increasing transparency, improving
price-setting mechanisms and securing tax collection, as well as improving social impacts o f
industrial fishing and ensuring sustainable management o f the resource-base and environmental
protection. T o the extent possible, this process will be articulated with the drafting o f the
implementation decrees o f the new Fisheries Code. The DPL2 will help Gabon bring its new
regulatory framework inline with the International Code o f Conduct for Responsible Fisheries.

98. The DPL2 would also continue concrete efforts initiated under the DPLl to protect the
fisheries resource in the field and to help improve the Fisheries Department's monitoring and
enforcement capacity. The DPL2 measure consists o f the implementation o f a monitoring, control
and surveillance (MCS) plan, comprising o f the following elements: an assessment o f the fish
stocks; the establishment o f an "obsewatoire des p2ches"; continued implementation o f the
satellite-based and aerial surveillance to detect and prosecute illegal fishing; regular disclosure o f
information on fishing licenses, illegal fishing and enforcement o f penalties; the establishment o f
fisheries inspection offices at industrial fishing ports; and the drawing up o f a national fisheries
master plan.

99. Outcomes. The outcome o f the proposed DPLl will be the sector's readiness to embrace an
ambitious reform agenda similar to the one already underway in the areas o f forest and
biodiversity. Such readiness requires the existence o f basic transparency and o f a comprehensive
analytical base to inform a public debate on the status and challenges o f the sector. The outcome
of DPLl would also comprise o f the setting up o f basic regulations to help monitor industrial
fishing and protect the resource-base. Outcomes from DPL2 would be that: (i) implementation
                                                                                  the
o f a monitoring and surveillance system halts depletion o f the fisheries stocks inhigh-threat areas
and paves the way towards sustainable fisheries management; and (ii)      key recommendations from
the sector review pertaining to licensing, taxation and sustainable harvest are integrated into the
regulatory framework, setting the stage for a modernization o f the fisheries sector.

PolicyArea 4 -Miningand Oil

100.     Extractive Industw Transuarencv Initiative (EITI). The DPL will support the
Government's efforts in carrying out governance-related actions necessary to support EITI
implementation in both oil and mining sectors. Activities supported will range from assisting in
the setting up o f an EITItask force, to the definition o f the reporting template andprocedure, the
design o f an information campaign, the dialogue with civil society and private sector, and the
recruitment o f an auditor. The output will be the regular publication o f an audited, EITI report
comparingrevenues receivedby Government with amounts paid by the companies. The DPL will
help Gabon draw on other countries' implementation experience, and will support the setting up
of legal, institutional, and financial arrangements to ensure the sustainability o f the process.

 101.     With regard to the mining sector, the proposed DPL will also help the Government
broaden the sector reform process initiated under the EITI initiative. It will help finalize the
miningreform roadmap, and initiate preliminary implementation steps. It aims to put inmotiona
long-term miningreform process that will have to be pursued under subsequent operations. The
proposed DPL will complement activities developed by other development partners such as the
EUfunded Sysmin project.

                                                  27



102.      Challenges in the mining sector. Although the mining sector i s a potential source o f
growth for Gabon, the current output i s below potential in terms o f production, o f diversity o f
minerals and in terms of impact on the economy. A number o f constraints explain the
underperformance o f the sector including: contradictionbetween the mininglaw, regulations and
contracts; lack o f security on tenure o f mining titles; inconsistencies in the fiscal regime leaving
the room for minimization o f taxable bases (currently royalties apply to only 60 percent o f sales,
rather than 100 percent as per intemational practice); disconnect with the intemational trends
towards better governance and revenue distribution; overlaps between various institutions in
charge o f the sector. The lack o f environmental and social policy, laws and guidelines combined
with the lack of capacity for monitoring miningproject impacts have resulted in environmental
legacies such as the one with a depleted uranium mine that i s currently being mitigated by the
EU-funded Sysmin project. Ina context where declining oil revenues increase the Government
incentive for increasing mining production, these weaknesses may deprive the country and the
local populations from important benefits, and may cause severe environmental and health
damages.

103.      The action taken bv the Government urior to negotiation i s to formally signify its
commitment to implement the EITIin a letter sent to the World Bank Managing Director on July
28, 2004. This i s the only prior action pertaining to the oil and mining sectors. The Government,
together with the World Bank, has also started to draft a road map for reforms in the mining
sector aimed at improving governance and transparency o f the sector, enhancing competitiveness
to attract responsible mining investments, and increasing the socio-economic impact o f mining
for the country. The pillars through which the road map will reach the objectives will be: (i)
update of the legislation and regulatory framework to bring the governance and institutional
standards in line with intemational good practices; (ii)      design o f mechanism to share mining
revenues with local communities; (iii)   capacity-building; (iv) setup o f environmental management
policies and guidelines for social and environmental impact assessments; and (v) introduction of
improvedpractices for better work and living conditions inartisanal miningsites.

104.      Condition -for release of the second tranche. With regard to the mining sector, the
Government will complete a comprehensive socio-economic and environmental review o f the
sector. This review aims to provide the sector analytical background to fine-tune the policy
reforms that are proposed in the government's roadmap. It will make recommendations to
improve the economic efficiency and transparency o f the sector, including the procedures and
criteria for the allocation o f miningpermits, the fiscal regime and the actual tax collection, and to
promote socially and environmentally responsible practices. It will be conducted in a
participatory manner to initiate an open debate on the management o f the country's mining
resources. With regard to the EITI, while no specific condition has been set, the Government has
pledged to continue implementing the EITIinboth the oil and miningsectors. Achievements will
be monitored against the progress made by the Government towards the implementation o f the
EITI criteria and principles. A specific trigger on EITI implementation will be considered as a
trigger for moving on to the DPL2.

105,      Follow UP actions/triggers under the DPLZ. The DPL2 will support Govemment's
commitment to the continued implementation o f the EITI inboth the oil and miningsectors with
a specific trigger referring to the periodic publication o f EITIreports. Inthe miningsector, it will
cover three additional measures. The first two are already included in the draft mining sector
roadmap, namely the restructuring o f the titling process and the design o f mechanisms to
redistribute some o f the mining revenues to local communities for community development
purposes. The third one will ensure integration o f key recommendations o f the socioeconomic

                                                 28


and environmental review into the sector's regulatory framework, with a focus on transparency,
rent capture and revenue sharing, and social and environmental protection.

106.     Outcomes. With regard to the EITI, the major expected outcome i s a greater transparency
on payments made by the companies in the oil and mining industries o f Gabon and a greater
participation of civil society in the public debate over resource revenue. The increased
transparency will positively impact on the business environment and the attractiveness of Gabon
to responsible investors. In addition the participatory approach involved in the EITI will help
initiate a broad-based debate on better use of the country's oil and miningresources.

107.     With regard to the mining sector, the expected outcome from DPLl will be the sector's
readiness to embrace an ambitious reform agenda based on a comprehensive analytical base and
an open public debate. Outcomes from the DPL2 will be: (a) the establishment of a modem
mining regulatory framework; (a) the design o f a revenue redistribution mechanism to local
communities; and (c) a modernized system for administering mining titles based on clear and
uniform criteria and procedures. In the longer-term, the objectives of the miningreform include
the generalization o f socially and environmentally responsible practices; an increase in average
annual investments and in the number o f companies involved in various stages of the mining
cycle; and an increase in fiscal revenues and employment. These outcomes however are not
expected to fully materialize inthe lifetime o f DPLl and DPL2 given the longer timeframe o f the
miningproject cycle-identification,    exploration and development talung 10years on average.

                                                            29

                                       Summary of DPLl prior actions
   Policy Area 1 - Forests
       Adoption o fmoratoriumon the allocation o f new logging permits (Completed, August 2004)
       Disclosure o f the list o f loggingpermitsand their tax collection status (Completed, March 2005)
       Decision to remove the SNBG monopoly by January 1'` 2006 (Completed, December 2004)
   Policy Area 2 - Biodiversitv/Environment
       Finalization o f the draft new legislation on national parks (Completed, June 2005)
       Disclosure o f list andmap o f mining and oil permits in and around national parks (Completed Sept. 2005)
   Policy Area 3 - Fisheries
       Disclosure o f list o f industrial fishingpermits, and their tax collection status (Completed Sep. 2005)
       Adoption o f the decree on the satellite-based monitoring o f industrial fisheries (Completed, February 2005)
   Area 4 - MiningIOil
       Formal expression o f Govemment's interest to adhere to the EITIinitiative (Completed, July 2004)
   Overall framework
       Maintenance o f a satisfactory macroeconomic framework (Current)
       Adoption o f the Letter o f Sector Policy (Completed, May 2004)

I      Preparation o f a regulation on the flow o f funds procedures for D P L l (Completed, September 2005)
       Launching o f the financial management assistance's recruitment process (Completed, September 2005)
                Summary of DPLl conditionsfor disbursingthe secondtranche
   Policy Area 1 - Forests
       Approval or justified rejection o f all pending management plans within six months after submission
       Enforcement o f the finance law includingthe rescinding o f non-compliant permits
       Recruitment o f a third-party observer to assist inforest law enforcement operations and public information
       Adoption o f auction procedures and o f a three-year rolling plan for the allocation o f future loggingpermits
       Completiono f the SNBG restructuring without monopoly and overlapping with public mandates.
   Policv Area 2 -Biodiversitv-Environment
       Continued implementation o f the FESP socio-environmental management plan
       Implementation o f a socio-environmental impact assessments prior to any new industrial mining project
   Policy Area 3 - Fisheries
        Completion o f a socio-economic and environmental review o f the industrial fishing sector
        Enforcement o f measures aimed at protecting and/or restoring fish stocks in over-exploited, fragile areas
   Policv Area 4 - Miningand Oil
        Completiono f a socio-economic and environmental review o f the mining sector
   Overall framework
        Maintenance o f a satisfactory macroeconomic framework
        Continued satisfactory implementation o f the present operation's reform package
        Satisfactory audit o f the use o f the proceeds o fthe first tranche
                                    Triggers to move from DPLl to DPL2
   Policy Area 1- Forests
        Disclosure o f an annual status report on community forestry and logging permits inrural forests
        Setting-up o f a mechanism for transferring a share o f forest revenues to local communities
        Setting up o f a computerized forest observatory runby the tripartite Forests-Customs-Taxes commission
   Policy Area 2 -Biodiversitv-Environment
        Preventing any industrial mining, oil, logging, or fishing activities within national parks

   Policy Area 3 - Fisheries
        Adoption o fmanagement plans for 4-5 priority parks and their buffer zones

        Implementation o f a transparent fisheries monitoring, control and surveillance (MCS) plan
        Adoption o f decrees on licensing, taxation and sustainable harvestingbased on the fisheries sector review
   Policy Area 4 - Minine and Oil
        Restructuring o f the mining rights titling system
        Setting up o f a mechanism for transferring mining revenues to local communities
        Adoption o f environmental and socioeconomic recommendations from the miningsector review
        Regular publication o f the EITIreports inthe oil and mining sectors
   Overall framework
        Maintenance o f a satisfactory macroeconomic framework
        Continued satisfactory implementation o f D P L l reforms
  ,     Computerization o f financial and human resources management o f the Ministry o f Forests

                                                30

                   VI.     IMPLEMENTATION OF THE OPERATION

A.      FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE

108.    Loan proceeds will be used to complement national budget and other donors' resources
devoted to supporting the FESP, the EITI and the Mining Sector Reform. BRD support to the
present operation will be 12.2 million (equivalent to US$15 million). Disbursements will be in
two tranches: one to be released at effectiveness based on actions completed prior to negotiations
(4.1 million, equivalent to US$5 million), and the second one being disbursed as conditions are
met (8.1 million, equivalent to US$lO million). Each tranche release will be also subject to the
following general conditions: (i)  maintenance o f a satisfactory macroeconomic fi-amework; and
(ii)continued satisfactory implementation of the overall reform package supported by the
operation, This includes the equivalent o f loan proceeds, as well other specified national budget
contributions, being available to the two line ministries in a timely manner to facilitate
implementation o f the sector programs and satisfaction o f the measures included in the present
operation.

B,      IMPLEMENTATION,MONITORING AND EVALUATION

109.    Imvlementation. The following ministries, along with the National Agency for National
Parks (ANPN),will be responsible for implementing this operation on behalf o f the Government:
Ministry o f Finance, Ministry of Planning, Ministry of Forest, Fisheries and Environment
(MEFEPEPN) and Ministry o f Mines and Oil (MMEPRH). Their functions will be in line with
their normal institutional mandates. Applicable procedures will be those o f the Government o f
Gabon. World Bank support will be channeled through the Ministry o f Finance which will, as per
usual procedures, have overall responsibility for coordinating Government activities, and for
commissioning external audits to assure ministerial compliance with local financial management,
administrative, and procurement procedures. The MEFEPEPN and MMEPRH as well as the
ANPN, will be directly responsible for implementing the FESP program, the EITIinitiative and
the miningsector reform, and for coordinating fulfillment o f the conditions o f tranche release. To
this end, the line ministries and the ANPNwill annually submit work programs and budgets for
Parliament's approval. These work programs and budgets will be consistent with the components
and activities of the sector programs, and with the DPL conditions for tranche release. Inthe case
of the FESP, they will also be reviewedby the FESP steering committee.

 110.   Provincial delegations o f the line ministries and the ANPN will carry out activities in the
field, and will expand collaboration with local governing bodies, community organizations,
NGOs and the private sector. Their work inimplementing the program is limited to public good
functions. Program activities like forest and fisheries resource inventories, the elaboration o f
management plans and the development o f community forests, environmental education, and
participatory zoning will be contracted out to other partners and service providers. The
Government will commit to procuring essential specialized technical assistance in the fields o f
financial management, procurement, auditing and monitoring to ensure the quality o f
implementation.

 111.   Monitorinn and evaluation. The FESP and the miningreform monitoring and evaluation
system are being designed to help Government and development partners to measure progress
towards tranche release and program outcomes, and to identify problems and propose corrective
measures. It also aims to foster accountability and transparency and engage stakeholders in
information sharing. Monitoringwill integrate financial planning and execution with physical and

                                                 31

geographic information on program implementation, on progress towards DPL tranche release
and on implementation o f various donor-supported activities.

112.    The starting points for the monitoring and evaluation system are the Letter o f Sector
Policy and the FESP program document, the mining reform program document, as well as the
EITI criteria and principles. Definitions, baselines, and values o f expected results o f the overall
FESP will be worked out as part o f the FESP to facilitate monitoring by the Government and
other interested parties. Particular emphasis will be placed on indicators o f results rather than
process indicators. Under the GEF grant, progress in protected area management will be scored
according to the "tracking tool" consistent with the recommendations o f the World Commission
on Protected Areas Management Effectiveness. Progress in the fight against illegal logging will
be measured interms o f variations inthe length o f logging roads located within unallocatedforest
concessions and nationalparks, observed intime series o f satellite images.

113.    While various departments o f the three Ministries in charge of: Finance; Forests,
Fisheries and Environment; and Mining and Petroleum; as well as the AN" will be involved in
gathering and analyzing program relevant information, monitoring o f overall program
implementation will be centralized by the Planning and Monitoring Unit (CPSE - Cellule de
Planijkation et Suivi-Evaluation) o f the Ministry o f Forests, Fisheries and Environment and by a
similar unit to be created within the Ministry o f Mines. These units will consolidate monitoring
reports, maintain relations with national and international partners, consolidate annual work
programs, and monitor progress towards program outcomes and satisfaction o f tranche release
conditions. The government will convene multi-donor missions on a regular basis. The
Directorate General for Environment o f the Ministry o f Forests will monitor and report on the
implementation o f the environmental and social management plan. Provincial delegations o f the
two line ministries and o f AWN will be the focal points o f the program monitoring unit, and in
that capacity they will be incharge o f collecting necessary data at local levels; they will also be in
charge o f disseminating reports at the provincial level.

114.     Overall, the coordination o f Gabon's natural resources reform program resides with the
"Comitk de Suivi des Programmes Economiques" led by the Ministry o f Finance and the
President's office, and ultimately, with the Council o f Ministers chaired by the Head o f State.

C.       POVERTYAND SOCIAL IMPACT

115.     The proposed DPL aims to improve social and economic impacts o f natural resources
through employment, community development and revenues. The DPL will also give priority to
participatory processes, to securing users' rights,to community-based management initiatives and
to the transfer o f fiscal revenues directly to local communities. It will help put in place a level
playing field to promote local entrepreneurs rather than rent-seeking behaviors.

116.     Poverty and economic impact. As part o f the preparation o f the FESP, the Govemment
undertook an economic impact assessment o f the whole program. Inthe forest sector, the analysis
confirms that the main benefits and the economic rate o f return o f the FESP will depend mostly
on the government's capacity to secure tax collection, to transfer a share o f these revenues to
local communities, to curb illegal logging and to restore investors' confidence leading to
additionaljob creation. Benefits also arise from local communities being able to exert customary
rightson their forests. Inthe fisheries sector, benefits are expected inthe form o f sustainable yield
of fish, food security, artisanal employment, and enhanced fiscal revenues. With regard to
protected areas, ecotourism may generate some level o f employment and other sources o f
revenues to the local population, but the real size o f such benefits in the next 5-10 years remains

                                                   32

unclear. Similarly, environmental protection provides important services, such as prevention o f
soil erosion, water regulation, and carbon sequestration, but the extent to which Gabon can tum
them into tangible benefits also remains unclear.

117.    Inthe miningsector, by supporting the design and implementation o fbetter policies, the
proposed DPL i s expected to optimize the impact o f miningoperations on the Gabonese economy
and population: by streamlining the taxable base, improving the tax collection mechanisms inthe
sector, and putting in place an incentive framework that promotes socially and environmentally
responsible operators. The DPL will also aim at improving local well-being through redistribution
of a share o f miningrevenues to local entities. With regardto the EITI, the DPL i s likely to have
a positive impact on the transparent management o f Gabon's main source o f income.

118.    Social impact. Based on the analytical work undertaken by the govemment during the
preparation o f the FESP program, specific policies supported by the proposed operation have the
potential o f significant benefits to the rural population, but also embody significant social risks. If
adequate local consultations and participatory processes are not conducted, logging and mining
concessions as well as national parks may lead to population displacement and to reducing local
people's access to vital resources. The study commissioned by the govemment therefore helped
develop a social management plan o f the FESP that seeks to increase local capacities, secure
rights, enhance participation and share benefits. It provides for a systematic screening o f FESP
annual work-plans. The study also helped develop an Indigenous People Development Plan
(IPDP) and a Resettlement Policy Framework(RFP).

119.    The analytical work and the borrower's systems being put in place under the program
provide an adequate basis to enhance positive effects or reduce adverse effects associated with
specific policies supported under the proposed operation. By supporting the implementation o f
the FESP, including its Social Management Plan (SMP) with the IPDP and the RFP, the proposed
D P L will strengthen the borrower's systems to monitor and address social impacts arising from
.policy and investment programs. As part of the supported program, the RFP describes the
procedures, rules and principles to address any resettlement impact on communities, and offers
the affected people full compensation. It also provides a Process Framework in case any
conservation or sustainable management policy or activity restricts the traditional access o f
communities to natural resources. Finally, the S M P has an IPDP which will secure equal
opportunities and full participation for indigenous people. The latter, which constitute around 5
percent o f Gabon's rural population, face the risk o f their land being attributed to other uses
without seeking their consent, and where they benefit little from the resulting economic activities,
However, additional monitoring may be needed for the treatment o f immigrants under the
program, estimated around 10 percent o f the rural population and around 90 percent o f the fisher
people, since immigrants are maintained outside the legal system and receive less protection.

 120.    With renard to oil and mining, the proposed DPL will prepare the design and setting up
of a mechanism for sharing fiscal revenues with local communities which represents a significant
opportunity to increase the contribution from natural resource sectors to poverty reduction. The
participatory approach involved in the EITI will help step up civil society's participation in the
debate on better use o f the country's oil andminingresources.

D.       SUPERVISION

 121.    General. Implementing the operation, monitoring progress and evaluating results upon
completion i s the responsibility o f the Government. The Bank will review implementation
progress to verify fulfillment o f tranche release conditions and compliance with legal covenants,

                                                  33

and to validate monitoring and evaluation findings. Throughout implementation, the Bank team
will participate in close dialogue with the government and other concerned stakeholders. For
activities leading towards hlfillment o f specific measures supported by the proposed DPL, the
Bank will be requested to review or to advise on work plans, terms o f reference and progress
reports so as to ensure timely and satisfactory fulfillment o f such measures and avoid delays in
disbursement. The task team will consult and coordinate with IMF and other development
partners in carrying out its supervision work. Annex IIIsummarizes indicators and benchmarks
that will be used for monitoring progress as tranche release conditions are being met. The table in
annex 3 will be updated in the course o f implementation so as to reflect progress and new
developments.

122.      With regard to -financial management, supervision will cover the following: (a)
monitoring that the agreed flow o f funds arrangements were complied with following the
disbursement o f Bank loan proceeds and that the required confirmation is received from the
Government; (b) reviewing implementation progress o f the agreed financial management and
fiduciary arrangements, such as the use o f a dedicated account, the provision o f technical
assistance to the two line ministries and the annual audit o f the dedicated account. Timely
submission o f the audit o f the dedicated account will be monitored. In case the audit report
indicates problems such as non-compliance with the agreed-upon arrangements, the Bank may
enforce its right to request that the Govemment return the amount to the dedicated account or
refund the amount directly to the Bank, and in extreme cases to cancel an equivalent undisbursed
amount o f the loan.

E.        FIDUCIARYAND FINANCIAL,MANAGEMENTASPECTS

123.      Central Bank safeguards assessment. Inthe framework of its Stand-By Agreement with
Gabon, the IMF conducted a safeguards assessment o fthe regional Central Bank (BEAC) in2001
and updated its assessment in 2004. The latest assessment shows that the BEAC has taken a
number o f steps to strengthen its safeguards framework, but points to a number o f issues that
need to be clarified, including the status o f foreign exchange reserves held outside o f the BEAC
and the reconciliation o f Treasury balances betweenthe BEAC and its members.

124.      Public financial management svstem. Overall, strengthening the management o f public
finances has been an ongoing challenge to the Government and the donor community. Annual
budgets are formulated and approved, but weak coordination, in particular between the recurrent
and investments budgets, has often precluded effective execution o f the budget. However, as part
o f its efforts to improve management o f public resources, the Government has now shown signs
o f commitment to tackle this problem, and sees the proposed DPL as a vehicle to improve
budgetary discipline. The DPL includes measures to develop public financial management
capacity and to address key weaknesses recognized by concerned administrations and confirmed
inarecent diagnostic bythe Bank.

125.      Public Financial Management and Procurement Reviews. In May 2005, the Bank, EU,
AfDB, France and IMF initiated a review o f Gabon's public financial resources management
focusing on public expenditures, financial management and procurement. Preliminary work
shows that over the last two years, the Government has made some progress in policy and
institutional reforms with support from the IMF inthe area o f budget and financial management.
The legal framework for public finance management, including the annual budget timetable, has
been better respected. The public tender office (DGMP) has been strengthened and competitive
bidding for public procurement has become more common. Service providers are getting paid
faster, which contributes to restoring confidence among the private sector. However, the review

                                                  34


also shows that budget execution remains highly centralized within Ministry o f Finance, and that
cumbersome control operations tend to slow down budget execution. Furthermore, Gabon's
budget process i s not fully aligned with the country's development priorities. Together with a
strengthened three-year Public Investment Program, the GPRSP currently under preparation i s
expected to play an important role in strengthening budget preparation and execution, including
byprogressivelymoving to an outcome-based approach associated with measurable indicators.

126.    The ongoing work on public financial resources management will provide the basis for an
action plan to strengthen public financial management and to prepare a public finance
management reform program. This program will include measures to improve the quality o f
reporting o f budget execution and control procedures. The Bank i s expected to support this
reform program through appropriate instruments, while ensuring strong links between the present
natural resources management DPL and these instruments.

127.    At the sector level, the public financial management system and the fiduciary risks were
assessed as part o f the preparation o f the proposed natural resources management DPL. This
sector-level assessment confirmed the weaknesses faced at the country level. It also concluded
that the proposed development policy approach i s feasible provided that the measures outlined in
paragraph 130 are putinplace.

128.     The sector level fiduciary assessment identified the following main risks: (a) misuse o f
budget allocations; (b) overpricing and delays in payments to services providers; (c) lack o f
planning with multi-year expenditure frameworks; and (d) inadequate monitoring and evaluation
capacity within MEFEPEPN. It also concluded that risks (a) and (b) should be limited as a result
of the opening o f a dedicated account at the Central Bank used exclusively for the purpose o f the
FESP, EITI and miningreformprograms, and as a result o f real-time monitoring o f cash flow by
the credit manager; that risk (c) will be mitigated by the opening o f a dedicated account; and that
risk (d) requires the provision o f technical assistance to the MEFEPEPN and the MMEPRHfor
strengthening their monitoring and evaluation functions as well as their financial resources
management.

129.     The sector-level fiduciary risk assessment recommended the following accompanying
measures:
         The adoption o f an inter-ministerial regulation setting the flow o f funds procedures from
         the Central Bank to the line ministries. This regulation should include: the opening o f a
         dedicated account, the access for MEFEPEPNand MMEPRH to the DGST website, the
         setting up o f financial control within MEFEPEPN and MMEPRH, and the monitoring o f
         program authorizations and credits.
         The setting up o f technical assistance for the financial management and accounting
         within MEFEPEPNand MMEPRHbefore the beginning o f the DPL and for at least two
         years.
         The timely transfer o f the proceeds o f the first tranche into the dedicated account
         accessible by the MEFEPEPN and MMEPRHfor implementing FESP, EITI and mining
         reform activities, and the auditing o f the use o f these proceeds, as conditions for release
         of the second tranche.
         The computerization o f MEFEPEPN's and MMEPRH's financial services, as triggers for
         moving on to the second DPL.
         With regard to overall public resources management: the positioning o f 2006 credits by
         February 2006; the issuance o f the Treasury's consolidated account within one month;

                                                   35


         the completion o f the new budget nomenclature; the phasing out o f exceptional
         procedures as opposed to regular ones.
    0    With regard to procurement: compliance with timelines and thresholds and the use o f
         market price references;
    0    The setting up o f a Medium-Term Expenditure Framework for the forest and
         environment sectors, starting in2006, for the preparation o f the 2007 budget.

130.     The Government committed to implementing these measures prior to and during the life
of the DPL. Inpreparation for this DPL, the Ministries o f Finance, Planning, Forest and Mining
prepared the above-mentioned inter-ministerialregulation on the flow o f funds procedures. It was
agreed that this regulation will be formally adopted before the operation i s declared effective. At
the same time, budget preparation by the two line ministries i s following more closely the
procedures recommended by the Ministries of Finance and Planning. The selection process o f the
technical assistance for financial management and accounting within MEFEPEPNand MMEPRH
was launched before negotiations on the basis o f agreed upon terms o f reference. It was agreed
that the recruitment process will be completed before the operation i s declared effective. The
audit o f the dedicated account i s a condition for disbursement o f the second tranche o f the present
D P L and the computerization o f the financial services will be considered as a trigger for moving
on to DPL2. The quality o f implementation o f the measures listed above will be audited annually,
to ascertain effectiveness, highlight bottlenecks, and recommend remedial actions to be
implemented as part o f the DPL.

131.     The two-tranche design o f the proposed DPL and the sequence o f present DPL and DPL2
make it possible to build incrementally on initial progress with regard to financial management.
The initial set o f financial management measures will serve as platform for further improvements.
Input or process-oriented conditions will gradually give rise to more results-oriented ones.
Relevant links between the sector-level financial management system and the country's overall
PFMsystem will be strengthened.

132.     Flow of funds arrangements. Upon notification by IBRD o f loan effectiveness, and with
the submission by the Recipient o f a withdrawal application, the proceeds o f the first tranche will
be deposited by IBRD into a dedicated (separate) account in the Central Bank, to be used
exclusively for this DPL. Proceeds o f the second tranche will be deposited after all respective
conditions are met. The proceeds o f the loan will be converted into local currency, and the
dedicated account will be maintained in local currency. The loan proceeds deposited in the
dedicated account will be subject to the country's normal budgetary and PFMprocesses, and will
finance   activities inscribed in the annual budget law for FESP, EITI and mining sector reform
work plans. They cannot be used for ineligible expenditures specified on the negative list o f the
loan agreement.

 133.    Auditinx..The Loan Agreement will give IBRD the right to require the Borrower to audit
the dedicated account. Pursuant to this provision, IBRDwill request that the Borrower have the
dedicated account audited, by auditors, and in line with terms o f reference, acceptable to IBRD.
The scope o f the audit will cover the following among others: (i) accuracy o f the summary o f
                                                                      the
the transactions o f the dedicated account; (ii)   that the dedicated account was used only for the
purpose o f the DPL operation (i-e., no other amounts are deposited into this account); and (iii)
that payments out o f the dedicated account were not used for expenditures on the negative list,
including expenditures that are not included in FESP and EITI programs and their annual work-
plans as approved inconsecutive budget laws.

                                                    36




F.       ENVIRONMENTALASPECTS

134.     Forest, -fisheries, biodiversitv and environment sectors. Inpreparing the FESP program,
the government conducted a socio-environmental impact o f the entire program. Based on this
analysis, specific policies supported under the operation are likely to have significant impact on
the environment, natural resources, and forests. The study concluded that, given the program's
focus on sectoral policy, institution'al reform, law enforcement, regulation of production forests
and fisheries, environmental monitoring, and protection o f national parks, it will overall have a
positive impact on the environment. It will neither lead to the conversion o f natural habitats nor to
the degradation o f critical habitats, and it will not finance commercial mining, logging and fishing
operations. On the contrary, the FESP will help reinforce the administration's capacity to monitor
management plans preparedby the private operators as part o f their concession contracts.

135.     The government designed an Environmental Management Plan to ensure the screening o f
annual FESP work-plans and to reshape those activities that show potential negative impacts,         l5
The proposed DPL will therefore help strengthen the borrower's environmental monitoring
system by supporting the continued implementation o f the FESP's environmental management
plan as well as the carrying out o f socio-environmental impact assessment prior to any industrial
miningproject.

136.     In addition to the reinforcement of environmental management, the proposed DPL
includes specific policy measures that directly aim at protecting the environment, natural
resources and forests: the adoption o f forest management plans and the rescinding o f concessions
not covered by such plans; the use o f third-party observers to assist in law enforcement and
prevent illegal logging; the implementation o f a fisheries monitoring, control and surveillance
system; and the prevention o f industrial activities inside national parks. Moreover, the proposed
DPL also contains measures aiming at directly reducing any potentially negative impact of
policies supported under the operation. A potential negative impact fkom the proposed DPL
relates to the possible increase o f illegal logging or fishing, as the proposed policy measures may
lead to increasing the cost o f access to timber and fisheries resources by strengthening
competition and by making environmental regulations more stringent. Hence, they may increase
the incentive for irresponsible operators to operate outside the law, thereby raising the risk of
unsustainable extractiono f forest and fisheries resources. Improvingthe administration's capacity
to enforce laws on the ground therefore i s an integral part o f the proposed operation. T o that
effect, the use o f third-party forest observers i s included as a condition for release o f the second
tranche. The same applies to fisheries, where the proposed DPL will also help develop a
transparent monitoring, control and surveillance system.

137.     I n the oil and mining sector, the implementation o f the EITI is not likely to involve
negative environmental impact. However, the likely expansion o f the mining industry as part of
Gabon economic diversification agenda does entail significant risks for the environment, The
proposed D P L supports the borrower in assessing these environmental risks and devising
measures to reduce negative effects through the proposed mining sector review at the national



l5The associated GEF project, which also builds on the Government's EMP, is subject to World Bank
Safeguard Policies on Environmental Assessments (OP 4.01), Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP
4.04), Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36), IndigenousPeoples (OD 4.20), and Involuntary Resettlement (OPiBP
4.12). See GEF Briefproject Appraisal Document.

                                                 37

level. It also supports the implementation o f environmental impact assessments before the
beginning o f any new miningoperation.

G.       RISKS AND RISK MITIGATION

138.      In light of Gabon's uneven and relatively recent track record in implementing reform
programs, and in spite o f recent encouraging signs, the proposed DPL carries certain risks. The
five main risks are: (i)political risk associated with to upcoming elections; (ii)     lack o f law
enforcement in the field; (iii)delays in budget allocations and weak financial management
capacity; and (iv) misperception o f the Bank's strategy with regard to natural resources
management.

139.      Shift in Government uriorities. The risk o f a significant shift in Government priorities
after the presidential elections, scheduled for November 27, 2005, i s judged to moderate. Inlight
o f Gabon's history, it i s expected that the elections, will bring little change to the country's
leadership. In fact, even if the leadership were to change, diversifying the economy and
improving natural resources governance are likely to remain top priorities for any government in
Gabon. Elections may be followed by changes at the technical leadership level, which may lead
to questioning of the understandings that have been gradually built through close dialogue during
the preparationprocess. The proposed D P L has been built up inpart on the basis o f reforms that
have already been adopted, so as to reduce the risk o f reversibility. Also, the choice o f a DPL
instrument i s expected to keep cross-sectoral authorities directly interested in monitoring the
natural resources reform agenda and to secure continuity. Another risk stems from the fact that
the first tranche of the DPL is expected to be released around the time o f the elections, when
priorities for expenditures risk being volatile. This risk would be mitigated by depositing the
proceeds o f the tranche on a dedicated account at the Central Bank to be used exclusively for the
purpose o fthe FESP, EITI and miningprograms.

140.      Law enforcement in t.he-field.Lessons learned from the past and from other countries
reveal a considerable risk that policy reforms adopted at the central level remain on paper with
little implementation inthe field. Clarifying the rules and increasing the cost o f access to natural
resources may lead -if it does not come along with improved monitoring and law enforcement-
to a situation where illegal behavior i s more profitable than compliance. Illegal extraction o f
timber or other natural resources would deprive the country from the expected benefits and
jeopardize the outcomes targeted under the proposedDPL. Moreover, it would entail reputational
risk for the Bank as a supporter o f the reform. Therefore, strengthening monitoring and
enforcement in the field i s a priority for IBRD engagement. It should include not only training
and equipment, but also technical assistance for independent monitoring or third-party
verification with a mandate to ensure objectivity o f field assessments, lawsuits and public
information. This type o f instrument should be part o f the reformpackage supported by the Bank
and it i s integrated inthe DPLpolicy matrix.

 141.     Budget allocation and -financial management capacity. Delays in executing budget
allocations provided for in finance laws has been pointed out as a possible source o f risk in
implementing sector programs such as the FESP. To mitigate this risk, a set o f measures were put
inplace before negotiations, inaddition to including the FESP annual work-plans inthe annual
finance laws. An inter-ministerial regulation was prepared by the Ministries involved in the
channeling o f the funds (Finance, Planning) and the beneficiaries (Forests, Mines) inconsultation
with the Bank. According to this regulation, the proceeds o f the DPL will be deposited on a
dedicated account at the Central Bank. Within the line ministries, technical assistance will be put
inplace to strengthen financial management and procurement capacity. Annual audits feature as a

                                                38

condition for release o f the second tranche. By channeling the resources through the national
procedures, the proposed operation will address financial management issues that would remain
beyond the control of a regular investment project with a PIU functioning outside the national
budget and procurement procedures.

142.    Perceution of the Bank's stratem with regard to natural resources management. Recent
experience in Congo Basin countries and in natural resources management programs shows that
the Bank's engagement in this sector i s not automatically well-understood or well-represented by
local or international stakeholders. In Gabon, consultations during the CAS process revealed
"widespread misunderstanding, misinformation, and lack o f information about the Bank's role in
Gabon's development". There i s a risk that the Bank's support to Gabon's diversification agenda
be perceived as just an effort to intensify timber, fisheries and mining industries with a focus on
replacing oil revenues, but with little consideration for the environment and for stakeholders'
participation. T o address this risk, an effective communication strategy will need to be
implemented from the outset o f the program including efforts to reach out to local groups,
parliament, NGOs, development partners and media. Social and environmental mitigation
measures need to be properly implemented, which i s reflected in the DPL policy matrix. The
DPL's policy measures that are specifically targeted to protecting the environment and to
empowering local communities should be given adequate visibility.

143.    Inconclusion, there is a moderate level ofrisk associated with the proposed operation.
However, provided that mitigation measures are properly implemented, the risk appears
manageable and i s outweighedby the potentialbenefits o f the operation. K e y mitigation measures
are included inthe DPL's policy matrix.

                                                          39
                                                  Annex 1Part I

       Letter of Development Policy: Forestry, Fisheries, Biodiversity and Environment

                                            LETTRE DE POLITIQUE
                           DESSECTEURSFORET,PECHEET AQUACULTURE
                                    AIRES PROTEGEES, ENVIRONNEMENT
                                              ET DE LA FORMATION
(Prtparte en collaboration avec le Ministbre de l'Economie, des Finances, du Budget et de la Privatisation et l e
                                                       CNPN)


                                                 INTRODUCTION

Face A la baisse tendancielle des recettes pttrolibres, le Gouvernement s'est attele a dtvelopper les autres
secteurs de l'tconomie nationale. L a diversification de l'tconomie gabonaise est ainsi devenue une prioritt
majeure. Dans cette perspective, ilconvient d'amtliorer les performances des secteurs forCt, pCche/aquaculture
et du domaine de l'environnement qui constituent autant de gisements de valeur ajoutte, d'emplois directs et
indirects, de ressources alimentaires pour les populations et de recettes fiscales pour 1'Etat.

L a prtsente Lettre exprime les rtformes de gouvemance que le gouvernement gabonais conduira pour
amtliorer l'efficacit6 tconomique et les btntfices sociaux que l'exploitation des ressources naturelles apporte    a
la collectivitt nationale, de faqon durable et en prtservant la valeur des tcosystbmes naturels pour l'humanitt.
Elle prtsente les rtformes qui seront conduites pour amtliorer les performances socio-Cconomiques des
ressources naturelles tout en assurant leur durabilitt environnementale. Par        rtforme   D, nous entendons des
rtformes structurelles visant a mieux organiser la filibre-bois, et a renforcer le mode de gouvemance des
ressources naturelles.

L a pertinence de cette dtmarche est justifite par les faits puisque les recettes pttrolibres sont passtes de 814
milliards FCFA en 2000, A 609 milliards en 2002, tandis que les projections'6 pour 2006 ne sont que de l'ordre
de 303 milliards FCFA. Cette rtduction importante de la part des recettes pttrolibres dans le budget de 1'Etat
montre clairement que :

0    la dependance traditionnelle vis-a-vis dupttrole n'est plus soutenable;

0    le manque a gagner qui en rtsulte ne peut Ctre comb16 que s i d'autres ressources parviennent rapidement a
     prendre son relais et, a gtntrer des btn6fices socio-tconomiques qui soient durables et partagts
     tquitablement.

,  Cette Lettre n'est pas une       nouvelle politique D. C'est un agenda de rtforme de gouvernance centrt sur
l'information publique et l'application des rbgles et accords intervenus. Elle implique des ajustements ponctuels
du cadre ltgal ou rtglementaire, pour mettre les instruments de gestion en cohtrence avec les objectifs
poursuivis.

Cette politique vise a :

0    crter des emplois ;

0    amtliorer la rentabilitt des entreprises des secteurs concernts ;

0    promouvoir l'entrepreneuriat national et le transfert de technologie ;

0    impliquer les communautts rurales et la socittt civile dans l a gestion durable des ressources naturelles ;

 0   accroitre les recettes budgttaires de 1'Etat et en re-distribuer une partie aux entitts locales ;
le tout devant contribuer    la crtation de richesses et a la lutte contre la pauvrett, tout en assurant la durabilitt
des tcosystbmes et des services environnementaux..

 Cette politique s'inscrit dans l e cadre des recommandations des agendas intemationaux en matibre de foresterie,
 de pgche, de conservation de la biodiversitt et de protection de l'environnement. I1 s'agit principalement de


 l6Direction Gtntrale de 1'Economie :Tableau de bord de 1'6conomie 2003

                                                            40
CDB, CDD, CCNUCC, ATIBT, RAMSAR, CITES, RAPAC, etc. Elle est conforme aux strategies communes
dtvelopptes et en cours dans les cadres de concertation instituts au niveau sous-rtgional, notamment : l e
NEPAD, le PBFC, la COMIFAC, l'OAB, la CEMAC, l'OCFSA, la CEFDHAC, le COREP, 1'AFLEG                            ,,.

Les orientations du Gouvemement gabonais en matibre de protection de l'environnement, de valorisation de la
biodiversitt, des ressources forestibres et halieutiques sont traduites par :
      le Code de l'environnement ;
      le Code forestier ;
      le Code des pdches et de l'aquaculture, en cours d'adoption.


Les dispositions fiscales sont prtcistes dans les lois de finances annuelles qui dtterminent la fiscalitt dans
chaque secteur. L a loi de finances 2004 a introduit des rtformes essentielles pour la re-structuration de la
filibre-bois  (cf. section ForCts)

Les principes et instruments indiquts dans la prtsente Lettre de Politique seront reflttts dans les textes
d'application du code forestier et du code des pdches en cours de prtparation. Ces textes seront prtparts en
concertation avec l'ensemble des parties prenantes y compris la socittt civile et le secteur privt.

L a prtsente Lettre de Politique          indique les rtformes que le Gouvernement conduira dans l'inttrdt des
populations, dbs 2004, et qui sont indispensables pour lever les contraintes qui obbrent les performances socio-
tconomiques de ces secteurs.

Elle est assortie d'un agenda prioritaire indiquant les actions concretes que le Gouvernement entreprendra en
2004 et 2005 en application de ce programme de rtformes..

L e prtsent agenda de rtforme de gouvemance sera ensuite appuyt par un programme d'investissement : l e
PSFE (Programme Sectoriel For& et Environnement), lequel visera A renforcer a long-terme la capacitt des
institutions nationales et des autres acteurs du secteur, en faisant appel aux contributions de tous les partenaires
du Gabon, L a prtsente Lettre et son Agenda Prioritaire indiquent les mesures simples et peu coiiteuses que le
Gouvernement conduira dbs A prtsent, et qui sont ntcessaires au succbs de ces investissements ulttrieurs. L e s
actions de renforcement institutionnel qui requibrent des investissements importants, par exemple dans l e
domaine de la formation, ne sont pas dttailltes dans la prtsente Lettre de Politique. Elles seront dttailltes dans
les composantes du document de programme PSFE.

                                   L a prksente lettre de cadrage traite entre autres :
       de l'accbs aux ressources naturelles et des conditions de mise en valeur du patrimoine environnemental y
       compris l'amtnagement durable des espaces de production;
       des modalitts d'attribution des permis forestiers et des droits de pQcheainsi que des modes de valorisation
       dupatrimoine environnemental ;
       des aspects lits a la fiscalit6 et des mesures incitatives a mettre en ceuvre pour attirer les investisseurs, crter
       de la valeur ajoutke et des emplois ;
       des dispositions juridiques applicables a la protection de l'environnement et A la gestion des ressources
       naturelles renouvelables ;
       de la mise en place d'un cadre favorable aux investissements et a l'industrialisation dans les filibres bois et
       pdches;
       des conditions de rtpartition des revenus issus de l'exploitation des ressources naturelles et de la
       biodiversite entre l'Etat, les optrateurs et les populations locales ;
       Les modalitts de renforcement des capacitts de l'administration (et des autres acteurs) sont importantes,
       mais dttailltes dans le document de programme du PSFE.
       de l'implication des nationaux et de la promotion de l'entrepreneuriat national ;
       de l'amtnagement des aires prottgtes a des fins de conservation de la biodiversitt et de dtveloppement de
       l'tcotourisme.

                                                          41
Ces diffkrents dkveloppements sont regroupks dans quatre sections se rapportant aux objectifs et stratkgies dans
les secteurs for&, pQcheet aquaculture, biodiversitk et l'environnement.

I.SECTEURFORET-FILIERE-BOIS

Dans le secteur for&,   l'agenda de rkforme vise a :

     apporter m e contribution significative a 1'6conomie nationale afin de lutter plus efficacement contre la
    pauvretk. Cette contribution qui reprksentait 4,2% du PIB, hors activitks pktrolibres du secteur primaire en
     2002 devrait, dans 10 ans atteindre 10%
     une transformationplus pousske A forte valeur ajoutke des produits forestiers au niveau national et local ;
     une contribution au dkveloppement des ressources de la faune et des aires protkgkes ;
     une implication plus importante des nationaux dans les activitks du secteur.
     L a stcurisation des recettes fiscales dues a 1'Etat et aux collectivitks locales, tout en respectant le niveau de
     production durable Ccologiquement (. possibilitk forestibre D)
     L a gestion directe des forCts du domaine rural par et au profit des communautks et rCsidents locaux eux-
     m&mes.

L e gouvemement espbre que l'application de toutes ces politiques va tripler le PIB du secteur
Par ailleurs, le secteur fori3 est le troisibme employeur du secteur privk modeme. En 2002, l'ensemble des
entreprises d'exploitation forestibre et de transformation comptait 9240 employks, soit 16% de l'emploi total
estimk   a 57266 personnes". L'augmentation des activitks du secteur devrait se traduire par un accroissement
significatif de ces effectifs.

                                      I.Informationpublique,transparence

Les ressources forestibres sont un patrimoine public du peuple gabonais. L'accbs aux informations sur les
permis doit Ctre aide pour la sociktk civile. Cette transparence accrue fait partie de l a modemisationdu secteur
et facilitera l'amklioration de ses performances kconomiques et environnementales. L e Gouvemement publiera
pkriodiquement sur site internet et/ou dans la presse nationale la liste et la carte des permis forestiers (CFAD,
PFA, PGG, autres).

Par ailleurs, le gouvemement favorisera de faqon permanente la consultation publique et l'implication de la
sociktk civile dans la dkfinition des instruments de gestion forestibre (notamment par des ateliers provinciaux,
et les consultations locales sur le plan de zonage...) et dans leur mise en ceuvre (transparence et dkbat public
dans la rkpartition des contrats forestiers et dans les contrtiles de terrain et le suivi du contentieux.. .).

                            11.Mise en cohkrenceduplannational de zonage forestier

L e dkcoupage des espaces forestiers du Gabon entre domaine permanent, domaine rural et espaces de
conservation n'est pas achevk. Or c'est le socle indispensable pour clarifier et skcuriser les droits des diffkrents
acteurs. L'kbauche de plan de zonage actuellement disponible sera mise A jour et complktke selon unprocessus
participatif, sur la base d'analyses kcologiques et sociodconomiques et de consultations locales. Aucun permis
forestier (CFAD, PFA, PGG ou autre) ne sera plus attribuk sans consultation prkalable avec les populations
locales et vkrification de la cohkrence avec le plan de zonage.

L a prockdure de mise en place du plan d'affectation des terres sera validke a la suite d'un atelier national
regroupant l'ensemble des parties prenantes. Ce plan est susceptible d'&tre rkvisk en cas de nCcessitk.

L'action prioritaire a mener pour le dCmarrage de cette prockdure consistera en l'actualisation de la proposition
du plan d'affectation des terres de la premiere zone (1998) et la finalisation des travaux de stratification
forestibre sur l'ensemble dupays.




 "DirectionGknkralede1'Economie:Tableaudebordde1'Cconomie2003

                                                          42
                                       111.Attributiondespermisforestiers

Dans le contexte de diversification tconomique, l'octroi de h t u r s permis forestiers sera une opportunitt de
montrer la vraie valeur tconomique des forCts et d'amtliorer la transparence dans le secteur. Les articles 111 et
113 du Code forestier prtvoient que les CFAD et les PFA situts dans les ptrimbtres de reboisement, les for&
productives sensibles ou limitrophes du domaine rural sont attributes par adjudication.

L'ensemble des for&       encore dans le domaine public sont sensibles, a la fois sur le plan tcologique et
tconomique. L e Gouvernement testera le systbme d'adjudication a travers des essais-pilotes.           Des ttudes
prtparatoires seront conduites pour mettre au point les critkres techniques et financiers, proctdures, zones et
superficies concerntes, examen des constquences sur les pratiques d'exploitation., .), avant fin 2005. Les
attributions de nouveaux permis seront mises provisoirement en suspens dans le DFPE jusqu'aux conclusions
des tests d'adjudication et d'une analyse comparte de l'adjudication et du grt-A-grt dans l'intCrCt de la
collectivitk nationale vis-a-vis des objectifs de diversificationtconomique et de gestion durable.

Par ailleurs, le gouvernement pourrait instituer des adjudications rtservtes aux nationaux pour unpourcentage
A dtfinir, des forsts qui seraient mises en adjudication ou bien introduire des critbres de prtftrence en fonction
de la prise de participationdes intkrCts nationaux dans les socittts soumissionnaires  ,


Dans le domaine rural, les PGG seront attributs par adjudication au niveau provincial, dans le cadre d'une
planification annuelle indiquant le nombre de PGG la localisation par province par annte et par province, sans
dtpasser les quotas des anntes.

                   IV- Mettre sous amknagementle domaineforestier permanentde 1'Etat

Pour mettre sous amtnagement durable l'ensemble des for& de production du domaine permanent, les efforts
seront portts enprioritt sur les volets suivants :
L a poursuite du processus d'amtnagement engage dans le cadre des CFAD et son extension sur environ 7
millions d'hectares L'inttgration dans le processus d'amtnagement durable des petites et moyennes
exploitations forestibres (PMEF) sur environ 3 millions d'hectares dttenus par les nationaux

                                Pour ce faire, unaccent particulier sera mis sur :
     la rkorganisation des services de la Direction Gkntrale des Eaux et ForCts (DGEF) qui sera prtparte de
     fagon participative en tenant compte de l'avis de tous les acteurs.
     la finalisation du cadre rtglementaire : les arret& et dtcrets d'application du code forestier feront, avant
     leur adoption, l'objet d'une consultation publique Blargie  a l'ensembledes acteurs.
     le contr8le forestier: qui sera suivi par des sanctions dissuasives en particulier le retrait du permis en cas
     d'exploitation illtgale ; et complttt par des nouvelles mesures de transparence, notamment la publication
     rtgulibre des infractions constattes et du registre des contentieux
     L e renforcement des capacitts humaines et logistiques de l'administration forestibre sera dtfmi dans le
     cadre duprogramme d'investissement PSFE.
     L a mise en place d'un systeme stcurist de gestion de l'information forestibre, avec la participation de tous
     les acteurs concernts. Les rapports et bilans annuels du SIGEF publications rtgulibres facilement
     accessible par la socittt civile et le secteur privt.
     L e retrait des permis et le retour aux Domaines des surfaces concedes en cas de non observation des
     dtlais impartis pour la prtsentation des documents d'amtnagement et pour le rbglement fiscal seront
     appliquts de manibre stricte.
     Enfin, des campagnes d'explication seront mentes en direction des optrateurs encore rtticents pour les
     informer, entre autres, des dispositions rtglementaires contenues dans le Code forestier et la L o i de
     finances, ainsi que des mtcanismes de crtdit existants.


Par ailleurs, dans le cadre de sa politique sociale, le Gouvernement entend promouvoir et ttendre les
exptriences en cours visant a soutenir les actions de dtveloppement d'inttret collectif initites par les
communautts locales grfice aux contributions financibres des titulaires des concessions forestibres

                                                         43
conformkment aux dispositions de l'article 25 1du Code forestier. D'ici fin 2005, le mkcanisme de          ((cahier des
charges contractuel n (modalitks de nkgociations, bknkficiaires, affectations et information publique) prkvu a
l'article 25 1du code forestier aura ktk testk et adopt6 Pour enclencher une dynamique d'intkgration des petites
et moyennes exploitations forestikres (PMEF) dans ce processus, ilest proposk de mettre la prioritk sur les
operations de sensibilisation et d'appui technique et logistique :

m
.    L e regroupement des petits attributaires sera appuyk par l'administration forestibre qui facilitera
     notamment la conclusion d'opkrations de transfert volontaires ;
      L'administration apportera un appui technique aux PMEF et s'attellera a la recherche de mkcanismes de
      financements appropriks et a l'allkgement des coQts des inventaires en prockdant notamment 21 l'acquisition
      des photographies akriennes et des images satellitaires ;
L'obligation de se conformer 21 l'intkgralitk du cadre rkglementaire devra par ailleurs Qtre constamment
rkaffmke au travers des campagnes d'information et de sensibilisation sur la rkglementation en vigueur, son
application et les sanctions prkvues a l'kgard des contrevenants. Enparticulier, le differentiel de taxation entre
concessions amknagkes et non-amknagkes est uniquement une incitation temporaire a l'amknagement, en
vigueur uniquement pendant la pkriode de transition du nouveau code. Au terme de cette pkriode de transition,
toutes les for& du domaine permanent seront amknagkes ou retirkes.

pour assurer le plein succks de la politique d'amknagement durable des for&,             tous les titulaires de pennis
devront se conformer aux dispositions legales et rkglementaires en vigueur. Pour ce faire, les pennis seront
retirks et les superficies concernkes retoumkes aux Domaines en cas de non prksentation de plans
d'amknagement et d'industrialisation conformes aux superficies dktenues ou de non respects des engagements
fiscaux.

I1 est essentiel que soient rkgularisks de manikre urgente les cas des P I et lots ZACF n'ayant pas encore
prksentk une CPAET. L a prockdure de rkgularisation pourrait &e l'ktablissement d'un avenant           a chaque  dkcret
d'attribution, incluant une clause accordant undklai supplkmentaire de six mois.

I1 est a noter que les PTE disposent d'un dklai de quatre ans a compter du 31 dkcembre 2001 soit jusqu'au 31
dkcembre 2005 pour s'associer a une CFAD existante ou se regrouper et constituer une nouvelle CFAD.


                                         V. Des inventaires et reboisements
Conformkment aux orientations de politique gknkrale du Gabon en matibre de dksengagement des fonctions
productives et commerciales, 1'Etat se concentrera sur ses fonctions rkgaliennes de rkgulation, suivi et contr8le.
 Elle devrait indiquer que le Gouvernement entend mettre en place un cadre incitatif favorisant les interventions
 des opkrateurs privks ou des communautks rurales, avec l'accompagnement ou sous le contr8le de
 l'administration. Ces principes s'appliquent a l'ensemble des themes couverts par la prksente Lettre de
 Politique. L'Etat dkfmit le cadre dans lequel interviennent le secteur privk et les communautks locales qui
 rkalisent eux-mQmes les opkrations d'inventaire des ressources et de reboisement.


      L'administration adaptera les      ((directives de 1'OIBT pour la restauration, l'amknagement et la
      rkhabilitation des forQts tropicales dkgradkes et secondaires     N  aux conditions gabonaises a l'instar des
      Principes, Critkres et Indicateurs (PCI) de gestion durable des for& de production ;

 0    la mise en place d'un cadre incitatif pour que les opkrateurs privks et les communautks locales s'engagent
      dans la restauration, l'amknagement et la rkhabilitation des forQtstropicales dkgradkes et secondaires ainsi
      que dupartenariat avec les pays de la sous-rkgion engages dans le processus ;
      l'implication de toutes les parties prenantes pour l'efficacitk et la durabilitk des actions qui seront menkes.

                                           VI. Dudomaine forestier rural

 L e Domaine Forestier Rural (DFR) couvre environ huit millions d'hectares destinks a diffkrents usages : aires
 protkgkes communautaires, for& sacrkes, chasse, cueillette, agriculture, klevage, activitks minikres, etc.

 11 n'existe pas a ce jour d'opkrations significatives de gestion durable des ressources forestibres dans le
 domaine rural. Dans ce contexte, l'administration des Eaux et ForQts entend y organiser la gestion de ces

                                                             44
   ressources par l'attribution des PGG et la mise en place des forCts communautaires au profit des populations
   locales.

   Permisde gr6 5 gr6 (PGG)

   Les PGG remplaceront les Coupes Familiales en 2006. 11s sont rtservts exclusivement aux populations locales
   en vue de l'amtlioration de leur niveau de vie dans le cadre de la lutte contre la pauvrett. Ces permis sont
   delimitts gtographiquement et attributs par adjudication au niveau provincial. Chaque annte l'administration
   publie le nombre maximum de PGG B attribuer par province, sans exctder 100 par province (ou tout autre
   mtcanisme garantissant que les PGGne seront pas utilists pour contourner le moratoire sur les PFA et CFAD).

   Enoutre, l'administration forestibre prendra les dispositions pour mieux organiser les conditions d'exploitation
   en fermage, garantir les droits et int6rCts des communautks riveraines et favoriser les initiatives des collectivitts
   locales. Elle publiera unmodble de contrat de fermage garantissant une ntgociation tquitable entre le dttenteur
   dupermis et l'exploitant industriel. L a liste des PGG attributs, la localisation, le dttenteur et le cas tchtant le
   fermier sera publite, ainsi que la conformitt avec les obligations environnementales et fiscales de base et les
   tventuelles sanctions prises.

    For& communautaires

   L a crtation des for& communautaires procbde de la volontt du Gouvemement de rtpondre aux besoins des
   communautks locales en vue de promouvoir un dtveloppement harmonieux et durable susceptible de gtnkrer
   des revenus substantiels dans l'optique de la lutte contre la pauvretk.

   Le gouvernement :
   s    testera h titre pilote des modbles de for& communautaires'8 ; en vue de dtfinir les proctdures d'octroi et
         de gestion, ,le regime fiscal et les modalitks d'exploitation de ces forCts
   s     tlaborera des modbles types de plan simple de gestion ; et tlaborera et vulgarisera les plans simples de
         gestion.

                                                 VII. Les r6formesfiscales

   L a loi de finances2004 introduit les innovations

   L'application mkthodique de la l o i de finances sera utiliste comme uninstrument de re-structuration du secteur.
   L'application rigoureuse des memes rbgles pour tous les optrateurs est essentielle pour restaurer la confiance et
   stcuriser le climat d'investissement. Quelques dispositions essentielles de cette l o i sont :


   s     absence de toute exemption et exontration fiscale par rapport B la fiscalit6 sptcifique
   s     paiement solidaire par le titulaire du permis et le fermier
         cautionnement annuel
    s    dtclaration de tout permis et toute activitt B tchtance

   L e gouvernement mettra en place la commission tripartite : impbts, for&, douanes, qui est chargte de piloter la
   mise en ceuvre de ces rtformes. I1mettra en place unmtcanisme d'tchange de donntes en temps reel entre DGI
    et DGEF. Les modalitks de collaboration entres ces administrations seront dtfinies par un texte rtglementaire
,   intenninisttriel.

   L e gouvemement publiera annuellement le bilande mise en ceuvre du nouveaurBgime fiscal :recouvrement par
   titre, par socittt et par taxe, et sanctions en cas de defaillance.

    L'tchelonnement prtvu dans cette l o i de finances sera le mCme pour tous les contribuables, en quatre tranches
    trimestrielles. Les permis n'ayant pas acquittt la taxe de superficie de l'annte en cours seront automatiquement
   rksilits au lerjanvier.



    l8 Etudede faisabilitk des for& communautairesau Gabon. PFE 2000.

                                                        45

L e gouvemement n'introduira pas de changement dans le rtgime fiscal en 2004 et 2005 la stabilit6 du rtgime
fiscal sur le moyen terme. Le Gouvemement veillera      a leur application, y compris le retour aux Domaines des
permis dont les attributaires n'ont pas respectt leurs engagements fiscaux.

Unbilandunouveaurtgime fiscal sera dress6        a lafin2005, celui-cipouvant tventuellement dtboucher sur des
amtnagements duregime actuel.

Par ailleurs, le Gouvemement reconnait que les difftrenciations introduites dans la fixation des taxes de
superficie  et d'abattage sont de nature temporaire et que la taxe     a l'exportation devrait graduellement Ctre
rtduite au fur et a mesure que les rendements sur les taxes de superficie et d'abattage s'amtliorent. Enfin le
gouvemement reconnait que les differenciations dans le systeme de taxation en fonction du niveau de
transformation dubois seront revues dans le temps pour kviter des subventions implicites A certaines catkgories
d'optrateurs dubois.


                                             VI11 Industrialisation.
                                                   -

Enmatitre d'industrialisation de la filikre bois, lapolitique duGouvemement vise prioritairementa valoriser la
ressource par une transformation locale plus pousste ?I forte valeur ajoutte en vue d'accroftre la contribution du
secteur au PIB.

Pour accompagner l'industrialisation de la filikre bois, le Gouvemement a dtja mis en place certaines mesures
parmi lesquelles : la ptrennisation des approvisionnements des unitts de transformation par l'octroi de permis
de grande superficie pour de longues durtes ; la fixation de quotas de transformation pour chaque permis a
vocation industrielle ; la suppression des impositions fiscales en matikre de transformation et exportation des
produits ceuvrts ; la mise en place des structures de facilitation de l'implantation (APIP, Charte des
investissements).

Toutefois, le dtveloppement du secteur de la transformation locale du bois est confront6 a des contraintes
majeures bien connues, parmi lesquelles : les coQts Blevts des facteurs de production (transport, fret, taxes
d'importation sur les consommations intermtdiaires, knergie, services, etc.) ;l'insuffisance d'une main d'ceuvre
qualifike ; la faiblesse du tissu industriel local ; l'ttroitesse du marcht local ; la sous-utilisation et la
mtconnaissance des proprittts physico-mtcaniques des essences dites secondaires.

.Dans ce sens, le gouvemement va :
.     Faire respecter le taux de transformation fix6 dans le cahier des clauses contractuelles.

Malgrk les prescriptions des diffkrentes lois et les mesures des cahiers des clauses contractuelles, il a ttt
constat6 que les taux de transformation des unites locales installtes n'ont jamais dkpasst le seuil de 30%.

Les permis industriels (PI) dont les clauses contractuelles prtvoyaient la construction d'un usine et qui n'ont
pas respect6 cet engagement seront rtsilits, reverses au domaine publics et rt-attribues sous forme de CFAD
aprks zonage participatif. L a revue des PI sera accomplie et les dtcisions publikes pour fin 2004,.
.     Restructurer la SNBG.

L a dynamique de l'industrialisation voulue par le Gouvemement implique une tendance a la baisse des
exportations de grumes notamment de l'Okoum6 et de 1'0zigo dont la SNBG dttient actuellement le monopole
de commercialisation. L a consommation des grumes de meilleure qualitt par l'industrie locale renforce cette
tendance.

Au regard de cette Cvolution, ilest ntcessaire de proceder     ala restructuration de la SNBG, en s'appuyant sur
une rtflexion    visant a redtfinir le r61e et l'organisation de cette socittt. L e Gouvemement dtcidera
formellement, d'ici fin 2004, le repositionnement de la SNBG dans la filikre-bois, ceci sur la base d'un examen
des avantages et inconvtnients des difftrentes options possibles. Entre-temps, toute dtcision d'extension des
activitts de la SNBG est suspendue.

.                                                         46
     Renforcementdes petiteset moyennestransformations.

L e recensement des unitts de seconde et troisibme transformations effectut     a Libreville et Port-Gentil a permis
de dtnombrer environ trois cents petites et moyennes unitts de transformation souvent mal organisees. L e
Gouvernement s'engage a maintenir un cadre incitatif et a s'assurer que les infrastructures sont adtquates et la
formation professionnelle renforcte.

a    Mettre en place le comitt pour l'industrialisation et l'observatoire de la filibre-bois

L e Comitt pour l'industrialisation de la filibre bois, chargt du suivi de la compttitivitt de l'industrie du bois,
proposera,   a la lumibre des analyses mentes par l'observatoire Cconomique de la filibre bois qui sera m i s en
place, les ajustements ntcessaires aux dispositions en vigueur.


     Promouvoirl'imagedu bois.

Pour promouvoir l'image du bois, 1'Administration devra montrer l'exemple en favorisant l'emploi du bois
dans les marchts publics ;elle encouragera aussi son utilisationpar des actions de marketing.

D e leur cat&, les industriels devront s'atteler a amtliorer la qualitt des produits czuvrts eta valoriser le bois des
essences peuo u pas connues.

IX.       Impliquer davantage les nationaux et promouvoir l'entrepreneuriat national
L'implication des nationaux et la promotion de l'entreprenariat national dans les activitts du secteur demeurent
l'une des prioritts majeures du Gouvernement en matibre de politique forestibre, au msme rang que la crtation
d'emplois locaux, la stcurisation et la re-distribution des recettes au profit du gouvemement et des entites
locales, et la gestion directe des ressources par les communautts rurales.

Ces prioritts trouvent leur fondement dans la ntcessitt de prtserver la paix sociale. Cependant, la situation
actuelle n'est gubre favorable a l'atteinte de cet objectif.

Elle est en effet caracttriske par :
     L'extrCme difficult6 d'accbs au financement bancaire et au crtdit fournisseurs ;
     Une formation technique et managtriale insuffisante ;
     Des structures d'accompagnement inadapttes, voire inexistantes.
pour amtliorer fortement cette situation, la politique duGouvemement sera axte,
au plan gtntral, sur :

0    L e dtveloppement des capacitts techniques et managtriales que l'on rtalisera au travers de 1'Ecole des
     mttiers dubois en projet ;

0    L a refonte des programmes de formation de I'ENEF en vue de l'introduction de la culture d'entreprise et
     durenforcement des enseignements d'tconomie forestibre ;
     L a rtforme du systbme bancaire et financier permettant d'allouer aux PME-PMIdes ressources optimales ;
     L a mise en place d'une socittt de caution mutuelle permettant de stcuriser les banques et les fournisseurs
     de biens d'tquipement ;
                                                 auplanspbifique, :
     L e    maintien    de   l'attribution   priontaire    des   types    de   permis    accordts    aux    nationaux
     conformiment aux dispositions rtglementaires ;

0    L e plafonnement de la prise de contrale par les inttrCts Ctrangers pour un montant             dtterminer de la
     superficie des forCts de production duDFPE ;

0    la facilitation des regroupements des PFA dttenus par les nationaux pour la constitution des CFAD ;
     l'appui technique par la rtalisation des travaux d'inventaires et la preparation des plans d'amtnagement ;
     la facilitation des partenariats entre futures entreprises nationales d'exploitation forestibre et industrielles.

                                                         47
                 11.       VALORISATION         DELA BIODIVERSITE/AIRES              PROTEGEES

                                11.1     Dans les aires protBgCes et zones tampons

L a conservation de la biodiversitk a toujours ktk un centre d'intkrCt du Gouvemement. C'est ainsi qu'au cours
d'une dkclaration historique, le Chef de 1'Etat a dkcidk de crker un rkseau de treize parcs nationaux,
reprksentant une superficie globale d'environ 3 millions d'hectares, soit prbs de 11% du territoire national,
L'objectif A atteindre est de classer 4 millions d'hectares (15% du territoire) en aires protkgkes dans le domaine
forestier permanent.

Le gouvemement va dksormais :

1    Rkgler les questions de chevauchement entre les nouveaux parcs et les anciennes concessions, selon un
    mkcanisme de compensation qui soit : transparent et uniforme (le mCme systbme ou les mCmes options
    appliqukes a tous les opkrateurs. L a liste des reglements de litige sera publike 2i fin2004.
I    Clarifier le cadre institutionnel pour la gestion des aires protkgkes, y compris les parcs nationaux, et leurs
    zones tampons. Assigner les responsabilitks en distinguant les fonctions d'exkcution sur le terrain, et de
    coordinatiodsupervision.Sera fait d'ici fin2004.
1    Adoptermettre B jour la lkgislation concemant la gestion des aires protkgkes. D'ici fin 2005.
Identifier les nouvelles aires protkgkes pour atteindre l'objectif de 15% du territoire en aires protkgkes dans le
DFP. Dans le cadre du zonage participatif.

L a faune sauvage a constitut de tout temps, la principale source de protkines animales pour les populations
gabonaises. Son exploitation est rkglementke par des dispositions du Code Forestier et les textes y relatifs.

L a gestion durable des ressources fauniques se fait A l'intkrieur et B l'extkrieur des aires protkgtes. A l'intkrieur,
elle s'inscrit dans le cadre des plans d'amknagement.: Pour assurer la prkservation de la faune A l'extkrieur des
aires protkgkes le gouvemement va :
     la lutte contre le braconnage et l'application de sanctions dissuasives;
     l'klaboration des protocoles d'accord avec les titulaires des concessions ;et le suivi de la mise en auvre de
     ces protocoles comme partie intkgrante des plans d'amknagement a charge des concessionnaires. L a
     protection de la faune sauvage dans les espaces de production fera l'objet d'obligation de rtsultat et non
     seulement de moyen) inscrite dans les plans d'amknagement, supervise avec l'aide d'observateurs
     indkpendants et sanctionnk par le retrait de la concession en cas de manquement grave.
     les campagnes d'information, de sensibilisation, d'kducation et de vulgarisation relatives aux dispositions
     rtglementaires (respect des pkriodes de chasse, quotas d'abattage, droits d'usage coutumiers, etc.).
     Pour assurer la conservation de la biodiversitt B l'intkrieur des aires protkgtes, le gouvemement va :
     Reformuler- Rendre spkcifique

 Dans le cadre du PSFE, l'administration va :
e    poursuivre et renforcer les partenariats en cours avec les ONG et la Sociktk Civile ;
     renforcer les capacitks institutionnelles et consolider les acquis .;
e    prendre en compte les prkoccupations des populations locales et les faire bknkficier des retombtes
     kconomiques de la valorisation des aires protkgkes.

1.3.4- Dkvelopper l'industrie kco-touristique.

L'industrie kco-touristique constitue un gisement important de devises et d'emplois. Dans cette perspective,
l'administration mbne actuellement des actions visant ?I offrir des produits touristiques reprksentatifs de la
biodiversitt du Gabon.

Pour accompagner le dkveloppement de cette industrie, le Gouvemement poursuivra la mise en place d'une
politique attractive au profit des opkrateurs kconomiques qui dksirent investir dans le secteur touristique.

A cet effet, les administrations concemkes devront travailler en synergie pour atteindre cet objectif.

                                                        48
                       11.2.    Strategie pour la gestion des parcs nationaux au Gabon

11.2.1.   Contexte :L a creation des parcs nationaux dans la strategie de diversification de l'economie
nationale
        L a protection de l'environnement au Gabon a toujours ttt baste sur un reseau d'aires prottgtes
dont l'objectif ttait essentiellement de conserver et prottger l a nature. L e 30 aoat 2002 le Prtsident de
l a Rtpublique, Chef de l'Etat,     crte 13 parcs nationaux, consacrant ainsi l'inttgration de l a diversitt
biologique dans le processus de croissance et de dtveloppement tconomique du Gabon.
        Dbs lors, le rkseau de parcs nationaux nouvellement c r t t devient un axe majeur de diversification
de l'tconomie nationale puisqu'il s'agit de crter de la richesse par la valorisation des ressources
naturelles
        L e Conseil National des Parcs Nationaux est charge de mettre en ceuvre ce vaste projet. Cette
mission comprend la supervision du processus de creation, d'implantation gtographique et de gestion
des parcs nationaux, y compris les activitts d'ordre touristique et scientifique pouvant se deployer en
leur sein. En outre, le Conseil National des Parcs Nationaux est consult6 par le gouvernement et donne
son avis sur les questions relatives aux parcs nationaux.
        Pour mettre en ceuvre cette dtcision historique du Prtsident de l a Rtpublique, ilest ntcessaire de
rtsoudre un certain nombre de difficultts lites :
          1. b la mise en place effective de la structure de gestion du rdseau de parcs. Vu la complexitt
          du rtseau, qui prtsente des caracttristiques gtomorphologiques et biologiques uniques au
          monde, ilest ntcessaire d'tlaborer un cadre juridique et organisationnel qui accorde l a prioritt
            l a dtcentralisation et consacre l'autonomie de chaque parc, en mQme temps qu'il garantit les
          m6mes standards (communication, stcurit6, formation) a l'ensemble du rtseau ;
          2. h la connaissance du potentiel biologique et culturel. C'est en effet un dtfi de connaitre pour
          pouvoir perpetuer, dans des conditions aussi naturelles que possible, des exemples aussi
          reprtsentatifs de rtgions physiographiques, de communautts biologiques, de ressources
          gtnttiques et d'espbces, tout en garantissant une stabilitt et une diversitt tcologique ;
          3. a la protection de la biodiversitd et la surveillance des parcs. L'enjeu est tgalement
          d'tliminer et, ulttrieurement, prtvenir toute forme d'exploitation o u d`occupation incompatible
          avec les objectifs de conservation; I 1 est ntcessaire de garantir le respect des tltments
          tcologiques, gtomorphologiques, sacres o u esthttiques justifiant ce statut ;
          4. 2r la ddfinition des activitds et des produits permettant de valoriser les ressources naturelles
          contenues dans les parcs nationaux. Ces parcs contiennent des rtgions naturelles et des
          paysages d`importance nationale et internationale, qui peuvent &re amknagts a des fins
          scientifiques, tducatives, spirituelles, rkcrtatives o u touristiques. 11s peuvent de ce fait
          contribuer a la bonne santt de l'tconomie locale par des amtnagements de l'espace, le
          dtveloppement d'activitts, la crtation d'emplois, l a promotion dune image de marque propice a
          untourisme respectueux de l'environnement ;
          5. ci l'implication des populations locales et a leur participation aux bkndfices issus de la mise
          en valeur des parcs. I1 est ntcessaire de tenir compte des habitudes et des besoins des
          populations locales afin de mieux les impliquer dans l a mise en valeur tconomique du parc.

 11.2.2.   Caracteristiques du reseau de parcs
        L e rtseau gabonais de parcs nationaux renferme des tcosystkmes reprksentatifs de l'ensemble du
 territoire, car les parcs sont disstmints sur tout le pays. Quatre parcs nationaux sont transfrontaliers
 (Monts de Cristal, Minktbt, Plateaux B a t t k t et Mayumba), trois sont sur le littoral (Mayumba, Pongara
 et Akanda). L e taux d'endkmisme est exceptionnellement 61evt et chaque parc contient une sptcificitk
 qui en fait unlieu unique.
        I1 n'existe cependant pas, au niveau des communautts locales, une conscience marqute en faveur
 de la conservation des, ressources a la ptriphtrie des parcs nationaux, bien que certains traits culturels
 (forQts traditionnelles, interdits culinaires.. .) induisent l a conservation des ressources naturelles.

                                                       49
11.2.3. contrainteset opportunitksiaborder
       Un certain nombre de contraintes susceptibles de constituer un frein a la rtalisation de ce projet
devront &re levtes, notamment les contraintes institutionnelles, tconomiques et sociales. Certaines
questions majeures seront particulibrement prises en compte :

           0    le cadre juridique d'administration et de gestion du rtseau (structures institutionnelles,
                responsabilitts et capacitts, implication des btntficiaires, r81e du secteur privt);

           0    les concessions d'exploitation forestibres et minibres dans les parcs;

           0    Les conflits de proprittts avec les communautts locales ;

           0    L a viabilitk du rtseau en:
                         termes strattgiques : cadre strattgique de dtveloppement du rtseau ;
                         termes tconomiques et financiers : plan d'affaires dtcrivant le schtma de
                         financement du rtseau, son impact sur la politique macro-tconomique du pays,
                         sur les budgets sectoriels de fonctionnement et de maintenance et sur les revenus
                         sectoriels ;
                         termes techniques : utilisation des technologies approprites pour l a mise en
                         ceuvre et l a gestion du rtseau, communication adtquate entre les divers
                         partenaires.

11.2.4. Intervention :Les grandes composantesd'investissementpour la gestion des parcsnationaux
dans la p6riode2005-2009
       Les grandes composantes identifites pour la mise en place du rtseau de parcs nationaux sont :

            0   L'administration et la mise en place d'un systbme de gestion du rtseau

            0   L a protection et surveillance

            0   L a recherche, l a gestion de l a biodiversitt et le suivi des activitks de conservation

            0   L e tourisme

                L a communication et l'appui au dtveloppement communautaire



Composante 1:Administration et mise en placedes systkmes de gestiondu reseaude parcsnationaux
       L'investissement initial concernera l a mise en place des outils de base pour la constitution et
l'administration du rtseau,        tant au niveau central          qu'au niveau dtcentralist. Les secteurs
d'investissement pour cette composante sont identifits au niveau centralist et dtcentralist :
       Appui institutionnelcentralis6 pour cette composante :
       a/ L a creation d'une entitt autonome de gestion des parcs nationaux (Office des Parcs Nationaux
du Gabon) : aspects juridiques et optrationnels
       b/ la mise en place d'outils strattgiques gentraux :

            0   Renforcement du cadre juridique - pyramide ltgislative (loi sur les parcs nationaux,
                statut du personnel, etc.)
                Plan de gestion du rtseau (dtveloppement d'une vision a 10 ans pour le dtveloppement
                des parcs nationaux et de l'tcotourisme),
                Plan de ptrennisation du rtseau : ressources, besoins, mtcanismes de financement
                durable (y compris mtcanismes de partage des btntfices) et strattgie de marketing
       c/ L a coordination inter-institutionnelle
       d/ Le suivi des questions juridiques et institutionnelles

                                                       50
       e/ L a crtation de partenariats avec le secteur privt, les bailleurs traditionnels, les ONGs de
conservation et les fondations (y compris participations aux manifestations internationales)
       f/ la coordination technique des activitts de conservation, protection, surveillance, recherche et
suivi, par exemple :

            e   Harmonisation des standards pour les plans d'amtnagement et de gestion des parcs

            e   Coordination d'une base de donntes centralisee

            e   Identificationet crtation de nouveaux parcs nationaux

       g/ L a conception et mise en oeuvre d'une strattgie de communication interne et externe (site
Web, appui aux mtdias locaux, etc.)
       h/Le suivi des questions de bornage et de dtlimitation des Parcs (zones tampons)
       I/adtfinitiond'uncadredefonctionnementdesactivittsdesurveillanceetdeprotection
          L
       j/ La mise enplace des conditions habilitantes pour le dtveloppement de la recherche :

            e   Cadre ltgislatif

            e   Elaboration de protocoles

            e   Cahier des charges


       W L a mise en place des conditions habitantes pour le dkveloppement du tourisme :
                cadre ltgislatif (y compris normes architecturales, etc.)

            e   textes d'application de la l o i 4/2000 sur les investissements touristiques

            e   renforcement des agences d'extcution (Gabon-tour)

            e   appui aux optrateurs privts touristiques nationaux

            e   cahier des charges

                promotion d'une culture d'accueil
       1/ L a conception et l a mise en ceuvre d'un plan de formation et de carribre (y compris programmes
de visites et d'echange)


       Appui institutionneldkcentralist! pour cette composante :

            e   Fonctionnement de l'administration de chaque parc

            e   Planification opkrationnelle des activitts de chaque parc

            e   Dtveloppement du plan d'amtnagement et de gestion, y compris plan de dtveloppement
                touristique, et du plan d'affaires (y compris mobilisation de fonds) de chaque parc

            e   Mise en place des infrastructures de base de chaque parc

            e   Mise en place de partenariats avec les optrateurs tconomiques

            e   Implication des parties prenantes dans les zones ptriphtriques en vue d'une gestion
                participative effective de chaque parc

            e   Suivi des proctdures judiciaires relatives aux infractions



Composante2 :Protectionet surveillance
        Les secteurs d'investissement identifies pour cette composante sont

            e   Dtveloppement d'un plan de surveillance

                                                      51
               OpCrationnalisation de l a surveillance (recrutement, formation, Cquipement, lien avec les
               informateurs, etc.)
              Mise en place de systbmes de contr8le du respect des rkglementations
               Execution et suivi des accords de partenariats (cahiers des charge) avec les op6rateurs
               tconomiques
               ExCcution et suivi de l'implication des parties prenantes dans l a zone pCriphCrique du
              parc

               Bornage et dklimitation

              Actions trans-frontalibres

               Sensibilisation sur les aspects de surveillance et de protection



Composante 3 :Recherche, gestion de la biodiversitb et suivi des activitb de conservation
      Les secteurs d'investissement identifiCs pour cette composante sont :

               Identification des besoins de recherche et des indicateurs Ccologiques et socio-
               Cconomiques
               Inventaires et reconnaissances (biologique, socio-Cconomique) du parc et sa pCriphCrie

               Plan de suivi Ccologique et plan de suivi socio-Cconomique (mise en place de systbmes
               de suivi de base

               Collecte    des   donnCes    Ccologiques,    socio-Cconomiques    (y compris      recrutement,
               formations, etc.)

               Etablissement de base de donnCes physiques (mkdiathbque) et gCo-rCfCrenc6es

               Traitement et analyse des donnCes

               Mise en application des rksultats des ttudes (par exemple : identification des menaces sur
               l a biodiversitk, des sites iihaute valeur historique, esth6tique et biologique)

               Suivi et tvaluation des activitks de protection et surveillance

               Rtalisation des Ctudes d'impact environnementales



Composante 4 :Tourisme
       Pour lancer le secteur de l'kcotourisme, un minimum d'investissements va &re nkcessaire au
debut mais les b6ntfices pourraient trbs rapidement compenser les engagements initiaux. Par ailleurs,
1'Cmergence d'une filibre Ccotourisme permettrait d'enrayer le dtclin Cconomique du monde rural caus6
par l'absence d'activitis Cconomiques et l'exode rural.
       Les secteurs d'investissement identifiks pour cette composante sont :

          a    Localisation et recensement des potentialitks exploitables sur le plan touristique

          a    OpCrationnalisation des services d'Cco-guides (recrutement, formation continue, etc.)

               AmCnagement des infrastructures de base (campings, pistes, sentiers, canopy walk,
               miradors, observatoires, hall d'expositions, etc.)

               Dkveloppement       et opkrationnalisation     des  infrastructures   d'interpretation  (Centre
               d'accueil, Eco-musCe, panneaux, etc.)

               Promotion du r6seau de Parcs Nationaux et dCveloppement de partenariats
               Suivi du respect des normes de dkveloppement de l'tcotourisme

                                                       52
                Optrationnalisation de services d'Environnement, Sante, Stcurit6

                Suivi de l'experience touristique

                Valorisation de la culture et de l'artisanat local

                Mise a jour d'un site Web



Composante 5 :Communicationet appuiaudeveloppement communautaire
      Les secteurs d'investissement identifiks pour cette composante sont :

                Dtfinition d'une ligne de base et tvaluation ptriodique de l'attitude des acteurs vis-a-vis
                de la conservation
                Promotion d'attitudes favorables A la conservation au travers d'actions de communication
                avec tous les acteurs

                Dtveloppement et diffusion des supports de communication (guides,                   prospectus,
                dtpliants)

                Implication des populations minoritaires          et valorisation des      cultures fragilistes
                (Pygmtes, etc.)

                Renforcement des capacitts de l a sociktt civile pour appuyer les activitts de
                conservation

                Promotion d'initiatives communautaires viables offrant des incitants socio-tconomiques
                pour la conservation de l a biodiversitk
                Promotion des mesures de rtduction des conflits homme I faune


                        III. OBJECTIFSETSTRATEGIESDANSLESECTEUR
                                 DESPECHESET DE L'AQUACULTURE.

   L a politiquedu Gouvernementdans le secteur despdches et de l'aquaculture est de contribuer iila
                          s6curit6alimentaireet h la diversificationde l'economie.

Trois objectifs sptcifiques peuvent Ctre distinguts :
    maximiser les productions et leur disponibilitt sur le marcht en vue de la stcuritt alimentaire ;
    maximiser la valeur ajoutte crtte localement ;
    amtliorer la balance commerciale du secteur.


                   111.1.   Maximiser les productionset leur disponibilitesur le marche.


o Lapdcheindustriellehauturike.

Lapdche industriellehauturikre concerneles grandspelagiqueset se pratiquedans le cadre des accords
                                                      avec :
    1'Union Europtenne, sur la base d'un tonnage de rtftrence de 10 500 tonnes pour une flotte de 64 bateaux ;
    le Japon, avec une flotte de 30 palangriers sans sptcification de tonnage de rtftrence.

Les retombtes de ces accords sont :
    avec l'UE, une contrepartie financihre annuelle de 1262 500  , soit 828 millions F CFA, dont 883 750 
    (580 millions F CFA) pour des actions cibltes et une compensation fixe de 378 750  (248 millions
    FCFA) A laquelle s'ajoute une part armatoriale variable lite aupaiement des licences ;

                                                           53

0    avec le Japon, unprogramme de dkveloppement du secteur de la pCche (plus de 8 milliards de F CFA de
     don sur 4 ans) ainsi qu'une part armatoriale fonction du nombre de licences.

     L e rapport entre les recettes de 1'Etat et la valeur estimte des productions au dkbarquement (800 F CFA le
kg) est voisin de 16%) tant avec 1'Union Europkenne lorsque le tonnage de rkfkrence (10 500 tonnes) est atteint
qu'avec le Japon d'aprbs le tonnage dkclark. Ce rapport est intkressant, bien qu'il soit diffcile de contrdler les
quantitks prklevkes et qu'il n'y ait pas de dkclaration systkmatique directe de la part des armateurs. Les
tonnages dkclarks dans le cadre de l'application des accords apparaissent parfois faibles. C'est pourquoi une
ktude relative a ces arrangements, par des institutions indkpendantes telles que la FAO, la CNUCED ou
l'ONUD1, permettrait d'amkliorer les dkclarations de captures qui sont a la base de la fixation des redevances.


0 Lapecheindustrielle c8tihre.

En 2002, la production de la pdche industrielle cdtibre a atteint 11000 tonnes correspondant a une valeur de
20,5 milliards F CFA. Cette pdche a etk rkaliske par une flottille locale de 87 navires sous licence composke de
36 chalutiers, 42 crevettiers, 8 thoniers et 1 caseyeur.
L a production de la pCche industrielle cdtibre n'est pas assez diversifike du fait de la vktustk de l'outil de
production.

L a pdche industrielle cdtibre est trbs largement dominke par les ktrangers, principalement corkens, chinois et
europkens,     cause de la faible implication des nationaux et du manque de maind'ceuvre qualifike.

                 L a flotte de pCche ne s'est pas developpee sous pavillon gabonais, en raison :

0    dutarif extkrieur commun de la CEMACpour les matkriels de pdche et navires ;

0    des cofits des services et consommables trbs klevks ;

0    des avantages consentis au pavillon gabonais jugks insuffsants pour compenser le surcofit fiscal.

        On note actuellement l'inexistence d'une structure offcielle de representation des armateurs.


0 L apCche artisanale maritime.

L a pCche artisanale maritime a foumi 20 500 tonnes de produits en 2002, reprksentant une valeur estimke a
19milliards F CFA. Avec 1500 pirogues, dont 75% sont motoriskes et 5 000 pCcheurs, ce sous-secteur est un
gros gknkrateur d'emplois. Les propriktaires des matkriels de p6che sont majoritairement gabonais.

L a valeur marchande des produits de la pdche artisanale maritime est relativement faible, compte tenu de la part
importante des petits pklagiques dans les captures. L a production n'est pas assez diversifike et la pCche reste
gknkralement cantonnke dans les estuaires et les lagunes. Cette situation s'explique par le fait que les pirogues
ne sont nisuffisamment autonomes, nikquipkes pour des pCches autres que de proximitk.

L a pCche artisanale en mer et dans les estuaires est trbs largement dominke par les ktrangers. Malgre des
tentatives d'organisation, l'activitk reste informelle mais bien structurke au planethnique.


     L a pCche artisanale continentale.

L a production de la pdche artisanale continentale a ktk de 9 400 tonnes en 2002, ce qui correspond une valeur
estimke   a8,5 milliards F CFA. Elle est pratiquke par 3 500 pCcheurs en quasi-totalitk gabonais, qui utilisent une
flottille de 1 800 pirogues, dont une faible partie est motoriske.

Au regard dupotentiel de capture, cette situationtraduit une relative sous-exploitation, principalement due


0    a la faible exploitation de certaines zones autres que celles de traditions de pbche commerciale ;

0    a l'emploi d'engins de pCche peuperformants et de techniques rudimentaires ;
0    a la productionpas assez diversifike et pratiquement limitke au Tilapia    sp. et aHeterotis niloticus ;

0    au manque de dkbouchks lik     a une faible logistique ;

                                                        54
     aux difficultts pour exploiter la ressource pendant la ptriode de hautes eaux, la plupart des pCcheurs ttant
     alors occupts par les travaux champCtres et les activitks d'exploitation forestibre.


o L'aquaculture

L e secteur de l'aquaculture se limite essentiellement A la pisciculture de tilapia, pratiqute de manibre gtnkrale a
petite tchelle. L a production est faible (estimte a 100 tonnes en 2002) malgrt des investissements importants
rtalisks dans quelques unitts semi industrielles. I1n'existe actuellement aucune filibre d'aquaculture marine.

Une ktude visant l'tlaboration d'un plan quinquennal est dans sa phase prtliminaire, elle devra contribuer a
l'identification des facteurs clks pour undtveloppement de ce sous-secteur.       '



En vue de lever l'ensemble des contraintes qui obbrent les performances du secteur, de maximiser les
productions et d'assurer leur disponibilitt sur le marcht, ilconvient de dtvelopper les strategies ci-aprbs :
     Mettre en repos les zones surexploittes et redkployer les activitts de pCche sur les ressources et les zones
     encore peu exploitkes ;
     Amtliorer l'outil de production nationale pour acctder aux ressources peu exploittes, notamment grbce a
     une fiscalitt sectorielle mieux adaptte ;
     Crter les conditions favorisant les dkbarquements des productions des flottes ttrangbres ;
     Crter les conditions techniques favorisant la transformation des produits et la rkduction des pertes aprbs
     capture dans l'ensemble des filibres ;
     Promouvoir une aquaculture durable ;
     Compltter et renforcer le systbme de suivi, contr8le et surveillance.

111.1.1. Mettre en repos les zones surexploitkes et redkployer les activitks de p&chesur les ressources et
les zones encore peu exploitkes.

Les zones de pCches traditionnellement exploitkes sont situkes au nord du Cap Lopez et 21 proximitt des centres
de consommation. Elles se trouvent aujourd'hui appauvries. Des mesures conservatoires sur certaines espbces
(crevettes et sardinelles) sont dtja appliqutes en vue de la reconstitution des stocks. Elles seront
progressivement ttendues a l'ensemble des zones surexploittes.

Une amtlioration de la connaissance sur le potentiel halieutique est ntcessaire, notamment sur les stocks non
encore exploitts et les ressources a forte valeur commerciale (langoustes, ctphalopodes, mtrous, etc.). Elle
permettra de redtployer les activitks de pQche sur d'autres zones et d'ttendre les mesures conservatoires sur
d'autres espbces.

111.1.2. Amkliorer l'outil de production nationale pour acckder aux ressources peu exploitkes,
notamment grace        une fiscalitk sectorielle mieux adaptbe.

Actuellement, de nombreuses espbces ne sont pas exploitkes. Les captures dans les zones tloignkes et
profondes, riches en espbces a forte valeur commerciale s'avbrent difficiles en raison des techniques
 d'exploitation inadaptkes.

 Sur les plans de l'autonomie et des kquipements, une amtlioration de l'outil de production est ntcessaire pour
permettre l'accbs aux ressources lointaines et profondes.

 Les investissements en pCche industrielle et en pCche artisanale sont insuffisants. L'outil national actuel de
production est vttuste. Les conditions de son renouvellement et de son entretien sont loin d'Ctre rtunies pour
 cause d'un environnement fiscal contraignant.

 L a mise en place d'une fiscalitk mieux adaptte a la pCche (taxes sur intrants, taxes portuaires, droits de douane,
 TVA, etc.) favorisera le dtveloppement d'une production nationale et la relance de l'investissement dans des
 navires de pCche industrielle, ainsi que dans des pirogues et des engins de pCche artisanaux plus performants
 pouvant cibler les ressources profondes rtputtes abondantes. Une etude de rentabilitt potentielle A effectuer

                                                         55
dans le cadre d'une campagne exploratoire associant 1'Etat et les privks permettra de prkciser les conditions de
cette relance.

11conviendra en conskquence de prkvoir la formation des kquipages ainsi que la mise en place de mkcanismes
de financements appropriks pour les acteurs locaux du secteur pCche.

111.13. Creer les conditionsfavorisant les dkbarquementsdes productionsdes flottes Ctrangkres.

L'insuffisance des infrastructures et des services foumis dans les ports gabonais rend difficile le dkbarquement
des productions des navires hangers de pCche industrielle hauturibre, ce qui induit un manque a gagner
important pour le pays.

Dans ce contexte, ilest envisagk la construction d'un port de p6che hauturibre a Port Gentil permettant le
dkbarquement et le rkembarquement des produits de la p&che.

Pour l'heure, ilest prkvu, dans les ports de Libreville et de Port-Gentil, la mise en place et l'organisation des
services requis pour les dkbarquements: groupage des contrdles de police et des services sanitaires,
optimisation des dklais pour l'obtention des visas et de la capacitk de travail sous douanes, etc.

111.1.4. Renforcer l'organisation du sous-secteur p&cheartisanale

Ence qui concerne le sous-secteur p&cheartisanale, ilconviendra de :

0    poursuivre le programme de construction des centres d'appui ;

0    encourager l'organisation des p&cheursen associations ;

0    crker des points de dkbarquements des captures ;

0    intensifier le programme de formation des jeunes pdcheurs au mktier de la pCche ;

0    mettre en place unmkcanisme de fiancement approprik pour faciliter l'insertion de jeunes professionnels.

111.1.5. CrCer les conditionstechniquesfavorisant la transformationdes produitset la reductiondes
pertesaprks capture dans l'ensembledes filikres.

I1existe sur les ports actuels quelques structures privkes kquipees pour la conservation des produits de la peche
industrielle, mais elles n'offrent pas les capacitks suffisantes pour permettre l'expansion des activites qui
peuvent concourir A la diversification et a l'industrialisation des filibres de p&che.

I1 est donc nkcessaire de renforcer les capacitks portuaires notamment par la mise en place des structures de
conservation et de transformation des produits.

Dans le domaine de la pCche artisanale, la rkduction des pertes aprbs capture sera favoriske par la mise en place
de structures d'appui a la conservation des produits (fabrique de glace, moyens de conservation, entrepdts
frigorifiques, etc.).

111.1.6. Promouvoirune aquaculture durable.

Dans le domaine de l'aquaculture, ils'agira de renforcer I'encadrement de la pisciculture rurale, de promouvoir
la diversification des espbces d'klevage et d'initier unprogramme de dkveloppement de l'aquaculture marine.

Ces programmes nkcessiteront la formation des promoteurs et la mise en place de mkcanismes de financements
appropriks.

111.1.7. Completer et renforcer le systkme de suivi, contrBle et surveillance.

L a mise en Ceuvre des principes d'utilisation durable et responsable des ressources halieutiques tels que prdnks
par la FA0 et le renforcement de la rkglementation sur le terrain ont conduit le Dkpartement en charge des
Pdches A se doter d'un systbme moderne de surveillance (systbme de suivi des navires par satellites, SSN) qui
utilise de nouvelles technologies.

                                                          56

Ce systbme demande a Ctre complCt6 par des moyens humains et materiels (radars, vedettes, etc.) dans les trois
provinces maritimes. I1 permettra de renforcer de manibre quasi permanente le suivi de l'exploitation de nos
ressources aussi bien cbtibres qu'hauturikres.

I1 conviendra dks lors de pkrenniser ce nouvel outil et d'ameliorer son efficacite par des actions de formation
pour son utilisation, sa maintenance et de le completer par un programme de surveillance avec des
observateurs embarquts sur les navires.


                        111.2.    Maximiser la valeur ajoutee CREEE LOCALEMENT

Pour atteindre cet objectif, ilconvient de s'appuyer sur les strategies suivantes :
e    Renforcer o u crier des filikres de transformation et de nCgoce ;
e    Poursuivre la politique de contrble de qualit6 et de mise aux normes des produits destines aux marches
     local et exttrieur.

111.2.1. Renforcer ou creer des filicres de transformation et de negoce.

L e renforcement des filibres passe par :
e    la diversification des produits transform&, notamment de ceux a forte valeur ajoutee comme les crustaces ;
e    la dynamisation des filibres traditionnelles des produits sales, sBchts et fumes ainsi que l'amelioration de
     leur organisation ;
     l'implication d'un plus grand nombre d'investisseurs nationaux dans la creation d'unit6s de production
     incluant des joint-ventures, via la revision de la fiscalit6 du secteur.

111.2.2. Poursuivre la politique de contr8le de qualite et de mise aux normes des produits destines aux
marches local et exthrieur.

I1 est important de poursuivre la politique de mise aux normes sanitaires des filibres du secteur. A cet effet, il
conviendra de construire et tquiper un laboratoire de contrble qualit6 et de lancer un programme de
normalisation des filibres locales. I1sera Bgalement m i s en place unreseau de surveillance de la qualit6 de l'eau
utiliste dans les process.


                             1113.     Ameliorer la balance commerciale du secteur

L'augmentation de la production sur le march6 national permettra de reduire la dependance dupays en produits
de la pCche vis-a-vis   de l'exterieur et de le faire passer de la position d'importateur neta celle d'exportateur
net.

P o w amkliorer la balance commerciale du secteur des pbches et de l'aquaculture, les efforts devront Ctre
concentres sur :
     la promotion du d6veloppement et de la diversification des exportations des produits issus de la pCche et
     de l'aquaculture ;
     la negotiation d'accords de pCche sur les ressources peu ou pas exploitees par les flottes nationales.

111.3.1. Promouvoir le developpement et la diversification des exportations.

Les exportations des produits de la pCche, non comprises celles de Poisson fume, se chiffiaient en 2002 21 2 900
tonnes dont 2 100 tonnes de crevettes, pour une valeur de l'ordre de 10 milliards F CFA, les importations se
situant 21 7 300 tonnes pour une valeur de 3 milliards F CFA.

L a mise sur le marche de nouvelles espbces       a haute valeur marchande, telles que les poissons de fond, les
crevettes et les langoustes, captures dans des zones plus Cloignkes, contribuera a la diversification des
exportations. Les marches A l'exportation devront Ctre approvisionnks le plus rkgulikrement possible en

                                                           57
organisant des groupages de produits de pCche artisanale et industrielle, ce qui nkcessitera des prockdures
simplifikes et des coats de fiet akrien nkgociks en fonction des volumes disponibles estimks et des marches
ciblks.

L'aquaculture pourra kgalement apporter sa contribution a la diversification des exportations avec le
dkveloppement, en milieu continental et marin, de l'klevage d'especes a haute valeur marchande, telles que la
crevette d'eau douce et saumitre, l'huitre, etc. Une kvaluation dktaillke des potentialitks de l'aquaculture
commerciale devra Ctre prkalablement rkaliske. Un plan de dkveloppement de l'aquaculture est en cours
d'klaboration, un schkma directeur devrait Ctre disponible courant 2004.

L'accroissement des exportations conceme aussi la commercialisation des produits transformks artisanalement
(produits salks, skchks et fumes) dans la sous-rkgion. L a demande est dkja importante sur le Cameroun, la
Guinke Equatoriale et le Congo ;elle est    a c o n f m e r sur la RDC et la RCA. A cet effet, ilsera prockdk?iune
ktude de march6 au niveau sous-regional pour prkciser cette situation.


111.3.2. Dkvelopper des accords de p&chesur les ressources peu ou pas exploitkes par les flottes
nationales.

Les inventaires en cours montrent des indices d'abondance relative de resources 6 haute valeur commerciale
telles que les ckphalopodes, les crevettes et les crabes de fond.

L a cession des droits de pCche A des armements ktrangers BquipCspour travailler dans des conditions de pdche
hauturibre, voire le dkveloppement de partenariats de pCche Cjoint-ventures), permettront l'accbs a ces
ressources encore peu ou pas exploitkes par les flottes nationales et contribueront ainsi il'augmentation de la
production et B la diversification des produits destinks A l'exportation.

                        111.4.   L'kvolution des aspects rkglementaires et institutionnels.

L e cadre juridique de l'exploitation des ressources halieutiques est en rkvision. Unnouveau code des pCches et
de l'aquaculture est en voie d'adoption. Une liste des textes rkglementaires prioritaires a ktC finaliske. Les
textes d'application de ce code seront klaborks courant 2004.

L e systbme de suivi statistique est fonctionnel et l'unitk de cartographie, opkrationnelle. En revanche, les
connaissances restent incomplbtes sur les ressources et les performances kconomiques des filibres. I1sera crkk b
cet effet unobservatoire des pCches dont l'objectif sera de dkvelopper, en outre, des outils d'aide a la dkcision.

L e renforcement des capacitks humaines devra se poursuivre notamment en matibre de formation, de
perfectionnement des agents ainsi que de vulgarisation des techniques de pCche et de pisciculture.

L'organisation des professionnels en associations reste a dkvelopper. Elle passe kgalement par unrenforcement
des capacitks. Pour pallier l'absence actuelle d'une structure officielle de representation des amateurs, 1'Etat
encouragera l'adhksion des opkrateurs aux associations professionnelles agrkkes par la mise en auvre de
mesures incitatives.

L e dCveloppement d'une politique sectorielle rkgionale avec les Etats de la sous-rkgion continuera d'Ctre axk
sur :
     la recherche halieutique ;
     l'exploitation des ressources halieutiques communes intkgrant, dans un protocole sur les pCches, un code
     de conduite pour une pCche responsable ;
     la lutte contre la pCche illkgale non dkclarke et nonrkglementee ;
     les Cchanges commerciaux sur les produits de la pbche.

Ces prkoccupations seront portkes a l'ordre dujour des prochaines rencontres sous-rkgionales, notamment lors
des sessions ordinaires de la Confkrence Ministkrielle sur l a Coopkration Halieutique entre les Etats Afiicains
Riverains de 1'Ockan Atlantique (COMHAFAT) et du Comitk Rkgional des Piches du Golfe de Guinke
(COREP) prkvues en 2004.

                                                         58

Enfin, le dkveloppement de la coopkration bilatkrale et intemationale en matiere de pdches sera poursuivi afin
d'associer un plus grand nombre de partenaires dans l'appui a la mise en ceuvre de la politique de
dkveloppement du secteur.

En somme, les diffkrentes strategies dkveloppkes ci dessus et pouvant dtre mises en Deuvre dans le cadre du
PSFE permettront d'appuyer le dkveloppement du secteur des pdches et de l'aquaculture et d'amkliorer sa
contributiondans la diversification de l'kconomie nationale.

Ce dkveloppement du secteur prendra en compte les enjeux environnementaux qui visent l'utilisation durable
des ressources et ceux socio-kconomiques, en vue d'une contribution significative du secteur dans la formation
duPIB.

L'engagement de 1'Etat dans la mise en euvre de ces stratkgies devra permettre un partage equitable de la
valeur ajoutke entre 1'Etat propriktaire de la ressource et l'exploitant. L'intervention des coopkrations dans le
financement des diffkrents projets ne doit dtre qu'un appui au dkveloppement sans conditionnalitk           leur
obtention.


                          I K      OBJECTIFSET STRATEGIESDANSLE DOMAINE
                                            DE L'ENVIRONNEMENT.

L'objectif gknkral de la politique du domaine de l'environnement est de participer           a la diversification
kconomique en conciliant le dkveloppement et la pkrennitk des ressources naturelles.

Les objectifs spkcifiques suivants ont ktk identifies :
       Au niveau mondial, valoriser la contribution du patrimoine environnemental gabonais dans le maintien de
       l'kquilibre kcologique global ;
       Au niveau national, accroitre la valorisation des biens et services environnementaux et contribuer a
       l'amklioration du cadre de vie.


        IV.1.    Valoriser la contributiondu patrimoine environnementalgabonaisdans le maintiende
                                          I'kquilibre kcologiquemondial.

                       Trois aspects sont h prendre en compte pour atteindre cet objectif :
       L'intkgration du Gabon dans la dynamique intemationale de protection de l'environnement ;
       L'amklioration du cadre juridique de I'environnement ;

0      L'amklioration du cadre institutionnelde l'environnement.


IV.l.l. IntCgrer le Gabondans la dynamiqueinternationale de protectionde l'environnement.

L'engagement du Gabon en faveur de la protection de la nature s'est traduit par la ratification des conventions
et protocoles y relatifs et par la conduite des exercices de planification stratkgique.

A cejour, 28 conventions ont ktk signkes et 18 ratifikes. Les conventions phares, issues du Sommet de la Terre,
a savoir la Convention Cadre des Nations Unies sur les Changements Climatiques (CCNUCC), la Convention
asurdtre mises en ceuvre.
      la Diversitk Biologique (CDB) et la Convention sur la Dkgradation des Terres (CDD) ont ktk les premieres


Plusieurs exercices de planification stratkgique ont ktk men& dont les principaux sont : le Plan d'Action
Forestier National (PAFN), la StratCgie Nationale et le Plan d'Action pour la Diversitk Biologique (SNBADB),
alela
    PlanNational d'Action pour 1'Environnement (PNAE) et 1'Etude Prospective Gabon 2025. L'exercice relatif
       Stratkgie Nationale sur les Changements Climatiques (SNCC) est en cows.

                                                          59
Les recommandations emanant de ces exercices visent la gestion durable des ressources biologiques,
l'amklioration du cadre de vie des populations, l'adaptation des mkthodes de planification et de dtveloppement
au contexte environnemental et le renforcement des capacitts opkrationnelles.

L a dtmarche de mise en application de la CDB a m i s en evidence le patrimoine biologique exceptionnel du
pays. Cependant, les inventaires issus des difftrentes ttudes ne sont pas exhaustifs. Cette situation sera
amtlioree par l a crtation d'un Observatoire sur la Biodiversitt et le renforcement des capacitts dans les
domaines concemts (Biologie animale et vtgttale), ce qui permettra d'assurer une collecte en continu des
donntes.

Ence quiconcerne la CCUNCC, uninventaire des Gaz Effet de Serre (GES) Cmis au Gabona ttt rtalist dans
le cadre de l'elaboration de la CommunicationNationale. Les recommandations issues de cette Communication
mettent un accent sur le renforcement des capacitts humaines et mattrielles. C'est dans ce contexte qu'il sera
c r t t un Observatoire sur les Changements Climatiques afin d'ttudier les possibilitts du pays B promouvoir les
mesures visant B atttnuer les tmissions des GES.

S'agissant de l a CCD, le Gabon vient de dtmarrer la premibre phase qui porte sur l'inventaire et la dtlimitation
des zones touchtes par le phtnombne de dtgradation des Terres. Elle sera inttgrte dans la rtalisation de l'ktude
sur l'ttat de l'environnement du Gabon en fin 2004.

Sur un plan plus gtntral, le Gabon complbtera son programme d'action par la ratification et la mise en
application de toutes les conventions internationales pertinentes pour se conformer aux normes internationales
de protection de l'environnement.


IV.1.2. Renforcer le cadrejuridique de 1'Environnement.

Au lendemain du Sommet de KO, Gabona f f m e son engagement dans la protection de l'environnement par
                                      le
la promulgation de la loi 16/93 dite Code de 1'Environnement.

Deux dtcrets d'application relatifs a la dite loi ont 6tt promulguts. I1s'agit des dtcrets :
       portant rtglementation sur les Etudes d'Impact Environnementales ;

0      rtprimant lespollutions enmer par leshydrocarbures.

Quinze autres textes rkglementaires ont CtC tlaborts en 2003 et sont en cours d'adoption. Les manuels
concernant les procedures d'application des EIE et les normes de qualitt environnementale au Gabon sont en
 cours d'elaboration.

Untexte relatif B la fiscalit6 environnementale viendra renforcer ce dispositif. C'est dans cette perspective que
 sera m i s en place un systbme de taxation sur les installations classtes, les importations et/ou exportations de
produits dangereux et les autorisations prtalables d'exploiter (APE).

 L'inventaire des ttablissements classes en cours de rkalisationpar le Centre National Anti-Pollution (CENAP),
 a rtpertorit 112 installations sur le territoire national dont 69 de type A, prtsentant un danger pour
 l'environnement et 43 de type D, prksentant des inconvtnients mineurs pour l'environnement.

 Ence qui conceme les Polluants Organiques Persistants (POPS), uninventaire est en cours de rtalisation. Celui
 c i permettra d'identifier les secteurs qui seront assujettis B la taxation sur l'importation, la commercialisation et
 l'utilisation des produits chimiques dangereux (POPS). Cette taxe concernera aussi les autres produits
 chimiques comme les Chlorofluorocarbones (CFC) et Hydrochlorofluorocarbones (HCFC).

        L'application effectivede l'ensemblede ces dispositionslkgislativeset rkglementaires nkcessitela
                      formation des agents aux techniquesd'inspection environnementale.


 IV.1.3. Amkliorer le cadre institutionnelde 1'Environnement.

                                                         60
Pour mettre en Oeuvre la politique du Gouvemement, ilconviendra de redkployer les effectifs sur le terrain.
Dans ce contexte, ilest urgent de dkcentraliser les services techniques de 1'Environnement et de les rendre
opkrationnels. Cela devra se matkrialiser par :

0   l a creation des inspections provinciales ;

0   l'opkrationnalisation des brigades existantes ;

0    le renforcement des capacitks des agents chargks du contrale environnemental.

Par l a mise en place d'une plate-forme d'kchanges dont elle pourra assurer la coordination, l'administration de
1'Environnement veillera A dkvelopper la concertation entre les differents acteurs impliques dans la gestion de
l'environnement. Cette demarche facilitera kgalement la centralisation et la diffusion de l'information
environnementale.

L'amklioration du cadre institutionnel de 1'Environnement passera aussi par la redynamisation du Centre
National Anti-Pollution (CENAP), qui est une structure de contrale et de surveillance des pollutions.


                   IV.2.   Accroftre la valorisationdes bienset services environnementaux.

Pour accroitre cette valorisation, deux stratkgies sont prkconiskes :

0    Mettre en oeuvre le projet Auto EvaluationNationale des Capacitks a Renforcer (ANCR) ;

0    Identifier les domaines kconomiquement rentables.


IV.2.1. Mettre en Oeuvrele projet Auto EvaluationNationaledes CapacitCs 5 Renforcer (ANCR).

Pour accroitre la contribution des biens et services environnementaux aux revenus de l'Etat, ilconvient de faire
un &tat des lieux sur les capacitks nationales dans la gestion des ressources environnementales. La mise en
Oeuvre duprojet Auto EvaluationNationale des Capacitks a Renforcer (ANCR) permettra d'y parvenir.


IV.2.2. Identifierles domainesCconomiquementrentables.

Dans le cadre de la diversification de 1'Cconomie nationale, le Gouvemement initiera une rkflexion globale sur
les biens et services environnementaux dans l'ensemble des secteurs d'activitk. L e Ministbre, en concertation
avec les autres dkpartements ministkriels impliquCs,coordonnera unpremier travail d'inventaire.

A cejour, le Ministbre a engage une rCflexion   SUI les domaines suivants :

0    les Produits ForestiersN o n Ligneux (PFNL) ;

0    les B i o molkcules ;

0    1'Eco tourisme.


0 ProduitsForestiersNonLigneux(PFNL).

Unaccentparticulier sera mis sur les opportunitks de valorisation des Produits ForestiersNonLigneux (PFNL).
Des ktudes d'identification des PFNL rentables ont ktk rkaliskes par 1'IPHAMETRA dans le cadre du projet
BIODIVALOR. Ce demier a permis par exemple la valorisation de la rCsine d'okoumk dans les domaines de la
cosmktique. D e meme, quatorze autres produits forestiers non ligneux dont Iwingia gabonensis, Gnetum
afiicanum, Calamus sp.,etc.,     forte valeur ajoutke ont puCtre identifiks.

o PromotiondesBiomolCcules.

Des principes actifs ont CtC identifiks dans certaines espBces vkgktales utiliskes dans la mkdecine traditionnelle.
Certaines bio molkcules c o m e 1'Iboga`ine utiliske dans le traitement de la dkpendance aux drogues dures sont
insuffisamment valoriskes.

                                                        61
Dans le cadre du projet BIODIVALOR, des tchantillons de vtgttaux (tels que Klainedoxa gabonensis, Carupa
procera, etc.) ont ttt envoyts pour analyse     a des groupes pharmaceutiques. Des tchantillons pourront Ctre
proposts a d'autres laboratoires et socittts optrant dans l e domaine de la chimie fine.

L'insuffisance de compttences locales et d'infrastructures de recherche dans ce domaine rend le pays tributaire
de l'expertise exttrieure. C'est pourquoi, il conviendra de mettre en place des programmes de formation
orient& vers l a recherche et la valorisation tconomique des bio moltcules actives et de dtvelopper la
cooptration scientifique et technique avec des instituts de recherches sous-rtgionaux et intemationaux. Ces
programmes prendront en compte le savoir-faire des populations locales dans l'utilisation des plantes 21 des fins
thtrapeutiques.

Dans cette perspective, le Gouvernement mettra en place un bureau d'enregistrement charge du suivi de la
traqabilitt des produits.

Pour consolider les rtsultats acquis, une ttude exploratoire des possibilitts de valorisation de la biodiversitt est
prtvue. Elle vise la recherche de partenaires potentiels.

I1 sera m i s en place un fonds sptcial d'tco-dtveloppement charge du financement des projets et optrations
correspondant aux activitts et domaines suivants :
-    Appui aux projets de recherche sur la valorisation de labiodiversitt ;
-    Prise en charge des c o b de collecte des tchantillons ;
-    Mise en place de services d'inttrCt collectif contribuant a l'amtlioration du cadre de vie et du bien-&re des
     populations (information et tducation environnementales, gestion des dtchets, adduction d'eau potable,
     assainissement, tcoles, etc.).

     Promotionde 1'Eco tourisme.

Afin de promouvoir les services environnementaux issus des activitts tco-touristiques, 1'tlaboration des lignes
directrices dans ce domaine pour une meilleure prtservation de l'environnement s'avkre ntcessaire. A cet effet,
un inventaire des sites potentiellement valorisables sera rtalist en vue de l'ttablissement d'une carte de
vulntrabilitt.

                             IV.3.    Contribuer h l'am6liorationdu cadre de vie.

pour contribuer de faqon efficiente      l'amtlioration du cadre de vie des populations, deux strattgies sont
proposees :

0    promouvoir les Mtcanismes de Dtveloppement Propre (MDP) ;

0    prendre en compte les prtoccupations des populations locales.

IV.3.1. Promouvoirles MCcanismesde DCveloppementPropre (MDP).

Les constquences tcologiques de l'appauvrissement de la couche d'ozone, les changements climatiques, la
dtforestation, la diminution de la diversitt biologique et l'accroissement des pollutions incitent les pays 6
adapter leur planification tconomique en tenant compte de ces phtnomknes.

Dans le cadre de la mise en ceuvre des conventions relatives        ala protection de l'environnement, le Gabon
poursuivra sa rtflexion sur les possibilitts d'inttgrer les MDP dans les secteurs de production. A cet effet, les
projets de textes portant crtation de la Commission Nationale de Dtveloppement Durable (CNDD) et de
l'Agence Nationale de Valorisation des Ecosystbmes (ANVE) sont en cours d'adoption.

L a CNDD crtera un lien entre le ministbre en charge de 1'Environnement et les optrateurs tconomiques et
dressera uninventaire des activitts ntcessitant le recours aux MDP.

L'ANVE dtfendra les inttrCts du Gabon dans le cadre duprotocole de Kyoto et dtveloppera les rtflexions sur
les possibilitts d'inttgrer les marchts du carbone (horizon 2012). Une ttude prtliminaire visant a dtfinir la
 Strattgie Nationale sur les Changements Climatiques est en cours de rtalisation.

                                                        62
IV.3.2. Prendre en compte les prkoccupations des populations locales.

Conformtment au principe Idu Sommet de la Terre (Rio, 1992) qui place les Ctres humains au centre des
prtoccupations du dtveloppement durable, le bien-Ctre et la dignitt des populations devraient Ctre conditionnts
par la facilitt pour celles-ci d'tvoluer dans un milieu de qualitt acceptable. Aussi est-il indiqut de les faire
participer aux efforts de protection de leurs milieux.

Cette initiative passe par :
     la mise en place d'un programme de vulgarisation du dtcret relatif aux Etudes d'Impact
     Environnementales ;
     l'encouragement des optrateurs engages dans toutes dtmarches de certification respectueuses de
     l'environnement ;
     l'application du protocole de Carthagbne relatif au contr6le du transport et du commerce des Organismes
     Gtnttiquement Modifies (OGM);
     l'adoption du texte de loi portant crtation et organisation d'un Observatoire C6tier en vue notamment de
     concevoir unschtma directeur d'amtnagement de la zone c6tibre ;
     l'tlaboration en collaboration avec d'autres ministbres du Plan d'Urgence National en cas de pollution en
     mer par les hydrocarbures ;
     la contribution B l'tlaboration du plan d'occupation des sols par la rtalisation des cartes des zones
     vulntrables ;
     l'appui a la mise en oeuvre d'un programme de rthabilitation des sites et sols polluts (anciens sites
     d'exploitation minibre, forestibre, etc.) ;
     la participation l'tlaboration et a la rtalisation d'unprogramme de sensibilisation et de vulgarisation des
     populations sur les problbmes environnementaux ;
     l'tlaboration d'un programme national de gestion des dtchets mtnagers et sptciaux ;
     la coordinationpour la mise enplace d'un programme de renforcement de leurs capacitts optrationnelles ;
     l e dtveloppement d'une synergie entre l'administration et les ONG locales et intemationales.

                           v.       OBJECTIFSET STRATEGIESDANS LE DOMAINE
                                               DE LA FORMATION

Au regard de l'importance du patrimoine A gtrer dans les secteurs for&, pbche et aquaculture et dans le
domaine de l'environnement d'une part, des besoins correspondants exprimts en renforcement des capacitks
d'autre part, la formation prend une dimension strattgique toute particulibre qui justifie un dkveloppement
sptcifique, objet de cette section.

Au niveau du dtpartement, l'objectif gtntral est de mettre a la disposition du pays les ressources humaines
qualifites ntcessaires a la gestion durable, responsable et profitable des ressources naturelles.

Pour y parvenir, le Gouvemement devra, entre autres :
      assurer la formation et le perfectionnement des ressources humaines ;
      renforcer les structures de formation existantes ;
      crter de nouvelles structures ;
      dtvelopper la cooptration et les partenariats aux niveaux sous-rtgional et international


                 V.1.      Assurer la formation et le perfectionnement des ressources humaines

                             Pour la mise en aeuvre de cette stratCgie, ilconviendra de :
      faire l'ttat des lieux de la ressource humaine du Dtpartement ;
      dttenniner et planifier les besoins en formation pour chaque secteur ou domaine ;
      tlaborer et mettre en ceuvre les plans de formation et de perfectionnement B court, moyen et long termes.

                                                        63


                            V.2.     Renforcer les structures de formation existantes
I1 existe plusieurs structures de formation dans les secteurs forCt, pdche et aquaculture et dans le domaine de
l'environnement ;deux d'entre elles sont sous la tutelle du Dtpartement : 1'Ecole Nationale des Eaux et ForCts
(ENEF) et le Centre des Mttiers de laPCche et de 1'Aquaculture (CMPA).
Crtte en 1953 pour rtpondre aux besoins de l'administration forestikre, 1'ENEF a connu des mutations
successives pour s'adapter au contexte du moment. Elle demeure la principale institution de formation nationale
des cadres et techniciens des secteurs du dtpartement.
Pour satisfaire les besoins de plus en plus diversifits des utilisateurs, tant publics que privts, 1'ENEF et les
centres de formation existants doivent renforcer leurs capacitts. A cet effet, ils devront :


0   actualiser et adapter les programmes de formation ;

0   augmenter les capacitts d'accueil ;

0   tlargir les filibres et cycles de formation ;

0   recruter les enseignants permanents dans les difftrents domaines ;

0   intensifier la formation des formateurs ;

0   rthabiliter et compltter les tquipements et outils ptdagogiques ;

0   renforcer le cadre institutionnel ;

0   promouvoir le rayonnement sous-rtgional et international ;

0   rechercher et mobiliser les financements ntcessaires.


                                       V.3.   Crker de nouvelles structures

Les structures de formation existantes, mCme renforctes, ne disposeront pas de capacitts suffisantes pour
permettre au Dtpartement de foumir aux optrateurs des secteurs forbt, pCche / aquaculture et environnement les
ressources humaines ntcessaires.

I1 devient done indispensable de favoriser la crtation d'autres structures sptcialistes et adapttes aux besoins
sptcifiques des acteurs de ces secteurs.

Pour l'heure, ilest prtvu l'ouverture de deux centres de formation des Ccogardes et tcoguides a la LOPE et a
GAMBA et la mise en place d'une kcole des mttiers du bois a NDOUANIANG. Les deux premiers, rtalists
avec le concours des ONG intemationales, rtpondent aux prtoccupations de gestion des aires prottgtes et des
parcs nationaux. L'Ecole de NDOUANIANG, initite par le dtpartement, vise a former aux mttiers lits a la
transformation du bois.

Ainsi, les efforts consisteront a :

0    rendre optrationnelles les nouvelles structures de formation ;

0    rechercher et mobiliser les financements et les partenariats pour le dtveloppement de 1'Ecole des Mttiers
     dubois.


     V.4.       Developper l a cooperation et les partenariats aux niveaux sous-rkgional et international

L a gestion des secteurs for&, pCche et aquaculture et du domaine de l'environnement requiert des compttences
multiples et variCes. Certaines d'entre elles sont acquises au niveau national, d'autres le sont au niveau sous-
rtgional ou international.
Afin de disposer de toute l'expertisc ntcessaire, ilconviendra de :

0    renforcer la dimension sous-rtgionale et intemationale de 1'ENEF et de 1'Ecole des Mttiers du bois ;

0    recenser les sptcialitts ou mttiers pour lesquels la formation ne peut pas se faire au niveau national ;

0    identifier des structures de formation sous-rtgionales et intemationales ;

0    re dynamiser les cooptrations et partenariats existants ;

                                                          64
    ktablir de nouveaux partenariats et coopkrations ;
    renforcer les rkseaux de formation existants (RIFFEAC, REFMA, etc.) ;
    promouvoir d'autres rkseaux.


                                           CONCLUSIONGENERALE

L e prksent document de politique fixe les objectifs et dkveloppe les stratkgies prkconiskes pour une gestion
durable, responsable et profitable des ressources naturelles renouvelables dans les secteurs forCt, pCche et
aquaculture, parcs nationaux et les domaines de l'environnement.

Les principaux objectifs et mesures prioritaires nkcessaires A la mise en ceuvre des stratkgies correspondantes
sont rappelks ci-aprks pour chacun des secteurs et domaine.

Dans le secteur for&, la mise en ceuvre de la nouvelle politique doit permettre a terme :
    de poursuivre l'amknagement durable sur l'ensemble des for& de production ;
    d'intkgrer les petites et moyennes exploitations forestikres dans le processus d'amknagement durable ;
    d'organiser la gestion des ressources forestikres dans le domaine rural ;
    de dkvelopper les capacitks des industries locales du bois en vue de porter le taux de transformation h 75%
    au cours de la pkriode 2002-2012 ;
    de gkrer durablement la faune sauvage et les aires protkgkes ;
    d'impliquer davantage les nationaux et de promouvoir l'entrepreneuriat national dans les activitks du
    secteur.

                 L e Gouvernement mettra l'accent prioritairement sur les mesures suivantes :
    la rkorganisation des services par le renforcement des structures de terrain et le redkploiement des effectifs
    a l'intkrieur dupays ;
    la maitrise de l'information sectorielle par la mise en place d'un systbme skcurisk de gestion de
    l'information forestikre (SIGEF) ;
    la finalisation du cadre rkglementaire par l'klaboration et l'adoption des textes d'application
    complkmentaires ;
     la poursuite du processus d'amknagement, notamment par le regroupement des anciens permis en CFAD
     avec conventions dkfinitives
     le regroupement des petits permis en vue de leur intkgration dans le processus d'amknagement durable ;
     l'achbvement duplan national d'affectation des terres ;
     la rkhabilitationet la restaurationdes for& dkgradkes ;
     l'organisation de la gestion forestikre dans le domaine rural par la mise en place de for& communautaires
     et l'exploitation de permis de grk a grk ;
     l'klaboration des dispositions relatives au suivi de la preparation et au contr6le de la rkalisation des plans
     d'industrialisation ;
     la crkation d'une    bourse dubois  ))quicontribuera audkveloppement d'un march6national ;
     la mise en aeuvre de la loi de finances 2004 ;
     le retour aux Domaines des titres kchus ou invalides ;
     le repositionnement de la SNBG ;
     l'organisation et l'kvolution de la pratique du fermage ;
     les mkcanismes de retrocession des revenus forestiers ;
     la valorisation des plantations existantes ;
     la rkvision du cadre rkglementaire et institutionnelpour la gestion des aires protkgkes ;
     la redkfinition des limites des permis forestiers situks sur l'emprise des parcs ;

                                                         65
e   l'appui technique de l'administration a l'implication des nationaux dans la processus d'amknagement par la
    realisation des travaux d'inventaires et la prkparation des plans d'amknagement ;
e   la facilitation des partenariats entre futures entreprises nationales d'exploitation forestibre et industrielles.


Dansle secteur pCcheet aquaculture,lamise enDeuvre de lanouvelle politique doit permettre a terme :
    d'amkliorer la connaissance sur le potentiel halieutique en vue du redeploiement des activitks sur les
    ressources et les zones encore peu exploitkes et pour lesquelles des indices d'abondance relative sont
    probants ;
    de mettre en place les infrastructures et services nkcessaires au dkbarquement, a la conservation et a la
    transformation des produits sur le territoire gabonais, 21 moyen terme par l'amklioration des capacitks
    existantes dans les ports actuels et a unhorizon de 10 ans par la crkation d'un veritable port de pCche ;
    d'augmenter la production de l'aquaculture villageoise et marine pour complkter la fourniture de protkines
    halieutiques aux populations locales et contribuer a la mise sur le marchk a l'export de produits a forte
    valeur ajoutte ;
    d'amkliorer la balance commerciale par le dkveloppement de l'industrie de transformation en vue de
    diversifier et d'accroitre les exportations des produits mis aux normes sanitaires ;
    de dkvelopper les accords de peche sur des ressources peu exploitkes pour valoriser davantage le
    patrimoine halieutique et crker de nouvelles filibres.

L e Gouvemement mettra l'accent prioritairement sur les mesures rkglementaires et institutionnelles suivantes :

0   la promulgation du Code des pbches et de l'aquaculture ;

0   la mise en place d'une fiscalitk encourageant les investissements dans 1:outil de production et la
    transformation ;
e   la modemisation et le renforcement du systkme de suivi, contr8le et surveillance des activitks de pbche ;
e   la poursuite et l'intensification de la coopkration rkgionale et intemationale ;
e   la redynamisation de la rechercheldkveloppement et de la formation ;
    le renforcement des services provinciaux ;
e   la promotion de l'organisation des professionnels.


Dansle domainede l'environnement,lamise en ceuvre de la nouvelle politique doit permettre              a terme :

0   de conforter la position du Gabon dans la dynamique globale de protection de l'environnement ;

e    d'intkgrer la dimension environnementale dans les politiques de dkveloppement ;
     d'amkliorer le cadre juridique et institutionnel ;
e    de renforcer les capacitks de gestion ;

0    de valoriser les biens et services environnementaux et d'identifier les nouveaux domaines porteurs ;
e    de contribuer a amkliorer le cadre de vie des populations locales.

L e Gouvemement mettra l'accent prioritairement sur les mesures suivantes :

0    l'adoption des textes d'application de la L o i 16/93 portant Code de 1'Environnement ;

0    la crkation d'une plate-forme d'kchanges entre les diffkrents acteurs impliquks dans la gestion de
     l'environnement ;
     la centralisation de l'information environnementale
e    l'instauration d'une fiscalitk environnementale ;
e    la creation d'inspections provinciales et la dkcentralisation des services techniques de 1'Environnement ;
     le renforcement des capacitks ;
e    la mise en Deuvre duprojet Auto-evaluation Nationale des Capacitks a Renforcer ;
     la crkation des Observatoires (Changements climatiques, Biodiversitk, CGtier) ;
e    la promotiondes Mkcanismes de Dkveloppement Propre et le lancement de projets porteurs,

                                                         66

Dans le domaine de la formation, la mise en ceuvre des strattgies prtconistes devra s'accompagner du
renforcement des capacitts des structures de formation existantes et la crtation de nouvelles entitts. Elle
passera aussi par la consolidation de la dimension sous-rigionale et internationale desdites structures a travers
les rtseaux et partenariats existants et a crter.

Dansle secteur des ParcsNationaux,la mise en ceuvre de lapolitique nationale en la matibre, doit permettre a
terme :

     a   d'asseoir une meilleure strattgie de conservation dupatrimoine nature1du Gabon ;
         de rendre le rtseau de parcs optrationnel, attractif et productif;
     a   de promouvoir une meilleure strattgie de dkveloppement durable du Gabon ;
     a   de permettre une meilleure contribution de l'environnement a la lutte contre la pauvrett ;
     0   d'intkgrer le secteur priv6 national et international dans les investissements rtalists 21 l'intkrieur et
         autour des parcs nationaux ;
     a   de promouvoir une Destination Gabon )) plus professionnelle et mieux adaptte aux demandes
                              ((
         nationale et internationale ;
     a   de parvenir a une collaboration dynamique entre l'ensemble des intervenants du rtseau.

L e ConseilNational des Parcs Nationaux mettra prioritairement l'accent sur les mesures suivantes :

     a   L a formulation et l'adoption d'un cadre juridique d'administration et de gestion du rtseau ;
     a   L a finalisation de la loi sur les parcs nationaux ;
     0   L a finalisation duplan d'affaires du rtseau des parcs nationaux ;
         L a rkalisation d'une analyse Cconomique et financibre du rtseau de parcs nationaux du Gabon.

     Les conditionsde miseen application de ces mesures sont dCveloppCes dans un agendaprioritaire.

  62-SEP-20E5 19:23 DE :WORLD BANK           00241738169         FI :202+473+8229        P.013/E13


                                                                                  PMICA
              MINISTEREDEX.'ECONOMIEFORI?STIER&DESEALJX,                    lUPUDLJQ\JECAUONNSE    I
                 hELA YECHE, C     I   L DEL,'F,NMRONNEMENT                 IJ'NLUN-'lTAVWJU.VlCll
                                                                                  -
                     E'l. DEXA YKOTF.CTION DELANATURE
                                                                                                    i
                           CABI.NET DUMINISTRE
                                           -
                                        ~~


                                   B.P.3974 IW    ,
I  '                             'L%LJFAX 7 61381




           I                                            LIBREVILLE




                    i'   .
                      Madame le HepdsentautKQident,

                      Comne vous le savcr,, ICConseil des lvlinistres du 18 Mai2004 a adopt6 la
               lcttrc de politique des secteurs For&, P&he ct Aquaculture, Aires Protdgdes,
               lbviruruiement et de la Fonnation, klabor6c en yartcnxiat avec les bailleurs de
               for1ds.

                      Monsieur le Ministrc m'a donne instructionde vous hire tenir copie de cc
               document. Aussi ai-jele pkaisirdc vous bmsmettre leditdocument.

                      Vousensouh;utant bonm r&xption,

                      Je vous piie d'agnkr, Madame le Repr4seiit;uii Rksident, I'assurancc de ma
               haute conskl&mtion.=

 ,


                                           67
                                     Annex 1PartI1
                         Letter ofDevelopmentPolicy:Mining
             MINISTEREDESMINES, DEL'ENERGIE,DUPETROLE
                     ET DES RESSOURCESHYDRAULIQUES


                              LETTREDEPOLITIQUE
                 DEREFORMEDUSECTEURMINIER DUGABON


INTRODUCTION

 La Republique Gabonaise possede un important potentiel geologique et une
histoire d'exploitation miniere surtout marquee par le manganese et l'uranium.
Cependant, contrairement a d'autres pays ayant des potentialites similaires, la
contribution du secteur minier a la richesse nationale demeure relativement
faible. Le petrole reprksente environ 81% des exportations et 47% du produit
interieur brut (PIB) du pays. Ceci demontre a la fois sa dominance sur
l'economie nationale, mais aussi la faiblesse de l'investissement dans le secteur
minier qui ne represente plus que 1,7% du PIB (contre plus de 3% dans le passe)
et 6,2% des exportations. En dehors du manganese l'exploitation miniere se
limite actuellement aux materiaux de construction et autres mineraux
industriels et a l'exploitation artisanale.

Depuis 2001, les autorites du pays ont adopt6 u n e Declaration de Politique
Miniere cadrant avec la Politique Economique Nationale (PEN), Cette derniere,
qui vise a diversifier l'economie a travers les mines, le bois, la p k h e et le
tourisme renonce a la participation de 1'Etat aux activites commerciales.


  1 POLITIQUEECONOMIQUENATIONALE
   -
       Le declin significatif des hydrocarbures bien que stoppk et surtout
l'evidence indeniable de la dependance de notre Cconomie vis a vis du secteur
pktrolier sont autant de facteurs determinants qui ont incite le gouvernement a
explorer tous les axes de           diversification de nos ressources grgce au
developpement d'autres secteurs d'activites.

Pour ce faire, le gouvernement a pris plusieurs mesures, notamment en
definissant le nouveau r61e de 1'Etat n o n plus comme acteur mais comme
partenaire du secteur privk. Par consequent, ila encourage la privatisation totale
(l'exploitation du chemin de fer, la Societe d'Energie et d'Eau du Gabon (SEEG),
les ciments du Gabon, Agrogabon) o u partielle (l'Office des ports et rades du
Gabon) de plusieurs entreprises d'Etat. D'autres grandes societes d'Etat sont en
cours de privatisation : c'est le cas de Gabon TClecom et d' Air Gabon.

En voulant renforcer         cette politique de     diversification economique, le
Gouvernement a la volonte d'attirer de nouveaux investissements pour ameliorer
les secteurs moteurs de la croissance existants (petrole, bois, p&he et mines) et
pour developper de nouveaux secteurs tel que le tourisme. Pour rendre
l'environnement des affaires plus attractif aux investissements &angers,        le
Gouvernement a revise les codes des investissements, des douanes, des imp6ts

                                            68
et des mines. Lobjectif du gouvernement en revisant ces lois (qui souvent
dataient encore des premieres annees apres les independances) etait de mieux
les adapter aux nouvelles conditions economiques internationales et a la
globalisation de l'kconomie mondiale. La volonte de 1'Etat est d'adopter des
cadres institutionnels et des textes legislatifs et reglementaires clairs,
transparents, simples et modernes afin de faciliter l'activite economique et
assurer sa regulation de faqon equitable et non discretionnaire.

C'est ainsi que la nouvelle charte des investissements (juillet 1998) reaffirme
l'engagement de 1'Etat gabonais dans sa strategie de developpement economique
et social, basee sur l'epanouissement du secteur prive. La charte confirme
egalement la volonte de 1'Etat de promouvoir certains secteurs economiques dont
l'exploitation et la transformation des ressources naturelles.

2 POLITIQUEMINIERE
   -
La Declaration de politique miniere vise l'accroissement des resultats du secteur
minier par la diversification des operateurs et des substances exploitees. L'Etaty
rkaffirme  sa volonte de creer les conditions favorables au developpement du
secteur minier et cela au regard des, meilleures pratiques internationales. Dans
sa strategie, 1'Etat confie au secteur prive la mission de developper l'industrie
miniere gabonaise, tandis que lui mCme s'attellera a la mise en place
d'infrastructures     de   base, la creation d'un environnement favorable a
l'investissement, la promotion du secteur et la definition d'un cadre juridique et
institutionnel incitatif et l'application rigoureuse de la rkglementation.

Le Ministere des Mines de 1'Energie du Petrole et des Ressources Hydrauliques
(MMEPRH)responsable entre autres de l'application de la politique miniere du
Gabon a elabore un nouveau code minier conformement aux dispositions de la
declaration de la politique miniere. Ce code minier a ete promulgue en aoQt 2000
par la loi no 005/2000, modifie et complete par l'ordonnance no 003/2002/PR
et ratifie par la loi n o 007/2002 en aoQt 2002. Les points saillants du code sont
les suivants :

Le code minier s'applique aux substances minerales a l'exception des
hydrocarbures liquides o u gazeux et les eaux souterraines. I1 se subdivise en
regime minier pour les substances concessibles (utilisables dans l'industrie,
l'artisanat ou comme source d'energie) et en regime de carrieres pour les
materiaux de construction et de travaux publics comporte des dispositions
generales. Le deroulement des operations minieres est garanti dans u n e
convention miniere qui accompagne l'attribution du titre minier.

Cependant le secteur n'a cependant pas echappe a la conjoncture economique
de ces dernieres annees et a connu une reduction des ressources budgetaires.
LEtat a fait d'importants efforts aupres des bailleurs de fonds pour l'assister
dans la dynarnisation du secteur minier din d'en faire une source de reduction
de la pauvrete. Le demarrage recent du projet SYSMIN finance par 1'Union
Europeenne et l'invitation a une implication de la Banque Mondiale procede de
cela.

                                          69
3 STRATEGIES DEREFORME DUSECTEUR
  -
En depit de ses nombreuses potentialitks, le secteur minier reste encore sous-
developpe. Envue d'impulser u n e dynamique particuliere au secteur, la nouvelle
politique de developpement a CtC definie. Ainsi la Loi de Developpement et
D'amenagement du Territoire (LDAT) oriente la strategie de developpement
economique et sociale du Gabon et precise les objectifs du secteur minier a
savoir :

            -   Faire du secteur minier un levier majeur de diversification
      de l'$conomie gabonaise ;

            - Diversifier les ressources minieres en mettant en valeur le
      potentiel non encore exploit6 et accroitre la production des
      substances deja exploitees.

Pour atteindre les objectifs fixes dans la Loi de Developpement et de
1'AmCnagement du Territoire et dans la declaration de politique miniere, la
Direction Generale des Mines et de la Geologie a adopt6 une strategie de reforme
du secteur minier pour que celui-ci participe davantage a la croissance
economique du pays, a la reduction de la pauvrete et pour mieux adapter le
secteur aux nouveaux postulats du secteur minier international portant sur la
bonne gouvernance et sur la transparence.

La strategie pour le developpement du secteur minier comporte trois volets
principaux a savoir le developpement de l'information geologique sous un format
approprie, la mise e n place d'un environnement des affaires attractif et
l'accroissement des benefices tires des mines pour les communautks locales.

Le premier volet est pris en compte par le projet SYSMIN qui va fortement
contribuer au developpement de la connaissance geoscientifique et a la gestion
de l'heritage environnemental du pays. I1 va aussi developper une base de
donnees qui formera unpuissant outil de promotion.

Le deuxieme volet vise a ameliorer le climat d'investissement a travers des
reformes legislatives, fiscales, reglementaires et institutionnelles pour rendre le
pays plus competitif, simplifier les procedures et ameliorer la transparence dans
la gestion du secteur. Une reforme des textes accroitra la probabilite de
decouverte de nouveaux gisements a cause de la disponibilite actuelle des
capitaux a risque pour l'exploration sur le march6 mondial.

Le troisi6me volet vise : la stimulation du developpement konomique national et
local au travers de l'identification d'un systeme de partenariat entre les
compagnies privees, l'administration publique locale, les collectivites locales et la
societe civile ;et la redistribution des revenus

Pour atteindre ses ambitions, le pays se propose de :

a) Moderniser le cadre rbglementaire

La reglementation miniere actuelle reflete a la fois des emprunts venant du
secteur pktrolier qui est gere sur le plan international par un cadre tres different

                                           70
de celui des mines, mais aussi les realites historiques de l'exploitation des mines
au Gabon. Une mise a jour de l'environnement fiscal et reglementaire est
necessaire pour : (i)     diminer les contradictions internes entre differentes
provisions du code minier, (ii) amdiorer la securite de la tenue des titres miniers
ainsi que la transparence sur l'obtention, le maintien ou l'annulation des titres
miniers, et (iii) pour rendre la fiscalit6 miniere gabonaise competitive sur le plan
international. Des procedures simples, claires, transparentes et facilement
applicables devront etre mises en place pour rassurer les investisseurs qu'iln'y
aura pas de traitement deloyal, que le gouvernement est engage et capable
d'appliquer la loi et que la skcurite de la tenue des permis sera assurke pour le
passage d'un titre a l'autre. La fiscalite devrait etre competitive et similaire pour
toutes les entreprises minieres.

b) Restructurer les institutions et renforcer les capacitbs

Le renforcement des institutions aidera la mise en place d'un climat de confiance
et de transparence dans la gestion du secteur minier. Les contraintes
institutionnelles portent sur : (i)les conflits d'interet et les interferences externes
dans les travaux techniques et administratifs, (ii)     l'absence de structures cles
notamment en ce qui concerne l'environnement, (iii)      l e manque d'ajustement des
structures pour tenir compte de la nouvelle orientation politique avec une
definition diligente des fonctions basees sur une definition Claire des objectifs et
sur l'ktendue des responsabilitks ; et (iv) le manque par ailleurs de capacites
pour faire face au r61e de promotion du secteur et accompagner son
developpement. Des reformes institutionnelles seront entreprises pour : (a)
clarifier les responsabilitks institutionnelles en fonction de la declaration de la
politique miniere, (b)definir la politique environnementale en matiere de mine et
appuyer .le service charge de contrder et de gerer l'application des lois et normes
environnementales cri.ees     (c) preparer et mettre en place des programmes
assurant l'existence adequate de ressources humaines, financieres et en
logistique garantissant l'execution des tsches             specifiques assignees au
gouvernement dans le cadre de la politique miniere du pays.

e) Etablir un service du cadastre
La securite des titres miniers est la plus importante condition pour le
developpement d'une industrie miniere par le secteur prive et un cadastre minier
bien fonctionnel en est l'ossature principale. Les contraintes likes au cadastre
portent sur la gestion collkgiale des activites d'attribution de titres et leur suivi,
et l'insuffisance de capacites et d'outils adapt& pour une gestion moderne du
secteur minier

L'Etatva rkaliser un service du cadastre moderne ayant des criteres d'eligibilites
et de fonctionnement conformes aux meilleures pratiques acceptees de l'industrie
miniere internationale.

d) Poser les bases d'une gestion environnementale saine du secteur.
Le Gabon a besoin de definir sa politique environnementale en matiere de mines,
sa strategie et les plans d'application de cette strategie. I1 a aussi besoin de
dkfinir   l'institution  qui va faire      appliquer     les   normes     et  standards
environnementaux.       La definition      d'un cadre      environnemental      eviterait
d'externaliser les cofits lies aux dommages causes a l'environnement par les

                                         71
entreprises minieres. Les tgches prioritaires porteront sur des etudes et
evaluations de l'activite miniere actuelle ou passee, les audits environnementaux,
la definition des normes et procedures pour les etudes d'impact environnemental,
les reglements specifiques pour le secteur minier y compris les procedures de
rehabilitation, les mecanismes de sorete pour la fermeture des mines, le
developpement de provisions pour la sante et la securite et enfin le
developpement des capacites de contr6les environnementaux des mines.
e) Amdliorer la disponibilitd de l'information ghologique

La disponibilite d'une information geoscientifique structuree fiable et a jour est
un outil essentiel de promotion du secteur. Le Gabon dispose d'une importante
information mais n o n consolidee. Le service de la documentation geologique
manque de personnel. I1est important de compiler, de mettre ajour l'information
et la rendre disponible sous la forme d'une base de donnees pour les
investisseurs. Le SYSMIN prevoit non seulement de creer une base de donnees
mais aussi d'ameliorer les connaissances geoscientifiques a travers les lev& et la
cartographie. L'Etat prendra des mesures pour perenniser cette base de donnees
et de l'enrichir dans le futur et d'en assurer la promotion a travers des
technologies de l'information modernes.

fl Amdliorer l'impact dconomique des mines

Pour ameliorer l'impact economique des mines et assurer le developpement
durable 1'Etat stimulera l'augmentation de la valeur ajoutee a partir des mines
pour l'economie nationale et locale par ; i) la creation d'unites de transformation
des matieres premieres, ii)la mise en place des mecanismes de repartition des
revenus pour stimuler le developpement des communautes locales, et iii)le
developpement de la fourniture de services locaux pour les entreprises minieres.
                                   s
 g) Intdgrer l'activitd artisanale dans le secteur forme 1

La performance des mines artisanales reste modeste a cause de la prkcarite de
leur cadre de travail, du caractere informel de l'activite et du manque de contact
avec les techniques et technologies modernes. I1va falloir creer un cadre legislatif
simple pour les artisans, leur assurer l'acces a des titres negociables, et
ameliorer l'encadrement des sites par l'administration. LEtat entreprendra les
reformes legislatives et institutionnelles appropriees pour que les mines
artisanales contribue d'avantage au developpement communautaire dans un
cadre environnemental, de sante et de securite ameliore.

h)     Etendre aux mines l'lnitiative sur la Transparence des Industries
Extractives.
Les autorites du Ministere des Mines vont prendre les dispositions necessaires
pour amener le secteur minier au meme niveau d'avancement que le secteur

                                          72
petrolier pour l'initiative sur la Transparence des Industries Extractives (ITIE) ;
din d'uniformiser la dkmarche au niveau du pays pour toute l'industrie
extractive.



                                         Fait a Libreville, le
                                                                3 1 AOUT2OO5



                             Le Ministre des Mines, de lznergie, du Petrole
                                     et des Ressources Hydrauliques



                                            --
                                     RichardAuguste ON0

                                     UN0FFICIAL TRANSLATlON

                 Ministryof Mines,Energy,OilandHydraulic Resources

                                           POLICY LETTER
              OF THE REFORMINTHE MININGSECTOR INGABON

 INTRODUCTION

 The Gabonese Republic has an important geological potential and a history o f mining exploitation
 particularly with regard to manganese and uranium. However, as opposed to other countries with similar
 potentials, the contribution from the mining sector to the national wealth remains relatively weak. Oil
 represents approximately 81% o f exports and 47% o f the country's Gross Domestic Product (GDP). This
 demonstrates both its dominance on the national economy, but also the weakness o f the investment inthe
 miningsector that currently only represents 1.7%ofthe GDP (versus more than 3% inthe past) and 6.2%
 o f exports. With the exception o f manganese, the mining exploitation operation i s currently limited to
 construction materials and other industrial minerals and for small-scale operations.

 Since 2001, the country's officials have adopted a Mining Policy Statement in accordance with the
 National Economic Policy (PEN), which aims at diversifying the economy through mining, the timber
 industry, fishingand tourism with noparticipation from the State incommercial operations.

 1.NATIONAL ECONOMIC POLICY

          The significant decline inhydrocarbons and the undeniable fact o f our country's dependence on
the oil sector have led the government to explore all the possibilities o f diversification o f our resources
with the development o f other business sectors.

          To this end, the government has taken several measures, particularly by defining the new role o f
the State no longer as a player but as a partner o f the private sector. Accordingly, it has encouraged the
complete privatization (e.g.: operation o f the railroad, the SociCtC d'Energie et d'Eau du Gabon (SEEG -
the Energy and Water Company of Gabon), the cement companies of Gabon, Agrogabon) or partial
privatization (e.g.: the Office o f Ports and Waterways o f Gabon) o f several state companies. Other large
State companies are currently undergoing privatization: this is the case with Gabon TClCcom and Air
Gabon.
By wishingto reinforce this policy of economic diversification, the government has wanted to attract new
investments to improve the sectors that are behind the existing growth (oil, timber, fishing and mining)
and to develop new sectors such as tourism. To make the business climate more attractive to foreign
investors, the Government has revised the codes o f investment, customs, taxes and mines. The
Government's purpose in revising these laws (that often dated from the years immediately after the
independence) was to better adapt them to the new international economical conditions and to the
globalization o f the world economy. The State wants to adopt institutional frameworks and laws and
regulations that are clear, transparent, simple and modern in order to foster economic activity and assure
its fair and indiscriminate regulation.

The new investment charter (July 1998)accordingly reaffirmthe commitment o f the Gabonese state inits
economic development and social strategy, based on the expansion o f the private sector. The charter also
confirms the State's desire to promote certain economic sectors including the exploitation and
transformation o f natural resources.

                 Y

 2. MININGPOLICY

 The MiningPolicy Statements aims at increasing profit inthe mining sector by the diversification o f the
 operators and the substances exploited. The State has reaffirmed its desire to create conditions favorable
 to the development of the mining sector and that take the best international practices into account.
 According to its strategy, the State has given the private sector the mission of developing the Gabonese
 mining industry, whereas the Government will focus on establishing basic infrastructures, creating a
 climate open to investment, promoting the sector and defining a legal and institutional framework that
 will promote the rigorous application o fregulations.

 The Ministry of Mines, Energy, Oil and Hydraulic Resources (MMEPRH)responsible for the application
 o f the miningpolicy o f Gabon, has drafted a new mining code in accordance with the provisions o f the
 MiningPolicy Statement. This miningcode was passedinAugust 2000 by Law no. 005/2000, amended
 and supplemented by Decree no. 003/2002/PR and ratified by Law no. 007/2002 in August 2002. The
 significant points o f the code are the following:

 The miningcode applies to mineral substances with the exception o f liquidor gaseous hydrocarbons and
 underground waters. It i s subdivided into the mining system for substances under concession (useable in
 industry, small-scale industryor as a source of energy) and ina quarry system for construction materials
and public works. The execution o f miningoperations i s guaranteed ina miningagreement that i s part o f
the assignedminingtitle.

However, due to the sector's vulnerability to the economic situation o f the past years, it has experienced a
reduction in its budgetary resources. The State has made significant efforts with fund providers to help
with the invigoration of the mining sector as a tool inthe fight against poverty. The recent startup o f the
SYSMIN project financed by the European Union and an invitation to be part of a World Bank project i s
a result o f this.

3. REFORMSTRATEGIESOF THE SECTOR

Inspite of its potential, the miningsector is still under developed. Inorder tojumpstart the sector, a new
development policy has been defined. Thus, the Law o f Development and Management o f the Territory
(LDAT) outlines the economic development and social strategy of Gabon and specifies the objectives of
the miningsector, to wit:

      -  Make the miningsector a major lever of diversification of the Gabonese economy;
      -  Diversify the mining resources by developing the potential as yet not exploited and increase the
         production of substances already exploited.

To reach the objectives set down inthe Law o f Development and Management o f the Territory and inthe
MiningPolicy Statement, the Office of Mines and Geology has adopted a strategy to reform the mining
sector so it can participate more inthe economic growth o f the country, inthe reduction o f poverty and to
better adapt the sector to the new principles o f the international mining sector involved with good
governance and transparency.

The strategy for developing the mining sector has three main parts, to wit: the development o f the
geological information in an appropriate format, the establishment o f an attractive business climate and
the growthof miningprofits for localcommunities.

The first part i s taken into account by the SYSMIN project that will significantly contribute to the
development o f the geoscientific knowledge and to the management o f the environmental commonwealth
o f the country. It will also develop a databasethat will form a powerfulpromotiontool.

 The second part aims at improving the investment climate through legislative, fiscal, regulatory and
 institutional reforms to make the country more competitive, simplify the procedures and improve the
 transparency inthe management o f the sector. A legal reform will increase the probability of discovery o f
 new deposits due to the current availability o friskcapital for the exploration on the global market.

 The third part aims at stimulating Gabonese economic development through the identification o f a
 partnership system among private companies, the local public administration, local community
 institutions and civil society; and the redistribution o frevenue.

 To reach its ambitions, the country i s proposing to:

 a) Modernize the regulatory framework

 The current miningregulations reflect the loans from the oil sector that is managed on the international
 level by a system that i s very different from that o f the mines, but also by the historic realities o f mining
 exploitation in Gabon. Updating the fiscal and regulatory environment is necessary to: (i)         eliminate all
 internal contradictions between the various provisions o f the MiningCode, (ii)   improve the security o f the
 mining title system and the transparency with regard to the processes to obtain, maintain or cancel the
mining permits, and (iii)make Gabonese mining taxation competitive at the international level,
Procedures that are simple, clear, transparent and easily applicable shall be set upto reassure the investors
that there i s no unfair treatment, that the government i s committed and capable o f applying the law and
that the permit system i s secure and guaranteed during the transition from one title to another. The
taxation system shouldbe competitive and similar for all miningenterprises.

B) Restructurethe institutionsand reinforce capacities

The reinforcement o f institutions will help establish a climate o f trust and transparency in the
management o f the miningsector. The institutional constraints involve: (i) conflicts o f interest and the
                                                                               the
outside interferences in the technical and administrative fields, (ii)        the absence o f key structures
particularly with regard to the environment, (iii)the lack o f structural adjustments to take the new
political orientation into account with a strict definition o f functions, clearly defining the objectives and
the scope o f responsibilities; and (iv) the lack o f capacities to address the sector's role as promoter o f
development and to help with its growth. Institutional reforms will be undertaken to: (a) clarify the
institutional responsibilities as a function o f the Mining Policy Statement, (b) define the environmental
policy with regard to mining and support the office responsible for inspecting and monitoring the
application o f the environment laws and standards created (c) prepare and set up programs that ensure the
adequate existence o f human, financial and logistical resources that will guarantee the performance o f
specific tasks assigned to the government within the framework o f the country's miningpolicy.

e) Establish a land registry office

The security o f the miningtitles i s the most important condition for the development o f a miningindustry
by the private sector and a well-run mining land registry is the essential component for this. Constraints
linked to the land registry involve the joint management in allocating titles and their monitoring and the
insufficiency o f staff and tools adapted for a modern management o f the miningsector.

The State will establish a modem land registry service inaccordance with the best practices accepted by
the international miningindustry.

d) Establish afoundation for a healthy environmentalmanagementof the sector.

 Gabon needs to define its environmental policy with regard to the mining industry, its strategy and the
plans for applying this strategy. It also needs to define the institution that will apply the standards and
 environment regulations. The definition o f an environmental framework would prevent having outside
 entities bear the costs linked to damage caused to the environment by mining companies. The priority
tasks involve studies and evaluations o f the current or past mining activity, environmental audits, the
 definition o f standards and procedures for environmental impact studies, specific regulations for the
mining sector including the restoration procedures, safety mechanisms for closing the mines, the
 development o f provisions for the health and safety and lastly, the development o f environment control
 capacities o f the mines.

e) Improve the availability of geological information

The availability o f a structured, reliable, and up-to-date geoscientific information i s an essential tool for
promoting the sector. Gabon has a wealth of information, but it i s not consolidated. The office o f
geological documentation lacks personnel. It i s important to compile and update the information and
make it available in the form o f a database for investors. The SYSMIN anticipates not only creating a
database but also improving the geoscientific acquisitions through surveys and mapping. The State will
take the measures to make this a long-term database and to enrich it inthe future and to assure promotion
through modern informationtechnologies.

fl Improvethe economicimpact of themines

To improve the economic impact o f the mines and ensure their lasting development, the State will
stimulate the increase inthe mine's added value for the national and local economy by: i)creating o f raw
material transformation units, ii)setting uprevenue distribution mechanisms to stimulate the development
o f local communities and iii)develop the supply o f local services for miningenterprises.

g) Integrate small-scale operationsin theformal sector

The performance o f small-scale mines has remained modest due to the precariousness o f their work
framework, the informal character o f the business and the lack o f contact with the modern technology. It
will be necessary to create a simple set o f laws for small-scale operators, ensure their accessto negotiable
titles, and improve the sites' infrastructure by the administration. The State will undertake appropriate
legislative and institutional reforms so the small-scale mining operations contribute more to the
community development within a framework o f a clean environment, and improvedhealth and safety.

h) Extend to the mines the Initiative on the Transparency of the Extraction Industries

The authorities ofthe Ministryof the Mineswill take the necessary provisions to take the miningsector to
the same level o f progress as the oil sector for the initiative on the Transparency o f the Extraction
Industries (ITIE); in order to standardize the approach at the country level for the entire extraction
industry.

ExecutedinLibreville, August 31,2005


Richard August Onouviet
Ministerofthe Mines, Energy, Oil andHydraulic Resources
Ministryofthe Mines, Energy, Oil andHydraulicResources
The Gabonese Republic

                                     UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

                          POLICYLETTEROF THE FOREST, FISHING
                   AND AQUACULTURE SECTORS, PROTECTEDAREAS,
                                  ENVIRONMENT AND TRAINING
 (Prepared in collaboration with: The Ministry of the Economy, Finance, the Budget and
 Privatizationand the CNPN)


 INTRODUCTION


 Faced with the downward trend o f oil revenue, the Government has focused on developing other sectors o f
 the national economy. The diversification o f the Gabonese economy has thus become a major priority. From
 this standpoint, the forestry, fishing/aquiculture and the environment, that constitute added value resources,
 direct and indirectjobs, food resources for populations and tax revenue for the State should be developed.

 This letter expresses the reforms that the Gabonese government will conduct to improve the economic
efficacy and social benefits that the exploitation o f natural resources will lastingly provide to Gabon by
preserving the value o f the natural ecosystems for humanity. It introduces reforms that will be carried out to
improve the social-economic performance of the natural resources all while assuring their environmental
stability. By "reform", we mean structural reforms aiming at better organizing the timber-based industries,
andreinforcingthe governance method o f the natural resources.

The pertinence o f this approach i s justified by the facts that since oil revenue has gone from 814 billion
FCFA in 2000, to 609 billion in 2002, while the projections' for 2006 are only on the order o f 303 billion
FCFA. This significant drop inoil revenue's share inthe State budget clearly shows that:

0    The traditional dependence with regard to oil i s no longer sustainable;

0    The resulting deficit can only be filled if other resources are able to quickly take its place, and to generate
     social/economic benefits that are long-lasting and equitably shared.

This Letter is not a "new policy". Itis an agenda of governance reform focused onpublic informationandthe
application o f rules and agreements. It involves case-by-case adjustments o f the legal or regulatory
fiamework, to establish management tools consistent with the objectives beingpursued.

Thispolicy is aimed at:

0   creatingjobs;

0   improving the profitability o f the companies inthe sectors inquestion;

0   promoting Gabonese entrepreneurs and the transfer o f technology;

0   involving rural communities and civil society inthe lasting management o f natural resources;

0   increasingbudget revenue o f the State andredistributing a portion to local entities.
All o f this should create wealth as well as help in the fight against poverty, all while assuring the
sustainability o f the ecosystems and environmental services.

This policy can be inscribed within the framework o f recommendations from international agendas. With
regard to forestry, fishing, conservation o f the biodiversity and the protection o f the environment. It i s mainly
a question o f CDC, CDD, UNFCCC, ATIBT, RAMSAR, CITES, W A C , etc. It i s in accordance with the
'Office of the Economy: 2003 Operating Report o fthe Economy

common strategies developed and underway in the frameworks o f joint effort instituted at the sub-regional
level, notably: the NEPAD, the PBFC, the COMIFAC, the O m , the CEMAC, the OCFSA, the CEFDHAC,
the COREP and the AFLEG, etc.

The orientations of the Gabonese government with regard to the protection o f the environment, the
development o fbiodiversity, forest resources and fishery are translated by:
     The Code of the environment;
     The Forestry Code;
e    The Code ofFishingandAquiculture, currently being adopted.
The fiscal provisions are specified in the annual finance laws that determine the tax systems ineach sector.
The 2004 Finance Law introduced essential reforms for the re-structuring o f the timber-based industries (cf.
Forestry section).

The principles and tools indicated in this Policy Letter are reflected in the enactment documents o f the
Forestry code and the FishingCode that are beingprepared. These bills will be prepared in conjunction with
the stakeholders, includingthe civil society and the private sector.

This PolicyLetter indicatesthe reforms that the Government will conduct on the behalf o f Gabonese citizens,
starting in 2004, and that are indispensable for lifting the restrictions that are the responsibility o f the
social/economic performances o f these sectors.

It also contains an agenda o f priorities indicating the actions the Government will take in 2004 and 2005
under this reformprogram.

This governance reformprogram will bethen bolsteredby an investment program: the PSFE (Forestry Sector
Environment Program), aimed at the long-term reinforcement o f the capacity o f national institutions and
other players inthe sector, by calling for contributions from all partners of Gabon. This Letter and its Agenda
o f Priorities indicate simple and inexpensive steps that the Government will henceforth take that are
necessary for the success o f these investments. Institutional reinforcement actions that require significant
investments - for example in the area o f training - have not been specified inthis Policy Letter. They will be
described indetail inthe components of the PSFEprogram.

This framework letter deals with the following:
    Access to natural resources and conditions for the economic development o f environmental resources
    includingthe lasting development ofproduction spaces;
    Methods and procedures for assigning forest permits and fishing rights and methods for developing
    environmental resources;
    Aspects connected linked to the tax system for attracting investors, creating added value andjobs;
    Legal provisions applicable to the protection o f the environment and the management o f natural renewal
    resources;
    The establishment o f a fi-amework that fosters investment and industrialization in the timber and fishing
    supplychains;
    Conditions for distributing revenue from the exploitation o f natural resources and biodiversity between
    the State, local operators andpopulations;
    Methods for reinforcing administrative capacities (and other entities involved) are significant, but
    detailed inthe PSFEprogram document;
    The involvement o f Gabonese nationals andthe promotiono f Gabonese entrepreneurs;



                                    MEFEPEPN,Sector-wide Policy Letter, 2004                                 2

   Delineating the economic development of protected areas for purposes of conserving biodiversity and
   developing ecotourism.

These various developments have been combined into four sections that refer to the objectives and strategies
inthe sectors offorest, fishingandaquaculture, biodiversity andthe environment.




                                  MEFEPEPN, Sector-wide Policy Letter, 2004                               3


 I.FOREST/TIMBERSUPPLYSECTOR

 Inthe forestry sector, thereformagenda is focusing on:

 0    providing a significant contribution to the national economy in order to more effectively fight against
      poverty. This contribution that represented 4.2% o f the GDP - not including oil activities o f the primary
      sector in2002 - should reach 10%within 10 years;
 0    a more intense highadded-value transformation o f timber products at the national and local levels;

 0    a contribution to the development o f animal resources and protected areas;

 0    a higherlevel o f involvement o f Gabonese nationals inactivities o f the sector;

 0    the sustained development o f tax revenue to the State and local community groups all while respecting
      the level o f ecologically sustainable production ("forestry possibility");

 0    the direct management o f the forests o f the rural areas by and on behalf o f communities and the local
      residents.

 The government hopes that the application of all these policies will triple the GDP o f the sector. Moreover,
 the forestry sector i s the third most important employer o f the modem private sector. In 2003, all o f the
 forest-related and timber transformation companies employed 9,240 people, or 16% o f the total jobs,
 estimated at 57,266 people2. An increase in the sector's activities should translate into a significant job
 increase.

I.PUBLICINFORMATION, TMNSPARENCY

Forest-related resources are a public source of wealth o f the Gabonese people. The public-at-large should
have direct access to information on permits. This increased transparency i s part of the modernization o f the
 sector and will facilitate improvement o f its economic and environmental performance. The Government will
periodically publishthe list and the map of the forestry permits (CFAD, PFA, PGG, etc.) on its Internet site
and/or inthe national press.

Moreover, the government will permanently promote public surveys and the involvement o f the civil society
in the definition of tools for managing the forests (in particular, through workshops in the provinces, and
local consultation on the zoning plan, etc.) as well as the implementation o f the tools (transparency and public
debate inthe distribution o f forest contracts and onsite inspections and the tracking of disputes, etc.).

II.ESTABLISHINGA CONSISTENCYOFTHENATIONALZONINGPLANOFFORESTS

To date, the forest areas in Gabon have not been sorted into permanent domain, rural domain and areas for
preservation. This, however, i s the indispensable basis for clarifying and securing the rights o f the various
entities concerned. The current zoning plan currently will be updated and supplemented by means o f a
participatory process, based on ecological and social/economic analyses and local opinion surveys. Forestry
permits (CFAD, PFA, PGG or other) will no longer be granted without a prior survey o f local populations
and verification of their consistency with the zoning plan.

The procedure for establishing a plan of allocating land will be validated following a national workshop that
includes all of the stakeholders. This plan i s likely to be revised ifnecessary.

The priority in beginning this procedure will consist of updating the plan for allocating the land inthe first
zone (1998) and the completion o f forestry stratification throughout the country.



2 Office o f Economics: 2003 report o fthe economy

                                        MEFEPEPN,Sector-wide Policy Letter, 2004                               4

III.ASSIGNMENT OFFORESTPERMITS

Within the context o f economic diversification, the granting o f future forest permits will be a chance for
revealing the true economic worth o f the forests and to improve the transparency in the sector. Articles 111
and 113 o f the Forestry Code provide that the CFADs and the PFAs located within the reforestation
perimeters, sensitive productive forests or those bordering the rural domain are assigned on an award basis.

Forests still in the public domain are sensitive, both from the ecological and economic standpoints. The
Government will test the award process system through pilot tests. Preparatory studies will be conducted to
develop technical and financial criteria, procedures, zones and the surfaces concerned, examining the
consequences o f the exploitation practices, etc., before the end o f 2005. The assignments o f new permits will
be temporarily suspended inthe DFPE untilthe award process has been tested and a comparative analysis o f
the award process vs. the mutual agreement permit has been conducted inthe interest o f the Gabonese people
withregardto the objectives ofthe economic diversification and sustainable management.

Moreover, the government could institute an award process reserved for Gabonese nationals for a percentage
[still] to be defined. Forests would be placed in the award process or to criteria would be introduced
preferably inproportionto the participation of national interests inbiddingcompanies.

Intheruraldomain, PGGswillbe assignedbyanawardprocess at theprovincelevel, within the framework
o f an annual plan, indicating the number o f PGGs and their location by province, by year and by province
[sic] without exceeding the quotas o f the years [sic].

I K MANAGING THEPERMANENT FORESTRYDOMAIN OF THESTATE

Inorder to place all timber forests ofthe permanent domain under a lasting managementprogram, work will
focus on the following components:
Continuation o f the management process agreed within the framework o f the CFADs and its extension to
approximately 7 millions o f hectares. Integration in the lasting process o f small and medium-sized forestry
operations (PMEF) over approximately 3 millionhectares heldby Gabonese nationals.

To do this, particular emphasis will be placedon:
     the reorganization of the services o f the Office o f Waterways and Forests (DGEF) that will be carried out
    by consideringthe opinion of all entities involved.
    the finalization o f the regulatory ii-amework: prior to adoption, the orders and decrees for implementing
    the Forestry Code will bebefore the object o f apublic survey extendedto all entities involved.
    forestry control: that will be followed by deterrent sanctions, in particular the withdrawal o f permits in
    case o f illegal operation; and supplemented by new measures o f transparency, in particular the regular
    publication o f violations discovered and the recording o f disputes;
    an increase inhuman and logistic capacities inthe forestry administration, defined within the fi-amework
    o f the PSFE investment program.
    the establishment o f a secure management system o f forestry information, with the participation o f all
    those involved. Annual reports and financial statements o f the SIGEF will be easily accessible by the
    civil society and the private sector.
    the withdrawal of permits and the return to the Domains of surface areas involved in situations where
    management documents were not submittedina timely manner and where fees were not duly paid.
    Lastly, information campaigns will be conducted on behalf o f operators to notify them o f the regulatory
    provisions contained inthe Forestry Code and the Finance Law, and the existing credit mechanisms.


                                     MEFEPEPN, Sector-wide Policy Letter, 2004                                5

 Moreover, within the framework o f its social policy, the Government intends to promote and extend the
 experiments currently being conducted aimed at bolstering development actions initiated by local
 communities with financial contributions o f holders from forestry concession holders in accordance with
Article 251 o f the Forestry Code. From now until the end o f 2005, the "contract specifications" mechanism
 (negotiations, beneficiaries, assignments and public information) provided by Article 251 o f the Forestry
 Code will have been tested and adopted. To engage the integration o f small and medium-sized forest forestry
 operations (PMEFs) in this process, it has been proposed to focus on awareness-raising operations and
technical and logistic support:
 .
 .   The inclusion o f small-scale permit holders will be supported by the forestry administration that will
     specifically facilitate the conclusion o f voluntary transfer operations;
     The administration will provide technical support to PMEFs and will focus on researching appropriate
     methods o f financing and streamlining inventories costs specifically by acquiring aerial photographs from
     satellite images;
The obligation o f complying with all regulations governing this process shall moreover be constantly
monitoredby means o f information and awareness raising campaigns regarding the current regulations, their
application and the sanctions imposed with regard to violators. In particular, the tax differences between
planned and unplanned concessions i s solely a temporary management incentive, in effect solely for the
transition periodo f the new code. At the end o f this transition period, all forests o f the permanent domain will
be managed or withdrawn.

To ensure the complete success o f the lasting forestry management policy, all permit holders shall comply
with the legal and regulatory provisions in effect. To do this, permits will be withdrawn and the surfaces
concernedreturned to the domains, if development and industrialization plans are not submitted according to
the surfaces heldor the tax commitments are not upheld.

It is crucial that PISand ZACF lots for which a CPAET has not been submitted are made to comply with
regulations. The regularization process could come about by drafting an amendment to each decree including
a clause providing a six-month extension.

It should be pointed out that the PTEs have four years starting from December 31, 2001 untilDecember 31,
                                                            -
2005 to associate themselves to an existingCFAD or to regroup themselves and form a new CFAD.
      -

V. INVENTORIES AND REFORESTATION
In accordance with the general policies of Gabon with regard to the halting of productive and commercial
functions, the State will focus on government functions o f regulation, monitoring and control. The policy
should indicate that the Government intends to set up a framework structure that fosters interventions o f
private operators or communities with the participation or under the control o f the administration. These
principles apply to all the topics covered by this Policy Letter. The State defines the framework in which the
private sector and the local communities intervene to carry out the resourced inventory operations and the
reforestation.

0   The administration will adapt the "directives o f the ITTO for the restoration, management and
    rehabilitation o f deteriorated and secondary tropical forests" to conditions o f Gabon in accordance with
    the Principles, Criteria and Indicators (PCI) o f lasting management o f the timber forests;

0   the establishment of a structure that motivates private operators and local communities to make a
    commitment to the restoration, management and rehabilitation o f deteriorated and secondary tropical
    forests and the partnership with the countries o f the sub-region engaged inthe process;

0   the involvement o f all stakeholders for the efficiency and lasting effect o f actions that will be taken.




                                      MEFEPEPN, Sector-wide Policy Letter, 2004                                 6

 VL THERURAL FORESTRY DOMAIN

 The Rural Forestry Domain (DFR) covers approximately eight million hectares intended for various uses:
 protected community areas, sacred forests, hunting, gathering, agriculture, livestock-raising, mining
 activities, etc.

 To date, there are no significant stable management operations o f forest resources inthe rural domain. Inthis
 context, the administration o f the Waterways and Forests intends to organize the management o f these
 resources by assigning PGGs and setting up community forests onbehalfo f localpopulations.

 MutualAgreement Permits(PGG)

 PGGs will replace Family CuttingAreas in2006. They are exclusively reservedfor local populations inview
 o f improving their quality of life inthe fight against poverty. These permits are geographically delineated and
 awarded at the province level. Each year, the administration publishes the maximum number o f PGGs to be
 assigned by province, without going over 100 per province (or any other mechanism that guarantees that
 PGGswill not be usedto get aroundthe moratorium onPFAs and CFADs)

 Moreover, the forest administration will take provisions to better farming conditions, to guarantee the rights
 and interests o f the river communities and promote initiatives o f local communities. It will publish a draft
 contract on farming guaranteeing a fair and equitable negotiation betweenthe permit holder and the industrial
 operator. The list o f PGGsassigned, locations, holders and ifapplicable, farmers will be published along with
 any violation o f environmental and tax obligations and any sanctions taken.

 Community Forests

 The creation o f community forests i s a result o f the government's desire to meet the needs o f local
 communities in view o f promoting a harmonious and lasting development that could generate substantial
revenue inthe fight against poverty.

The government:

0     will conduct a pilot test o f the community forest models3 so as to define procedures for granting and
      managing them, the tax scheme and the methods andprocedures o f exploitingthese forests

0     will prepare typical models with a simple management plan; and will prepare and mass distribute the
      simple management plans.

 VII.FISCAL REFORMS

The 2004 Finance Law introduced the following innovations:

The methodical application o f the Finance law will be used as a tool for restructuring the sector. The strict
application o f the same rules for all operations i s essential for restoring trust and malung safe the investment
climate. Some essential provisions o f this law are:

0     absence of any tax exemption withrespect to the specific taxation system

0    joint and several payment by the permit holder and the farmer

0     annualbond

0    declaration o f any permit and all activity by the due date



3Feasibilitystudy of communityforests inGabon.PFE2000.

                                      MEFEPEPN, Sector-wide Policy Letter, 2004                                 7

 The government will set up the tripartite (taxes, forest, customs) commission that i s responsible for
 supervising the implementation o f these reforms. It will set up an information exchange mechanism in real
 time between DGI and DGEF. The methods o f collaboration among these three administrations will be
 defined by inter-departmental regulations.

 Each year, the government will publish year the results from the implementation o f the new fiscal system:
 collection by title, by company andby fee, and sanctions incase o f violations.

 The anticipated levels inthis Finance Law will be the same for all tax payers, inquarterly payments, Those
 permits for which the surface fee i s unpaid for the current year will be automatically terminated on January
 1St..

 The government will not make any change inthe tax system in2004 and 2005 the stability of the tax system
 inthe medium-term [sic]. The governmentwill monitor their application, includingthe return to the Domains
 o f the permits whose holders have not met their tax obligations.

 A summary o fthe new tax system will bepreparedat the end of 2005, and may result with adjustments inthe
 current system.

Moreover, the government acknowledges that the differences made inthe setting o f surface and slaughter fees
 are temporary and that the export fee will gradually be reduced as yields on the surface and slaughter fees
improve. Lastly, the government acknowledges that the difference in the taxation system according to the
 level o f timber transformation will be revised over time to prevent subsidies implicit in certain timber
operator categories.

 VIII INDUSTRIALIZATIOA?
       -

With regard to the industrialization of the timber-based industries, the Government's policy aims first and
foremost at economically developing the resource by a more intense added-value local transformation inview
o f increasing the contribution o f the sector to the GDP.

To accompany the industrialization o f the timber-based industries, the Government has already set up certain
steps that include: the establishment o f supplies o f transformation units by granting long-term large-surface
permits; the establishment of transfonnation quotas for each industrial-type permit; establishing a tax-exempt
status for transforming and exporting products; the establishment o f structures to facilitate the establishment
o f industry(APIP, Investment Charter).

However, the development o f the local timber transformation sector i s faced with major and well-known
restrictions, including: the highcost o f production (transport, shipping, import fees on intermediate materials,
energy, services, etc.); the lack o f qualified labor; the lack o f local industrial infrastructure; the lack o f a local
market; the under-use and ignorance of physicallmechanicalproperties o f so-called secondary species.

According, the government i s going to:
      Requirecompliancewith the rateof transformationset downinthe contract.

In spite of the various laws and clauses in the contract specifications, the transformation rates of local
installed unitshave never exceeded 30%.

The industrial permits (PIS)with contract clauses providing for the construction of a factory and that have not
met this commitment will be canceled, reverted to the public domain and re-assigned inthe form o f CFAD
after participatory zoning. The PISwill be reviewed and all decisions published by the end o f 2004.


                                       MEFEPEPN, Sector-wide Policy Letter, 2004                                       8

 .    Restructurethe SNBG

The industrialization desired by the Government involves a reduction inexports o f unbarked logs particularly
 from OkoumC and Ozigo, whose SNBG currently has the monopoly. The consumption o f better quality
unbarked logs by the local industryreinforces this tendency.

With regard to this evolution, it is necessary to restructure the SNBG, in order to redefine the role and the
 organization o f this company. The Government will definitively decide by the end o f 2004 on the
repositioning o f the SNBG in the timber supply chain, after examining the advantages and disadvantages of
the various options. Inthe meantime, any decisionto extend activities of the SNBGi s suspended.
 .    Reinforcesmall and mediumtransformations.

A surveyo fthe second- andthird-level transformationunits conductedinLibrevilleandPort-Gentil has made
it possible to single out approximately three hundred small and medium transformation units that are
generally poorly organized. The Government has committed itself to maintaining a motivating staff and to
ensure that the infrastructures are adequate and the professional training strengthened.


1     Set up an industrializationcommitteeand an observatoryof timber supply chain

The committee for the industrialization o f the timber supply chain, responsible for monitoring the
competitiveness o f the timber industry, will propose - in accordance with the analyses conducted by the
Economic Observatory o f the Timber Supply Chain that will be set up the necessary adjustments to the
                                                                               -
current provisions.


      Promotethe imageoftimber.

To promote the image o f timber, the Administration will take the lead by promoting the use o f timber in
public contracts; it will also encourage its use through marketing campaigns.

For their part, industrialistswill make efforts at improvingthe quality o f the products made and economically
developing wood species with which the public i s unfamiliar.

IX.      INVOLVE MORE GABONESENATIONALSAND PROMOTE GABONESE
         ENTREPRENEURS

The involvement o f Gabonese and the promotion o f Gabonese entrepreneurs in activities o f the sector has
remained one o f the major priorities o f the Government with regard to the forestry policy, along with the
creation o f local jobs, the securing and redistribution o f revenue on behalf o f the government and local
entities, and the direct management o f resources by rural communities.

These priorities are based in the need to preserve social peace. However, the current situation to a certain
extent does not lenditselfto achieving this objective.

It is infact characterized by:

0    The extreme difficulty o f access to bank financing and credit providers;

0    An insufficient technical andmanagerial training;

0    Infrastructures poorly adapted or that are even non-existent.


                                     MEFEPEPN, Sector-widePolicy Letter, 2004                               9

To significantly improve this situation, the policy o f the Government will be generally focused on:
   the development of technical andmanagerial skills through the School ofTimber Professionscurrently in
   development;
   The redesign of ENEF training programs, in view of introducing forest economy into the business and
   reinforcing forestry economy education;
   The reform o f the banking and financial system allowing making it possible to allocate the best possible
   resources to PMEs/PMIs;
   The setup of abondcompany makingitpossible to provide security to banks and equipment vendors;
and specifically focused on:
   the maintenance o f the priority status of the types of permits granted to Gabonese in accordance with the
   regulatory provisions;
   limitingcontrol by foreign interests for an amount to be determined o fthe surface o ftimber forests ofthe
   DFPE;
   the facilitation of groups ofPFAsheldby Gabonesenationals for the constitution o f CFADs;
   technical support inconducting inventories and preparingmanagementplans;
   the facilitation ofpartnerships among future Gaboneseforestry and industryoperations.




                                    MEFEPEPN, Sector-wide Policy Letter, 2004                             10


11.       ECONOMIC TRANSFORMATION OF THE BIODIVERSITY/PROTECTED AREAS

ILl       INPROTECTED AREASAND BUFFER ZONES

The conservation o f biodiversity has always been a focus o f the Government. During a historic speech, the
Head of State decided to create a network o f thirteen national parks, representing a total surface area of
approximately 3 million hectares, or 11% o f the national territory. The objective i s to classify 4 million
hectares (15% o f the territory) into protected areas inthe permanent forest domain.

.
Henceforth, the government will:

     Work out issues regarding the overlapping o f new and old concessions, according to a compensation
    mechanism that is: transparent and uniform (the same system or the same options applied to all operators.
    The list o fdispute settlements willbepublished at the endo f2004.
1    Clarify the institutional framework for the management o f protected areas, including national parks and
.   their buffer zones. Assign responsibilities by distinguishing execution, and coordinatiodsupervision
    functions onsite. This will be done by the end o f 2004.
     Adopthpdate laws concerning the management o f protected areas. By the end o f 2005.

Identify the new protected areas to reach the 15% objective o f the territory in protected areas in the DFP.
Withinthe fiamework ofthe participatory zoning.

Animal life has always constituted the main source o f animal protein for Gabonese people. Its exploitation i s
regulatedby the Forestry Code and the associated laws.

Animal resources are managed on a long-term basis in and out o f protected areas. Inside Gabon, this
management i s within the context o f [forest] management plans. To ensure the preservation o f animal life
outside o fprotectedareas, the government i s going to:

0    fight against poaching and apply deterrent sanctions;

0   prepare agreement protocols with concession holders; and monitor the implementation o f these protocols
    as an integral part o f the forestry management plan for which the concessionaires are responsible. The
    protection o f wildlife in production areas will be an end and not only a means within the forestry
    management plans, supervised with the help of independent observers and sanctioned by the withdrawal
    o f the concession incase o f serious nonperformance.

0   Conduct information, awareness-raising, education and outreach campaigns associated with the
    regulatory provisions (compliance with huntingperiods, killquotas, traditional use rights, etc.).


0   To assure the conservation o f biodiversity within the protected areas, the government will:
    ReformulateMakespecific

Withinthe framework ofthe PSFE, the administration will:

0   continue and reinforce the partnerships underway with NGOs and the Civil Society;

0   reinforce institutional abilities and consolidate acquired knowledge;
    consider local concerns and make sure the local communities reap the windfalls from the economic
    benefits o f the protected areas.

1.3.4- Develop the ecotourism.



                                      MEFEPEPN, Sector-wide PolicyLetter, 2004                            11

Ecotourism i s an important source of foreign currency and jobs. From this standpoint, the administration i s
currently taking steps aimed at offering tourist products representative o f Gabon's biodiversity.

To aid in the development o f this industry, the Government will pursue the establishment o f an attractive
policy on behalf o f economic operators who desire to invest inthe tourism sector.

To this end, the administrations inquestion shall work together to achieve this objective.

11.2. STRATEGYFOR THEMANAGEMENT OFNATIONAL PARKSIN GABON

11.2.1.     Context: The creation of national parks in the strategy of diversification of the national
            economy
        The protection o f the environment in Gabon has always been based on a network o f protected
areas, the objective o f which was essentially conserving and protecting nature. On August 30, 2003,
the President of the Republic, the Chief o f State, created 13 national parks, thus integrating the
biological diversity in a process o f growth and economic development o f Gabon.
        Since then, the newly created network o f national parks has become a major topic o f
diversification of the national economy since it involves creating wealth by the economic
transformation o f natural resources.
        The National Council of National Parks has been made responsible for implementing this vast
project. This mission includes the supervision o f the process o f creation, geographical delineation, and
management of national parks, including the tourist- and scientific-type activities that can be deployed
in them. Moreover, the National Council of National Parks is consulted by the government and gives
i t s opinion on matters related to national parks.
        To implement this historic decision o f the President o f the Republic, it i s necessary to resolve a
certain number o f problems related:
          1, to the actual establishment of the structurefor managing the network of parks. Considering
         the complexity o f the network, that has unique geomorphological and biological
         characteristics, it i s necessary to prepare a legal and organizational framework that places
         priority on decentralization and establishes the autonomy o f each park, at the same time
         guaranteeing the same standards (communication, safety, training) to the entire network;
         2. to the knowledge of the biological and cultural potential. This in fact i s a challenge to be
         able to perpetuate, in conditions that are as natural as possible, examples that represent the
         physiographical regions, the biological communities, the genetic resources and species all
         while guaranteeing stability and an ecological diversity;
         3. to the protection of the biodiversity and the surveillance of the parks. The objective i s also
         to eliminate and subsequently, to prevent any form o f exploitation or occupation that i s
         incompatible with the conservation objectives; it i s necessary to guarantee adherence to
         ecological, geomorphological, sacred or aesthetic elements justifying this law;
         4. to the definition of activities and products that make it possible to economically transform
         the natural resources in the national parks. These parks contain natural regions and scenery
         that i s significant for Gabon and the world, that can be developed for scientific, educational,
         spiritual, recreational or tourist purposes. They can accordingly contribute to the local
         economy, by the management o f the area, the development o f activities, the creation o f jobs,
         the promotion o f a brandthat will foster a tourism sector that respects the environment;
         5. to the involvement of local populations and their participation in the benefits from the
         development of the parks. It i s necessary to take into account the habits and needs o f local       ,
         populations in order to better engage them in the economic development o f the park.

                                    MEFEPEPN, Sector-wide Policy Letter, 2004                             12

11.2.2.    Featuresof the networkof parks
       The network o f national parks in Gabon o f contains ecosystems that represent the entire territory,
since the parks are located throughout the country. Four national parks straddle national borders (Hills
o f Cristal, MinkCbC; BatCkC and Mayumba plateaus) and three border the ocean (Mayumba, Pongara
and Akanda). The rate o f endemics i s exceptionally high and each park contains a specific feature that
makes it a unique place.
       There i s not, however, a local consciousness o f the need to conserve resources at the edge o f the
national parks, even though certain cultural traits (traditional forests, culinary prohibitions, etc.)
induce the conservation o f natural resources..

11.2.3.    constrains and opportunitiesto be addressed
       A certain number o f constrains that might hinder the implementation o f this project should be
raised, notably the institutional, economic and social constraints. Some major issues in particular will
be considered:

           0   The legal and managerial administration framework o f the network (institutional
               structures, responsibilities and capacities, involvement o f the beneficiaries, role o f the
               private sector);

           0   The forestry and mining operating concessions inthe parks;

           0   Property conflicts with local communities;

           0   The viability o f the network in:
                       strategic terms: strategic framework o f network development;
                       economic and financial terms: business plan describing the financing plan o f the
                       network, its impact on the macro-economic policy o f the country, on the sector-
                       wide budgets for operation and maintenance and on the revenue o f the sectors;
                       technical terms: use o f appropriate technologies for the implementation and
                       management o f the network, adequate communication among the various
                       partners.

11.2.4.   Intervention:The main componentsof investmentfor the management of the nationalparks
          inthe period2005-2009
      The main components identified for the establishment building o f the network o f national parks
are:

          0   The administration and the establishment o f a management system o f the network

          0   protection and surveillance

          0   research, management o f biodiversity and the tracking o f conservation activities

          0   Tourism

          0   Communication and support for community development


Component 1:Administrationand setup of systemsfor managingthe networkof nationalparks
      The initial investment will be for the establishment o f the basic tools for setting up and
administering the network, at the centralized and decentralized levels. The investment sectors for this
component have been identified at the centralized and decentralized levels:
     Centralizedinstitutionalsupport for this component:

                                    MEFEPEPN, Sector-wide Policy Letter, 2004                           13

     a/ The creation o f an autonomous management entity o f the national parks (Office o f National
Parks o f Gabon): legal and operational aspects
     b/ the establishment o f general strategic tools:

          0  Reinforcement of the legal framework - legislative pyramid (law on national parks, legal
             status o f the personnel, etc.)

          0  Management plan o f the network (development o f a 10-year vision for the development
             o f national parks and ecotourism),

          0  Sustainable plan o f the network: resources, needs, stable financing mechanisms
             (including profit-sharing mechanisms) and marketing strategy
     c/ The inter-institutional coordination
     d/ The monitoring o f legal and institutional matters
     e/ The creation o f partnerships with the private sector, traditional fund providers, conservation
NGOs and foundations (including participation in international manifestations)
     f/ the technical coordination of activities of conservation, protection, surveillance, research and
monitoring, for example:

          0  Harmonization o f standards for the management plans o f the parks

          0  Coordination o f a centralized database

          0  Identification and creation o f new national parks
     gl The conception and implementation o f an internal and external communication strategy
(Website, support to local media, etc.)
     h/The tracking o f issues ofboundary marking and delineation o f the parks (buffer zones)
     I/Thedefinitionofanoperatingframeworkofthesurveillanceandprotectionactivities
     j/ The establishment of conditions that foster the development of research:

             Legislative framework

             Preparation o f protocols

          0  Specifications


     k/ The establishment of conditions that foster the development o f tourism:

          0  Legislative framework (including architectural standards, etc.)

          0  Enactment laws regulations o f Law 4/2000 on tourism investments

          0  Reinforcement o f tourism agencies (Gabon-tour)

          0  Support to private national tourism operators

          0  Specifications

          0  promotion o f a welcoming culture
     1/ The conception and implementation o f a training and career plan (inch ing visit and exc iange
programs)
     Decentralizedinstitutionalsupport for this component:

          0  Operation o f the administration o f each park

                                  MEFEPEPN,Sector-wide Policy Letter, 2004                           14

       0   Operational planning o f each park's activities

       0   Development o f the working and management plan, including a tourism development
           plan, and the businessplan (including fund mobilization) o f each park

       0   Establishment o f infrastructures o f each park's basic infrastructures

       0   Establishment o f partnerships with economic operators

       0   Involvement o f stakeholders in the peripheral areas in view o f an effective participatory
           management o f each park

       0   Tracking o f legal procedures related to violations


Component 2: Protection and surveillance
    The investment sectors identified for this component are:

       0   Development o f a surveillance plan

       0   Implementation o f surveillance (recruitment, training, equipment, connection with the
           informants, etc.)

       0   Establishment o f systems for controlling compliance with the regulations

       0   Execution and follow-up o f partnership agreements (specifications) with economic
           operators

       0   Execution and follow-up o f the involvement o f stakeholders in the peripheral zone o f the
           park

      0    Boundary marking and delineation

      0    Cross-border actions

      0    Awareness raising on the aspects o f surveillance and protection


Component 3: Research, management of biodiversity and tracking of conservation activities
   The investment sectors identified for this component are:

          Identification o f the ecological and social/economic research needs and indicators

          Inventories and acknowledgements (biological, social/economic) o f the park and its
          periphery

          Ecological tracking plan and social/economic tracking plan (establishing base tracking
          systems)
          Gathering ecological, social/economic data (including recruitment, training, etc.)

          Establishment o f physical (list o f media) and geo-referenced databases

          Processing and analysis o f data

          Application of study results (e.g., identification o f the threats to the biodiversity, sites
          with highhistoric, aesthetic and biological value)            .


          Tracking and evaluation o f protection and surveillance activities

          Implementation o f environment impact studies



                                MEFEPEPN,Sector-wide Policy Letter, 2004                            15

Component4: Tourism
     To launch the ecotourism sector, a minimum o f investment will be necessary at the beginning but
benefits could very quickly offset the initial commitments. Moreover, the emergency o f an ecotourism
sector would make it possible to cancel out the economic downturn o f the rural world caused by the
absence o f economic activities and the rural exodus.
     The investment sectors identified for this component are:

         0   Localization and survey o f exploitable potentials at the tourist level

         0   Implementation o f eco-guide services (recruitment, continuing education, etc.)

         0   Establishment o f basic infrastructure (camp sites, tracks, trails, canopy walk, observation
             towers, observatories, exhibits, etc.)

         0   Development and startup o f interpretation infrastructures (Visitor center, Eco-museum,
             signs, etc.)

         0   Promotion o f the network o f National Parks and development o f partnerships

         0   Tracking compliance with ecotourism development standards

         0   Implementation o f Engineering, Health and Safety services

         0   Tracking o f tourists' experience

         0   Economic development o f the culture and local craftsmanship

         0   Update o f a website


Component5: Communicationand support for community development
     The investment sectors identified for this component are:

             Definition o f a base line and periodical evaluation o f the attitude o f players with respect
             to conservation

             Promotion o f attitudes in favor o f conservation through communication with all players

             Development and dissemination o f communication supports (guides, fliers, brochures)

             Involvement o f minorities and management o f fragile cultures (Pygmies, etc.)

             Reinforcement o f the capacities o f the civil society to support conservation activities

             Promotion o f viable community initiatives offering social/economic incentives for the
             conservation o f biodiversity

             Promotion o f madanimal conflict reduction measures




                                  MEFEPEPN, Sector-wide Policy Letter, 2004                             16

  111.    OBJECTIVESAND STRATEGIESINTHE FISHINGAND AQUACULTURESECTOR.

  The Government's policy in the fishing and aquaculture sector is to contribute to food safety and the
  diversification o f the economy.

  Three specific objectives have been distinguished:

  0   Maximizingproduction andmaking it available to the market inview o f food safety;

  0   Maximizing locally-created added value;

  0   Improvingthe trade balance o f the sector.


 III.1. MAXIMIZINGPRODUCTIONAND MAKINGITAWLABLE TO THEMARKET.

      Large-scale offshore fishing.

 Large-scale offshore fishing concerns large fishingvessels withinthe framework o f agreements with:

 0    The EuropeanUnion, basedon areference tonnage of 10,500 tons for a fleet o f 64 ships;

 0    Japan, with a fleet o f 30 longliners with no reference tonnage specifications.

 The benefit from these agreements is:

 0   With the EU, a financial consideration o f 1,262,500 euros or 828 millionF CFA, o f which 883,750 euros
      (580 million F CFA) for targeted activities and a fixed compensation o f 378,750 euros (248 million
     FCFA) to which avariable portionis addedlinkedto the payment oflicenses;

 0   With Japan, a developmentprogram o fthe fishingsector (more than 8 billion FCFA donation gift over 4
     years) and a variable portion according to the number o f licenses.

     The ratio betweenthe revenue o fthe State and the estimated landing value (800 FCFA per kg) is almost
 16%, with the EuropeanUnion when the reference tonnage (10,500 tons) i s reached and with Japan after the
 declared tonnage. This ratio i s interesting, though it i s difficult to check the actual tonnage andthough there i s
no direct systematic declaration on the part o f the ship owners. The tonnages declared under the agreements
occasionally appear low. This i s why a study related to these arrangements, by independent institutions such
as the FAO, the C W C E D or the UNIDO, would make it possible to improve catch statements that are the
basis for setting the fees.


o Coastallarge-scale fishing

In2002, the production of coastal large-scale fishingreached 11,000 tons corresponding to a value of 20.5
billion F CFA. This fishing was done by a local fleet o f 87 ships under license made up o f 36 trawlers, 42
shrimpvessels, 8 tuna vessels and 1creelfishing boat.
Production from coastal large-scale fishing i s not sufficiently diversified due to the fact the production plant
i s obsolete.

Large-scale coastal fishing i s largely dominated by foreigners, mostly Koreans, Chinese and Europeans, due
to the low involvement o f Gabonese nationals and the lack o f qualified labor.

The fishing fleet is not developedunder the Gabonese flag, due to the following:

0    the common exteriorrate ofthe CEMAC for fishinggear and ships;

0    very highcosts of services and consumables;


                                       MEFEPEPN, Sector-wide Policy Letter, 2004                                 17

 0    economic advantage grantedto the Gabonese flag deemed insufficient to offset the tax overcost.

 Currently there i s no official structure that represents ship owners.


 a Small-scalemaritimefishing.

 Small-scale maritime fishing provided 20,500 tons o f product in2002, representing an estimated worth o f 19
 billion F CFA. With 1,500 log canoes, o f which 75% are motorized and 5,000 fishermen, this subsector i s a
 large generator o fjobs. The owners o f the fishing gear are for the most part Gabonese.

 The commercial value o f the small-scale maritime fishing products i s relative low, considering the large
 number o f small vessels in the catches. Production i s not sufficiently diversified and fishing i s generally
 relegated to estuaries and lagoons. This situation i s explained by the fact that log canoes are neither
 sufficiently autonomous, nor suitedfor fishing over long distances.

 Small-scale fishing inthe sea and inthe estuaries i s very largely dominated by foreigners. Inspite o f attempts
 at organization, the activity i s informal though well structuredat the ethnic level.


      Small-scalecontinentalfishing.

Production from small-scale continental fishing was 9,400 tons in 2002, which corresponds to an estimated
value o f 8.5 billionF. CFA. It i s practiced by 3,500 fishermen almost all o f whom are Gabonese, who use a
fleet o f 1,800 log canoes, a small part o f which i s motorized.

With regardto the catchpotential, this situation is translates into arelative under-exploitation, mainly due:


0    to the under exploitation o f certain zones other than those o f traditional commercial fishing;

0    the use ofrudimentary fishinggear that isnot highperforming;
0    to the production that i s not very diversified and practically limited to Tilapia sp. and to Heterotis
     niloticus;

0    to the lack o f outlets linkedto a weak logistics;

0    to problems in exploiting the resource during high-water periods; most o f the fishermen are then busy
     with field work andthe forestry activities.

     Aquaculture

The aquaculture sector is essentially limitedto the farming o f tilapia, generally on a small scale. Productioni s
low (estimated at 100tons in2002) inspite o f the significant investments made ina few semi-industrial units.
There is currently no marine aquaculture supply chain.

A study aimed at preparing a five-year plan is in its preliminary phase; it should contribute to identify key
factors for developing this sub-sector.

Inview ofliftingall oftherestrictionshinderingtheperformanceofthe sector, to maximize production and
ensure their availability on the market, the following strategies should be developed:

0    Let the overexploited zones rest and redeploy fishing on resources and zones still underexploited;

0    Improve national production to access underexploited resources, notably due to a better adapted sector-
    wide taxation system;

0   Create conditions that promote landings o f foreign fleets;


                                        MEFEPEPN, Sector-wide Policy Letter, 2004                             18

 e    Create technical technological conditions that promote the transformation o f products and the reduction
      o f post-catch losses inall o f the supply chains;

 0    Promote a lasting aquaculture;

 0    Supplement and reinforce the system o f tracking, control and surveillance.

111.1.1. Let the overexploited zones rest and redeploy fishing on resources and zones still
            underexploited;

Traditionally exploited fishing areas are located to the north of Cap Lopez and near consumption centers.
These areas are currently impoverished. Measures aimed at conserving certain species (shrimp and Spanish
 sardines) have already been applied inview o f restocking these areas. They will be gradually extended to all
o f the overexploited zones.

Increased knowledge on the fishery potential i s necessary, particularly about stock still un-exploited and
resources with a highmarket value (lobster, cephalopods, grouper, etc.). It will make it possible to redeploy
 fishing activities on other zones and to extendthe conservatorymeasuresto other species.

111.1.2.    Improve national production to access underexploited resources, notably due to a better
            adapted sector-widetaxation system;

Currently, a number o f species are not being exploited. The catches in the distant and deep zones, rich in
species with highcommercial value have proven to be difficult due to the ill-adapted exploitation techniques.

Improvement needs to be made with regard to production autonomy and equipment to allow access to
faraway and deep resources.

Investments in large-scale and small-scale fishing are insufficient. The current national production plan i s
obsolete and a restrictive tax environment has hindered the possibility o frenewing or maintaining it.

A taxation systembetter adaptedto fishing (tax on input,port fees, customs duties, VAT, etc.) wouldpromote
the development o f a national production and the relaunch o f investment in large-scale ships, as well as in
higher performinglog canoes and small-scale fishing equipment that are that can target deep-water resources
which are considered to be in abundance. A study o f potential profitability to be conducted within an
exploratory campaign headed by the State and private individuals will make it possible to define the
conditions o f this relaunch.

Crews should accordingly be formed along with the establishment o f appropriate financing mechanisms for
local players of the fishingsector.

111.1.3.    Create conditions that promote landingsof foreign fleets.

The insufficiency o f infrastructures and services providedin Gabonese ports makes landings of foreign large-
scale offshore ships difficult, which results insignificant lost earnings for the country.

Inthis context, the construction ofan offshore fishingporthasbeenplannedinPort Gentilthat wouldmake it
possible to land andre-load fishingproducts.

For the time being, the establishment and the organization o f the services required for the landings in the
ports o f Libreville and Port-Gentil are being planned: policing and health services, the turnaround for getting
visas and the working capacity under customs, etc. are being worked out.



                                        MEFEPEPN, Sector-wide Policy Letter, 2004                            19

111.1.4. Reinforcethe organizationof the small-scalefishing subsector

With regardto the small-scale fishingsubsector, itwould be appropriate to:

 0   pursue the construction program o f the support centers;

 0   encourage the organization o f fishermen into organizations;

 0   create landingpoints o f the catches;
     intensify the training program of young fishermen;
     set up an appropriate financing mechanismto facilitate the entry o f young professionals.

111.1.5. Create technical conditions that promote the transformationof products and the reductionof
           post-catchlosses inall ofthe supply chains.

 Currently, there are private structures inports equipped for the industrial conservation of fishingproducts, but
they do not offer sufficient capacity to allow for the expansion of activities that could help with the
 diversification and industrialization o f fishing supply chains.

It is therefore necessary to,strengthen port capacities for the establishment of production transformation and
conservation structures.

In the domain of small-scale fishing, the reduction of post-catch losses will be fostered by establishing
structures supporting the conservation o f products (ice plant, means o f conservation, refrigerator warehouses,
etc.).

111.1.6. Promote a lastingaquaculture.

In the field of aquaculture, it is important to reinforce the framework structure of rural fish farming, to
promote the diversification o f species raised and initiate a development programo f the marine aquaculture.

These programs will require the training o f promoters and the establishment o f appropriate financing
mechanisms.

111.1.7. Supplement andreinforcethe system oftracking, controland surveillance.

The implementation of the principles of a stable andresponsibleuse o f fishresources as recommended by the
FA0andreinforcement of the regulations inthe fieldhave ledthe Department ofFishingto acquire a modern
surveillance system(system for tracking ships by satellites, SSN) that uses new technologies.

This system must be supplemented by human and material means (radar, patrol boats, etc.) in the three
maritime provinces. It will make it possible to conduct the tracking o f the exploitation of our resources both
coastal and offshore practically on apermanent basis.

It is accordingly appropriate to make this new tool permanent and to improve its efficiency by providing
training inits use, maintenance and supplement it with a program o f surveillance with ship-based observers.

111.2. MAXIMIZE LOCALLY-CREATEDADDED VALUE

To reach this target, the following strategies should be supported:

0   Reinforce or create transformation and trade supply chains;

0   Continue the policy o f quality control and monitoring standards compliance o f products intended for the
    local and foreign market.

                                      MEFEPEPN, Sector-wide PolicyLetter, 2004                                20

111.2.1.    Reinforceor createtransformationandtrade supply chains;

The supply chains are reinforcedbymeans o f

0    diversification o f transformed products, particularly those with highadded value such as shell-fish;

0    motivation o f traditional supply chains o f salted, dried and smoked products and the improvement o f their
     organization;

0    increased involvement o f national investors in the creation o f production units including joint ventures,
    via a revision o f the sector's tax regulations.

111.2.2.    Continue the policy of quality control and monitoring standards compliance of products
            intendedfor the localandforeign market.

It is important to continue the policy o f standards monitoring o f the sector's supply chains. To this end, a
quality control laboratory should be built and equipped for launching a standardization program o f local
supplychains. A network to monitor the quality ofthe water used inthe processeswill also be set up.

111.3. IMPROVE THE TRADEBALANCE OF THESECTOR

An increase in the production on the Gabonese market will make it possible to reduce the country's
dependence on fish products with regard to foreign countries and to make it go from a net importer to that o f
a net exporter.

To improve the trade balance o f the fishing and aquaculture sector, efforts shall be concentratedon:

0   the promotiono f the development and diversification o f products exported from fishingand aquaculture;
a   the negotiation o f fishing agreements on resources that have not been exploited or are underexploited by
    Gabonese fleets.

111.3.1.   Promotedevelopment and diversificationof exports.

Exports o f fishing products, not including those o f smoked fish, were equal in 2002 to 2,900 tons, o f which
2,100 tons o f shrimp for a value on the order o f 10 billion F CFA; the imports were around 7,300 tons for a
value o f 3 billionF CFA.


The marketing of new high-commercial value species, such as deep-water fish, shrimp and lobster, caught in
the furthest zones, will contribute to the diversification of exports. Export markets shall be supplied as
regularly as possible by organizing groups o f small- and large-scale fish products, which will require
simplifiedprocedures and negotiating air transportation costs as a function o f the estimated volumes available
and targeted markets.

Aquaculture may also contribute to the diversification o f exports with the development - in the continental
and marine environment - to the raising o f high-commercial value fish species, such as fresh and salt water
shrimp, oyster, etc. A detailed evaluation of the potential o f the commercial aquaculture shall be conducted
beforehand. A Detailed Engineering plan o f the aquaculture i s being prepared; a master guideline shall be
available should be available in2004.

The increase in exports also concerns the marketing o f small-scale transformed products (salted, dried and
smokedproducts) inthe sub-region. There i s already significant demand inCameroon, Equatorial Guinea and



                                      MEFEPEPN, Sector-wide Policy Letter, 2004                              21

the Congo; it needs to be confirmed inthe RDC and RCA. To this end, a market study should be conducted at
the sub-regional levelto determine this situationindetail.

111.3.2.   Develop fishing agreements on resources that have not been exploited or underexploited by
            Gabonese fleets.

Current inventories show indices o f abundance with regard to high commercial value species such as
cephalopods, shrimp and deepwater crabs.

The sale of fishing rights to foreign ships equipped to work in offshore fishing conditions or even the
development o f joint ventures will allow access to these resources that are under or not exploited by
Gabonese fleets will thus contribute to the increase inproduction and diversification o f products intendedfor
export.

III.4. EVOLUTION OFREGUALTORYAND INSTITUTIONAL ASPECTS.

The legal framework o f the exploitation o f fishery resources is beingrevised. A new fishing and aquaculture
code is beingadopted. A list o f the most important regulations has been finalized. The documents o f this code
will be drafted sometime in2004.

The system o f statistical tracking i s operational and the mapping unit i s operational. On the other hand,
information remains incomplete on the resources and the economic performance o f the supply chains. An
observatory o f fishing will be created for this purpose the objective o f which will be to develop decision-
making assistancetools.

The reinforcement o f human capacities shall be pursued, notably with regard to the training, improvement of
agents and the outreach programo f fishing and fish farming techniques.

The organization of professionals into associations remains to be developed. The capacities also need to be
reinforced. To offset the current lack o f an official structure that represents ship owners, the State will
encourage the adhesion of operators to certified professional organizations by the implementation of
motivational measures.

The development o f a sector-wide regional policy with the States o f the subregion will continue to be focused
on:
    fishery research;
    the exploitation o f common fishery resources including integrating - in a protocol on fishing - a code o f
    conduct for responsible fishing;
    the fight against poaching not declared and not regulated;
    commercial exchanges on fishingproducts.

These concerns will be brought up during the next sub-regional meetings, specifically during the ordinary
sessions o f the Ministerial Conference on the Fishery Cooperation among Coastal African States o f the
Atlantic Ocean (COMHAFAT) and the Regional Committee o f Fishing o f the Gulf o f Guinea (COREP)
planned in2004.

Lastly, the development o f bilateral and international cooperation with regard to fishing will be pursued in
order to eliciting a larger number o f partners to support the implementation o f the development policy of the
sector.




                                     MEFEPEPN, Sector-wide Policy Letter, 2004                              22

In short, the various strategies developed above that may be implemented under the PSFE will make it
possible to support the development o f the fishing sector and the aquaculture and improve its contribution to
the diversification o f the national economy.

This development of the sector will take into account the environmental challenges aimed at the long-term
use of the fishing and sociaVeconomic resources in view o f a significant contribution of the sector in the
formation o f the GDP.

The State's commitment inthe implementation of these strategies shall allow a fair and equitable sharing of
the added value between the State that owns the resource and the operator. The intervention o f cooperatives
in the financing of the various projects should merely support the development with no requirements on
obtaining them.




                                     MEFEPEPN, Sector-wide PolicyLetter, 2004                             23


 IV.      OBJECTIVESAND STRATEGIESINTHE DOMAINOFTHE ENVIRONMENT.

 The overall objective of the policy of the domain of the environment i s to participate in the economic
 diversification by reconciling the development and the sustainability o f natural resources.

 The following specific objectives have beenidentified:

 0    at the global level, to economically develop the contribution o f the Gabonese environmental heritage in
     maintaining the global ecological equilibrium;

 0   At the national level, to increasethe economic transformation ofenvironmental goods and services andto
      contribute to improve the quality o f life.

 I K l . ECONOMICALLYDEVELOP THE CONTRIBUTION OF THE GABONESE
          ENVIRONMENTAL HERITAGE BY MAINTAINING THE GLOBALECOLOGICAL
          EQUILIBRIUM.

 Three aspects are to be considered to reach this goal:

 0   The integration o f Gabon inthe international environment protection dynamics;

 0   The improvement inthe legal framework ofthe environment;

 0   The improvement inthe institutional framework o f the environment.

 IV.l.l.    IntegratingGaboninthe internationalenvironment protectiondynamics.

 The commitment o f Gabon to protect nature is translated by the ratification of conventions and protocols
 related thereto and by strategic planning exercises.

 To date, 28 conventions have been signed and 18 ratified. The landmark conventions, issuedfrom the Earth
 Summit, to wit the Framework Convention of the United Nations on Climate Changes (UNFCCC), the
 Convention on the Biological Diversity (CDB) and the Convention on the Deterioration o f the Land (CDD)
have were the first to be implemented.

 Several strategic planning exercises were conducted, o f which the main ones are: the National Forestry
Action Plan (PAFN), the National Strategy and Action Plan for Biological Diversity, the National Action
Plan for the Environment (PNAE) and the 2025 Gabonese Perspective Study. The exercise related to the
National Strategy on Climate Changes (SNCC) i s inprogress.

The recommendations resulting from these exercises aim at the lasting management of biological resources,
improvement o f the quality o f life o f the populations, adaptation o f the planningand development methods in
the context o fthe environment and the reinforcement of operational capacities.

The approach for the application of the CDB has shown the exceptional biological wealth o f the country.
However, the inventories from the various studies are not exhaustive. This situation will be improvedby the
creation o f an Observatory on the Biodiversity and the reinforcement o f capacities in the domains concerned
(animal and plant biology), which will provide an ongoing collection o f data.

With regard to the CCUNCC, an inventory o f the Greenhouse Emissions (GHE) in Gabon has been
conducted within the framework o f the preparation o f the National Communication. The recommendations
from this Communication emphasize the reinforcement o f the human and material capacities. It i s in this
context that an Observatory on the Climate Changes will be created in order to study the possibilities of the
country promoting actions aimed at mitigating Greenhouse emissions.



                                     MEFEPEPN,Sector-wide Policy Letter, 2004                              24

 With regard to the CCD, Gabon has just commenced the first phase that involves the inventory and the
 delineation o f zones affected by the Earth deterioration phenomenon. It will be integrated into the study on
 the state of Gabon's environment at the end of 2004.

 On the more general level, Gabon will complete its action plan by the ratification and implementation o f all
 the pertinentinternational conventions to comply with international standards o f environmental protection.

 IV.1.2. Reinforcingthe legalframeworkofthe Environment.

 After the Rio Summit, Gabon affirmed its commitment to protect the environment enacting Law 16/93, called
 the Code o f the Environment.

 Two enactment decrees relatedto this law have beenpassed. These involve:

 0   the regulation on the Environmental Impact Statements;

 0   eliminating pollution at seaby hydrocarbons.

 Fifteen other regulations were drafted in 2003 and are currently being adopted. The manuals concerning the
 procedures for applying EISes and the environmental quality standards in Gabon are currently being worked
 out.

 A document concerning the environmental monitoring will reinforce this legal framework. It is from this
 standpoint that a taxation system will be set up on the facilities classified, imports andor exports o f
 hazardous products andprevious exploitation authorizations (APE).

 The inventory o f classified establishments that i s being conducted by the National Anti-Pollution Center
 (CENAP), has listed 112 facilities in Gabon o f which 69 are type A, that are dangerous to the environment,
 and o f which 43 are type D, with minor disadvantages for the environment.

With regard to the Persistent Organic Pollutants (POPS), an inventory is being compiled. It will make it
possible to identify the sectors that will be subject to taxation on the import, marketing and the utilization o f
hazardous chemical products (POPS). This tax will also concern the other chemical products such as
Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) and Hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs).

The effective application o f all o f these legislative and regulatory provisions requires the training o f agents in
environmental inspection techniques.

IV.1.3. Improvingthe institutionalframework ofthe Environment.

To implement the Government's policy, staff must be redeployed on the ground. Accordingly, it i s urgent to
decentralize the technical offices o f the environment and render them operational. This should come about
by:

0   The creation o f provincial inspection offices;

0   The deployment of existing brigades;

0   The reinforcement o f the skills o f agents who are responsible for environmental monitoring.

By setting up a platform o f exchanges for which it shall ensure the coordination, the Environment
administration will be responsible for developing the joint effort o f the various players involved inmanaging
the environment. This approach will also facilitate the centralization and the dissemination o f environment-
related information..




                                       MEFEPEPN,Sector-wide Policy Letter, 2004                                  25

 The improvement o f the institutional framework o f the environment will also involve the revitalization o f the
 National Anti-Pollution Center (CENAP) that i s a pollution control and monitoringstructure.

 IV.2. INCREASING THEECONOMIC TRANSFORMATIONOFENVIRONMENTAL
         GOODSAND SERVICES.

 To increase this transformation, two strategies are recommended:

 0   Implement the NationalAuto-Evaluation o f Capacities to be Reinforced(ANCR);

 0   Identify the economically profitable domains.

 IV.2.1. Implementingthe NationalAuto-Evaluationof Capacities to beReinforced(ANCR)project.

 To increase the contribution of the environmental goods and services to the State treasury, a situation report
 o f the national capacities in the management o f the environmental resources should be prepared. The
 implementation o f the National Auto-Evaluation o f Capacities to be Reinforced (ANCR) will make it
 possible to achieve this.

 IV.2.2. Identifyingeconomicallyprofitabledomains.

Within the framework of the diversification of the national economy, the Government will initiate a global
examination o f environmental goods and services in all business sectors. The Department, in conjunction
withthe other government agencies, will coordinate an initial inventory.

To date, the Department has initiated an examination on the following areas:
     Non-timber Forest Products (NTFP);
     Bio molecules;
     Ecotourism.


     Non-timberForestProducts (NTFP).

Special emphasis will be placed on the economic transformation opportunities o f Non-Timber Forest
Products (NTFP). Studies aimed at identifying profitable NTFPs have been conducted by IPHAMETRA
under the BIODIVALOR project. This has made itpossible to economically develop the resin of OkoumC in
the area o f beauty products. Moreover, fourteen other Non-Timber Forest Products including Iwingia
gabonensis, Gnetum africanum, Calamus sp., etc., with a highadded value have been identified.


     PromotionofBiomolecules.

Principle ingredients have been identified in certain plant species used in traditional medicine. Certain bio
molecules such as Ibogaiize usedinthe treatment o f drugdependence have been insufficiently developed.

Inthe BIODIVALORproject, samples ofplants (such as Klainedoxa gabonensis, Carapaprocera, etc.) have
been sent for analysis to pharmaceutical groups. Samples may be proposed to other laboratories and
companies working the field o f fine chemistry.

The insufficiency o f local slulls and research infrastructures in this field makes the country dependent on
foreign expertise. This i s why it will be appropriate to establish training programs aimed at research and
economic development o f active bio molecules and to develop scientific and technical cooperation with




                                    MEFEPEPN, Sector-wide Policy Letter, 2004                                26

 subregional and international research institutes. These programs will take into account the expertise o f local
 populations inthe use o f plants for therapeutic purposes.

 From this standpoint, the Government will set up a registration office responsible for monitoring the
 trackability o f products.

 To consolidate the results acquired, an exploratory study o f the economic transformation possibilities o f
 biodiversityi s planned. It will target the research o f potential partners.

 A special eco-development fund will be established, responsible for financing projects and operations
 corresponding to the following fields and activities:
 -   Support for research projects on the economic transformation o fbiodiversity;
 -   Assumption o f the cost involved ingathering samples;
 -   Establishment o f collective interest services contributing to improve the quality o f life and the well-being
     o f the populations (information and environmental education, management o f waste, piping o f drinking
     water, sanitation, schools, etc.).


    Promotionof Eco tourism.

 Inorder to promote the environmental services from eco-tourism activities, it will be necessary to prepare
 guidelines in this field for a better preservation o f the environment. To this end, an inventory o f the
potentially economically viable sites will be conducted inview o f establishing a map o f vulnerability.

IK3.      CONTRIBUTING TO THEIMPROVEMENT OF THE QUALITY OFLIFE.

To efficiently contribute to the improvement o f the quality o f life o f the populations, two strategies have been
proposed:

0   promoting self-development mechanisms (MDP);

0   considering the concerns o f local populations.

IV.3.1. PromotingSelf-Development Mechanisms(MDP).

The ecological consequences of the impoverishment o f the ozone layer, climate changes, deforestation,
reduction in the biological diversity and the growth o f pollution have led countries to adapt the economic
planning by considering these phenomena.

Inorder to implement the conventionsrelatedto the protectionofthe environment, Gabonwill continue onits
course regarding the possibilities o f integrating MDPs in production sectors. To this end, bills involving the
creation o f the National Commission o f Sustainable Development (CNDD) and the National Agency for the
Viability o f Ecosystems (ANVE) are currently beingadopted.

The CNDD will create a link between the Department o f the Environment and economic operators and will
draft an inventory o f activities requiringthe use o f MDPs.

The ANVE will defend the interests o f Gabon within the framework o f the Kyoto protocol and will develop
approaches on the possibility o f integrating carbon markets (by 2012). A preliminary study aimed at defining
the National Strategy on Climate Changes i s being currently conducted.




                                       MEFEPEPN, Sector-wide Policy Letter, 2004                                27

IV.3.2.    Consideringthe concernsof localpopulations.

Inaccordance with principle Iof the Earth Summit (Rio, 1992) that puts human beings inthe center of the
concerns of sustained development, the well-being and the dignity o f the populations should be conditioned
by their ability to evolve in an environment of acceptable quality. It is also indicated that they should take
part inefforts o fprotecting their environments.

This initiative is based on:

0   the establishment of a dissemination program o f the decree involving the Environmental Impact
    Statements;

0   the encouragement ofoperators involvedinall certification approaches that respectthe environment;

0  the application o f the Carthaginian protocol related to the control of transport and trade o f Genetically
    Modified Organisms (GMOs);

0   the adoption o f the bill involving the creation and organization o f a Coastal Observatory in view o f
    designinga master plano f developing the coastal zone;

0   the preparation in collaboration with other departments of the National Emergency Plan in case of
   pollution o f hydrocarbons inthe sea;

0  the contribution to the preparationo fthe soil occupationplanbypreparing maps o fvulnerable zones;

0  the support in implementing a rehabilitation program of polluted sites and soils (former mining and
   forestry sites, etc.);

0  participation in the preparation and the implementation o f an awareness and dissemination program to
   population on environmental issues;

0  the preparation o f anational programo fhouseholdand special waste managementprogram;

0  the coordination for the establishment o f a program for reinforcingtheir operational capacities;

0  the development o f a synergy betweenthe administration andthe local and internationalNGOs.




                                     MEFEPEPN, Sector-wide Policy Letter, 2004                             28


                          K        OBJECTIVESAND STRATEGIESIN TRAINING

With regard to the importance of the national heritage to be managed inthe forest, fishing and aquaculture
sectors and in the domain o f the environment on one hand, the needs expressed corresponding to reinforcing
capacities on the other, training takes on a strategic dimension that justifies a specific development, object of
this section.

At the level of the dkpurtement, the overall objective is to provide the country with the needed qualified
humanresources needed for sustainable, responsible and profitable management o f natural resources.

T o achieve this, the Government shall - among other things:

0    provide training and education o f humanresources;

0    reinforce the existing training structure;

0    create new structures;

0    develop cooperation and partners at the subregional and international levels

 K l .   PROVIDING TRAININGAND EDUCATION OFHUMANRESOURCES

For the implementation o f this strategy, the following shall be carried out:

0    provide a status report of the humanresources inthe Dkpupartement;

0    determine and plan training needs for each sector or domain;

0    prepare and implement training and educationplans inthe short-, medium-and long term.

K2. REINFORCINGEXISTING TRAININGSTRUCTURES

There are several training structures inthe sectors o f forestry, fishing and aquaculture and inthe field o f the
environment; two o f them are the responsibility o f the Dkpurtement: The National School o f Waterways and
Forests (ENEF) and the Center o f Fishingand Aquaculture Professions (CMPA).

Created in 1953 to meet the needs o f the forestry administration, the ENEF has experienced successive
changes to adapt to changing times. It remains the principal institution o f national training o f managers and
technicians o f the sectors inthe dkpurtement.

To meet the highly diversified needs o f the public and private users, ENEF and the existing training centers
mustreinforce their capacities. To this end, they shall:

0   update and adapt the training programs;

0   increase the welcoming capacities;

0   enlarge the training supply chains and cycles;

0   recruit full-time teachers inthe various fields;

0   intensifythe training o feducators;

0   restore and supplement educational tools and materials;

0   reinforce the management level o f the institutions;

0   promote subregional and international radiation;

0   research and mobilizethe necessary financing.




                                     MEFEPEPN, Sector-wide Policy Letter, 2004                               29

K3.      CREATINGNEWSTRUCTURES

The existing training structures, even reinforced, do not have sufficient capacities to enable the Dipartement
to supply operators o f the forestry, fishing/aquaculture and environment sectors with the necessary human
resources.

It is therefore indispensable to promote the creation of other specialized structures adapted to the specific
needs o f those involvedinthese sectors.

For the time being, there are plans to open two training centers o f ecology monitors and guides to the LOPE
and to GAMBA and the establishment o f a timber trade school InNDOUANIANG. The first two, built with
help from international NGOs, meet the management concerns of the protected areas and the national parks.
The NDOUANIANG school, initiated by the dipartement, aims at training people in trades related to the
transformation o f timber.

Thus, the efforts will consist of:

0   making the new training structures operational;

0   researchingand mobilizing financing andpartners,,ips for the development o f the Timber Trades School.

KX      DEVELOPING COOPERATIONAND PARTNERSHIPSAT THESUBREGIONAL
        AND INTERNATIONALLEVELS

The management o f the forestry, fishingand aquacultures sectors andthe domain ofthe environment requires
multiple and various skills. Certain of them are acquired at the national level, others are at the subregional or
international level.
Inorder to haveallthe necessary expertise, itwillbeimportant to:

0   reinforce the subregional and international dimensionpart o f the ENEFand the Timber Trades School;

0   survey the specialties or trades for which training cannot be providedat the national level;

0   identify the subregional and internationaltraining structures;
    reinvigorate the existing cooperation agreements andpartnerships;

0   establish partnership and cooperation agreements;

0   reinforce the existing training network (RIFFEAC, REFMA, etc.);

0   promote other networks.




                                     MEFEPEPN,Sector-widePolicy Letter, 2004                                30

                                            GENERAL CONCLUSION

This policy document establishes sets down the objectives and develops the strategies recommended for a
lasting, responsible and profitable management o f the renewable natural resources inthe forestry, fishing and
aquaculture sectors, national parks and domains o f the environment.

The principal objectives and crucial priority measures necessary for the implementation of the corresponding
 strategies are summarized below for each o f the sectors and domain.

Inthe forestry sector, the implementation ofthe newpolicy shall inthe long-term:

0    pursuethe lasting development of all the timber forests;

0    integrate small andmediumforest enterprises inthe lastingmanagement process;

0    organize the management o f forestry resources inthe rural domain;

0    develop local timber capacities in view o f increasing the rate o f transformation to 75% in the period
     2002-2012;

0    manage sustainable wild life andprotected areas;

0    involve Gabonese nationals more and promote the national class o f entrepreneurs in activities o f the
     sector.

The Government will first and foremost emphasize the following measures:

0    the reorganization o f services by strengthening ground structures and the redeployment o f staff within the
     country;

0    the control of sector-wide information by the establishment of a secure management system of the
     forestry information(SIGEF);

0    completion of the regulations by preparing the adoptions o f additional laws;

0    the continuation o f the management development process, specifically by providing definitive
     agreements for the group o f oldpermits inCFAD

0    the arrangement with small permits inview o f integrating them inlastingmanagement process;

0   the completion o f the national land-allocationplan;

0   the restoration o f deterioratedforests;

0   the organization o f forest management in the rural areas by establishing community forests and mutual
    agreement permits;

0   the preparation o f provisions related to the tracking o f the preparation and control o f the implementation
    o f industrialization plans;

0   the creation o f a "timber scholarship" that will contribute to the development o f a national market;

0   the implementation o f the 2004 Finance Law;

0   the return to the Domains o f expired or invalidtitles;

0   therepositioning ofthe SNBG;

0   the organization and evolution o f farming;

0   the return mechanisms o f forest revenue;
    the economic transformation o f existingplantations;

0   the revision o f the regulations and institutional framework for the management o fprotectedareas;

0   the redefinition ofthe limitso f forest permits locatedwithin nationalparks;



                                           Sector-widePolicy Letter, 2004                                    31

0   technical support of the administration in involving Gabonese citizens in the management process by
    conducting inventories and the preparation o f management plans;

0   the facilitation ofpartnerships with future national forest and industrial enterprises.


Inthe fishing and aquaculturesector, the implementation o fthenewpolicy shall make itpossible inthe
long-term:

0   to improve awareness on the fishing potential in view o f the redeployment o f activities on the resources
    and zones are still under exploited and for which the indices o f relative abundance are convincing;

0   to establish infrastructures and services needed for the landing, conservation and transformation of
    products over the Gabonese territory, inthe medium-term by improving existing capacities inthe current
    ports and at the end o f 10 years, by the creation o f a true fishingport;

0   increase village-based aquaculture and marine production to supplement the supply o f fish-based protein
    to localpopulations and contribute to the placement on the export market o fhighvalue added products;
    to improve the trade balance by developing the transformation industry, in view o f diversifying and
    increasing exports o f products brought up to health standards;

0   develop fishing agreement on under-exploited resources to further economically transform the national
    fishingwealth and create new supplychains.

The Government will emphasize as a priority the followingregulatory and institutional measures:

0   the enactment o f the Code o f Fishingand Aquaculture;

0   the establishment of a tax system that encourages the investments in the production and transformation
   plant;

0   the modernization and reinforcement o f the system of tracking, control and monitoring o f the fishing
   activities;

0  the pursuitand intensification o f the regional and international cooperation;

0  the reinvigoration ofresearchldevelopmentandtraining;

0  the reinforcement o f provincial services;
   the promotiono fprofessional organizations.

Inthe domain of the environment,the implementation of the new policy shall make itpossible inthe long-
term:

0  to secure the position o f Gabon inthe global environment protection dynamics;
   to integratethe environmental dimension inthe development policies;

0  to improve the legal and institutional framework;

0  to reinforce the management capacities;
   to economically develop environmental goods and services, and to identify potential new and interesting
   fields;

0  to help improve the quality o f life o f the localpopulations.

The Government will first and foremost emphasize focus o fthe following measures:

0  the adoptiono fLaw 16/93 on the Code o fthe Environment;

0  the creation o f a platform o f exchanges among the various players involved in the management o f the
   environment;
   the centralization ofenvironmental information

0  the establishment o f an environment taxation system;


                                           Sector-wide Policy Letter, 2004                                32

a   the creation of provincialinspectionsandthe decentralizationoftechnical offices of the environment;

a   the reinforcement of capacities;
a   the implementation ofthe NationalAuto-Evaluation ofCapacities to beReinforced;
a   the creation o f observatories (climate changes, biodiversity, coastal);
a   the promotion of Self-Development Mechanisms andthe launchofpotentially profitable projects.


In the domain of training, the implementation of recommended strategies shall go hand-in-hand with the
reinforcement o f existing training structures and the creation o f new entities. It will also involve the
consolidation o f the subregional and international dimension o f said structures through existing and future
networks andpartnerships.

Inthe sector ofNationalParks, the implementationofthe national policy onthe topic shouldmake it
possible:

    a   to establish a better conservation strategy o f the Gabon's natural heritage;
    0   to make the network o fparks operational, attractive andproductive;
    a   to promote a better long-term development strategy o f Gabon;
    a   to allow a better contribution o f the environment inthe fight against poverty;
    a   to integrate the national and internationalprivate sector ininvestments made within and around the
        national parks;
    a   to promote a more professional "Destination Gabon", better adapted to the national and international
        demands;
    a   to reach a dynamic collaboration among all the participants inthe network.

The National Council o f NationalParks will place a priority on the following measures:

    a   The formulation and adoption o f a legal framework systemo f administration andmanagement o f the
        network;
   a    The finalization o fthe law onnational parks;
   a    The finalization o fthe business plano fthe network o fnationalparks;
   a    The conducting o f an economic and financial analysis o f the network o f nationalparks o f Gabon.

The conditions for applying these measures are developed inapriority agenda.




                                           Sector-wide Policy Letter, 2004                                33

                * *  * *




I . .




 I*
 0
         Y
         E
         LK"

";;"
tiwY




 M
 B
.Ym
c)



%$3
M
 1
r"r
 w
 Q,
4R




Ju,
u,
a
0
c
u,
L

                                                   79                                              Annex 5


                                  Annex 5 -FundRelationsNote


                                                                                           EXTERNAL
                                                                                           RELATIONS
                                                                                           DEPARTMENT


Press Release No. 051162
July 12,2005

 IMF Executive Board Completes Fourth Review and Financing Assurances
                                               Review
                         Under Gabon's Stand-By Arrangement

The Executive Board o f the International Monetary Fund (IMF) has concluded the fourth review o f
Gabon's economic performance under a 14-month SDR 69.4 million (about US$104.9 million) Stand-By
Arrangement to support the country's economic program (see Press Release No. 05/68) and granted a
waiver for non-observance o f a performance criterion in connection with the delay o f an extemal
payment. The Boardalso approved a review o f the country's financing assurances.

Total drawings under the Stand-By Arrangement have amounted to SDR 41.7 million (about US$ 63.0
million). Completion o f the fourth review makes available an amount equivalent to SDR 13.9 million
(about US$21.0 million). However, because o f a strong balance o f payments position, the authorities are
now treating the arrangement as precautionary and a disbursement i s not contemplated at this time.

Following the Executive Board's discussion on July 8,2005 o f Gabon's economic performance, Ms.Anne
0.Krueger, FirstDeputyManagingDirector andActing Chair, stated:

"The Gabonese authorities are to be commended for the successful implementation o f their economic
reform program. Fiscal discipline resulting from improved tax collection and strict expenditure control
have helped to restore macroeconomic stability. Moreover, important structural reforms were launched,
which could form the basis for the economic diversification needed to ensure long-term sustainable
growth.

"Looking ahead, significant challenges remain to reduce Gabon's dependence on oil, diversify the
economy, and make decisive progress inpoverty reduction. Continued fiscal discipline will be needed to
address the medium-term decline in oil production, and will involve sustained efforts to bolster non-oil
revenue and improve the efficiency o f public spending. By usingthe bulk o f windfall oil revenues in the
coming years to reduce domestic and external debt Gabon has the opportunity to place its public finances
on a permanently sounder footing. At the same time, continued macroeconomic discipline needs to be
accompanied by reinvigorating the structural r e f o m process to accelerate the diversification o f Gabon's
economy and boost growth and employment inthe non-oil sector.

"The Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper currently under preparation i s a key buildingblock for a medium-
term program aiming at reducing poverty and diversifying the Gabonese economy. Its sectoral strategies
will needto be translated into concrete spending plans inthe context o f a well-prepared three-year public
investment plan and reflected inthe 2006 budget. The public expenditure reviews currently underway will
assist inthis effort.

                                                      80                                               Annex 5


"Strengthening governance and increasingtransparency are key ingredients o f a better investment climate.
Progress has been achieved, notably the publication o f the first report o f the National Commission
Against Illicit Enrichment, the establishment o f the public tender office, the steps to increase transparency
inthe forestry sector, and Gabon's adherence to the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI).
Looking ahead, the objective should be to reinforce the culture o f good governance and transparency by
ensuring the regular release of reliable information in the context o f a sound institutional structure. The
forthcoming assessment o f fiscal transparency in Gabon will provide an important basis for strengthening
budgetary institutions and practices.

"Against the background of the satisfactory completion o f the Stand-By Arrangement, discussions will
continue over the coming months on Gabon's desire for a multi-year successor arrangement with the
Fund,"Ms.Krueger said.

A Stand-By Arrangement is a decision o f the IMF by which a member is assured that it will be able to
make purchases (drawings) from the General Resources Account up to a specified amount and during a
specified period o f time, normally between 12 and 18 months, provided that the member observes the
terms o f the arrangement.

                                                                        81
                                                 Annex 6 - Country at a Glance
                                             Gabon at a glance                                                                                 9/15/04

                                                                              Sub-      Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                       Saharan        middle-
                                                                Gabon       Africa      Income         Developmentdiamond'
2003
Population, mid-year (millions)                                     1.3        703         335                         Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                3,580        490        5,340
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                    4.8        347        1,788                               T

Average annual growth, 1997-03
Population (%)                                                      2.3         2.3         1.2
Laborforce (%)                                                      1.8         2.4         1.8        GNI                                    Gross
                                                                                                       per                                   primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1997-03)                                                  capita                              enrollment
Poverty(% ofpopulation below nationalpoverty line)
Urban population (% of totalpopulation)                              84          36          76
Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                                       53          46          73                               I
Infantmortality (per 1,000live births)                               63        103           19
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                           12                                         Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)                   86          58          89
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                                              35           9
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-agepopulation)                 134          87         104           -Gabon
    Male                                                            135          94         104                     Upper-middle-incomegroup
                                                                                                              ~

    Female                                                          134          80         104

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                      1983         1993       2002        2003
GDP (US$ billions)                                                                                     Economic ratios'
                                                         3.4        4.4          5.0        5.6
Gross domestic investmenffGDP                          35.2        22.4        28.4        31.3
Exportsof goods and serviceslGDP                       61.3        48.8        59.5        67.4                             Trade
Gross domestic savingslGDP                             53.0        36.7        48.4        54.5                               -
Gross national savingslGDP                                         21.4        28.7        44.1

Current account balancelGDP                              2.1        -1.3         6.1        6.1
Interest payments/GDP                                    1.6         0.8         3.2        2.3
Total debffGDP                                         27.0        88.1        71.3        67.7
Total debt servicelexports                              10.9         5.9       12.0        10.3
Presentvalue of debffGDP                                                       70.9                                           1
Presentvalue of debffexports                                                  103.4
                                                                                                                          Indebtedness
                                        1983-93    1993-03         2002       2003      2003-07
(average annual growth)
GDP                                           1.6        2.3         3.0         3.4        -0.1               -Gabon
GDP per capita                               -1.6       -0.2         0.8         1.2        -2.2                     Upper-middle-incomegroup
Exportsof goods and services                  5.9       -0.7         3.1         3.2         3.4


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                      1983         1993       2002         203       1Growthof investmentand GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                              6.5         8.5         7.6         8.7       40 T


Industry                                                56.8        43.0       46.4        67.1
   Manufacturing                                         4.5         7.1         4.7         5.3
Services                                                36.7        48.5       46.0         24.1

Privateconsumption                                     29.8        48.0                        ..     1-401
General governmentconsumption                           17.2        15.3
Importsof goods and services                                                                                        -GDI           *GDP



                                                   198343      1993-03        2o02         2003      1 Growth of
(average annualgrowth)                                                                                             exports and imports (%)            1
Agriculture
Industry
    Manufacturing
Services
Privateconsumption
General governmentconsumption                           -4.3         2.9         2.0         2.4      -301
Gross domestic investment                               -6.7         3.3        -0.8         1.6                  -Exports         -Imports
Imports of goods and services

Note: 2003 dataare preliminaryestimates.
This table was producedfrom the DevelopmentEconomics central database,
   The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with Its income-group average.If data are missing, the diamondwill
     be incomplete.

1983     1993      21302   2003


 $07      -a 9       0 1     0 5
  2 8      1 1       5 9    -B I



          22 9      24 4   2f3 e
          -0 8       8 1    l a 7
          -5 7       3 8     4 5



1983     f 993     2002    2Q03
                                     8Exp
2 00u  2 328     3 080     3 218   I     ,
                                   1.1v w
        1,778    2,138     2,203
           3 8      44%      517

  775              z 266   1

                             212
           320               386
           100
            5u
           202


1983     1993      2002    2003       Current accotinl fratance:to GDP [%f I
2 201         7        4   3,632
1757                   1   2 285
  444      770     1182    1337

  2133              -713    -818
                    -175    -180
   72      -58       305     340

-189       -2'1             "274
  119       78                M



38%1    '"1498   897 0     581 7



1983     1883              2003

  915   3,881      3,pJ46  3 782
   I 5      eo        50      49
    0         0        0        0
  2x3      157       437     575
    3         8       12        8
    0         0        0        0


   31       65        54
    7       00      -170    -124
  -65        -2       1I3     -73
  112     -1 14      123
    0         0        0                                      273.1

    0       "3         0        0
     1        B        2        2
    1
    L         5        8        6
   -1         3        -8      -3
     1        4        4        2
   "L        -1      -70       -6

                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD 33408


                                                                                                 GABON

                                                          SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                             MAIN ROADS

                                                          PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                     RAILROADS

                                                          NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                      PROVINCE BOUNDARIES

                                                          RIVERS                                                                                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES




                                                           10E                                                        12E                                                    14E

                                                                                                         CAMEROON


                                                                                                                               Minvoul
                                                                                                        Bitam
2N                                                                                                                                                                                                  2N


                                                              EQUATORIAL
    ATLANTIC                                                                                               Oyem                                       vIindo


       OCEAN                                                       GUINEA                                    W O L E U - N T E M
                                                                                                                                                                         Djoua
                                                                                                                                 Mvoung                                 Mkambo
                                                                                                                                                                        Mkambo


                                                                                                          Mitzic                  O G O O U  - I V I N D O
                                                                                                                                       Makokou                                     Ekata

                       LIBREVILLE                                                       Abanga                                            Ivindo                                                 To
                                Ovendo                                                                                                                                                         Makoua

                                                         Kango                  C
0                                          E S T U A I R E                      r               Okano Ogoou
                                                                          Ndjol
                                                                          Ndjol                                         Boou
                                                                                                                         Boou                                                                          0
                                                                                  y
                                                                                   s
                                                                   MOYEN-           ta                                                                                                  CONGO

                                                                  OGOOU
                                                                  OGOOU              l

 Port Gentil                                                         Lambarene                                    fou                                            Okondja
                                                                                                                Of           O G O O U  - L O L O
                                                                  Lac Onangu           M                                                                     Sb
                                                                                           o
                                                                                            u                          Kaulomoutou
                                                                                              n
                             O G O O U  -                           NGOUNI
                                                                     NGOUNI                                                                                  HAUT-OGOOU-OGOOU
                              M A R I T I M E                                                                                        Chaillu

                                             Lagune                                              i                                   Massif                                          Lkoni
                                                                                                                                                                                     Lkoni
                     Ombou                                                                       n                                                                      Masuku
                                              Nkomi                                  Ngouni   ta

                                                                                                   s

                                                                             Mouila                       Mbigou
                            Igula
2S                                                                                                                    Mt. Birougou                                                                  2S
                                                                                                                          (1190 m)                                Ogoou



                                                            Lagune
                                                            Ndogo                             Ndend
                                                                                              Ndend

                                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                              Zanaga


                                                                           Tchibanga             Nyanga                                 To
                                                                                                                                       Kayes

                                                                           N YA N G A

                                                                     Mayumba
       0           40         80           120 Kilometers                                                                      To
                                                                                                                         Loubomo                                                GABON

       0        20         40       60        80         100 Miles                                                     CONGO
4S                                                                                                                                                                                                  4S


  This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
  shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
  Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
  endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.



                                                           10E                                                        12E            CABINDA
                                                                                                                                        (ANGOLA)                               14E

                                                                                                                                                                                             SEPTEMBER 2004

