Do_me of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5960-ZIM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ZIMBABWE
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
June 20, 1986
Population, Health and Nutrition Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perrormance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
U.S. $1.00   =   Z $1.54
U.S. $0.65   =   Z $1.00
METRIC EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)                     =     3.28 feet
1 square meter (sq.m)           =    10.76 squar-  feet
1 kilometer (km)                =     0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq. km)           0.386 square miles
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



-i-             FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZIMBABWE
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:     Government of Zimbabwe.
Loan AmDunt:  US $10.0 million.
Terms:        Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable rate.
Project       The project aims to increase the availability and use of
Description:  family planning services; improve the health status
particularly of mothers and children; and strengthen the
Government's institutional capacity to plan, mar-age and
evaluate maternal and child health and family planning
services. It would comprise the following components: (i)
management strengthening (for the Ministry of Health at the
national, provincial and district levels); (ii) training (for
about 2,820 health workers in family planning, for about
1,790 health workers in mid&-ifery, and for a variety of
related in-service activities); (iii) urban family planning
services (at 22 hospitals); (iv) information, education and
communications (for family planning demand generation and
health education activities); (v) strengthening of district
level referral services (both health and family planning, in
8 selected rural districts); (vi) strengtheniog of peripheral
services (in the same selected districts); and (vii) project
management.
Benefits      The project would directly benefit about 705,000 mothers and
and Risks:    children in the eight districts through improved maternal and
child health and family planning services, and about 380,000
mothers in urban areas through enhanced family planning
services. The country as a whole would benefit through
improved health services resulting from strengthened manage-
ment, training and educational activities, and through the
social benefits arising from reduced fertility levels. The
main risks of the project would relate to the capacity of the
Ministry of Health to implement it efficiently, and the need
for support to be maintained for per:'pheral and outreach
services. The management component of the project would
directly address the former risk, particularly through the
provision of technical assistance and training activities;
while focussing intensified support on eight pilot districts
would mininize the latter risk.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their olcisl duties. Its contents may not othewise be disclsed without World Rank authorization.



-ii-
Project Cost: US $52.6 million. Taxes and duties are negligible.
Local   Foreign  Total
Component                                 US $m    US $.  US $m
(i) Management Strengthening                      2.1      1.7       3.9
(ii) Family Planning and Health Training           2.9      0.3       3.1
(iffi) Urban Family Planning Services               0.1      0.3       0.4
(iv) Information, Education and Communications    0.9       1.0       1.9
(v) Strengthening District Referral Services    18.4       4.4     22.8
(-V) Strengthening Peripheral Services             5.3      1.8       7.0
(vii) Project Management                            0.3      0.1       0.4
(Total Baseline Costs)                      (30.0     (9.6)   (39.5)
Physical Contingencies                       1.9      0.4      2.3
Price Contingencies                          8.9      1.9      10.8
Total Project Costs                         40.8     11.8      52.6
Financing Plan:                                           US$m
IBRD                                                   10.0
Norway                                                 10.0
Netherlands                                              1.8
United Kingdom                                          1.8
Federal Republic of Germany                             1.3
Zimbabwe                                               27.6
TOTAL                                                  52.6
Estimated Disbursement of IBRD Loan: (US$10 m)
1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93
Annual      0.1      0.6       1.6      2.4       3.2     1.8       0.3
Cumulative  0.1      0.7      2.3       4.7       7.9     9.7     10.0
Msp: IBRD 18695.



-iii-
zIgMBAWE
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Summary  ......................    ... (i)
Table of Contents .......      .....*...6........  (iii)
Basic Data         .....................*...    (v)
Definitions         ...........                           (vi)
Abbreviations .....                   ....               (vii)
I.     INTRODUCTION                                                   1
II.    SECTOR STATUS AND ISSUES                                       I
A. Population and Health Status        1      .......... 
B.  Population Policy and Activities ..................    3
C.  Health Policy and Services *5*@@SSO......... ... ...   5
0.  Sectoral Issues and Role of the Bank *     .............  12
III.   THE PROJECT                                                   13
A.  Objectives and Design ............*..........o......   13
B.  Summary Description ............*...*   ..............  14
C.  Detailed Description ........................... .    15
IV.    PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING                                   25
A.  Costs *...*. .....................................     25
B.  Financing ............ ........******..............    27
C.  Procurement      ............                ......    30
D.  Disbursements ........................*.....*.. ... *  32
E.  Accounts and Audit ******************.*.***..*....   32
V.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                         32
A.  Status of Project Preparation                 ......   32
B.  Organization and Management .......................  33
C.  Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation ..............  35
VI.   PROJECT BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS                      36
A. Benefits and Justification ........................  36
B. Risks .........................................  39
VII.  ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS                                 40



-iv-
Page No.
TABLES
1. Project Costs by Expenditure Category .........................  26
2.  Project Costs by Functional Component .........................  28
3.  Project Costs by Financing Source ......................... .. ...  29
4.  Procurement Table ............................................   30
ANNEXES
1. Statistical Annex .......... ...... ........................   42
2.  Documents Available in Project File ...........................  49
3. Detailed Cost Tables (Summary Accounts) .....,................   50
4.  Implementation Schedules *---------.- ........ ........................  58
5. NCH/FP Innovative Activities and Operational Research .........  61
CHARTS
1. New Health Service Structure   ..............-...  .-.-........-....  63
2.  Previous Organizational Structure of Ministry of Health .......  64
3.  New Organizational Structure of Ministry of Health ............  65
MAP
Zimbabwe Family Health Project (IBRD 18695)



- -
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Basic Data
(All figures apply to 1985 unless otherwise indicated)
General:  Area ............................ .... ...........  390,000 sq. km.
Population ...........................................  8.4 million
Population density ........ ..... . ................. . . .  21/sq. km.
Rural population as proportion of
total population ............ .......... ........  74 percent
Crude birth rate .................... . ....      47/1000
Crude death rate .......................          12/1000
Population growth rate       ......................... 3.5 percent
Infant mortality rate ... .... 0-0  ............ 82/1000
Life expectancy at birth (male)    ................. 52 years
Life expectancy at birth (female) .    ............. 60 years
GNP per capita (1984) ......................... .    US $740
Adult literacy rate (1982) ..................... 77 percent
Health
Services: Population per physician .......................  6650
Population per trained nurse ................... 1000
Population per hospital bed .................... 732
Proportion of births attended(1984) .............  60 percent
Proportion of pregnant Women receiving
antenatal care (1984) ...................... 89 percent
Proportion of children between 1 and 2 years
of age fully imminized (1984) ................. 42 percent
Government expenditure on Ministry of Health
as proportion of total budget (1985/86)
(capital)  ..................................  4.9 percent
(recurrent) ...............................  6.6 percent



-vi-
Definitions
Contraceptive prevalence rate    The percentage of married women in the
reproductive ages who are using a modern
method of contraception at any given point
in time.
Crude birth rate                  Number of births per 1000 population in a
given year.
Crude death rate                  Number of deaths per 1000 population in a
given year.
Infant mortality rate             Number of deaths of infants under one year
of age in a given year per 1000 live
births in that year.
Life expectancy at birth          Average number of years an infant will
live if the current age-specific mortality
trends prevailing at the time of birth
were to continue.
Rate of natural increase          Rate at which a population is increasing
(or decreasing) in a given year due to a
surplus (or deficit) of births over
deaths, expressed as a percentage of the
base population.
Rate of population growth         Rate of natural increase adjusted for
(net) migration, expressed as a percentage
of the total population in a given year.
Total fertility rate              Average number of children that would be
born alive to a woman (or group of women)
during her lifetime if she were to pass
through her childbearing years conforming
to the age-specific fertility rates of a
given year.



-vii-
Abbreviations
CBD       Community Based Distribution
CNED      Central Mechanical Equipment Department
DANIDA    Danish International Development Agency
FP        Family Planning
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GTZ       Gesellschaft Fuer Technische Zusammenarbeit
HA        Health Assistant
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
IEC       Information, Education and Communications
IUD       Intra-Uterine Device
JHPIEGO   Johns Hopkins Progran for International Education in
Gynecology and Obstetrics
LCB       Local Competitive Bidding
MCH       Maternal and Child Health
MPCNH     Ministry of Public Construction and National Housing
MFEPD     Ministry of Finance, Economic Planning and Development
MR        Ministry of Health
NGO       Non-Government Organization
NORAD    Norwegian Aid Agency
ODA       Overseas Development Administration
PHC       Primary Health Care
SCMN      State Certified Maternity Nurse
SCN       State Certified Nurse
SIDA      Swedish International Development Agency
SRN       State Registered Nurse
UNFPA     Unlited Nations' Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF    United Nations' Children's Fund
USAID    United States Agency for International Development
VHW       Village Health Worker
WHO       World Health Organization
ZNFPC     Zimbabwe National Family Planning Council



ZIBABWE
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Growth with equity has been the Government's objective since
Zimbabwe's Independence in 1980. Growth was rapid for the first two years
due to the lifting of economic sanctions, an improvement in the terms of
trade, high gold prices, increased allocations of foreign exchange for
imports, expansion of foreign borrowing and expansionary governmental
policies. Over the next three years, however, Zimbabwe experienced
economic difficulties due to the severe drought from 1981 to 1984, the
world recession and growing balance of payments problems. Real gross
domestic product (GDP) fell in both 1982 and 1983, and stagnated in 1984.
Nevertheless, at US$740 (in 1984), per capita GDP is still almost twice the
average for Sub-Saharan Africa, and the economy is sufficiently robust and
developed for sustained growth to be achieved, given sound economic
management and an incentives-oriented policy framework.
1.02      Equity, as important to the Government as growth, is to be
achieved through redistributing both the factors of production and also the
fruits of economic activity. To do this, the Government increased minimum
wages, launched an agricultural resettlement program and considerably
expanded expenditures on social services. Through the drought years the
Government also spent substantial sums (estimated at about Z$50 million in
1984) on relief activities. And much has been achieved: for example,
35,000 families have been resettled on land previously occupied by
large-scale farmers; 250,000 children (out of a total of about 1.2 million)
receive supplementary feeding; and 93% of primary age children now attend
school. Much has also been accomplished in the area of family health: for
example, both the contraceptive prevalence rate and the proportion of
children fully immunized have doubled since Independence. But further
consolidation of these achievements depends on balanced growth of the
economy, and this, in turn, requires that the Government (i) stimulate
exports, especially from the manufacturing sector, and (ii) curb the budget
deficit (currently running at about 11 percent of GDP), primarily through
reducing subsidies to parastatal organizations and improving the
management of social sector spending.
II. SECTOR STATUS AND ISSUES
A. Population and Health Status
2.01      Demographic Situation.  Zimbabwe's population was reported to be
about 7.5 million in August 1982, according to the preliminary results of
the census. The total figure implies an intercensal average annual rate of
population growth of about 3 percent for the period 1969-82. The



-2-
population in mid-1985 was about 8.4 million, with about 1.7 million
children aged 0-5 years and a similar number of women a the reproductive
age group. While a detailed analysis has so far been made of only a 10
percent sample of the census results and various inconsistencies and issues
remain to be resolved, certain demographic characteristics of Zimbabwe are
clear. First, fertility has started to fall, the only example yet of a
fertility decline in Sub-Saharan Africa. According to the results of the
1984 Contraceptive Prevalence Survey, which are broadly consistent with the
available family planning (FP) service statistical data, the total
fertility rate is estimated to have fallen to about 6.4 in 1984, having
been about 7 in 1980 and about 8 in 1970 according to census data. The
underlying reasons for this fertility decline include relatively high per
capita income and literacy (77 percent), increasing education (especially
in secondary schocl enrollments) and changes in traditional lifestyles and
labor force participation. But equally important are the existence of
strong governmental and political commitment to FP services and a
well-established program (para. 2.07). Second, mortality has continued its
overall decline since the 1960s and ranks among the lowest in Sub-Saharan
Africa. The crude birth rate is estimated by the Bank to have been 47 in
1984 and the crude death rate 12, resulting in a rate of natural increase
of 3.5 percent. Since net emigration is now considered negligible, the
rate of population growth is also estimated to be 3.5 percent.
2.02      Demographic Projections.  Three population projections have been
made with alternative assumptions about future trends in the fertility
level. Under the assumption that fertility declines in line with the
experience of South Asian countries (with a replacement level of fertility
being reached in the year 2025), the total size of the population would be
13.2 million in the year 2000, and 18.5 million in the year 2015. If,
however, fertility continues to decline at a more rapid rate (with a
replacement level of fertility being reached in the year 2005), the
population would be about 12.0 million in the year 2000, and about 15.1
million in the year 2015. If a replacement level of fertility were only to
be reached in the year 2045, the population would be 14.0 million in the
year 2000 and 21.4 million in the year 2015. The experience of other
Sub-Saharan African countries would suggest that even the middle projection
would be highly ambitious; and yet the actual experience of Zimbabwe since
Independence (para. 2.01) indicates that the rapid fertility decline
projection is by no means unrealistic. The population projections are
shown in more detail in Annex 1 Table 1.01.
2.03      Health Status.  Average life expectancy in Zimbabwe is estimated
at about 56 years, and the infant mortality rate about 82 per 1000 live
births. There has been considerable variation between different parts of
the country, with very high rates of mortality particularly in the communal
land areas and very low rates in the urban areas. Information is limited
on the causes of ill-health, but evidence from hospital records and other
sources indicates that the main causes are: (i) for the under-5 group:
respiratory infections, gastroenteritis, measles, nutritional deficiencies
and (in rural areas especially) malaria; (ii) for adult males 15-45:
malaria, injuries, sexually transmitted diseases and infections of the
skin; (iii) for adult females 15-45: malaria, injuries, and maternity-
related problems, i.e., complications of delivery and abortion; and (iv)
for males and females over 45: cardiovascular, degenerative and respiratory
diseases. Over 25 percent of hospital admissions are for delivery or



-3-
abortion: at Harare Hospital in 1984, for example, these two conditions
combined were the main reason for admission, with 24,000 and 2,000 patients
respectively. Malnutrition also remains a significant problem, but the
situation has improved recently despite the drought. According to the
results of the 1984 WHO-assisted Primary Health Care (PHC) Evaluation, 16
percent of children aged 12-59 months were malnourished, compared to 29
percent of the same age group who were suffering from second or third
degree malnutrition according to the much larger Ministry of Health (MB)
and United Nations' Children's Fund (UNICEF) survey of 1980.
2.04      Two main themes emerge from the above picture of the present
health status of Zimbabweans. First, even though a considerable amount has
been achieved since Independence in providing appropriate services to
address the existing health problems (para. 2.23), much of the prevailing
ill-health could still be effectively addressed through preventive and
relatively simple curative health interventions. And second, a substantial
proportion of the workload of the health services is still fertility-
related. This is hardly surprising in that women in the reproductive age
group and children under 15 years of age account for 67 percent of the
total population.                                                                (
B. Population Policy and Activities
2.05      Population Policy.  The Government does not have a formal,
published document outlining its policies towards population issues, but it
strongly supports many elements of a population program. About 60 percent
of the FP work is carried out by the Zimbabwe National Family Planning
Council (ZNFPC), which used to be a non-government organization (NGO) but
became a parastatal organization under the NH in September 1985. The
Secretary for Health is Chairman of the ZNFPC Board. The provision of FP
services is now regarded by the Government as an essential part of maternal
and child health (MCH) care, and it is governmental policy for FP services
also to be made available through all health facilities. In the long-run,
indeed, the health services will bear a major responsibility for the
delivery of FP services. However, the Government wishes the ZNFPC to
remain a major provider of FP services, working in parallel and close
coordination with the health infrastructure. Population education has also
been supported by the Government for several years, and is now provided in
secondary schools and colleges. Pamphlets, fact papers and booklets have
been published through the Ministry of Education, and the ZNFPC supports
the information program for school children through its youth advisory
service (para. 2.07). At the village level, educational and motivational
work is already being undertaken by the educator/distributors of the
community-based contraceptive distribution (CBD) program, as well as to
some extent by health workers.
2.06      The Government has given clear indications of its concern about
the negative effects of rapid population growth. This was confirmed in its
statements at the Second African Population Conference held in Tanzania in
January 1984, and at the International Conference on Population held in
Mexico in August 1984. In October 1985 the Prime Minister of Zimbabwe was
one of the world leaders to sign a Statement on Population Stabilization
which included the declaration that -the time has come now to recognize the
world-wide necessity to stop population growth within the near future and



-4-
for each country to adopt the necessary policies and programs to do so,
consistent with its own culture and aspirations". Furthermore, even though
the MH suffered severe budget cuts through the drought years, the
Government maintained its financial support to the ZNFPC (covering about
70X of its entire budget and amounting to Z $4.4 million in 1985/86).
2.07      Population Activities.  The ZNFPC has been at the forefront of
population activities in Zimbabwe. Its principal FP outreach mechanism is
the CBD program, with about 600 community-selected educator/distributors
providing education, motivation and contraceptive supplies to clients.
Responsible for about half of all FP services provided, they are now being
_etrained to perfor-2 a small number of MCH functions (including checking
blood pressure, oral rehydration therapy, nutrition educaLion and personal
hygiene education). Cooperation is good between educator/distributors and
health workers. The ZNFPC also operates 28 FP clinics staffed by medical,
nursing and auxiliary health staff, primarily in urban areas.
Contraceptive methods available include pills, injectables on a highly
restricted basis, intra-dterine devices (IUDs), condoms and voluntary
sterilization (predominantly tubal ligation and in Harare only). There are
three FF training courses:  (a) a four-week course (known as the  A
course) for health personnel in all methods of contraception; (b) a
three-week practical course for midwives in IUD insertion; and (c) a
six-week course for educator/distributors. In addition, the ZNFPC has
youth advisors who make presentations in primary schools on family life and
reproductive education, and in secondary schools on FP too. These services
are available in all provinces, in both urban and rural areas. A
comprehensive IEC strategy is being implemented by the ZNFPC, and planning
has started to strengthen the IEC component of the FP training course for
health personnel. Finally, the Evaluation and Research Unit of the ZNFPC
has recently been established with the assistance of a long-term expatriate
advisor. It is compiling systematic data about ZNFPC programs and their
impact, it is revising the FP information system particularly to include
data from health workers, and it is conducting FP-related operational
research.
2.08      External support for population activities has come from the
United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and to a lesser
extent from other agencies such as the United Nations' Fund for Population
Activities (UNFPA). USAID authorized a US $8.5 million grant in 1982 for
the ZNFPC to set up the IEC and Research and Evaluation Units; expand the
CBD and training programs and youth advisory service; strengthen the
medical/clinical program; and improve its management. Under an amendment
to the project agreed in mid-1985, an additional US $10 million was made
available to continue support for the ongoing activities of the ZNFPC to
1990, to fund (on a declining basis) supplies of contraceptives, and to
enable the ZNFPC to expand its service delivery and information work with
the private sector. The UNFPA has also provided the ZNFPC with
contraceptive supplies, and is supporting analysis of the 1982 census
results, the establishment of a Population and Development Unit in the
Central Statistical Office, demographic training at the University of
Zimbabwe and technical assistance to the MR in the area of MCH/FP (para.
2.16).



-5-
2.09      Zimbabwe's FP achievements are already very impressive.
According to the 1984 survey, the national contraceptive prevalence rate
almost doubled from about 14 percent at Independence to 27 percent (39
percent urban and 20 percent rural) four years later. If traditional as
well as modern contraceptive methods are included, the prevalence rate was
39 percent (46 percent urban and 34 percent rural) in 1984. Almost
two-thirds of Zimbabwean women currently in union and aged 15-49 years have
used at least one FP method, and almost half have used at least one modern
method. While the FP information system used to be weak and has only
recently begun to be strengthened, the available service delivery figures
show an increase of contraceptive users from 50,000 in 1982 to 275,000 in
1984. In addition, FP continuation rates compare favorably with other
programs e'lsewhere: about 50 percent of women accepting oral
contraceptives continue to use them for at least two years, and about 40
percent continue for at least three years.
2.10      But the data also point to outstanding needs.  First, there is
unmet potential demand for FP services. In contrast to the 27 percent
contraceptive prevalence rate, around 70 percent of women currently in
union indicate potential demand for FP as they either wish to limit their
family size (25 percent) or delay their next pregnancy for at least a year
(44 percent). One important factor constraining the program is the limited
available contraceptive method mix: nearly 90 percent of FP acceptors are
relying on oral contraceptives. The survey results also show that
two-thirds of women not presently using a contraceptive method would like
to do so in the future; and the most frequent recommendation made by FP
users to the survey interviewers was the need to increase the number of FP
outlets and staff delivering contraceptive services. Second, improved
information and/or services need to be made available particularly to those
groups for whom pregnancies constitute a major health risk: women aged
over 35 years, women who have already had four births, mothers whose
youngest child is less than two years old, and teenagers. As an example of
the problem, the survey data reveal that about a quarter of ever-pregnant
women had their first pregnancy before age 18.  Of women in the 15-19 year
age group, about one-third had had at least one pregnancy; and among those
who had ever been pregnant, 70 percent had become pregnant before their
eighteenth birthday. Third, there is a need for greater educational
efforts, especially directed towards men. While 94 percent and 84 percent
of urban and rural women respectively are knowledgeable about oral
contraceptives, and while there is almost universal approval among these
women about FP, a significant proportion (about 20 percent) believe that
their spouse disapproves of FP. This is especially disconcerting because
over 40 percent of women think that the man has sole responsibility to
decide whether a couple should use a contraceptive. It will be possible to
see the extent to which these attitudes and practices are changing after a
second contraceptive prevalence survey (planned for 1988) has been carried
out.
C. Health Policy and Services
2.11      Health Policy.  The Government of Zimbabwe has fundamentally
altered the health policy of the pre-Independence period, when the health
services were largely curative and urban based. In 1984 the Government
published its White Paper au health policy, entitled 'Planning for Equity
in Health. This document advocates the adoption of the PHC approach,



-6-
whose key components are appropriateness, accessibility, affordability and
acceptability of the care provided. The Government has also prepared a
supplementary policy document which specifically recognizes FP as a crucial
and critical component of MCH. It is now government policy for all
contraceptive methods (with the exception of injectables) to be offered
through the health system, to complement the ongoing services provided by
the ZNFPC.
2.12      Organization and Management.  Organizational and management
changes have become critical to the reorientation of the health services.
Historically, Zimbabwe's various health care providers--the NH, missions,
private practitioners, industries and mines, local councils and
municipalities--operated independently, although most of them received some
support from the Government. The organizational structure was not capable
of achieving the new Government's objectives of redressing inequities and
of increasing emphasis on preventive interventions, and various changes
have begun to be made. At the district level, an entirely new structure is
being created with the establishmenc of a district health service authority
under the MH in each of the 55 districts (Chart 1). Each authority has two
main functions: (i) to support, supervise and upgrade PEC activities in
the entire district, and (ii) to supervise the provision of district
hospital care, mainly for patients referred from the peripheral
facilities. Each district health service authority will comprise a
district medical officer, district nursing officer (assisted by a
community health sister), district environmental health officer, district
pharmacist and district health service administrator.  So far, however,
most authorities consist of only the first three officers. Under the new
system, the local authorities (district councils) are to be responsible for
the administra-tion of peripheral health facilities though financially
supported by the MH, and already two-thirds of ru.al health centers are
operated by them. Most districts have a district health team which
comprises members of the district health service authority, local council
officials and representatives from other ministries and NGOs.
2.13      This new structure will enable the health services to operate
more efficiently through the integration of the various service providers
and through the introduction of decentralized control. However, for this
to be achieved, there are certain management problems to be overcome.
First, the members of the district health service authorities typically
lack training or experience in planning and evaluation techniques. Second,
there is a need for improved coordination between staff of the district
health service authorities and district councils. Third, while staff
shortages are a general constraint for service development (para. 2.20),
there is a particular need to start training personnel for the new posts of
district health service administrators. Fourth, there is inadequate
supervision of peripheral health workers. Some of the factors accounting
for this include inadequate job descriptions, lack of supervisory norms and
guidelines, lack of supervisory skills and delegated authority, and
shortages of transport. Fifth, the district referral system often fails to
operate effectively not only due to inadequate facilities, transport,
communications and equipment (para. 2.18), but also due to lack of
standardized referral criteria. Sixth, in contrast to the efficient supply
and distribution of contraceptives (which are managed by the ZNFPC), drugs
are poorly managed in some districts, leading to shortages, loss and



-7-
wastage. And finally, the health information system is operated
differently among districrts and needs to be unified and strengthened.
2.14      The provincial level health structure is similar to that at the
district level, but with certain extra specialists (such as provincial
health education officers). The number of provincial offices has been
increased from five to eight so that each province now has its own
authority, and with the decentralization of services to the local level
these authorities are now better able to carry out their functions of
supervising the health services in their respective provinces. However,
they too lack planning and maaagement skills, not only for their provincial
level work but also for their support of planning and management at the
district level. They require more expertise in such areas as management
training, operational research and development of management support
systems.
2.15      The MH headquarters has been enlarged and reorganized several
times since Independence. The present organizational structure (Chart 2)
has the Secretary for Health assisted by four Deputy Secretaries -- for
Rural Health Services, Hospital Administration and Paramedical Services,
Administration and Finance, and Psychiatric Services. In practice,
however, the ministry has neither axr, appropriate structure nor sufficient
staff to carry out its new role of supporting the expanded and
decentralized peripheral health services. The weaknesses are most obvious
in the areas of MCH/FP management and evaluation, health management
development, planning and manpower development.
2.16      For some time the ministry has been aware of its management
problems and it has prepared a new organizational struct_Ure (Chart 3).
Under this, the MCH/FP Unit will be responsible for the planning,
organization, implempntation, coordination and evaluation of all MCH-0IP
activities and programs at the national level. However, the Evaluation and
Research Unit of the ZNFPC will continue to focus on FP evaluation and
research in keeping with the Council's overall role, and will also provide
data processing support for the MH. At present the MCH/FP Unit has only
two positions, one of which is filled by a ZNFPC staff member, and an
advisor funded by UNFPA and recruited by the World Health Organization
(WHO). As part of the proposed restructuring of the ministry, a new
position of Director, Family Health Services will be added to be
responsible for overseeing the MCH/FP Unit and other related units. The
areas of planning, management development and research will also be brought
together into a single directorate. Manpower development work in the MH
will be under the responsibility of the Department of Health Manpower
Coordination. At present this comprises a single officer, but in the new
organizational structure there are two new posts for a Field Training
Coordinator and a Training Administrator.
2.17      Despite the organizational problems, a number of new management
activities have been started in the MR headquarters. There is currently
one NH professional working part-time on health management development,
assisted part-time by a technical advisor. A WHO-assisted health
management operational research project has been carried out in two
districts, and preliminary work has been done on the development of a
curriculum to train district health service administrators.  The health
information system has also been reviewed several times since Independence,
and the most recent proposed revision to it (developed with WHO technical



-8-
assistance) is currently being tested in another two districts of the
country. Detailed plans have been made to improve pharmaceutical
management and particularly the supply and distribution of drugs through
the development of improved procedures, training and retraining activities
under a project to be supported by WHO and the Danish International Aid
Agency (DANIDA). The MR has also experimented with several different
organizational arrangements for health planning, though at present most
planning work is done by the Physical Planning Unit, the chief of which is
about to retire. This unit is guided by a Planning Pool (chaired by the
Minister and consisting of the Secretary for Health plus the four Deputy
Secretaries, supported by co-opted departmental heads) which meets weekly.
2.18      Facilities.  Zimbabwe has a relatively good network of health
facilities, though many of them need to be upgraded. Since Independence,
there has been a considerable expansion in the number of peripheral health
facilities, in view of the past neglect of the rural areas and the
Government's commitment to re-orient the health services. One-third of the
total number of 648 rural clinics/health centers operated by the Government
have been constructed since 1980, with assistance from the African
Development Fund (ADF), the European Development Fund (EDF) and the Swedish
International Development Agency (SIDA). Most of the clinics damaged in
the liberation war have also been rehabilitated, though about half of the
existing clinics need to be upgraded into health centers to provide a full
range of health and FP services. Accommodation for staff in remote areas
remains a major problem. In addition to these governmental facilities,
another 67 clinics are operated by missions and 151 by industries and
mines. In the rural areas, the referral network of health facilities
consists of 28 district hospitals, 56 rural hospitals and 46 mission
hospitals. The Government has decided to nominate one facility in each of
the 55 districts to be the district's referral center and to provide
appropriate referral services. The hospital facilities in 27 of these
districts are already considered to be adequate; in 26 districts there is
need to upgrade an existing facility, and in two districts there is need to
establish an entirely new facility. The hospitals requiring upgrading
typically have about 80-90 beds each and cater for 3000-4000 inpatients
annually. Inadequate buildings and equipment, lack of transport and poor
commnunications are serious constraints. Nearly half of the MH's allocation
of 407 vehicles are off the road awaiting repair at any given time.
Accommodation for key staff is again a crucial problem in the rural
district centers. In the urban areas there are 50 clinics operated by the
municipal authorities and the higher-level referral facilities which
comprise four central hospitals, 12 general hospitals and 35 other
hospitals (for maternity cases, specialties and industry, etc.).
2.19      Manpower and Training.  An insufficient number and inadequate
training of existing workers are major constraints on the development of
the health services, as the rapid expansion of facilities and the people's
growing expectations have combined to increase substantially the demand for
them. In early 1985 the Government employed only 394 doctors out of a
total of 1250 in the country, though it had taken steps soon after
Independence to increase the supply of new graduates by expanding the
intake of the Medical School of the University of Zimbabwe. The year 1985
saw the first enlarged output (76) from the Medical School, and the
existing doctor situation will ease considerably by the end of the 1980s.



-9-
In 1985 the Government also employed 1932 state registered nurses (SRNs)
out of a total of 5051 registered in the country, but only about one
quarter of them had been trained in FP. The majority of doctors and SRNs
(70 percent) work in urban hospitals.
2.20      Numerically, the most critical cadres in the rural areas include
state certified nurses (SCNs, formerly knowun as medical assistants), state
certified maternity nurses (SCMNs, formerly known as maternity assistants)
and health assistants (HAs). The Government employed a total of about
3,200 SCNs and SCMNs in 1985, but many of these were ex-combatants from the
war who had qualified only through a six-month upgrading program. The
environmental sanitation work done in rural areas depends crucially on the
HAs, of whom the Government employed about 300 in 1985. Each health center
is to be staffed by two SCN/SCMNs, a nurse aide and one HA, though many
health centers at present have only one SCN/SCMN and most have no HA. In
order to increase the supply of new health workers, the Government has
started a program to construct a multi-purpose auxiliary training school in
each of the eight provinces. So far new training schools have been built
at Gweru, Chitungwiza and Bindura; another is under construction at Gwanda;
and plans have been made for schools in Masvingo and Mashonaland West
Provinces, and later in Manicaland and Matabeleland North. The proposed
new schools in Masvingo and Mashonaland West Provinces are due to be funded
by SIDA. In addition, however, there is need to retrain many of the
existing health workers as about 90 percent of SCNs have not been trained
either in midwifery or in FP, though the curriculum for new midwifery
students has recently been revised to incorporate FP training, and the job
description for SCNs/SCMNs is being revised accordingly. Nor have SCNs
been sufficiently trained in management techniques to allow them to fulfill
their responsibilities for running peripheral health services.
2.21      The village health worker (VHW) program was launched in late 1981
and has expanded rapidly. VHWs are selected by their community and receive
12 weeks of training by the MH. They focus on personal and home hygiene,
sanitation, nutrition, preventive health measures, first aid, and
management of minor and common ailments such as childhood gastroenteritis
and common skin infections. At present, the FP work of VHUWs is limited to
the motivation of clients, but the MH has agreed that in future VHWs should
be allowed to resupply pills and to supply condoms. So far about 4,000
VHWs have been trained and are paid by the local authorities. Most VHWs
are supervised by HAs, though some are supervised by SCNs. There have been
three evaluations of this program, the results of which have been
encouraging, but they also showed that VHWs receive inadequate support and
supervision, mainly due to insufficient numbers of health staff and lack of
transport from health centers.
2.22      Traditional medicine still plays a major role in Zimbabwe. Over
11,000 traditional doctors have registered with the Zimbabwe National
Traditional Healers' Association, and the eventual number expected to
register is about 20,000. In addition, there are many traditional birth
attendants, and the ME, supported by UNICEF, has started a program to train
them at rural health centers in safe delivery techniques.



-10-
2.23      Service Delivery.  The quality of health services provided in
Zimbabwe is very good compared to other Sub-Saharan African countries, and
considerable progress has been made since 1980. According to available
statistics, there were about 440,000 hospital admissions, 2,740,000
outpatient cases, and 6,360,000 outpatient attendances in 1984. The report
of the 1984 PHC Evaluation also found that 42 percent of children aged
12-23 months were fully immunized (compared to 25 percent in 1982); 89
percent of mothers had received antenatal care; 80 percent knew of oral
X 'hydration therapy; and 83 percent of children had been weighed at least
tzwice during infancy. These are impressive figures. However, relatively
little FP work is presently carried out in the rural areas by the NH or the
health staff of the local authorities, because of the historic tendency for
FP work to be left to the ZNFPC, poor physical facilities, inadequate job
descriptions and especially lack of training of staff (see para. 2.21).
2.24      In the urban areas, there are municipal council clinics,
hospitals providing back-up referral services, and a growing number of
private doctors. There is also a National Cytology Service to detect early
cases of cervical cancer, but its laboratory work is constrained by lack of
equipment and supplies. FP services are provided at the ZNFPC and council
clinics. Hospital staff offer clinical FP services to private patients and
a small number of doctors have been trained in surgical contraceptive
techniques. The limited number of tubal ligations performed are usually
related to deliveries by Caesarian section or for strict medical
indications to women who already have a large family. Despite official
governmental policy, FP services are not generally available at urban
hospitals either in the postpartum period or on an outpatient basis.
2.25      Special Programs.  The delivery of integrated PHC services is
backed up by a number of specialized programs, such as the expanded program
on immunization, the nutrition program, the rural water and sanitation
program, and control programs against malaria and schistosomiasis. There
is also a health education program, the primary purpose of which is to
provide training and health education inputs to health staff at the
provincial, district and local levels. Within the MH there are two health
education officers, one graphic artist and one WHO-supported advisor, and
health education officers are also posted in the provinces. This program
has been seriously constrained by a lack of materials and inadequate
training of health workers in FP demand generation techniques. There is
also a need to utilize a wider variety of media to emphasize both the
health and the socio-economic benefits of FP. In particular, the MH needs
to launch a systematic radio program to expand on the periodic
health-related presentations now being made.
2.26      Health Expenditures and External Assistance.  Total private and
public outlays for health care amounted to about Z $156 million, or 5.3
percent of GNP, in 1980/81 - a relatively high figure for a developing
country. While the central Government provided 60-65 percent of the
financing of these expenditures, other major sources of finance were
insurance schemes and private individuals. The MR's budget grew very
rapidly in the first two years after Independence, partly reflecting an
actual increase in services provided and partly due to a transfer of
financial responsibility from local governments and missions to the Central
Government. The increase stemmed both from resumption of normal living



-11-
conditions at the end of the war and from the introduction of free services
for most people. The increasing shift of MH expenditures towards rural
areas also clearly reflected the Government's commitment to re-orient
health services. In the following three years, however, when the courtry
was afflicted by drought, the MH recurrent budget was tightly constrained:
whereas it had risen from 6.4 percent of the total government budget in
1979/80 to 7.5 percent in 1980/81 and to 8.8 percent in 1981/82, it fell
back to 5.7 percent, 5.9 percent and 5.8 percent respectively in the next
three years. Although its budget (Z $184 million) for 1985/86 is again up
slightly to 6.6 percent of the total, the MR clearly has severely
constrained resources and needs to maximize the efficiency of its
expenditures while maintaining an appropriate balance between programs.
2.27      Capital expenditures for the MH are mainly included in the budget
of the Ministry of Public Construction and National Housing (MPCNH). At
Independence, the Government gave major priority to the social sectors in
its development program, with the MH accounting for as much as 29.5 percent
of the MPCNH budget (formerly the Ministry of Works) in 1980/81. While
still a large proportion of the total in the next two years (15.5 percent
and 8.0 percent respectively), the allocation to the NH dropped steadily up
to 1984/85 (2.4 percent) and rose only slightly to 4.9 percent (Z $3.4
million) in 1985/86. The trend reflected the Government's early expansion
of the basic health infrastructure, whereas the health investment program
is now primarily focussed on consolidation and upgrading of existing
facilities.
2.28      External assistance to the health sector has been provided by
several agencies. Bilateral donors have included SIDA (expanded program of
immunization, nutrition program, VEW training, manpower development, clinic
construction and housing, rehabil'itation, planning and evaluation); USAID
(clinic rehabilitation and construction, medical stores, manpower
development, and upgrading of Binga Hospital,; the Overseas Development
Administration, ODA (technical assistance); INORAD (water and sanitation);
Gesellschaft Fuer Technische Zusammenarbeit, GTZ (water and sanitation);
DANIDA (pharmaceutical management, and water and sanitation); the Italian
Government (technical assistance, vehicles and equipment, and upgrading
Chinhoyi Hospital and St. Michael's Hospital); the French Government
(equipment and equipment maintenance); and the Japanese Government
(equipment). Support from multilateral agencies has included the EDF
(clinic construction, and water and sanitation); WHO (technical assistance
and manpower development); and UNICEF (equipment, expanded program on
immunization and VHW training). WHO Is also planning to strengthen the
recently-established regional health development center located in Harare,
but it is unclear what resources would be available there to assist the MH.
2.29      Health Financing.  Before September 1980 there was a sliding fee
scale based on income at all public health facilities. After then,
inpatient and outpatient treatment (and also contraceptive supplies) have
been available free to those earning less than Z$150 a month. Since
1980/81 the income from fees has been in the range of 2.2-2.8 percent of MH
actual expenditure (in contrast to 5-6 percent annually in the period
1975/76-1979/80). However, the Government has already taken steps to



-12-
improve the financing of the health services: for example, fees for
private patients in government hospitals have been raised several times; a
fee has been introduced at referral facilities for all non-referred
patients; an indicative 15-year financial master plan for the health sector
has been drawn up; and the Government is now considering the possible
introduction of a national health insurance scheme.
D. Sectoral Issues and Role of the Bank
2.30      Since Independence, Zimbabwe has achieved considerable progress
in extending the provision of social services throughout the country. In
contrast to the country's historical legacy of a health service with a
largely curative and urban orientation, the Government of Zimbabwe in the
last five years has emphasized the establishment of preventive health
programs and peripheral health facilities. Equally impressive has been the
firm commitment and support shown by the Government towards the country's
FP program, which has rapidly become the most successful in the whole of
Sub-Saharan Africa. But these accomplishments have also created new
challenges and needs. First, many of the remaining health problems in the
country are still fertility-related. This is evident not only in the rural
areas of the country, but also in the urban areas where lack of FP services
remains a serious problem. Second, despite its successes, the ongoing Fl-
program relies primarily on a single method of contraception and on the
work carried out by the ZNFPC. In order both to expand coverage and also
to widen the available contraceptive method-mix, FP services provided
through the health system need to be strengthened considerably. And third,
the expansion of the health services has accentuated the need for improved
support for the primary services especially from the district level, and
also for their better management. This is especially important in view of
the tight fiscal position of the Government and the need to operate such
services as efficiently as possible.
2.31      To tackle these problems, several issues need to be addressed.
Prominent among these are: (i) how to ensure that all existing unmet
demand for FP is met? (ii) how to retrain health workers to deal with the
main outstanding family health problems? (iii) how to ensure that health
workers generate demand for MCH and FP services, and that the work of the
Health Education Unit of the MH is coordinated with that of the IEC Unit of
the ZNFPC? (iv) how to strengthen the secondary level of health care,
despite the physical, manpower, management and financial constraints facing
the NE? (v) how to ensure that services are managed as efficiently as
possible? and (vi) how to strengthen the MH headquarters to enable it to
carry out its expanded responsibilities?
2.32      The Bank's strategy in Zimbabwe is to assist the Government in
addressing the above issues within the Government's overall objective of
growth with equity. So far the Bank has not directly supported family
health in Zimbabwe, although an ongnirg urban project (Loan 2445-ZIM) is
presently supporting the construction of five MCH/FP clinics in four cities



-13-
of the country. The population, health and nutrition sector report (number
4214-ZIK, dated June 17, 1983) formed the basis of a request from the
Government for Bank assistance. During project preparation and assisted by
the Bank, the Government developed its policy regarding the provision of FP
services in urban areas and carried out its stated commitment to involve
district representatives in the planning process. The crucial role to be
played by the MH headquarters in the implementation of the project also
focussed attention on institutional problems within the ministry and on the
need for structural changes. Finally, review of the most appropriate
project financing arrangements attracted the interest of other external
agencies in considering cofinancing support on grant terms.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Design
3.01      The objectives of the proposed project are:
iCi, to increase the availability and use of FP services;
(ii)  to improve the health status particularly of mothers and
children; and
(iii)  to strengthen the Government's institutional capacity to plan,
manage and evaluate MCH/FP services.
3.02      To achieve these objectives, the project would support activities
at the national level and in eight selected pilot districts of the
country. The national activities would comprise: management
strengthening; FP and health training; urban FP services; and information,
education and comu-nications in health and FP. The district activities
would fccus on strengthening district level referral and peripheral
services. The criterion for selecting one pilot district per province was
the existence of an inadequate referral system. Priority was also given to
remote, underserved areas. The selection of the districts was done by MH
headquarters staff in consultation with provincial staff. The selected
districts are: Beitbridge (Matabeleland South), Gokwe (Midlands), Karoi
(Mashonaland West), Mutoko (Masonaland East), Ndanga (Masvingo), Nyanga
(Manicaland), Pfura (Mashonaland Central) and Tsholotsho (Matabeleland
North). Four of these districts (Beitbridge, Gokwe, Karoi and Tsholo_sho)
cover very remote parts of the country. The locations of all the districts
are shown on the attached map (No. 18695). Their combined population size
in mid-1985 was about one million or 12 percent of the country's total
population. The detailed project design work for these individual
districts was done by MH, ZNFPC, provincial and district health staff.
3.03      The Government has chosen six service delivery indicators for the
selected districts, and has set objectives based on estimates of present
performance derived from recent surveys. Average targets for these
objectives are to raise the contraceptive prevalence rate from about 20



-14-
percent to about 50 percent; imm-nization coverage from about 40 percent to
about 80 percent; antenatal care from about 50 percent to about 90 percent;
attended deliveries from about 50 percent to 75 percent; growth monitoring
of children (and related nutrition education) from about 30 percent to
about 70 percent; and the use of oral rehydration therapy from about 40
percent to about 60 percent. In addition, the Government has chosen
targets for three process indicators. These are to train all the nurses 'r
these districts in FP (presently about 20 percent are trained); to raise
the proportion of VHWs supervised at least twice per month from about 10
percent to about 80 percent; and to ensure that all rural health centers
are supervised by a community sister (presently about 50 percent of them
are supervised). The individual district targets and the definitions of
the indicators are given in Annex 1 Table 1.05.
3.04      It is commendable that the Government has set objectives against
which progress in the field of family health can be monitored. These
indicative targets are acceptable to the Bank and the proposed project is
designed to assist the Government in moving towards them. In order to
validate and if necessary revise these objectives, a baseline survey would
be conducted prior to project commencement. In addition, a second survey
would be carried out in the third year of the project, and the targets
would again be reviewed and revised if appropriate (para. 5.11).
B. Summary Description
3.05      The project, to be implemented over a five-year period starting
January 1, 1987, would consist of the following components (of which the
costs given below are base costs only):
(i) Management Strengthening (US $3.9 Million). Support to the MH at
the national, provincial and district levels for the management
of health/family planning and manpower development/training
activities through long-term and short-term, foreign and local
technical assistance; training fellowships and study tours; local
pre-service and in-service training courses; salaries and
allowances of 12 incremental staff; operational research and
evaluation studies; provision of vehicles, equipment and
supplies; and support for lCH/FP innovative activities.
(ii)  Training (US $3.1 Million).  Assistance to the MH for training
about 2,820 health workers in FP, about 1,790 health workers in
midwifery, and the development of MCH-related in-service
training; the construction, furnishing and equipping of eight
district-level training facilities; and support for training
courses and workshops at the national, provincial and district
levels.
(iii)  Urban Family Plannng Services (US $0.4 Million).  Support for
the introduction/strengthening of FP services (including surgical
contraception) at 22 urban hospitals, through training activities
and the provision of equipment; and support for the expansion of
laboratory diagnostic services through provision of equipment and
supplies.



-15-
(iv)  Iuformation, Education and Co mmunications (US $1.9 Million).
Support to the NH for the establishment of a small audio-visual
and graphic mterials production unit; foreign and local
technical assistance; equipment and vehicles; FP/IEC training;
production of IEC and health education materials and mass media
programs; surveys and evaluation activities; and support for IEC
innovative activities.
(v)  Strengthening of District Referral Services (US $22.8 Million).
Support for strengthening health and FP services in eight
selected district hospitals through training and provision of
equipment; upgrading and re-equipping these district hospitals
together with construction/renovation of accommodation for key
staff; salaries and allowances of 326 incremental staff; and
provision of equipment, supplies and vehicles, and their
operating costs.
(vi)  Strengthening of Peripheral Services (US $7.0 Million).
Upgrading and re-equipping of 82 health centers and 20 NGO MCH/FP
facilities in the eight selected districts; essential
accommodation for district outreach workers and health center
staff; salaries and allowances for 195 incremental staff; and
provision of equipment, supplies and vehicles, and their
operating costs.
(vii) Project Management (US $0.4 Million). Provision for 6 extra MH
staff and a vehicle needed to manage the project.
C. Detailed Description
Management Strengthening
3.06      This component would aim to strengthen the management of health
and FP services at the national, provincial and district levels. At the
national level, the project would enable the NH to carry out its new role
of supporting the expanded and decentralized peripheral health and FP
services (paras. 2.15 - 2.17). In particular the project would provide
support for MCH/FP management, health management development, planning and
manpower development activities.
3.07      Strengthening the institutional capacity of the MH in the area of
NCR/FP is crucial. In the past the MCH/FP Unit of the MH was responsible
for the planning, organization, coordination and evaluation of all MCH
activities and prograsm at the national level; for providing supervisory
support for MCH activities; for liaison with other ministries; and for NCH
related policy and research work. However, despite the valuable technical
assistance provided by UNFPA/IWHO (para. 2.16), the staffing of the MCH/FP
Unit has been inadequate even for the above functions, and the situation
has been made more critical by the need to carry out the Government's new
policy that FP services should be offered within MCh at all health
facilities (para. 2.11). The staffing situation would also need to be
improved in order for the proposed project to be implemented efficiently.
Therefore, a condition of project effectiveness would be that the two posts
of head of the MCR/PP Unit and nCR/FP officer would have been filled by the
HE (para. 7.01a).



-16-
3.08      The project would support MCH/FP management by financing 18
months of foreign short-term consultancies and 18 months of local
short-term consultancies in MCH/FP planning, research and evaluation. The
consultants would be selected by the Head of the MCH/FP Unit together with
the Director, Family Health. The project would also finance the purchase
of office equipment and one vehicle for the use of the MCH/FP Unit, four
study tours to other countries and three short-term training courses (of
three months duration each) overseas. The study tours would enable MH
headquarters staff responsible for MCH/FP management activities to visit
successful MCH/FP programs, consult with technical experts and evaluate
MCH/FP training programs; and the short-term courses would provide
management skills to officials working in MCH/FP. Funds would be provided
to cofinance with USAID the proposed follow-up contraceptive prevalence/
reproductive health survey planned for 1988 (para. 2.10). Support would
also be made available for MCH/FP innovative activities which focus on more
effective and efficient ways of health and FP service provision, especially
through the use of NGOs. Innovative activities could include new outreach
efforts and income-generating activities. Proposals would be drawn up in
conjunction with the district health service authorities in the selected
districts. For programming purposes, an amount of Z $5,000 has been
allocated per district per year -- giving a total amount of Z $25,000 per
district for the duration of the project or Z $200,000 for the eight
districts in total. In addition, the project would sunport MCH/FP
operational research, particularly activities carried out by the Medical
School in conjunction with the MH. More details of the proposed innovative
activities and overational research are shown in Anv.x 5.
3.09      In response to the need of the MH for an appropriately staffed
unit in the ministry headquarters responsible for management development,
the project would support the establishment of a Health Management
Development Unit as part of the new Directorate of Planning, Management and
Research. The responsibilities of this unit would include: reviews of
management procedures, norms and guidelines (including reviews of job
descriptions and supervisory structures particularly at provincial and
district levels); periodic assessments of manageir-.n support systems;
development and carrying out of an explicit plan for management training at
all levels; development of a strategy to link the ongoing WHO-assisted
operational research project in two districts to the operational research
activities in the eight selected districts; development of a capability to
support decentralized planning, particularly in the eight districts; and
identification of additional health management resources at the University
of Zimbabwe and other institutions for use by the MH. To ensure that the
MH has sufficient staff to develop its institutional capability in these
areas, a condition of project effectiveness would be that the Health
Management Development Unit would have been staffed by two counterpart
staff to the health management specialist (para. 7.01b).
3.10      The unit would carry out several types of management training
under the project. It would take the lead in planning and organizing
short-term, in-service management training for the provincial health
service authorities, particularly to enable them to provide in-service
training and technical assistance to the district health service
authorities in the eight selected districts. There would be 12 such
five-day workshops, each for 20 participants, to be carried out during the



-17-
project. A second training responsibility of the unit would be to plan and
organize training in critical management problem areas. Participants in
such training courses would include selected staff at national, provincial
and district levels. Training in some instances would be carried out by
the unit itself, drawing on outside resources as required; in other cases
the unit would arrange for training to be given by other institutions.
Third, the unit would be responsible for carrying out the training program
for 55 district health service administrators. A provisional outline of
this course has already been made, but the final planning of it will be
done by staff of the Health Management Development Unit. During
negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government that the training
program for district health service administrators would be started by
September 30, 1987; that posts for them would be approved by July 1, 1988;
and that a district health service administrator would be appointed to each
of the eight selected districts by September 30, 1988 (para. 7.02 a).
3.11      To assist t'e Health Management Development Unit to plan and
carry out its substantial work program, the proposed project has provision
for a long-tetm management advisor (for three years) with the Director of
Planning, Management and Research as his counterpart. The project would
also finance short-term foreign (30 months) and local (30 months)
consultants to assist in the above tasks. The short-term consultants would
be selected by the professional staff of the Health Managei-ent Development
Unit, together with the Director of Planning, Management and Research. The
project would also finance the purchase of one vehicle for the unit, and a
total of four study-tours and five short-term training courses (of three
months duration each) overseas. During negotiations assurances were
obtained from the Government that the long-term health management
specialist would be recruited by March 31, 1987 (para. 7.02 b).
3.12      The planning section of the MH headquarters would be supported
through a long-term locally recruited consultant (36 months duration), who
would report to the head of that unit. In order to monitor the progress of
the civil works, the project would also support the appointment for four
years of an externally-recruited clerk of works.
3.13      The project would also support the management of training
activities by strengthening the capability of the MH in the area of health
manpower development. Under the new MR organizational structure, the
Directorate of Health Manpower Development will have posts for a Field
Training Coordinator and a Training Administrator, as well as a Director
(para. 2.16). In view of the size and complexity of the training
activities to be supported under the project, it will be crucial for these
posts to be filled by suitably qualified (post-basic training) and
experienced staff. This needs to be done without delay, as the training
activities are due to commence in the first year of the project. Therefore
a condition of project effectiveness would be that the posts of Field
Training Coordinator and Training Administrator would have been filled by
the MH (para. 7.01 c).



-18-
3.14      The project would finance a long-term advisor for a period of two
years to help institutionalize in the MH the capability for the development
and administration of inservice training. Terms of reference have been
prepared and are satisfactory to the Bank. Ten months of short-term
foreign consultancy are also included in the project to strengthen the
capacity of the MH to undertake routine manpower analysis and projections,
and to assist in the production of a manpower plan. This assistance would
also allow the NH to develop a micro-computer program to maintain an
inventory of its health personnel. In addition, the project would provide
for the development of training materials using short-term local
consultants (five months), and for three short-term courses overseas and
four study-tours. The work of the Health Manpower Development Directorate
would also be supported by the financing of one vehicle and office
equipment. During negotiations assurances were obtained from the
Government that the long-term health manpower consultant would be re-:ruited
by March 31, 1987 (para. 7.02 c).
3.15      Provincial Level Management Strengthening.  The provincial health
service authorities lack planning and management skills, not only for their
provincial level work but also for their support to the district level. In
particular, they require more expertise in such areas as management
training, operational research and management support systems, if they are
to support effectively the intensified development of MCH/FP services in
the pilot districts. The project would therefore focus additional
management support at this level, through financing a series of training
workshops at the national and then provincial levels. These would first be
for members of various provincial health service authorities together (two
workshops for 16 participants each in the first year of the project), then
for members of individual provincial authorities (eight workshops in the
second year of the project), and finally for refresher training (two
workshops for 16 participants each in the fourth year of the project). The
above activities are designed to strengthen provincial capability to
support decentralized planning and implementation at the district level in
general. The provincial health service authorities would be responsible
for organizing these training activities with assistance from the Health
Management Development Unit. The project also provides for provision of
one vehicle for each province to strengthen supervision; development of
training materials and operational research; and office equipment and
supplies. A limited number (15) of short-term training opportunities
abroad are also included for selected members of the provincial
authorities. Management areas for study would focus on planning of
operational research, management of training and use of information systems
for planning aad management.
3.16      District Level Management Training.  Indicative five-year plans
have already been made for the strengthening of health and FP service
delivery in the eight selected districts, and the Government is already
working on the detailed annual plans for 1986/87. The project would
support the training of 55 district health service administrators
(para. 2.13) and the salaries of eight of them after training. However, in
order to strengthen further planning, management and evaluation
capabilities in the eight pilot districts, additional management training



-19-
and support would be needed for other members of the district health
service authorities. The training wouLd be organized by members of the
provincial health service authorities, in collaboration with the EH Health
Management Development Unit and the district health service authorities
themselves. The t?.ainiug workshops would be held early in the second year
of the project, after the inservice training of the provincial health
service authorities in the first year. These workshops would be followed
by additional management training for members and staff of the district
councils in the! pilot districts. Specifically the project wor, fund three
workshops for 18 participants in the second and fourth years of the
project. To assist with these training activities, the project would also
fund some local operational research and supplies, and the preparation of
the management training materials. As a result of these training
activities, and with support from the Health Management Development Unit,
the eight district health service authorities would be able to build upon
the initial planning work already done for their districts and make
progressively more detailed annual plans (including training activities).
They would also be better able to set district-specific targets and monitor
progress made towards attaining them. Assurances were obtained from the
Government during negotiations that the annual district plans (including
training  activities) for the selected districts would be completed by
March 31st, prior to the start of each fiscal year, and then made available
to the Bank for review and comment (para. 7.02 d).
Training
3.17      The training component of the proposed project has three
objectives. The first objective is to strengthen the capacity of the
Government to provide FP services by training a total of 2,820 health
personnel in clinical and demand generation aspects of FP. This would
involve: (i) the training of 16 (i.e., two per district) institutionally-
based nurse tutors to become master-trainers who would then provide FP
training to SCNs/SCMNs; (ii) the initial use of temporary rented training
facilities and the development of one training center in each of the eight
selected districts so that approximately 240 SCNs/F8MNs drawn from
throughout each province could be trained in each district (30 for each of
the first two years of the project, and then 60 annually for each of the
last three years) through courses of four weeks' duration; and (iii) the
continued FP training of both nurse tutors and other nursing personnel (150
annually) at the Harare and Bulawayo training centers of the ZNFPC. The
details of the phasing of the training are shown in Annex 4. These
training activities would be managed primarily by the newly created
Directorate of Health Manpower Development in the MH, and by the provincial
and district nursing officers. The midwifery curriculum for new SCMNs has
already been revised to include FP (para. 2.20), and the IEC component in
the FP "A" training course is being revised (para. 2.07). During
negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government that the "A
course FP curriculum revision, satisfactory to the Bank, would be completed
by March 31, 1987 (para. 7.02 e).



-20-
3.18      To achieve these objectives the project would finance the
construction, furnishing and equipping of the eight district training
centers, each of which would have a capacity for 15-2v students at any one
time. In order for the FP and in-service training to conmmnce prior to the
construction of the new facilities, funds would also be provided for the
rental cf the temporary training sites. The project would also support the
other costs (subsistence, travel and supplies) of the FP training.
3.19      The second training objective is to strengthen the capacity of
the Government to provide comprehensive MCH/FP services by retraining a
total of 1,790 SCNs in midwifery. In addition to having been trained in
FP, these nurses would therefore be able to provide a full range of
services for mothers and children during a single visit to a health
center. The midwifery retraining program would require the use of the
existing training facilities, and part of the capacity of the planned new
multi-purpose auxiliary training schools (para. 2.20). The annual numbers
to be retrained would rise from 245 in the first year of the project to 400
in che final year of the project. The details of the phasing of the
training are shown in Annex 4. These training activities would again be
managed primarily by the Directorate of Health Manpower Development,
together with provincial and district nursing officers. In view of the
anticipated construction of two new multi-purpose health auxiliary training
schools with funds from SIDA, no provision has been made for these in the
project. However, the Government has confirmed that funds are available
for two new multi-purpose auxiliary health training schools, in addition to
those now being built at Gwanda and Bindura.
3.20      The third training objective is to support a variety of
MCH/FP-related inservice training activities for nurses and outreach
workers. First, a series of workshops (one national and eight provincial
annually) would be held on the implementation of the new governmental
MCH/FP policy. This would ensure that a uniform strategy is adopted for
the integration of FP services in all MCH work. Then, based on data
arising from the baseline survey (para. 3.04) and locally perceived
community problems, the pilot districts would carry out local training
activities directed at particular MCH (including nutrition) problems.
Although the focus of these training activities would be on the eight
selected districts, the train'ng curricula, methodologies and materials
developed for these activities would later be used in other districts.
These training activities wouid take place at the eight new training
centers; and they would be planned largely by the district nursing officers
in conjunction with other members of the district health teams, and staff
from the provincial health service authorities and MH headquarters
(particularly the MCH/FP Unit, the Health Management Development Unit and
the Health Manpower Development Directorate). Detailed programming of
training activities would be included in the annual district plans
(para. 3.16). Support would be provided through the project for five
inservice training programs per district, each of five days' duration and
for ten participants. In addition, honoraria would be made available for
local resource personnel from the University and other institutions to
assist with the training. It would also fund supplies of training
materials for district and provincial-level training schools, and the
series of national, provincial and district-level MCH/FP workshops.



-21-
3.21      The Government is already revising the job description for VHWs
to reflect the new MH policy that they should be allowed to supply condoms
and contraceptive pills to existing clients (para. 2.21). Of particular
importance would be their retraining to enable them to carry out their new
functions. This would be done at the existing VHW training centers, and
within the context of the ongoing UNICEF-assisted program. Each of the
pilot districts has an average of about 100 VHWs, who would be retrained in
FP during the first two years of the project.
3.22      With UNICEF assistance, the Government has already started to
retrain traditional birth attendants in certain parts of the country, and
this would be extended to the pilot districts under the proposed project.
The traditional birth attendants' role in FP would be to motivate and refer
new clients and current users, and the retraining of traditional birth
attendants would continue to be carried out at the health centers by SCNs/
SCMNs. Most of the retraining in the pilot districts would be done in the
second and third years of the project, after the SCNs have themselves been
retrained in FP. The management of these retraining activities for
traditional birth attendants would also be the responsibility of the
district nursing officers in the pilot districts.
Urban Family Planning Services
3.23      The project would support the strengthening of urban FP services
to widen their availability and to ensure that all urban hospitals offer
the full range of FP methods (para. 2.24). At least two nurses at each
of 22 urban hospitals would be trained in non-surgical methods of
contraception, including IUD insertion; and at least two doctors from each
of the hospitals would be trained in surgical contraceptive techniques.
The former training would be carried out by the ZNFPC, while the latter
would be done in the first two years of the project under the Johns Hopkins
Program for International Education in Gynecology and Obstetrics
(JHPIEGO). The 22 urban hospitals would also be provided with equipment
for surgical contraception and IUD insertion, and contraceptive supplies.
Eighteen of these hospitals would receive laparoscopes as well as
minilaparotomy kits for tubal ligation. The IEC program (paras. 3.24 -
3.28) would ensure that the public would be made aware of the availability
of the services. In addition, laboratory services would be strengthened
through the provision of supplies and equipment to the National Cytology
Service. At present about 25,000 diagnostic smears are reviewed at these
laboratories annually: the target would be to review 200,000 smears
annually by the end of the project period.
Information, Education and Communications
3.24      The project would build on the ongoing successful IEC work of the
ZNFPC (para. 2.07) by expanding the use of mass media in support of the FP
and MCH objectives of the project, and by developing interpersonal
communication through health workers. The project would provide support
both to the IEC Unit of the ZNFPC to finance selected program areas so far
unfunded, and also to the Health Education Unit to strengthen MCH/FP
efforts.



-%2-
3.25      The mass media strategies and primary targets to be reached by
the activities of the ZNFPC IEC Unit are: the rural poor, especially men
and youth, through the use of rural cinema spot advertisements; and
national and provincial leaders, through television documentaries and
discussion programs. Specifically, the project would finance the expanded
use of mass media in support of FP/IEC, through the use of TV spot rentals
(one weekly), TV documentaries (six annually), production of two cinema
spots and some additional print materials (four booklets on contraceptive
methods and a clinical procedure manual). Television is a medium which is
growing in popularity in Zimbabwe and which reaches groups whose support
for FP is most important. Rural cinema attendance is very large, with a
recent survey showing that over 500,000 adults had seen a film in the
previous ten weeks. The ZNFPC Research and Evaluation Unit would assist
the ZNFPC IEC Unit in evaluating the impact of the IEC mass media program,
and support for the studies would be included in the project. In addition,
the project would fund two short (six-month duration) overseas training
courses for IEC staff at the ZNFPC, and a variety of seminars for official
and informal leaders. Innovative IEC activities would be supported to
focus on hard-to-reach groups including minorities, males ad youths.
Support would also be provided to women's groups, and for efforts to work
with traditional birth attendants and traditional doctors (through the
Traditional Healers' Association), who could assist in promoting FP.
3.26      Mass media work by the Health Education Unit would also be
supported through the project. Specifically, the project would finance
radio programming (two 15-minute slots per week) aimed at the rural
population, and periodic research and evaluation studies of the program's
impact. However, the development of interpersonal ccmmumication would be a
particularly crucial component of the comprehensive IEC program. This
would be done by providing IEC training and materials to health staff and
outreach workers, including VHWs and traditional birth attendants. In
addition to the 'A' course FP curriculum being revised to include a
stronger IEC component (para. 2.07), the project would support four
workshops (one per year) designed to strengthen the quality of health and
nutrition education planning, rese.'rch and evaluation work carried out by
the provincial and selected district health staff. These workshops would
complement those financed under the management and training components of
the project. The project would also finance the purchase of audio-visual
equipment and supplies for the use of the provincial health education
officers to support demand generation work especially in the eight selected
districts.
3.27      In addition, the project would support the creation of a small
audio-visual and graphics materials production facility to produce MCH/FP
print and audio-visual materials for service providers. This facility
would be staffed and managed by the Health Education Unit, though it would
be located at the ZNFPC in view of the lack of appropriate space at the MH
headquarters. It is anticipated that the Health Education Unit would
utilize about 60 percent of the materials produced with about 40 percent
being utilized by the ZNFPC. A usage protocol would be drawn up jointly by
the MH and ZNFPC. During negotiations assurances were obtained from the
Government that a usage protocol for the materials production facility
would be drawn up for Bank review and comment by March 31, 1987; and also
that a health education officer and a graphic artist would be transferred
by the MH to the materials production facility by then (para. 7.02 f).



-23-
3.28      To support the work and management of the materials production
facility, the Health Education Unit would need long-term and short-term
foreign technical assistance. The long-term materials production
specialist would be funded for three years; and the short-term equipment
consultant would be funded for two months in the first year of the project
and for one month annually thereafter. Terms of reference, satisfactory to
the Bank, have been developed for these positions. In view of the limited
capacity of the materials production facility, the project would also
provide for the purchase of extra print materials and the production of
manuals and four booklets. In addition, the project would fund
locally-recruited consultants (12 months) and two vehicles for field
testing the materials. During negotiations assurances were obtained from
the Government that the long-term materials production specialist would be
recruited by March 31, 1987 (para. 7.02 g).
Strengthening District Referral Services
3.29      The district hospital is the pivotal point in each district for
both the supervision of primary health and FP services, and also for the
referral of patients needing secondary care. A full range of FP services,
including surgical sterilization, should also be available there.
Initially IUD insertions would be limited to hospitals, because of the high
prevalence of pelvic inflammatory disease which. can be exacerbated by IUD
use. However, the MR will consider extending the availability of IUDs to
health centers in due course, after the experience at the district
hospitals has been reviewed.
3.30      The project would support strengthening health and FP services in
the eight selected districts by upgrading the existing district hospitals.
Emphasis in the upgradings would be placed on ensuring: (i) that there are
adequate facilities for the provision of comprehensive MCH/FP care,
including voluntary surgical contraception; (ii) that there are appropriate
support facilities, including offices, laboratory and X-ray facilities,
kitchens, laundries and stores for drugs and contraceptives, etc.; and
(iii) that the buildings and external works (drains, water supplies and
electricity) are safe and functional. The MH has a target of 140 beds for
each district hospital, but it will carry out an analysis of the
appropriate standards of service provision. This would help to ensure that
an appropriate balance of resources is maintained between the primary and
secondary levels.  In addition to upgrading, furnishing and re-equipping
the hospital buildings, accommodation would be provided for key staff whose
presence near the hospital is essential. Existing accommodation would be
renovated where necessary.
3.31      Besides the physical infrastructural improvements, the component
would provide inputs to address other district-level constraints by
including the salaries and allowances of 326 additional key staff needed to
allow thesz hospitals to function efficiently. These comprise 17
additional doctors, five clinical officers, two district nursing officers,
16 SKNs, 81 SCNs/SCHNs, 54 nurse aides, 14 technical staff and 137 support
staff. The details are shown by district in Annex 1 Table 1.06. Besides
accommodating the new district-level training activities at the hospitals,
at least two doctors at each of the eight district hospitals would be



-24-
trained with the doctors from urban hospitals in surgical contraceptive
techniques (para. 3.23). Nurses would be retrained in FP under the
training component of the project, and at least two of them from each
hospital would also be trained in IUD insertion techniques to enable the
full range of FP services to be offered to clients. The service delivery
improvements would be complemented by the IEC strengthening (paras. 3.24 -
3.28).
Strengthening Peripheral Services
3.32      The project would strengthen MCH/FP services in the periphery
through the training and management components, and through strengthening
the peripheral infrastructure in the eight selected districts. Although
surgical sterilization and initially IUD insertion would be limited to the
district hospitals, ther FP services and MCH care would all be made
available at the hcalth centers in these pilot districts using a
cafetaria' approach, so that clients and patients would not be restricted
to limited times for any of the services. The educator/distributors of the
ZNFFC would also continue to provide FP outreach servic s. Surveys have
shown that a total or 82 existing government clinics and 20 NGO (mainly
mission) facilities in the pilot districts need to be upgraded to provide
the full range of MCR/FP services to be available at rural health centers.
The project would support these upgradings, including the related
furniture, equipment and communications systems, and would also finance the
construction of a limited amount of accommodation to allow three hey staff
to be housed at each clinic facility and for members of the district health
service authorities. The MH has agreed to give priority to these districts
in the allocation of manpower resources, and the project would finance the
costs of the extra staff needed to bring the existing numbers up to
appropriate establishment levels. For the eight selected districtF these
would total 115 SCNs/SCMNs and 80 health assistants (see Annex 1 Table
1.06). Assurances were obtained from the Government during negotiations
that the health centers in the eight selected districts would each be
adequately staffed by at least two SCNs/SCMNs and one health assistant by
June 30, 1989 (para. 7.02 h).
3.33      To improve the supervision of these peripheral services, a
communications system would be provided between the outlying facilities and
the district hospitals. Consideration has been given by the MH and the
Department of Posts and Telecomnmnications to two possible options -- the
use of radios or solar-powered telephones -- and the most appropriate type
of system is now being evaluated. Assurances were obtained from the
Government during negotiations that the detailed planning for the district
communications systems would be completed by March 31, 1987 and reviewed
with the Bank prior to its implementation (para. 7.02 i).
3.34      The project would also strengthen the management and supervision
of the peripheral services by providing the district health service
authorities with one additional vehicle per district. A total of 111
motorbikes would be made available to SCNs/SCMNs and HAs working in the
eight districts in order to improve outreach work and supervision of VHWs
and traditional birth attendants. This scheme would be based on a similar
one already introduced (with Bank support) by the Department of
Agricultural Technical and Extension Services for agricultural extension
workers using the Government's vehicle loan scheme. It would be



-25-
administered by the Central Mechanical Equipment Department (CMED) and
would allow the motorbikes to be sold to health workers through a
three-year loan attracting 9.6 percent annual interest. Loan repayments
would be put into a revolving fund to be used for the purchase of
additional motorbikes. During negotiations assurances were obtained from
the Government that the CMED would admfinister the loans for motorbikes
financed through the project under normal CMED terms (para. 7.02 j).
Project Management
3.35      The project would provide for a Project Coordinator, program
assistant, procurement specialist and accountant to manage the project.
Provision would also be made in the project for their support through
funding a secretary, driver and one vehicle. The Project Coordinator would
report directly to the Secretary for Health, in the context of the new MH
organizational structure. A condition of project effectiveness would be
the appointment of a Project Coordinator, with qualifications and
experience acceptable to the Bank, and a program assistant, procurement
specialist and accountant (para. 7.01 d).
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Costs
4.01      Total costs of the project amount to Z $94.1 million or US $52.6
million equivalent. Base costs are calculated at US $39.5 million
equivalent (75 percent) and contingencies at US $13.1 million equivalent
(25 percent). Foreign exchange costs account for US $11.8 million or 22
percent of total project costs. Taxes and duties are negligible, being
less than one percent of total project costs. Project costs by expenditure
category are summarized in Table 1 below, and details are provided in Annex
3. Capital costs for civil works account for 53 percent of base costs;
furniture, equipment, vehicles, supplies and materials for 15 percent;
technical assistance for 3 percent; training for 6 percent; research and
evaluation, and innovative activities for 1 percent; and incremental
recurrent costs (salaries and allowances; utilities and supplies; building,
equipment and vehicle operation and maintenance) for 21 percent.
4.02      Project costs have been estimated at mid-1985 prices.  Civil
works costs have been estimated on the basis of the value of current MPCNH
contracts for comparable buildings. Furniture and equipment lists and
costings have been drawn up and are being finalized by the MR. Project
costs also include provision for a total of 34 vehicles, at a unit cost of
about US $16,000 (on CIF basis); 75 months of overseas training (at an
average monthly cost of about US $2,500); 180 months of long-term technical
assistance (144 months of foreign technical assistance and 36 months of
locally recruited technical assistance); 60 months of foreign short-term
technical assistance; and 80 months of locally recruited short-term
technical assistance. Incremental salaries, local training costs and
operational and maintenance expenses are based on current government scales
and rates.



-26-
Table 1: PROJECT COSTS BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
FIRST FuNLY IEALTNI PROJ
SU           3 COST AWU
(ZIADE S '0001                                (US$ '000)
Z Total                                    Z Total
Z Foreign BD                               1 Forei5n Base
Loal  Foreign  Total  Exchang   Costs   Local  Foruign  Total  Echane  Costs
_ _   =   ==._
1. INVESTWlT COSTS
A. CIVIL MM                   31i950.7 3,542.7 35,493.4       10     53 189794.5 2,083.9 20,878.5        10     53
B. FtRIITtE                    1,456.6   623.0 2,079.6        30      3    8568   3665  1,223.3          30      3
C. EUIREIDT                     477.2  4,296.1 49763.3       90       7    280.7 2,S21.2 2,802.0         90      7
*. VENICLES                     213.7  1,066.5  1,280.1      83       2    125.7   627.3   753.0         83      2
E. SOUPLIES AND Mm ERIALS      1,121.9 1,119.6 2,241.5       50       3    660.0   658.6 1,318.5         50      3
F. TEIICAL ASSISTANE            200.8  1s710.9  19911.6      B9       3    118.1 1006.4 1s174.5         89      3
B. TRADINIG                    4,291.9       - 4291.9          -      6  2,524.6        - 2,524.6         -      6
H. OVRea   TRAININ
AND STIDY TOWS                   -   354.9   354.9        100      1        -   208.8   208.8        100      1
I. RESEARCH AND
EVALIATION                   582.4      5.5   587.9         1      1    342.6      3.2   345.8         1      1
J. DNWAUTIE ACTIVITIES          301.3        -   301.3         -      0    177.3        -   177.3         -      0
Tota JIESTIENT COSTS            40S96.5 12,709.1 53,305.6       24      79 23,990.3 7r475.9 31,356.2        24     79
Physical Cantingnies          3,307.5   655.2 39962.7         17      6  1,945.6   395.4  2,331.0        17      6
Price Contingencies          13,176.7 2w936.9 16,113.6        19     24  69124.8 1271.4 7,396,2         17     19
Total INCUDDIN CONTINGECIES     57,080.7 16,301.3 73,381.9      22    109 31,950.7 99132.8 41P083.5        22    104
= =  -_    __
II. RECM    CQ5TS
A. SARIES                    3,979.0        - 3978.0         -       6  2r340.0        - 2v340.0         -      6
3. ALLOVMICES                  332.9        -   332.9        -       0    195.8        -   195.8         -      0
C. UTILITIES,SWPPLIES
AND WMJ. EfNrIP            2,165.1   894.1  3s059.1       29      5  19273.6   525.9 1,799.5         29      5
D. BUILDING tAINTBIACE        1,153.7    60.6 1,214,3        5       2    678.7    35.6   714.3         5       2
E. EUIPHENT WNTENANME          280.4   279.8   560.2        50       1    164.9   164.6   329.5         50      1
F. VEICLE OP.                29470.6 2,293.1 4,753.9        48       7  19453.3  19343.0 2,796.3        48      7
Total REftRNBfT COTS            l0380., 3,517.6 13P898.3        25      21  6,106.3  2,069,2 9,175.5       25      21
Physical Contingencies            3.3      3.3     6.6       50       0       1.9     1.9     3.9        50      0
Price Contingenies           5,524.6  1,295.4 6,820.0        19     10  2t743.0   612.9 39356.0         18      8
Total INCUlING CONTINGENCIES    15,908.7  4,816.3 209725.0      23      31  89895.3 2,684.1 11,535.3       23      29
=-                       = = ==t= -                                  _
Total ASELINE COSTS              50,977.2 16P226.7 67U203.9      2A    100 29t986.6 9?545.1 39,531.7        24    100
Physical Contingencis          3,310.8   653.5 3,969.4        17       6  1i947.5   387.4 2,334.9         17      6
Price Contin}encies           18,701.3  4,232.3 22,933.6      18      34  8,867.8 1,984.3 10,752.2        18     27
Total PROJECT COSTS              72,99.3 21,117.6 94,106.9       22    140 40.902.0 11,816.8 52,18.8        22    133
Now 2, 1986 10:57



-27-
4.03      The total project costs include an allowance of US $13.1 million
equivalent for contingencies. Physical contingencies have been assumed at
10 percent for civil works and 5 percent for vehicles and equipment, and
comprise US $2.3 million equivalent or 6 percent of base costs. The
following price contingencies have been included: (i) on foreign exchange
expenditures, 1.3 percent in 1985, 7.2 percent in 1986, 6.8 percent in 1987
and 1988, 7.0 percent in 1989, 7.1 percent in 1990 and 4.0 percent in 1991;
and (ii) on local cost expenditures, 10 percent in 1985, 15 percent in
1986, 12 percent in 1987, 10 percent annually from 1988 to 1990, and 4.5
percent in 1991. Price contingencies account for US $10.8 million
equivalent or 27 percent of base costs.
4.04      The foreign exchange component of US $11.8 million equivalent is
based on estimates of 10 percent for civil works; 30 percent for furniture;
92 percent for equipment; 85 percent for vehicles; 50 percent for supplies
and materials; 82 percent for technical assistance; 100 percent for
overseas training and study tours; and 1 percent for research and
evaluation. The incremental recurrent costs involving foreign exchange (25
percent) mainly cover equipment maintenance and vehicle operation.
4.05      Project costs by functional component are shown in Table 2.
Management strengthening would absorb 10 percent of base costs; training, 8
percent; urban family planning, 1 percent; information, education and
communications, 5 percent; strengthening district-level referral services,
58 percent; and strengthening peripheral services, 18 percent. Project
management would account for 1 percent of base costs.
B. Financing
4.06      Of the total prcoject costs of US$52.6 million, US$27.6 million
(53 percent) would be financed by the Government, US$10.0 million by the
proposed IBRD loan, and US$15.0 million by cofinanciers on grant terms.
The ODA would provide 1.3 million (US$1.8 million equivalent) for most of
the management component of the project, and the Federal Republic of
Germany through the GTZ has approved D.M. 1.9 million (US$0.9 million
equivalent) for most of the IEC component. Additional funding for the IEC
component is anticipated to be approved by the Federal Republic of Germany,
but assurances were obtained from the Government during negotiations that
it would cover any financial shortfall if necessary for this component.
The Netherlands Government would provide Dutch Guilders 4.5 million (US$1.8
million equivalent), to be administered by IBRD, for most of the training
component of the project. The Norwegian Government would provide NOK 80
million (US$10 million equivalent), also to be administered by IBRD, for
parts of the management component (local technical assistance and training
activities, and surveys), the training component (ZNFPC family planning
training courses, furniture for district training centers, and surveys),
IEC component (mass media productions), the district referral system
component (vehicles and furniture), and the peripheral services component
(civil works, equipment, furniture and vehicles). Project costs by
financing source are shown below in Table 3. A condition of project
effectiveness would be that the cofinancing agreements with the Governments
of Norway and the Netherlands, and the GTZ and the ODA, would have been
signed (para. 7.01 e).



-28-
Table 2: PROJECT COSTS BY FUNCTIONAL COMPONENT
ZINIUWI
FIRST FUlLY WEALTH PROJECT
PROJECT COST SEULWY
(ZINMDUE * SQfl)                               (US  '000)
I Total                                    Z Total
Z Forein  Paw                              I hreisn  Pase
Local  Foreign  Total  Exchant   Costs   Local  Foreign  Total  Echanse   Costs
4. NAHAIET  STRENGTHENING
1. HEADA ARTERS                                         295f.6  1P959.5 4,483.0       44       7  1494.5  1t15 .6 2!637.1        44       7
2. VWINCIAL                                               637.5   939.9  1.576.3       60       2    375.0   552.2   927.2         60       2
3. DISTRICT                                               492.9    27.1   520.0         5       1    299.9    15.9   305.9          5       1
9*-Total MANEIWT STREN6lIN6                  3.653.  2,925.3  6,579.3                     44      10  29149.4 19720.8 3i870.2         44      10
5. FAMILY PIrNIS AND WALTH TRAININI                        4.847.0   425.6 5,273.4         9       9  24851.6   250.4 3.10?.0          9       0
C. UWEAN FANII.Y PLANMING                                    144.6   559.9   701.5        79       1     95.1   329.3   414.4         79       1
P. INFOMATION Ev ECTIWN a  COUWNICATIONS
1. DEPt                                                   904.9   680.3  1,485.1       46       2    473.4   400.2   573.6         46       2
. MINISTRY OF HEALTH                                      723.6  1,036.0  1,759.6      59       3    425.7   609.4  1,035.1        59       3
Sub-Total IWEORPATION, DUCATIDN AND COIUWNICATIONS         1.579.4  1,716.3 39244.7       53       5    899.1  19009.6  1,909.7       53      5
E. STRENP6TiEING DISTRICT LEVEL REFRM.t SYSTEM
1. DEITBRID6E                                           4494'.8  1,140.9 59633.7       20       9  2P642.9   671.1  3,313.9        '0       9
2. axJE                                                 3,609.9   P64.1 4,473.1        19       7  2t122.9   509.3 ?.6?1.2          19      7
3. KARDI                                                3,791.6   959.5 40751.1         20      7  2.20.4   564.4  29794.8         20       7
4. illTOKO                                              4,437.7   965.9 5,403.6        la       8  2,610.4   58.2 3,179.6          is       9
5. NUA                                                  3.139.8   743.0 3,892.9        19       6  1,947.0   437.1  2,?24.0         19      &
6. NKYMGA                                               3,297.0   726.9 4,013.9         19      6  1,933.5   427.6  2,361.1        to       6
7. PFIF0                                                4,634.3  1,152.3 5,79b6.6      20       9  2,726.1   677.9  3,403.9        20       9
9. TSHOLOTSMl                                           3,925.5   963.2 4,098.7        20       7  2i309.1  6W.6  2,975.7          20       7
Sub-Total STRENSTHENING DISTRICT LEVEL REFERRAL SYSTEM    31i317.7  7.515.9 39,833.5      19      58 19,42?.1  4u4?1.1 22.943.2       1'      59
F. STRENGTHENIN6 PERIPHERAL SERVICES
1. PEITYRIDE                                              732,4   299.5 14030.9        29       2    430.9   175.6   606.4         2        2
2.GOIIE o:518.1   664-0 3:192.1                                                        21       5  1,481.2   390.6  1,971.P        21       5
3. 1(410!                                               1,24.5   430.9  1,635.3        26       2    709.6   253.4   961.9         26       2
4. IIITOW                                                 597.1   266.7   953.9        31       1    345.3   156.9   502.2         31       1
5. ANGA                                                 1P549.6   400.; 1,950.1        71       3    911.5   235.6 10147.1         21       3
6. NYANA                                                1,035.3   371.5 1I406.8        26       2    609.0   218.5   927.5         26       2
7. PFFRA                                                  597.9   763.7   961.6        31       1    351.7   155.1   506.5         31       1
9. TSHOLOTSHO                                             718.5   294.0 10l7.5         29       2    422.6   172.9   S95.6         2e 
Sub-Total STRBENT ING PERIPHERAL SERVICES                 SW.43.3 2,Y9.7 11t933.0         25      19  5:260.8 1,759.7 7,019.4         25     19
6. PROJECT MANAGEMENT                                        541.5    94.0   635.6        15       1    318.6    55.3   373.9         15      1
Total BASELlNE COSTS                                        50,9m.2 16,226.7 67P203.9       24    100 299986.6 9,545.1 39,531.7         24    100
Phasical Continsencies                                    3,310.8   658.5 3t969.4        17       6  1P947.5   397.4 2,334.9         17      6
Price Contingtncies                                      189701.3  49232.3 229933.6      18      34  9,867.9  1,994.3 10,752.2       18      27
Total PROJECT COSTS                                         72999P.3 21117.6 94:106.9       22    140 40p902.0 11Y916.8 52,619.8        22    133
Na 27D 1996  10:56



-29-
Table 3:  PROJECT COSTS BY FINANCING SOURCE
(US $'OOO)
FwT FY main m
Fineinrn Pan bo Svm rmw  itt
IET-   0  TEOwC no
3NEr         NEnLKM        I.IWIUT            IIIIC         1D rTr n r
.imm    oo.wwm  I0%0Tf unwrnunm  ZWLEITW   ZIFUI                                            Ttax
Lou] (ExEl. Dties I
Annt  2 2Act    I             2    _        nmt   Z         Rwt    I         ur-I   2  _ 2 t   2   Fn. Fxch.    Tine,              Taxes
1. Df coms
A. CIL                     7649.6 27.5  46620.1  14.6         -   -         -    -        27.7   0.1  15.3.1  55.6 27,Q.5  52.          2,647.2     253131.3
3. FKIEli                        -   -  1531.3  9.3         -   -          -    -         2.4   0.2         -    -  1u5.7  2.9           443,7      1,00.1-
C. E     l1                2.221A 65.7    715.5  21.2        -   -       51.3  1.5       145.9   4.3    246.9  7.3  3.31.4  6.4    3.027.3             354.1
3. IBIlME3                       -   -    662.1  0.6          -   -    231.9  26.3        30.7   3.6       0.0  0.0    U4.7  1.6          715.3        149.5
E. _PLE  IM TtIES              5.2  0.3    37.3  47.1   102.3  6.0        97.2  11.S     5".7  35.0        0.0  0.0  19712.3  3.3        323.6         80.6-
F. T W. uhST31                 34.3  2.5    6.5  4.9        5.0  0.4    933.5  63.4      325.3  23.3         -    -  1.3.5  2.6    1W212.0             159.5
U. T11Mll                     52.6  1.5  1,573.3  46.0 169.7 49.6       65.4  1.9        33.1   1.0         -    -  3,420.3  6.5            -       3,420.8
N. P.9KM   r36
U  513 I                     -   -         -    -         -   -    235.3  90.         23.8   t.2         -    -    25t.7  0.5         259.7            -
1.  WN  MA
E.UTIII                       -   -    1M.9  26.7        4.0 0.9       4.3  20.0      130.1   2.6    116.1  24.3    471.2  e.?           4.0        467.1
J. _TIEM  WIB                    -   -         -    -        -   -          -    -        65.4   2.3    17q.3  72.7    239.7  0.5            -         239.7
rTOMa XITIn     cu            964.1 24.3  10.043.0 24.4 1.e7.6 4.4   1,14.4  4.4    1,31M.4   3.4  16,9.0  39.1  41093.5  71.1    9,132.3              31,950.7
I1. rE09        CUS
A.   5                          -   -         -    -        -   -          -    -           -     -  3,364.0 1o0.0  3,35.0  6.4             -       3.3B4.0
3. -Lm---                       -   -                                                                    W.-  -    27. 100.0  7.6  0.5      -         287.8
c. UnuLrIs.Ls
MD EU       EW                    -        -    -         -   -         -    -           -     -  29659.2 100.0  2.65.2  5.1          72P.1      1.931.1        -
D. 31m1313 1319115              -   -         -    -        -   -          --    -                -  1,03.3 100.0   1.601.3  2.1         4.4        1,0398.9       -
E. EUIT  IIID     WIEIV         -   -         -    -        -   -          -    -           -     -    467.5 100.0    467.5  0.9         222.9        244.6        -
F. WHIUE P.                     -   -         -    -        -   -          -    -           -     -  3,443.6 100.0  3.643.6  6.9    1,43.7          164.9          -
Total  E     M s                    -   -         -    -        -   -          -    -          -      -  11.43.3 tO0.0 11.535.3 21.9    2,v*4.1        8.301.3
Total Ed DiuNM                 9.9U.1 13.9  10.043.0  19.1  11907.6  3.4  1,014.4  3.4    1,31.4   2.6  2.604.3  52.5 12.6133l 100.0   11.816.I         4&002.0
Nm 27p 196 1019



-30-
C. Procurement
4.07      Procurement arrangements are sum-arized in Table 4.  About 50
percent of total project costs would be procured through international
competitive bidding (ICB), 15 percent through local competitive bidding
(LCB), and 2 percent through other methods (with 33 percent not being
Table 4: PROCUREMENT TABLE
(US $ '000)
Procurement Method
Total
Project Element         ICB       LCB      Other    N.A.       Cost
Investment Costs
Civil Works                 23,181   4,620        28              27,829
(7,650)   (-)        (-)  _           (7,650)
Furniture                            1,334       200                1,534
Equipment                    2,681     500       200               3,381
(2,222)   (-)        (-)              (2,222)
Vehicles                       602               263                 865
Supplies and Materials               1,612       100               1,712
(-)    ~(5)  _____(5)
Technical Assistance                                     1,372     1,372
________                ~~~~(35)  (35)
Training                                                 3,421     3,421
(53)      (53)
Overseas Training                                          260       260
Research and Evaluation                                    471       471
Innovative Activities                                      240       240
Recurrent Costs                                           11,535    11,535
.  _                      _               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(-)  (-)
Total                      26,464   8,066        791   17,299    52,618
(9,872)   (-)        (5)    (88)      (9,965)
z                         50.3      15.3      1.5     32.9         100
Note:  (i) Numbers have been rounded.
(ii) The numbers in brackets show the costs to be financed by the
IBRD.



-31-
subject to procurement). Separate civil works contracts would be awarded
for each of the district hospitals (including respective district-level
training units and accommodation) after ICB as follows: Beitbridge (US
$3.6 million); Gokwe (US $2.7 million); Karoi (US $2.9 million); Mutoko (US
$3.3 million); Ndanga (US $2.6 million); Nyanga (US $2.4 million); Pfura
(US $3.2 million); and Tsholotsho (US $2.8 million). The remaining civil
works include the small materials production unit to be located at the
ZNFPC and to be funded on a parallel basis by the GTZ, and 102 peripheral
health/FP facilities (82 governmental and 20 NGO) in the eight selected
districts. The upgrading of the peripheral facilities would be financed by
the Norwegian Government; and in view of their relatively low average
upgrading cost of only US $28,000 and their remoteness, LCB procedures
would be used. Local procurement procedures have been reviewed by the Bank
and found acceptable. Furniture would also be purchased through LCB,
except for miscellaneous items valued at less than US $20,000 which would
be purchased by prudent shopping with at least three price quotations,
provided that the aggregate value of such purchases does not exceed US
$200,000.
4.08     Equipment would be grouped as far as possible into contracts
valued at US $100,000 or more, and would be procured through ICB or through
UNICEF. Contracts for miscellaneous items of equipment valued at less than
US $100,000 would be purchased through LCB, provided that the aggregate
value of such contracts does not exceed US $500,000. Items of equipment
valued at less than US $20,000 would be purchased by prudent shopping witn
at least three price quotations, provided that the aggregate value of such
purchases does not exceed US $200,000. The 20 vehicles to be financed by
the Norwegian Government grant would be procured as a package through ICB.
The other vehicles would be supplied by the ODA (12) and GTZ (2).
Suppliers of equipment and vehicles would be required to agree to maintain
an adequate after-sales service and an inventory of spare parts. The
contracts for the IEC mass media productions (72 percent of total cost of
supplies and materials) would be awarded after LCB procedures, which would
also be used for the other materials and supplies required for the
project. However, prudent shopping with at least three price quotatiroIs
would be used for miscellaneous items of supplies and materials valuea at
less than US $10,000, provided that the aggregate value of such purchases
does not exceed US $100,000. To assist with procurement activities, a
procurement specialist would be appointed to be directly responsible to the
Project Coordinator (para. 3.35), though located in the Vehicle and
Equipment Directorate.
4.09      All Bank-financed contracts to be procured through ICB would be
subject to prior Bank review. This would comprise eight contracts for
civil works (83 percent of total civil works value) and two contracts for
equipment (79 percent of total equipment value). Other contracts would be
subject to selective post award review.
4.10      Apart from the consultants to be made available directly by the
ODA and GTZ, all consultants for this project would be employed under
selection procedures, qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
satisfactory to the iank, and in accordance with the -Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and The World Bank as an
Executing Agency- (August 1981).



-32-
D. Disbursements
4.11      Disbursements will be made for 10OZ of foreign and 25Z of local
expenditures for civil works, 100% of foreign, 100% of local (ex-factory
cost) and 80% of local expenditures for equipment, supplies and materials,
and 100Z of expenditures for training and consultants' services.
Withdrawal applications for expenditures for civil works, equipment,
supplies and materials under contracts or purchase orders of less than
$20,000 will be submitted against statements of expenditure; supporting
documentation will be retained in MH for review by Bank supervision
missions. All other disbursements will be fully documented. No withdrawal
applications for less than $50,000 would be submitted. All payments below
$50,000 would be pre-financed by Government. The schedule of disbursements
is shown in Annex 1 Table 1.07. This is based on the actual disbursement
profile of the Kenya Integrated Rural Health and Family Planning Project,
which is the most relevant disbursement profile as it relates to the only
completed Bank/IDA assisted family health project in Eastern Africa. It is
also the disbursement profile used for the Botswana Family Health Project,
which was approved in 1984. It is expected that the loan would be fully
disbursed by September 30, 1992, nine months after project completion.
E. Accounts and Audit
4.12      Separate project financial records and accounts would be
maintained by an accountant attached to the Finance Directorate of the MR,
but responsible to the Project Coordinator (para. 3.35). The project
accountant would receive training by Bank staff in the Bank's accounting,
auditing and disbursement procedures. The project would be subject to
normal governmental accounting and auditing procedures, which are
satisfactory to the Bank. During negotiations assurances were obta4ned
from the Government that audits of project accounts by the Auditor Geaeral
or by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank would be made available
to the Bank within nine months of the close of each fiscal year (para. 7.02
k).
V. PROJECT IMPLENENTATION
A. Status of Project Preparation
5.01      The project was prepared by the NH in collaboration with the
Ministry of Finance, Economic Planning and Development (MFEPD) and with
Bank assistance. Both the Government and the Bank regarded the
restructuring of the MH as necessary for the efficient implementation of
the project, and the MH has accordingly designed a new organizational
structure (para. 2.16). The district hospital civil wcrks program
(including training centprs) has been included in the Government's 1985/86
public sector investment program, and the design work is well advanced.
Site plans, sketch drawings and detailed working drawings for the district
referral facilities were reviewed by the appraisal mission, and the
required minor changes and additions tc. the designs were reviewed by the
Bank prior to project negotiations. Detailed survey work for the specific
upgrading needs of 55 of the peripheral facilities had already been



-33-
completed by August 1985, and the remainder are now being checked to
facilitate prompt project implementation. No additional site acquisition
is needed in view of the upgrading nature of the civil works program.
Indicative equipment lists were reviewed by the appraisal mission. The
overall programming of the management and training activities has been
completed, and the detailed scheduling of those to be carried out in the
first year of the project would be included in the annual district plan for
1986/87 now under preparation (para. 3.16). The JHIEPGO training of
doctors in surgical contraception started in January 1986. Terms of
reference have been prepared for the foreign long-term technical
assistance; and the baseline survey for the eight districts has been
started. Assurances were obtained from the Government during negotiations
that the baseline survey would be completed and the results submitted to
the Bank for its review and comment by March 31, 1987 (para. 7.02 1).
B. Organization and Management
5.02      The Secretary for Health would have overall responsibility for
project implementation, which is expected to start on January 1, 19P7 and
be completed by December 31, 1991. The closing date for the project would
be September 30, 1992. Rather than using any specially established
implementation unit, the project has been designed to be implemented
through the regular management structure of the MH and the ZNFPC, though a
full-time Project Coordinator, responsible to the Secretary for Health,
would be appointed.  In view of the size of the project, the Project
Coordinator would also have a program assJStant, a secretary and a driver
(para. 3.35).  The existing Planning Pool (para. 2.17) would function as
the MH headquarters coordinating committee for the project.  At least one
of its weekly meetings per month would be devoted to discuss the
implementation of the project throughout the project's life. Additional
members (including the Project Coordinator; the Directors of Family Health,
Planning, Management and Research, Nursing Services, and Health Manpower
Development; the Heads of the KCH/FP, Heal`i Education, Planning and Health
Management Development Units; t%e ZNFPC Di ector, Program Coordinator and
Chiefs of the Training and IEC Units; and representatives of MFEPD and
MPCNH) would be co-opted to these meetings.
5.03      The Chief Architect of the MPCNH would be responsible for the
civil works program, assisted by the MH Planning Unit. The production of
architectural drawings for the project would be handled by the MPCNH Health
Architects Section, which would also coordinate the quantity surveying and
mechanical, electrical, structural and civil engineering inputs of the
design work. In addition, it would be respoasible for the supervision of
building work. As it is already adequately staffed to handle these
functions and has worked closely and effectively with the MH Planning Unit
in the past, established procedures would continue to be followed. The
purchase of furniture and equipment would be the responsibility of
procurement specialist (para. 4.08). The procurement specialist would
receive training by Bank staff in the Bank's procurement guidelines.
5.04      The Director of Planning, Management and Research woild have
direct responsibility for the management component of the project. fn
order to develop a collaborative arrangement for strengthening health
management and to facilitate the implementation of the management and



-34-
training components, a long-term institutional link would be developed
between the MH and a health service management center abroad. The
selection of the center would be made by MR personnel in conjunction with
officials of the ODA which would fund the management component. The health
service management center would be responsible for providing the long-term
technical assistance in management development and training management; for
the short-term technical assistance in these areas and MCH/FP; for
identifying appropriate short-term courses abroad; and for organizing
relevant study tours. Within the NH, the consultants would work
particularly with staff in the Health Management Development, Planning, and
Research and Evaluation Units; and also with the Director of Health
Manpower Development and the Field Training Coordinator for management
training activities.
5.05      Responsibility for managing the training activities of the
project would lie with the Director of Health Manpower Development, in
close collaboration with the Director of Nursing Services and the Head of
the MCH/FP Unit. The Field Training Coordinator would be responsible for
liaising with the provincial health teams and the district nursing officers
in the selected districts concerning district-level training activities.
For the FP training activities, the Director of Health Manpower Development
would also be assisted particularly by the Chief of the ZNFPC Training
Unit.
5.06      The Head of the MCH/FP Unit would have prime responsibility for
the urban FP component, though responsibility for implementation would be
shared with the medical superintendents of the 22 hospitals involved. The
training activities would be managed by the Chief of the ZNFPC Training
Unit, while equipment and supplies would be purchased by the procurement
specialist. The Head of the MCH/FP Unit would also be responsible for
managing the MCH/FP innovative activities and operational research
activities of the project (para. 3.08).
5.07      For the IEC component there would be two managers -- the Head of
the Health Education Unit in the MH and the Chief of the IEC Unit in the
ZNFPC -- who would be responsible for their respective IEC activities. To
ensure coordination, an IEC steering committee would be established.
Chaired by the Project Coordinator, it would also comprise the Director of
Family Health in the iH, the Head of the Health Education Unit, the ZNFPC
Program Coordinator and the Chief of the IEC Unit. The terms of reference
for the IEC committee would include: development of annual work plans for
the respective departments; development of annual budgets for the materials
production facility; detailed planning for pre-testing, distribution and
utilizatio. of materials produced; supervision of the facility; monitoring
and review of the work of the materials production facility; and
consideration of proposals for IEC innovative activities.
5.08      The implementation of the district-level components would also be
managed through the existing MH structure. Within each of the selected
districts, primary implementation responsibility would rest with the
district medical officer. At the provincial level, each provincial medical
director would have prime responsibility and would act as provincial
project coordinator.



-35-
C. Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
5.09      The Project Coordinator would have responsibility for monitoring
the progress of project implementation. He would prepare quarterly
progress reports, covering construction, training and retraining, staffing,
procurement, implementation of MCH/FP and IEC activities, technical
assistance, monitoring and evaluation activities, and project
expenditures. These reports would also highlight major issues needing
resolution. These reports would be approved by the coordinating committee
(para. 5.02) before submission to the B-nk.
5.10      Primary emphasis in evaluating the project would be placed on
process indicators. Particular attention would be paid to the training
output of nurses from the FP and midwifery courses. The expected numbers
to be retrained by project year would be: 390, 390, 630, 630 and 630 for
FP; and 245, 280, 320, 360 and 400 for midwifery. A total of about 800
VHWs in the selected districts (and nearly 10,000 in total nationally)
would also be retrained in FP. For the IEC component, the indicators would
relate to the use of mass media by the IEC Unit of the ZNFPC (para. 3.25)
and the MH Health Education Unit (para. 3.26). Other process indicators
would be the productioa of manuals and booklets, and carrying-out of the
planned training workshops.
5.11      However, progress achieved in meeting the Government's targets
for the selected service delivery indicators in the eight districts would
also be monitored (para. 3.03). Three mechanisms would be used for
this. First, the follow-up reproductive health survey planned for 1988
(para. 2.10) would provide updated information for these eight districts,
and also comparative data on these districts within the national picture.
Second, the health information system, newly revised with WHO assistance
(para. 2.17), and the FP information system (para. 2.07) would provide
additional service statistics data. Third, and of particular importance,
the baseline survey in the eight districts would be repeated with similar
mid-project (para. 3.04) and end-of-project surveys. Assurances were
obtained from the Government during negotiations that a mid-project survey
would be carried out during the third year of project implementation; that
an end-of-project survey would be carried out in the fifth year of project
implementation; and that the results of each of these surveys would be made
available to the Bank within six months of their completion for review and
comment (para. 7.02 m).
5.12      Management strengthening would also be evaluated systematically.
An independent review would be carried out in the third year of the project
and at the end of the project to evaluate changes in the eight districts
in: staffing levels, qualifications and performance; planning processes
and the production of plans; coordinating mechanisms and their
effectiveness; job dascriptions and supervisory protocols; referral
systems; management training; and management norms and guidelines. The
mid-project review would be particularly important for adjusting the
management strengthening activities as necessary. Therefore, assurances
were obtained from the Government during negotiations that a mid-project
management review would be carried out in the third year of project
implementation, under terms of reference aceptable to the Bank; and that
the review findings and recommendations, together with the Government's
propoced action plan to rectify identified constraints to management
objectives, would be discussed with the Bank within four months of the
survey completion (para. 7.02 n).



-36-
5.13      The urban component would be evaluated in terms of numbers of
personnel trained in FP techniques and FP services delivered at the 22
urban hospitals and in terms of numbers of diagnostic smears reviewed. To
back up these quantitative indicators, the MCH/FP Unit (assisted by the
short-term technical assistance) would carry out a variety of periodic
evaluations into the qualitative aspects of MCH/FP service delivery
including client satisfaction, in both rural and urban areas.
Vi. PROJECT BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits and Justification
6.01      The proposed project has been designed to alleviate the main
constraints facing the development of MCH/FP services in Zimbabwe, with
particular focus on eight pilot districts. These constraints include
inadequate staffing levels and insufficient MCH/FP training of health
workers; poor management and supervision capabilities; and inadequate
physical infrastructure. These constraints need to be addressed in order
for the Government to achieve improvements in health status, reductions in
fertility levels and increases in efficiency of service provision.
6.02      In order to examine the justification for the project,
consideration needs to be given to what might be expected to happen without
the project. First, regarding population growth and the use of FP
services, one might expect the ZNFPC to continue to expand its CBD
distribution program, develop new programs in the private sector, and
strengthen further its training, demand-generation and evaluation
activities. At the same time, however, the ZNFPC would continue to face
certain major constraints due to the highly limited contraceptive method
mix available, lack of adequate back-up in FP from health workers, the
difficulties facing educator/distributors in covering many geographical
areas, and their inability to take full advantage of the need of mothers to
attend health facilities regularly. No doubt the present level of
contraceptive prevalence would continue to rise, but probably at a rate
considerably slower than that experienced in the first five years of
Independence and also considerably slower than what could be achieved with
support to the health services. Zimbabwe would therefore continue to
experience the negative effects of still relatively rapid population growth
to an unnecessary extent. Second, regarding health status, one might also
expect progress to continue in the provision of health services even in the
absence of the proposed project. However, the constraints facing the
health services have become increasingly apparent, and it is probably not
unreasonable to project only marginal improvements in health status, at
least in the more remote areas, without significant investments in the
management, manpower aLd physical resources of the health services.
However, not all of the fertility reduction and health status improvements
which may come about should be attributed to implementation of the project
-- rather the project should be viewed as part of a package of social
programs and activities already underway, and indeed within the context of
wider changes taking place in the socio-economic status of the target
gtoup s.



-37-
6.03      The benefits of the proposed project would affect three groups --
primarily poor mothers and children in the eight selected districts; to a
lesser extent mothers (and children) in urban areas; and more generally the
nation as a whole. Most (74 percent) of the project inputs would be
directed towards the district components, which cover primarily communal
lands areas. The total mid-1985 population of these districts was just
over one million; and with the MCH population accounting for about 67
percent of the total, the target group then numbered about 705,000. While
district specific socio-economic data are unavailable, it is clear that the
vast majority of this target group live in poverty. With the national per
capita income now at US 740, a threshold for rural poverty in Zimbabwe is
considered by the Bank to be US $260. In contrast, as quoted in the Bank's
population, health and nutrition sector report, per capita income in the
communal lands areas was estimated at only US $28 in 1978, and less than US
$40 in 1980. Although inflation and rural development programs may have
raised the latter estimate significantly, there can be little doubt that
the present level is substantially below the rural poverty threshold
level. For the mothers in these target groups, the benefits of the project
would include health improvements arising both from the additional maternal
care provided by health workers and from greater use of FP. For the
children, the benefits would include a reduction in the morbidity and
mortality associated with many common health problems such as infectious
diseases and diarrhea. Besides the district components, one percent of the
project inputs would be directed towards the urban areas. These areas
comprise about 22 percent of the total population, and therefore included
about 380,000 mothers in mid-1985. In general their socio-economic status
is above the national averaf&e, although peri-urban poverty is an increasing
problem.
6.04      Benefits in the Selected Districts.  The target contraceptive
prevalence rate for the eight districts by the end of the project is about
50 percent -- a target considerably above the present estimated rate of
about 20 percent in these districts, but not urnreasonably high in light of
Zimbabwe's achievements since Independence and the inputs through the
project. A 50 percent target rate would be consistent with the standard
fertility decline model (para. 2.02), if it is assumed that the
differential continues in the urban and rural contraceptive prevalence
rates, and if the contraceptive prevalence rate in the other 47 districts
were to increase to about 26 percent. If achieved, there would be
approximately 136,000 FP acceptors in the eight districts in 1991, compared
with approximately 55,000 if the present contraceptive prevalence rate were
to remain constant. On these assumptions, there would be a cumulative
total of 237,000 additional FP users in the selected districts over the
life of the project. Similar calculations can be made for the other MCH
interventions: if the respective targets are met and assuming that the
present utilization levels would not have risen without the project, there
would be 21,000 additional children vaccinated in 1991, 24,000 additional
pregnant women receiving antenatal care, 12,000 additional supervised
deliveries, and 42,000 additional children having their weights monitored,
compared to the situation if the project had not gone ahead. Although not
direct indicators of health status, these MCH service delivery statistics
can be assumed to be closely related to health status improvements in the
beneficiaries. And, finally, the project inputs into these selected
districts would lead to significant, though largely unquantifiable,
efficiency gains. The availability of improved peripheral care should lead
to reduced bypassing of clinics for district hospitals, and management
strengthening should lead to some degree of cost savings.



-38-
6.05      Benefits in Urban Areas.  The primary justification for the urban
component is the need to provide FP services to meet unmet demand. With 70
percent of all women in the country currently wanting to limit their family
size or delay their next birth (para. 2.10), with presently very inadequate
urban FP services (para. 2.26), and with significant numbers of induced
abortions, it is reasonable to assume that the extent of this unmet demand
is still quite substantial.
6.06      Benefits Nationally. While most of the project inputs are
targetted geographically, four of the six project components would
strengthen MCH/FP services nationally. At the end of the project period
the MiH headquarters would be better able to plan, manage and evaluate
MCH/FP services throughout the country, while the provincial health service
authorities woldd have been strengthened to assist other districts as well
as those selected for intensified support through the project. District
health service administrators would also have been trained for all of the
country's districts. Similarly, health workers throughout Zimbabc- would
have been retrained in midwifery and FP, while the IEC messages should also
have reached target groups in all areas. The project would also benefit
the MR as the project reporting system could form the basis for the
development of a comprehensive management information system.
6.07      Affordability. A central concern in the design of the project
was the need to ensure its affordability by the Government. Of particular
concern was the affordability of the recurrent costs arising from the
project. These are estimated at Z $4.7 million (in 1985/86 prices)
annually, of which 88 percent relate to the two district components (Z $3.2
million and Z $1.0 million respectively). In addition to these
project-related incremental costs in the eight selected districts, however,
other non-project costs should be added: for example, to fill existing
vacancies. These latter costs are estimated at Z $2.4 million for the
eight districts. In total, therefore, the additional required recurrent
costs in the eight districts would amount to Z $6.5 million, or Z $0.8
million per district. The affordability of these additional costs has to
be considered in the context of other project and non-project related
incremental recurrent costs anticipated for the NH to face. The main
ongoing projects include the upgrading of Binga and Chinhoyi Hospitals, and
the construction of the multi-purpose auxiliary training schools. The
incremental recurrent costs of these two hospitals would amount to less
than Z $2 million in total, while each of the new training schools is
estimated to cost Z $0.8 million to run. While the MH has identified a
number of other major projects (for example, the need to upgrade another 20
district hospitals), it is considered unlikely that capital funding would
be forthcoming for them in the near future.
6.08      With annual economic growth projected by the Bank to be about 3
percent up to 1988/89 and maybe 5 percent thereafter, the NH snould have
little problem in absorbing the additional recurrent costs, assuming that
its budget remains in the region of 6.6 percent of the total government
budget. Various projections have been made for the growth of the MH
recurrent budget, and the affordability conclusion is not affected
significantly unless economic growth is less than projected and the share
of the MH drops to the lowest level of the last ten years (see Annex 1
Table 1.08). The project would also be affordable by the target population
as health and FP services are free to those earning less than Z$150 per
month, the vast majority of those in the selected districts.



-39-
6.09      Replicability.  In addition to the eight districts selected for
the proposed project, another 20 need significant upgrading of the MCH/FP
infrastructure. The design of this project was limited to one district per
province primarily on grounds of absorptive capacity and iaternal resource
constraints. Towards the end of the project period, however, these
constraints should have been significantly eased, and all the remaining
districts could be upgraded over a further period of 10-15 years. With
incremental recurrent costs estimated at Z $0.8 million per district, the
phasing of the program over such a period would also appear financially
possible.
B. Risks
6.10      The Government's targets for the selected districts are clearly
very ambitious, especially as four of the districts cover remote and
relatively underdeveloped areas. This is particularly the case with the
contraceptive prevalence rate, as experience in South Asia suggests that it
may plateau at a leveXl of about 35 percent after which increases can be
much harder to achieve. However, certain other countries (such as
Colombia, Korea, Mexico and Thailand) have experienced very rapid increases
in their respective contraceptive prevalence rates. In Mexico, for
example, the national rate rose from 11 percent to 29 percent from 1973 to
1976, and to 48 percent six years later. Even in very poor countries, such
as Bangladesh, rates of 40 percent have been achieved in experimental
programs. Zimbabwe has already made considerable progress in many aspects
of family health since Independence, and the project would provide
substantial resources to overcome the remaining constraints. With priority
to be given to staff from the selected districts in the national FP and
midwifery training programs, with the strengthening of the peripheral
infrastructure due to be completed by the end of the second year of the
project, and with most of the management support activities scheduled to
commence in the selected districts in the second year of the project, the
targets are considered attainable by the early 1990s if the present
estimates of the baseline data are confirmed and if the project is
implemented efficiently.
6.11      The project has two main risks.  The first concerns the
institutional capacity of the MH to implement the project efficiently. The
retraining program would directly affect nearly half of the existing health
workers (excluding VHWs), and the civil works element of the project is
nearly n4ne times the size of the 1985/86 NH civil works budget. The MH
has been suffering from structural problems and institutional weaknesses,
and it has not had previous experience with a Bank-assisted project. On
the other hand, the pruject has deliberately been designed to support
management strengthening through a variety of activities including training
and technical assistance, and only one district has been selected in each
province for infrastructural development. Zimbabwe has an excellent
construction industry with plenty of spare existing capacity. The project
has considerable high-level political support, and it is felt that the MH
would be able to carry it out as planned.



-40-
6.12      The second risk concerns the need for support to be maintained
for peripheral and outreach services. At present most of the outlying
facilities are severely understaffed, outreach work is limited by lack of
transport and vehicle operating budgets, and the new management system is
only partly in place. Again, the project has been designed to take account
of the existing constraints: for example, the extent of the upgrading of
the selected hospitals has been limited to avoid creating an imbalance in
favor of the secondary-level at the expense of the primary level; the
upgradings of the clinics would be done in advance of the district
hospitals; the manpower situation is projected to ease with the ongoing
construction of new training facilities, and the Government has agreed to
give priority in staffing to the selected districts; the project provides
for addit'onal transport at the district level, and at the health center
level on an experimental basis; and the additional demands on the MH
recurrent budget have been kept very small. It must also be remembered
that Zimbabwe has already made considerable progress despite existing
manpower, financial and management constraints. On balance, therefore,
even though the project is aimed at some of the most difficult areas of the
country, it is felt that the peripheral and outreach services would be
adequately supported.
VII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      The following would be conditions of project effectiveness:
(a) that the two posts of Head of the MCH/FP Unit and MCH/FP officer
would have been filled by the MR (para. 3.07);
(b) that the Health Management Development Unit would have been
staffed by two counterpart staff to the health management
specialist (para. 3.09);
(c)  that the posts of Field Training Coordinator and Training
Adm,inistrator would have been filled by the MR (para. 3.13);
(d)  that a Project Coordinator, with qualifications and experience
acceLable to the Bank, and a program assistant, procurement
specialist and accountant would have been appointed (para. 3.35);
and
(e) that the cofinancing agreements with the Governments of Norway
and the Netherlands, and the GTZ and the ODA, would have been
signed (para. 4.06).
7.02      During negotiations the following assurances were obtained from
the Government:
(a) that the training program for district health service
administrators would be started by September 30, 1987; that posts
for them would be approved by July 1, 1988; and that a district
health service administrator would be appointed to each of the
eight selected districts by September 30, 1988 (para. 3.10);
(b)  that the long-term health management specialist would be
recruited by March 31, 1987 (para. 3.11);



-41-
(c) that the long-term health manpower consultant would be recruited
by March 31, 1987 (pars. 3.14);
(d) that the annual district plans (including trainlng activities)
for the selected districts would be completed by March 31st,
prior to the start of each fiscal year, and then made available
to the Bank for review and comment (para. 3.16);
(e) that the 'A" course FP curriculum revision, satisfactory to the
Bank, would be completed by March 31, 1987 (para. 3.17);
(f) that a usage protocol for the materials production facility would
be drawn up for Bank review and comment by March 31, 1987; and
that a health education officer and a graphic artist would be
transferred to the materials proluction facility by then (para.
3.27);
(g) that the long-term materials production specialist would be
recruited by March 31, 1987 (para. 3.28);
(h)  that the health centers in the e':ght bC lected districts would
each be adequately staffed by at least two SCNs/SCMNs and one
health assistant by June 30, 1989 (para. 3.32);
(i) that the detailed planning for the district communications
systems would be completed by March 31, 1987 and reviewed with
the Bank prior to its implementation (para. 3.33);
Cj) that the CMED would administer the loans for motorbikes financed
through the project under normal CMED terms (para. 3.34);
Ck) that audits of project accounts by the Auditor General or by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank would be made
available to the Bank within nine months of the close of each
fiscal year (para. 4.12);
(1) that the baseline survey would be completed and the results
submitted to the Bank for review and comment by March 31, 1987
(para. 5.01);
(m) that a mid-project survey would be carried out during the third
year of project implementaton; that an end-of-project survey
would be carried out in the fifth year of project implementation;
and that the results of each of these surveys would be made
available to the Bank within six months of their completion for
review and coment (para. 5.11); and
(n) that a mid-project management review would be carried out in the
third year of project implementation, under terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank; and that the review findings and
recommendations, together with the Government's proposed action
plan to rectify identified constraints to management objectives,
would be discussed with the Bank within four months of the survey
completion (para. 5.12).
7.03      With the above assurances and conditions, the project would
constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$10.0 million equivalent
on standard terms to the Government of Zimbabwe.



-42-
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 7
Statistical Annex
Table 1.01: DEMWGRAPHIC PROJECTIONS
Year
1985   1990   1995    2000    2005   2010   2015
Standard Fertility Decline
Assumed total fertility rate            6.2     5.4    4.7      4.1     3.6    3.1    2.7
Implied contraceptive prevalence rate 29%       38Z   47%       54%     60%    66%      71S
Total population size (a)                8.406   9.941 11.525  13.175  14.911 16.705 18.480
Children 0-14 (a)                        3.975   4.619  5.291   5.596   5.848  6.115  6.317
Women 15-49 (m)                          1.883   2.275  2.661   3.240   3.845  4.427  5.000
Rapid Fertility Decline
Assumed total fertility rate            5.9     4.6    3.6      2.8     2.3    2.1    2.1
Implied contraceptive prevalence rate 33%       49%    61%      70%     76%    77%    77%
Total population size (a)                8.406   9.712 10.917  12.005  12.981 13.997 15.078
Children 0-14 (a)                        3.975   4.390  4.683   4.426   4.137  3.998  4.061
Women 15-49 (X)                          1.883   2.275  2.661   3.240   3.735  4.133  4.429
Slow Fertility Decline
Assumed Total Fertility rate            6.4     6.0    5.6      5.1     4.6    4.1    3.6
Implied contraceptive prevalence rate 27%       31%    36%      42%     48%    55%    60%
Total population size (a)                8.406  10.055 11.935  14.024  16.346 18.855 21.429
Children 0-14 (a)                        3.975   4.733  5.701   6.445   7.173  7.867  8.433
Women 15-49 (m)                          1.8P3   2.275  2.661   3.240   3.899  4.626  5.414
Source: Bank projections.



Table 1.02: HEALTH FACILITIES BY TYPE AND PROVINCE
Hashonaland  Kashonaland  Hashonaland                  Matabeleland  Hatabeleland
Hanicaland    Central          East           West       Masviago       North          South         Midlands  Total
Central Hospitals            -              -            2              -             -            2              _               -        4
general Hospitals            2              1            2              2             2            -              -               3       12
District Hospitals           3              3            3              4             1            3              6               5       28
Rural Hospitals              B              4            7              8             9            6              6               a       56
Special Hospitals            -              -            4              -             1            5              -               -       10
Maternity Hospital.          I              -            I              I              1           1              -               1        6
Kission Hospitals            9              4            4              4             7            5              4               9       46
Industrial Hospltals         -              I            -              4             2            2              -               3       12
Other Hospitals              -              -            5              -             I            -              -               1        7
(Total Hospitals)        (23)           (13)          (28)          (23)           (24)        (24)            (16)            (30)   (181)
Government Clinics         119            61           108             73            73           62             51             118      665
Mission Clinics             21              1            8              -            13            3               a             13       67
Other Clinics               20              4           49             20             6           49              7              29      184
(Total Clinics)         (160)           (66)        (165)           (93)           (92)       %114)            (66)           (160)   (916)
Source:  Hinistry of Health.
0



Tibla 1.03:  FRE32  AM) lCthWM  H!ALl3  M.YQU
Toll m  Halith_
Prufinm             1985                   1965                    1985        1986          1966         1967          1987         1908          1986        3969
CAmZRT                             Cani            4mewnnt  1965  !6nud-  ( 1985   b pctaI 0lwat1y  Eeotd  n-UattIwe FMtd  nm wLt1v  Lwea1   mudiw
W- ater         Sezvtc.    lmlam  pafttu    Total) U              tput       tal        aCtput         To7 l        OPut          TAl          Qaut           DOW
Da    I                               I750              394          48         16        (458)        76         534           7            611           79           690            75          765
SpeciaIts                               -                70           .          -         (70)        15           85           15           100           15           I15            15         130
ntLats                                 101               12           -          3         (15)         -           I5            -            -             -            -              -           -
StA  8I,S1teredN urw                  5051             1932         131        ISO       (2243)       33         2573           33          2903          33           2903            350        3503
Il3ln   lTton                           _                33           4          -         (42)        14           56            -            -            12            68             -          Uf
hadlcal AaihfaVn                      4876             3MD          346        59        (41336)      410         4536         440          4976          ffO           5436           469         5916
3lth f4wAtos                            -                12           -          2         (14)         a           22            -            22          10             32             -           32
balthIpctos                             59               29           _          9         (38)        i5           53           15           6a            15           83      I S                9s
Ilth Assistat                          357              3mD                     32        (332)       164         496           104          600            59             6            60         718
ItUSdAtS                               287               '9                      -         (49)        32            l          12           101           202           U1l           25          146
1R miti1 Tsth dnau                      75               2J                      -         (2e)        2           48            20           66           7.            96             2          108
Uadu*ura                                91               64           I          -         (65)        12           77           31           108           14           122            20          142
IuFtaratm                               -                26           5          -         (31)         -           31           _      -            -                   -               -          -
I". I4b. tdu tdau                      139               52           3          2         (57)        30           87           30           117           30           147            30          177
ItitlrlmUSSit                           -                19           _          -         (19)         2           21            2            23            2            25             2           27
Datita                                  -                 5           _          -          (5)         4            9            4            L3            A17                         4          21
Ihpiathagr"pita                         84               27                -              (27)          5          32             5             7            5           42              5          47
ubjlStahtm    j ALatnu                  -                62                 -              (62)        I8           so           32           3D0           20           12D            20          140
naz1nufal 7hr ata                       -                10           .          -         (30)         3           13            3            16            3            19             3           21
(t1pSSc TaIuInm                        -                 2           _          -          (2)         3            5            2             7            2             9             1           II
Ilth SwAv   Adinistratorn               -                18                      -         (18)         5           23            5            28            5            33             5           3
mhta ihrqhtt                            _                 5           _          -          (5)        It           16            7           23           10             33           10           43
taI1 m T    ida                                           _           _          _          (-) -                    -            4            4             5            9              5           14
ip N3 ld3b4a zn                        _               4425               _      -      (4425)  1 650            6075         1650          7725         1650          9375           1650       I105
uce:  YLnhstry of P3th.
TibIe 1.04: wAR emnues
MR3 PrAomt bz3ptdAS31tbn                                                M4 Irse fnu                                      143 FMlNGStal &:txAm&tm
bar         M4      NH act M            M3 ai t             M          1f/ dqSt1rr  a           F btiStad    4 kbual    44 Amua-                          4 L.    t a                      M *If   dfam
&dot  ft%Ptiun  bah/fr Cqlta  Eibp                     .   ftqrtiap n of              he             rm    PttpovUm t_          M r A t  Pftpqnttlm o  M63 q1dtu.e - Fxu1mu
(2  . a)    f Tota()          Z $ (193)         (Z S .)          Mpt()                (CZ S  )      (Z $ *)         At. (1)       (Z S )        T        (8)        (Z $ *)      d  bIa  t (t)
1975/76     D.80          6.6                 7.0            3D.719            99.7                1.300         1.955           6.4           4.5C0          23.1               3.555             79.0
1976/77      35.769       6.6                 7.4            34.469             96.4               2.00          1.936           5.6            5.000         24.3               4.850             97.0
197l778     40.237         5.9                7.3            38,52             95.8                2.130         2.U70           6.2           S.110          22.6               4.257             83.3
1978/79    4U.829          3.9                7.1            45.621             99.6               2.20D         2.451           5.4           4.750          26.4               4.4,9             94.5
1979/lD     54.226        6.4                 7.6            D3.463            98.6                2.4C0         2.764           5.2           4.933          26.0               3.4U3             70.6
19B0/81     83.729         7.5               10.3            77.384            92.4                  -           1,666           2.2           6.644          S.5                4.983            7n.0
1901/B2    105.936        8.8                11.8           106.083            97.4                2.849         2.454           2.3           8.612          15.5               6.769             78.6
19B2/83    131.587         5.7               11.3           123.148            93.6                3.791         3.463           2.8           7.110           8.0                  -                -
1963/84    138.999         5.9                9.7           U38.14U            99.4                3.165         3.226           2.3           2.00            3.4                  _
1984/85    159.308         5.8                8.9              _-                                  4.262           -              -            1.145           2.4                  _
1965/38    183.696        b.b                  -               -                  -                  -             -              -            3.369           4.9                                   _
Sc.:m: 4tbnt Fadmte " Ao Jta.



Table 1.05: MEAN CURRENT AND TARGET LEVELS FOR KEY DISTRICT INDICATORS
Key Indicator                                              Percent to be Achieved by District
Beitbridge Gokwe Karoi Pfura Mutoko Ndanga Nyanga Tsholotsho
Contraceptive prevalence 1,                       50         50     50      50     40       50       50         65
Imminization coverage 2/                          80         70     80      70     85       85       85         80
Antenatal care 3/                                 85         95     90      70     90       90       90         85
Supervised deliveries 4/                          75         60     80      80      90      90       60         75
Growth monitoring 5/                              50         70     80      60      70     100       80         60
Oral rehydration use 6/                           30         45     60      60      50     100      100         30
Nurses trained in family planning                100        100    100    100    100       100      100        100
Supervision of village health workers 7/          80         70     80      50    100       50       80         80
Rural health center supervision
by community sister 0/                          90        100    100    100    100       100      100         90
Definitions
1, Proportion of married women in the reproductive ages who are using a modern method of contraception.
2, Proportion of children aged 0-12 months immunized against all six of the target diseases of the expanded
program on immunization.
3/ Proportion of pregnant women who receive antenatal care at least twice during their pregnancy.
4/ Proportion of deliveries carried out by trained health personnel (including trained traditional birth
attendants).
5/ Proportion of children aged 12-36 months who receive at least four weighings annually.
6/  Proportion of mothers using oral rehydration therapy in the last diarrheal episode of a child under five c x
years old.                                                                                                           X
0
7,  Proportion of VHWs who are supervised at least twice a month by a SCN/SCMN or HA in the community.                 *
8/  Proportion of rural health centers visited by a community sister at least once a month.



-4'-
Tabll.O 1.08t  A   mNr L SIM  MD  EN 11    IR  0EWR  DZMtCIS                                                        AMR I
_apicel                                              BIlLtrict beIrJm Servlce Authorty                            Clinic
SLat.         St-a Ditict                                                 DistcLct                        Detriet           *t.1.
Clinical   1lIstaerwd   C.rthlad  Itr.    Tdcicadl Iuprt   llurlIa                     r KarI, service    Dstrit    Ianirt       tal   Certiled        lealtb
OlIct                     Dtctor    Of 1lc.r        wra      *      ra.      Ald.       Staff        Staff    ortfir lAdualatreter             r_aciet          ffitcer         bra.       *AIS.tanA
SRITSXI D
*. Actaul                       2          0            2              3                     I           I          0                0                                               I t 33        0
b. *etah.                       3          3            0              C          0          3           9 I                         0 I                            3                20           10
c. gO"ta..                      3          I            2            20          10          3           23         I                                               3                20           10
d. Dhff. ^ert. t                3          3           -2              5         -2          0 I                    3                0              0               0                 9           10
*.DhIf.d_ projd                 0          0            I             32         10          2          24          0                               C 0             0                 0            0
f. TotLl dftf.                  I                                     1           7          2          23          I                I              0               0                 9           10
A. Act:l                        I          0            2             14          4          2          ED          I                0               3              3                29           I1
b.Eatah.                        3          I            2              9          4          3          13          3                0               I              I                24           28
c. WM  ..tb.                    3                       3            20          LO          3          33          3                3               3              3                Se           28
d. :,e:"  rtlat                 2                       0            -_           0          I          -1          0                0              0               0                27           17
*. DIff. do.rrJ.                0          0            3             31          8          0          3C          0 a                             0               0                 0            0
f. Total 8Iff.                  2          3            1              b          b          3           17         0                3              0               0                27           17
a.. acte1                                  I            2            34           I    1                17          3                0               3              3                33            4
b. C:b.                         3          1            1            21           0          I          19          I                0               I              3                10          I3
c.II3.ctah.                     3          I            2            21          10          S          33          1                3               3              3                30          I32
d. Dtlf. ao tl                  3          0           -               7         -1          0           2          0                0              0               0                39           I1
. Dirt:. d-pr-J.                0          D            &             0          10          2          14          0                3              0               0                 0            0
3. TL.1 dlff.                   3 I                     0              7          t          2          13          0                3              0               0                19           II
.. AcIo*12                                I            2            12           0          2          17          I                0               3              I                12            o
h.tatab.                        3          I            0            14                                 17          I2                                                                             II
c. Iio*taab.                    3          I            2             20         30          4          33           1               1               3 L                             22           33
d. Difft.ct/laa                 I          0           -2              2          0          2           0          0                0              0               0                10            5
.      :D d. doeproj.           e0         03 I                                  .0          0          13          0                I              0               0                 0            o
F. Tota1 dtf.                   I          0            1                        t o0        2          3I          0                I              0               0                30            2
*. Alto.1                       I          0            1             15          S          2          32           3               0               3              I                1             7
b.atab.                         3          I                          30                     3          32                           0                                               34          137
c.E . aLeb                      3          3            2             30         10          3          33          3                1               3              3                34           17
d.Diff .aet/at                  2          3             3            32         -e          I           0          0                0               0              0                17           la
*.oIt. d- proj.                 0          0             3             0         30          0           3          0                I               0              0                 0            0
f. Total dlfE.                  2          I            2             12          4          1           3          0                3              0               0                17           l0
*..Acti                         I          0            4             i8          0          0          12           1               0               3              3                10             I
b.a RtIb.                       3          I            0             13          0          0          12          3                0               3              3                22           33
Z.Ufaat.b.                      3          I            I             20         10          3          33     3                     I               I              3                22           33
d. 01ff. act/eat                2          1           -4             -2          0          0           0          0                0               0              0                12           10
*. Dlff. do.proj.               e          0 o          s                        30          3          23          0                1               0              0                 0            0
I.Total dlfr.                   2          1            3              2         10          3          21          0                3              0               0                12           10
PUA
a*  ccu0                                   3            2              9          6          2          12           1               0                                               32 1
b.R Ctab.                       3          3            2              9          &          2          12          3                0               3              1                IC            9
c.. USet-b.                     3          I            3            20          3o          3          33          1                3              2               1                1            9
d. Olff. ect/eat                3          0            0              0          0          0           0          0                0              0               0                 3            o
.. Dff. d_ proj.                0          0            3             LI          4          1          23          0                I               0              0                0             0
f.Total d3ff.                   3          0            3            11           4          3          21          0                3              0               c                4 C
a.Actaal                        0          0            4              2          4          I          13          0                0               I              I                 I
b. Cab.                         3          3            2             17          0                      E 11       3                0               3              3               20            30
cUS..tab.                       3          3            2            20          10          3          33          L                I               I                              I 2D          10
d. Dhff.a--tl.at                3          I           -2             15          4          0           2          1                                                                10            9
a.DlIf. d_ p.o.                                                       1 D  3     I:          2          is          0                               0               0                 0            0
r.fotaldift.                    3          I            I             38          *          2          20          I                I              0               0                is            9
TOTAL C088 DISTrtIcs
*ActaI 7                                  3           24            90          2e         3          1327         e                0              s                              1 307          31
b.Zafab.                       24          I           31           124          10         3          133          S 0                                                           222          1I3
c.IO *-tah.                   '2           a           41           171          30         25         24           8                5              8               8              222          3ll
4. 02ff. act/rat               17          5          -3              34        -16                      4          2                0              0               0               115           s0
*.bff  dud  proj.               0          0           29             47         70         30         133          0                               0               0                0             0
f. Total d1ff.                 17          2           38            el          5          14         137          2                                                                             C00  3l  0
Ce) Act_elI ataf - P-at CJILY 1395).
(b) Staff *t-btl-lt.
Cc)  atabl_aat conaiderai appwr1art  b   *ppreial t_a for the feility/e.tbority  y the _ad of the prject.
(d) Diffareace bt-r        (e)  -d (b) adictaa -*rAt af -daring vacamia-..
Ca) DOfferanc      e bt"  bt) and Cc)  ndictes thb  tafflag  pl icatteme of the prjeoct.
(f  Dtffaac           -  6t_aa    ) a    c) ltactea cba total tdtcla-l ataff aadad by the eM ef the pre]jct.



-47-
ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 7
Table 1.07: ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
IBRD and
Government                 Disbursement
Fiscal Year                   During       Accumulated      Cumulative
and Quarter                  Quarter       Disbursement    Disbursement
Ending                    (US $'000)      (US $'000)          (Z)
1986/87
September 30, 1986             -                _
December 31, 1986
March 31, 1987                 _                _               _
June 30, 1987                 100               100             1
1987/88
September 30, 1987            150               250             3
December 31, 1987             150               400             4
March 31, 1988                150               550             6
June 30, 1988                 150               700             7
1988/89
September 30, 1988            400             1,100            11
December 31, 1988             400             1,500            15
March 31, 1989                400             1,900             19
June 30, 1989                 400            2,300             23
1989/90
September 30, 1989            600            2,900             29
December 31, 1989             600            3,500             35
1March 31, 1990               600             4,100            41
June 30, 1990                 600            4,700             47
1990/1991
September 30, 1990            800            5,500             55
December 31, 1990             900            6,400             64
March 31, 1991                80C             7,200            72
June 30, 1991                 700            7,900             79
1991/1992
September 30, 1991            600            8,500             85
December 31, 1991 I/          500            9,000             90
March 31, 1992                400            9,400             94
June 30, 1992                 300            9,700             97
1992/1993
September 30, 1992 2/         300           1O,001    100
Notes:  1/  Expected date of project completion:  December 31, 1991
-| /Expected closing date:  September 30, 1992



Table 1.08: PROJECTIONS OF MH RECURRENT BUDGET
(Z$M)
Assumptions                                    Year
Scenario Econ.   MH Share 1985/86  1986/87 1987/88 1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  199'.92   Increase
Growth of Gov.                                                               Over 1985/86
p.a   Budget
1.     3%    5.7%       183.7   164.4    169.3  174.4  179.6   185.0    190.6          6.9
2.     3%    6.6%       183.7   189.2    194.9  200.7  206.8   213.0    219.3         35.6
3.     3X    8.8%       183.7  252.7    260.2  268.0  276.1    284.4    292.9        109.2
4.     5%    5.7%       183.7   167.6    176.0   184.8  194.0   203.7    213.9        30.2
5.     5%    6.6%       183.7   192.9   202,5  212.7  223.3   234.4    246.2          62.5
6.     5%    8.8%       183.7  257.6   270.4   284.0  298.2   313.1       328.7       14.50
___ __ ___ __ ___ __ __ ___   _____________________   __________________   _____________________   ____________.__________ ___ __ __ ___ __ ___ __ ___ __ __ ___ __ ___ __O D
NOTE: 1. All the figures are in constant 1985/86 prices.
2. It is assumd for all the scenarios that the share of public
sector in the economy remains constant.
3. The three scenarios for the share of the government budgeL
accounted for by the MH reflect the 1985/86 situation (6.6%)
and the lowest (5.7%) and highest (8.8%) proportions since 1974/75 (see Table 1.04).
0
i |



-49-
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 1
Documents Available in Project File
1. World Bank. "Zimbabwe Population, Health and Nutrition Sector Review".
Volumes 1 and 2. June, 1983.
2. Government of Zimbabwe. Proposal for a Family Health Project. June,
1985.
3. Lediard, M. 'Appraisal of IEC and Training Components of Proposed
Family Health Project".
4. Measham, A.R. 'Appraisal of the Family Planning and Urban Component of
the Proposed Family Health Project-.
5. Walker, F.H.H. "Appraisal of the Civil Works Component of the Proposed
Family Health Project".
6. Wathne, K. "Appraisal of the Proposed Family Health Project from a
District Point of View".
7. Wickham, R.S. "Appraisal of the Management Component of the Proposed
Family Health Project".
8.  Idea, M.D.  "Detailed Cost Tables for the Proposed Family Health
Project".



-50-
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 8
Detailed Cost Tables (Summary Accounts)
1   Project Costs by Expenditure Category and by Year, Including Foreign
Exchange Amount and Percentage (Z $).
2. Project Costs by Expenditure Category and by Base Costs and
Contingencies (US $).
3. Project Costs by Expenditure Category and by Year. Totals Include
Contingencies (Z $ and US $).
4. Project Costs by Expenditure Category and by Base Costs and
Contingencies (Z $).
5. Project Costs by Functional Component and by Year (Z $).
6.  Project Costs by Functional Component. Totals Include Contingencies (Z
$ and US $).
7. Project Costs by Expenditure Category and Functional Component (Z $).



-51-
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 8
ZIMBABWE
FIRST FAMILY HEEALTH PROJECT
Project Costs by Expenditure Category, and by Year,
Including Foreign Exchange Amount and Percentage
(ZIMABWE $ '000)
Iha  Cuts                      F       INim -uhmf
19M7    19K      1"9   1m        1991   Total       I 
- *-l                 -        -       -                -    -
I. IJ4E   -
A. UIVOW 312lY.317.174.4  7'0?9.2                         -        -35493.4   10.0  3t54.7
B. FQlIRI                     236.2  1843.4        -      -        - 20.6    30.0    623.0
C. EUIMENt                  l1vU.2  3,543*2      B.2   15.5      8.2  4t7U63   90.0   42 l.1
D. UMEICS                   1,253.7     6.6      6.6    6.6      6.6  1W20.1   3.3   1,066.5
E. SIPPLES d NElINS           484.9   432.0   451.9  414.7   448.1  2,241.5   49.9   1,119.6
F. TEDIICAL ASSISTIEN         504.6      ".  .47  2%.0   144.1 1,911.6    8.5  1,710.9
9. IRADIWD                    36.4    06.9   024.7  97.4    01.5  4,M9.          0.0       0.0
H. WUB        TRANM
ANS STT Tom                 94"8    37.5   109.9   37.5    75.3   354.9  100.0    354.9
I. RESEAW E 
EvLtJAns                    63.9   161.0   1'3.6   59.4   157.0  597.9    0.9           5.5
1. DOUnE ACTIVIIES             60.3    60.3    60.3   60.3    60,3   301.3    0.0          0.0
Total IIETHE:T COSTS          15S92.6 246459.3 9v160.1 1,745.3 1,761.3 53,305.6   23.8  12,700.1
II. RE-W COSTS
A. SMIES                     192.6   494.1    690.4 1,097.1  1,503.8 3P973.0    0.0       0.0
B. AllDS                      8.7    30.7    52.7   97.9   143.0   332.9    0.0           0.0
C. UTIITrESvUL
AN EJl    EWIP               -   109.6   219.2  963.2 1,747.2 3W059.1   29,2    39.1
D. UlMDIS MDUEE                 -        -      0.8  606.8    606.1 1P214.3    5.0       60.6
E. EPIPIENT MINTIeICE         26.4    48.1    55.6  215.0   215.0   560.2   49.         279.
F. JGME W.                  950.8   95.8 9    950.   950.8   950.8 4753.8   48.0  2Y2M.1
Total REC       COSTS         1,178.4  19633.2  1,969.4 3r950.7 S,166.6 1338w.3   25.3  3,517.6
ratol IASomIE CosTS           179171.1 26P279.0 11'129.5 5,696,0 6,929.4 67,N23.9   24.1  169226.7
Phkiel Catinunein            1,256.0  1,990.8   714.4    4.3      3.9 3,969.4   16.6    658.5
Price Contingmnies           2i815.4 79851.7  4,903.1 39026.8 4,436.7 22,933.6   18.5   4 232.3
Total Po=T COST               219242.4 369121.5 16647.0 84727.0 11,369.0 94,106.9   22.4 21,117.6
Foruisn Exah                 5,345.9 0,716.5 2756s9 1996.4  2,311.8 219117.6    0.0         0.0
D,u 27i 1986 10:50



ZIMBABWE
FIRST FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Project Coats by Expenditure Category and
by Base Costs and Contingencies
(us $ '000)
Pimical Cati*c2                    Pie   atn.na
kWm Coit,                  .---- ------ .                          -                                         o,lIt.C.CM   plus   kWo Coot, 6
tOtal                     ~~~~~~~~Lowal                                                        Pric Cait.  turiCm cs.
Local (EcI, Wasiu  I           For.  (focl. outin  I                      (foci.  hitiuo I                     Local (Exci. hiAiss I          am ranical   on leo
Far. l,f    amu)    Ta..    Total   Exch. Taxu")  Tam"   Tota1   for, Lxch, Taxes)  Tam.    Total   for. fxcdi.   tour.I    laws    Total                 clto         ot
hI zu*  flfl=   8SZf N8tlE;a               24m flIar. to  3*  Zhaa*Sn. .. .sto. insr-v              ... f32  Ss82zsSSf as858t8s  rmfl r nnrm  Awao-
A, CIVIL MS                    2o0639      25,794.5        -200817.5  205.4 1,17P.5        - 2,0117.1      354.6 4,507.4          4i5222      2.647-2    25,111.3         - VIM325S       21529.9      21,2906 
I. Fmi2II                        36615        156.1       -1,273.3  10.3   42.8            -   d1.2         56.9  191.4             7 49.3      443.7      1m.690         -1 2,U.7          73.0        1,441.7
C. EIiINI                      2,531,2        2307            2,502.0  126.1   14.0        -   140.1       310.    59.3             439.3    3,027.3         334.2           3,E12.4        261.0       3221.4
1. 13la.1                        627.3       122.7         -    753.0  29.7    6.3         -   36.0         56.2    27.5       -     75,7       725.3        249.5        - 5647             39,5         wo53
E.  MIfIES MS MTERIA.5           656.         "a0.6        -2,320.    3.0    3.0           -    5.9        262.1  225.7        - 317.5          3236         MU.&         -  1,12.3         .7.7        1,74,#6
F. 11012CM. sSfiSTm            2,006.4        115.2        -  2,24.5 3                             -       20A.  42.4          -    247.0    2,212.0         I5n'5        - 1,371.5                     1 237t.5
St 1T1INIII                                 2,524.6           2,524.6     -                                         96.2            W1962           -      3405           -3415-                        341
N. MLUS INAIN1K
MS am  loIS                   206.1            -        - 206.3                                          50. 9      -       -     50.9       259.7            -             297              -         29.
E'W.)MIU                        3.2        342.6        - 345.8                                           0.11  124.5             1 75.4       4.0        467.1        -   471.2                       471.2
J2. TJ6WIIWK myt1VIT1s               -        117.3        -    77.3       -                       -- 6.4                       -    62.4           -        239.7        -   239.7                       23.
Total IMESTINT 0OST3              7,475.9    23,11.3         - 32,356.?  38.4 1.9145,6        - 2,331       1,271.4 6,124.1       -1,396.2    9,237.5        s19m.)             1435         2,1,          .7,
HI. KmlIf costs
A. U aIts                           -       ,30.          -  2,310.0                        - - - --1.44,        44.0  1                                   .340             334.0  -                   3,54.60
so AfLLMls                                   1 95.5       -    295.8      -                -      --   92.0                    -    9.0            -        217.0              76-3.
C. 1UTILITIES.UMIES
meS[WI. ENIR                 525.9      1.273.         -  2,79.5       -       -                       202.2  657.5              I"5. 7      725,      2,1931.1          2659. 2-                   24.
3. NJILIIU MAINTIIVd             35.6        673.7        -    724.3                                       1       3.5  360.2  - 374.0          49.4      19031.9        - 2061.3                       ,6.
E, ClItihil MIIIUWU             164.6        164.9        -   329.5   2.9    1.9          -     3.9        56.3   77.7         - 134.0          Ml?,        244.6 1           467.3          5.2         462.4     ,.
F. WINICLE OP.                1.343,0      3,i453.3       - 2.796.3                               -       340.A  522.6         -    52.2    1,413.7       2.9649            3,64.6-                    3,1, 
-              -   --------   --  ---  ---------               ----------------------  -----.--                                                                          o,-
Total 50IE  0115                  2,069.2      6,206.3       -  6W.255    2.9    1.9          -    3.9        622.9 2.743*a       -  3,356.0     26,614.      11,351.3       -  I2.5.3           5.2      22,5*30.
Total                     9,5~~~~~~~1#45.2    29,916.6  - 39,532.7  317.4 2,947.5     - 2,34.9      IOU,664.    67.8       - 10,752.2   22,626.5    440,02.0         - 52,611.5      21&.32.?     4,6.            w
Maw 27, I 216 0152



-53-
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 8
ZIMBABWE
FIRST FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Project Costs by Expenditure Category and by Year
Totals Includinl Cmntinseimn                       7otals Inrludirn  Cntinimwiuis
(ZI1MW  I '0003                                     (uSS 'ooo)
1917    1m       Im      I0    1991   Total         1987    IMBI   193      P m     1991    Total
S_=S =z==   u=     ==_   r =z ==S=                           e=          m  ===   5G==--
1. IlnEIEI CSTS
A. CVIL WM                  146327.9 246319.2 11,034.8      -       - 49481.9   MOM7.4 13,510.7 6.130.4        -       - 27PUB.5
3. FUIITNE                    2J5.3  2.467.2        -       -       - 29752.6    163.1 13?S.7         -       -       -  1.333.7
C. EFIIUN                    1,397.7 4660.9    11.5   23.4    13.2 69046.6    79Y.7 2h5t.0    6.4   13.0    7.3  1,3B1.4
3. IQIQES                    1,476.2     9.5      9.2    9.9    10.5  1I514.4    343.6       4.7    5.1    5.5    5.8   B64.7
E.  NPFUES  U IIUEUIILS       554.9   611.3   623.9  672.8   653.3 3,066.2    317.1   339.6  346.6  346.0  362.9 1712.3
F. EtUECAL A3SITtNM            564.7   64.8   611.2  404.6   225.3 2g452.6    322.7   359.3  339.6  274.S  125.2  1,371.5
S. TlUI3 1                   1 ,033.6  1,343.9  19173.5 1365.5  1511.5 6127.      590.6   579.9  652.0  758.6  039.7  3,420.8
R. el*s  3*D111
AU SW1D? TilS               105.7    46.1   145.5   53.4   113.7   464.4         40.4    25.6   P0.9   29.7   63.2   259.7
EVUSIINI                     74.4   217.2   199.9   91.3   263.1   34U.0         42.5   120.7  I1I.1   50.7  144.2   471.2
j. mImhmE EFvlirES              70.3    71.0    s5.o   94.3   101.1   429.4         40.2    43.3   47.6   52.4   56.1   239.7
Total IISTNEIIT COSTS          19,390.3 34,039.0 13,3M5.4 2%65.1  2,391.7 73P391.9  119366.1 I,n910.6 7,719.6 1,4P0.6 1,606.5 41,003.5
1          ==r~-=a _2=-==-=                  ==-= =  ---=z==
II. mr  CIm
A, SMIES                    224.5   639.2   932.5 1,717.3 29521.4 6.O34.8    129.3   355.1  545.1  954.0 1,400.9  3434.0
3. L6M 3                      10.1    39.7    75.0  153.2   239.3   517.9          5.8    22.0   41.7   15.1  133.2   237.3
C. UnLITIEStWLIES
M i SF . En IP                 -   140.3   307.3 1.498.2  2,340.7 4,786.5          -    77.9  170.7  832.4 1,v53.2  2,659.2
3. NnID    EADlBWICE             -        -      1.1  945.5  1,012.3 I953.9          -        -    0.6  5s5.3  562.4  1,099.3
E. EI0III  MNAINEI             31.7    62.3    79.2  323.5   344.3    40.5         18.1    34.6   43.5  179.7  191.5   467.5
F. iWHCLE WF.               1,65.4  1i201.0  1,307.6 1.424.2 1,513.2 6536.4    620.2   667.2  726.5  791.2  343.5  3F640.6
Total RECUENT COSTS             1,351.7  2,632.5  2#751.7 6,061.9 8.477.3 26725.0    772.4  I        s156.9 1258.7 39367.7 4709.6 11,535.3
=C5=- _                   -               ==    =                     _    =    S== Z C
Total PROECT CSTS               21242.4 36.121.5 16647.0 3,727.0 I1369.0 94,106.9  1M,I3M.S 20,067.5 9,24.3 4,348.3 69316.1 52,611.3
=-_=--= =--=--- =z=
Na 27 1936 10:52



FIRST FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Project Costs by Expenditure Category and
By Base Costs and Contingencies
(ZIMABWE $ '000)
gmCallcal s                                                                                                            fiocal
I. Coot,-------                                   ---- - ---------       prie, Ctntid t                                Tout  Ient. Cat,                 Wmi.  DeM. C1ute 0
*o---                                                                                                                --- -------------- ...... .............................. _   .............. ... . ....... . .  _in Cat.   i WA.
Local ((icl.  Was I              fare   (ECI   AIM n  I                      Locil (Ixci. Mm itI toal ((xEl. MIAin  I                                      a tical           t  kw
For. Exc.    tamu         tons    Total    E   , Taxes)l  Taes   Total    Fr. Eeh,    Tam)             TaIm    Total   For. [Enh.    Ta%)           Talm      otl         CeS.            Cuts
*|tlols s$"s lWs Blwass lle $s affe asmwss .-s ..................... ex .....to.. set" ...2 wasgxx    razfzvrms.amm  _nxva _iscs _rarre
1. iwavwuv 1st
At CIVIL W3s42,7                              33.910.. -1.493                34   315.1          - 3.549.3        Met         ,ll0.5        - 1,63.n        4,7MJ       44.N.3           - 491,9         4,56.5           4 6,15.4
to FlltE                           623.0       1416.6         -  2,079.6   31.1    72.0              304.0       142.1         426.9        -    569.0        796.2      169U.3          -  2tA.d          131.1           2.U6..
Co 11t 4E.206                                    477.2         -  49763.3  214.3    23.9         -   233.2       9130          132.1        -   .0453,    5,431.4         6U3.1          - 64.6            207.9           51.
t.o KlLE.                       13,0.5           21337        -  1,250.31   5.5    10.7          -    6U.2       135.0          n.2         -    173,3    13,52.           261.6        -  3,54.4           U9.3          134643
1. U9tfln  Me  W4TIAIS          13119.6        1,121.9        -  2,241.5    5.0      5.3         -    303        M50.2         464.4        -    514.6    3,474.6       13.1.4           -  336.2           13.3           ZRAm
Fe nuCA  Ai nusE                 11710.9         M-0          -  1911.-6       -                         -       45.,           Net         -    541.0      zoIu6.         215.          - 9. 2.A              -           2.411!
I. 1TVAN               *               -       42931.9        -  4,293.9       -       *                             -       1,16.0         -  I.IW.O             -      62.9           -  6,2.              o.e          6,2.9
aS  SWl   IS 3o4.9                                -        -    354.9       -       -         -       -       305               -        -    109.5         4.4             -        -    464.4             -            44
I. Ei M
EU*IAI              ,             5.5         502,4        -    567.9       -       -        *        *6                   256.2         -    150,          7.2         13.6         -     4.9           4.              6.0
J. I1E133 K13tEI1                      -                      - 30133          -       -        -        *           -        320.0         -    12.0            -         429.4        -    429.4             -            4
rotal ZITITCIPI             W      12,09.1    f40.59CT           - 53.1056  65..2 3.107,5           - 3...2 .. 236..         . .3,376.7        - . 6,.I3.. .4.30..         57.0W,?         - 73302,          .0265          5.53.
II. n zos
i. uamu       -t
A. 5M1UlN                             -       3,970.0        -  3,970.0       -       - -               -           -      2,10 .0         -  71.206            -       6.64.0         -  6,036.O          4.0           640.0
I.  LIWUS                                       32.9         -    332.9                                                      1 .  -34      -    134.3            -        570          -    517.0           t.o            517.0
C. U'T11113,11L31S
S           E9 lIP             394.3      2,163.1         -  3.059        -        -        -       -        4366        3,30.0        -  3,727.4      1.1306       1,45.,          -  4,76.1           4.07
I, MLEIU MI T Dll  flWa            60.6      13153.7         *  10214.)       -       -        -       *         23.3        76.3          -    144.6        ".9        10.            -  313.9            4.0
Ic (OUIUIiIT M3NTEiU              279.0         210.4        -    560.2    3.3      3.3              6.6        117.6        356.3         -    273.7       400.7         43           -      6.,           t.l            02.4
F. MICLlE  .                    2.211,1       2,470.6        -  4.753.3       -       -                         732.9      3,09,           -  1372.?      3,026.0       3,520.4        -                    pi 4t
Total *aiA m                        3C517.6      10,310.7        - 13339.3    313       3.3        -     6.6      11291.4      5.526           -6.3,o         41oli.31     I5,0.?          - 20725.e            9.1         2073.9
total                                1422.7       50,m77.2        - 67,203.9  65.5 33310.3           - 3,96.4      4,232.3      10,703.3        - 22,913.6    21.117.6      12909.3          - 94306.9       5.027           W,OnA
Kaw 270 I3     30353
010
otw



-55-
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 8
ZIMBABWE
FIRST FAMILY HELTH PROJECT
Project Coots by Functional CLaoponent and by Year
(ZIMBABWE $ '000)
DM Cent                           Total
1"7     9m       19m     199     199    71E  I ft 000)
4- WNIEm ST - T -
I.  ~f          T I
1.  ANhAvRS                                             19104.3   n7.6   956.2  69i.7   729.3    4i483.0   2,637.1
2. PVIEIIL                                                511.9   266.6   264.5  2;1.1   264.5    1,576.3        927.2
3. DSTCT                                                   25.4   129.4   117.9  129.4   117.9        520.0      305.9
Sub-Total  AMET   STI9 l iU                                1,641.5  19393.6 1,333.6 1r093,9  1r111.6   6,57.3   3.370.2
I. FAuLY PLNEIIJI IW  WLN1311111B                          1,53.1  1s464.6   673.3  750.7   70.7    5,273.4   3M102.0
C. 1MM  FALTY KAIN1                                          704.5       -        -      -        -      704.5      414.4
D. DFIIFmTMIP, ER*fTu UN CUNICATIUS
1. amC                                                    304.?   363.9   273.1  260.1   2P3.0    hI4S5.1        173.6
2. NIESTM  F E.Th.N                                       423.9   421.3   391.0  290.2   226.2    1,759.6   1,035.1
S*-Total IlNW   TIU   EEoTION M  CMuuCTIs                  72R.9   792.2   664.1  550.3   509.2    39744.7   1 90N.7
E. STEIl I  DiSTRICT LEVEL IE&EilL  SY1
1. MEI TIlE                                             1,063.5 24515.4  1.006.7  381.4   636.7    5W633.7   3,313.9
2.  KE                                                      5.7  2,101.2   927.2  261.3   427.6    4.473.1   24631.2
3. KUI.                                                 1,052.6  2,263.0   935.4  210.7   299.4    4,751.1   2,794.B
4. MM                                                   1,325.2 2M270.0  1,065.3  276.8   466.3    5,403.6   3v178.6
S. MM                                                      43.8 I,9.5   915.4  104.2   124.0    3MOM2.9   2,294.0
6. UVUl                                                   854.7 1,764.2   734.2  239.3   421.6    4M013.9   2,361.1
7.   Il                                                 1,136.5  2,673.9 1,051.0  363.6   561.6    5p73.6   3,403.9
8. lSlLTIO                                              19240.0  2,0(0.1    52.9  254.3   390.9    49111.7   2,875.7
Tb-tal STEIUTIS  DISnTr  LEQM EfER     51ys1               8,371.3 17v673.2 7id33.2 2,092.2  303H.1   33431.5  22,943.2
F. S    5TIUIII  PaLI #SICE5
1.  ITRINE                                                2"9.6   464.7    90.3   93,2    93.2    1,030.9        606.4
2. 901M                                                 1,062.9  1,234.B   267.1  30.6   303.6    39182.1   I,371.8
3. KUI.                                                  553.1   649.4   131.3  151.2   151.2    1'63Z.3        961.9
4. NiTD0                                                  375.8   290.3    56.3   65.7    65.7        353.9      502.2
5. MiN                                                    647.6   783.3   156.5  131.3   191.3    1,950.1   1,X47.1
6. NIMB                                                   462.6   575.5   111.5  129I6   121.6    1,406.8        827.5
7. Z1                                                     234.9   414.2    63.7   74.4    74.4        961.6      506.8
e. TUILOTSUO                                              343.3   422.8    72.3   84.3    34.3    1,012.5        591.6
Sub-Total STI   T U  RMIPI EUICS                           39315.4 4,934.1    33.9 l0W7.3 1,0I7.3   11,933.0   7,019.4
s. POCr  irnau                                               149.9   121.4   121.4  121.4   121.4        635.6      373.9
Total   IE  COSTS                                           17C171.1 26P279.0 11129.5 5696.0 6,92.4   67,203.9  39,m.7
issical ConUtrdieis                                       1.256.0 jt,A.9   714.4    4.3        3.9    3 969.4   2,334.9
Price Emti mduas                                         2815.4  7,351.? 4,03.1 3,026.3 4436.7   22,933.6  10,752.2
Total "3S.ICT1S                                             2!p242.-436,171.5 16PP7.0 6.727.0 11W369.0   94,106.9  52,613.3
J ---_ -
Fhrig. Exiidn                                             5,345.9 1,716.5 2r756.9 1,9U.4 2,311.B   21t117.6  11,916.8
No ZJ, W193 10:53



ZIMABWE
FIRST FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Project Coats by Functional Component
Totals Includini Conatnneits                         Totals Ineludinr Contiwnwin
(ZIlINII4     I '000)                    .1us5 '000)
197     19M       m       M0       19"     Total       ",7   1961    9m        199    191    rtota
33333133 33833333 33388213 1318321 33333stx  a33a3xas  3333ssa ar;z-azz rz33,. n.argusr s3823  32,1"3s3
I. WNM MU                                                  1I270.2  1266.5  1,322.31,055. 62,290.7  6,505.3   m7s    703,6  734.6  564   66135 3M4120
2, MlJICIAL                                                   591.4   M3ot1  362.5   401.3    420.3  2,1111.    3379    566.7  202.4  223.0  233.5  51,52.6
3J  DISWlT                                                     29.6    167.2    167.5  202.1    197,2    763.5       16,9    92.9   93.0   117.3  109.5   424,7
bTotul NIdMW  IISTMflOlU                                       14913  1,769.6  5i32.3,6109.0  1,606.3  ,990.6  1M060.7    993.2 1,029,0  9217 10046  5,019.3
It FlulLY  LSIW   NO HUM.TH TUININIU                           lY42.1  1,977.3   963,S 1172.2  1,322.6  79377.9  1,109,.  109M,5   535.3  651.2  734.3  4,129.7
C.  W Ml  lY CtMhIU                                              128.1        -        -       -        -   8n76.      n73,2        -       -       -       -   473.2
I. IWU1112 N E17TIN AU COMICATIONK
Is amC                                                       354.7    465.0    376.1  392.3    454.9  2043.6    202,7  235.3  209.3  217.9  252.7  1l.41.0
,NINISTT OIF "TN                                            485.0   539A4   53159   431.6   363.4  29350.4    277,1    ,t1   295.5  239.9  201.9  I13.5
*T-T l 1101 WOWIUN , EIUCATION All MIKEICAIIUS                  639,6  1.0034    996   924A0   911.2  4,393.9    479.6   557.5  504.9   47.l  446.  2,454.4
Es STIEII 1U I ISTUICT LE     51FEM         SYSTIN
1 K111                                                     19341.8  3,535.8  195M5,2  564.6  1,0444  1,061.6    766.7 12,6.4 M        64.0   374.6   50.2 4,50o.1
2. NWE                                                     1,061  2t921,0  1P291,5  40t19    70159  6391.2    620,6  1,622.1  711.7  m2.   319.9  3,567.9
3, UNOI                                                     W 331.0  3.141,9  1,444,5  322,7   4743  60714.5        764,5  5,745.5  302.5  179.3  263.5  3,751,4
4,2111W                                                    1.I92,?  3P150,  1,65W,   426.0   766.5  792,4           t67,0  2750.4  919.9  216.7   425.3  44.,2
5.W                                                        14071.0  2M2  It262,7  159.1    203.5  5S470.1    652.0 1 ,540,7  701,5   96.6   113.0  30V6.0
6. 111t1                                                   I0914  2P451.6  1541.1  38.5   69.77  5,745.0           62.7  2,362,0  634.0  204.5  314,1  3,20.0 
7.  1                                                      1,434.7  39713.5  14619.5  556.7   920.6  1,244.9    819,9  2.063,0  B99.7   309.3  511.4  4,603.3
I.s TSHOTS                                                15.572,4  2,852.2  1471,7   30.3    624.6  6,9.          m96.5  1WS.5  617.6   216.9  3470  3,94.5
9-Total  S1WIIITIE E ISISTICI LW  5131. SYSTIN               10420,5 245400 115431,7 3,2094  5,429.4 55,230,0   60468.9 13,633M3 6,350.9 1,793.0 3415,05  30,851.9
F, UTWUM1WS MiP1r  YILE9
1I NITIIEI                                                   368.6    641.5    112.1  142,5   152.3  1,417.0    210.6   356.4    62.3   79.2   14.6    M.1
2. GME                                                     2,325.4  1,707.7    379.0  471.9   51225  4,402.5        757.4   943.7   210.0  266.1   2M4,7  2M416.
3 WOKi                                                       66.3    894.1    24.0  232.2   24.3  2,244.9    392.2    49.7  102.2  129.0  157,9  1925U1
4W11100                                                      464.7    399.      76,2   99.       106.7  55149.2    265,5    m.0   43.5   55.5   59.3   145.3
5Wm                                                           02   5M062.    221.4  2Xi.3 J       0151  2,62.4    460.7   601,2  123.0  156.3  167.3  1,566.6
a. 1Ilt                                                      577.1    793.7    156.0  197.0    210,5  1.934,3    329.6   441,0   16.7   10.4   116,  1,063.3
7,911"                                                       267.3   m72.5      Io7  113,4   121.1 I5I5.0           164.2    313,0    4.3    63.0   67.3    Ul.
It TSl.ThIX                                                  430.9   383.5    100.9  158.7   137.5 153 A,4          244.2   324.2   56.0    71.5   76.4   774.3
SbTotal STUIENDING  OIPM. SERVICES                           469466  6,6747  1539.4 16741   I790.0 16,404.3   2.36,6  3,700.2  733.0  930,0  794,5  9,192.3
6, F5CT  _       TEmn                                           174,2    156.3   171.5  166,.2   201.4   991,6          9.6      16.    91.3   104.6   111.9  4"9.                             ,.
Tatel PUCT COSTS                                               21,242.4 36512155 516647,0 9,727.0 11.369.0 94,504.9  125136.5 20,067,5 9248.3 4f9463 6,356,1 52,618.6
Nav 27, I93   10354



ZIKABWE
FIRST FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Project Costs by Expenditure Category and Functional Component
(ZIMBABWE $ '000)
ESUCAIIU MI
FMILY                 CCKICATIONS
IMI_EI    SflflINEI                PA11IU      P34K     . --- - ---------                     T           Dls TRrl  WL  RH     l STEA N STE
- -------------------    AOl HALH   FMILY                NINISTRY OF  ----------------- -_--_-
AI  Tt5 41tKIlN DISTRICT    TRAINING   PL I                ZW      HNEAT      KI1M1l          MW       UM0   WIM      OM0       NYW         ff    rSO41WI                   OM
*s~~~~~~~~~~~a5::sa Wsmar_s=zzau ffsa2.2a. *ss .... Xs *w888""ase 8288-arm" sss:r  uorras- 32s=X rSs   s_                        _ _    _~          - 
I. INPESIT COSTS
A, CIVIL     S                                        -         -     1438.3                 38.0             -     3:R32.3  326.1  3,06.4  4:00,9  3,075.9  2.9-9,  39441.3            3:416.0       50.2  1:44.9
I.  URIUtE                               -            -         -       137.2          -      3.3            -        220.9   114.2    299.0    232.5    177.0    170.0    221.9          M06.1       236        6.7
C. EUIPRW                             38.4         24.4      I3.6       2642       617.9   121.5           49,2       367,9    30616    .33.2   387,0   2?9.6    M13.        369.3        34163        P7e.  m2
0. WHICLES                           114.0        227.5         -            -         -        -          45,9        56.9     29.4     56.9         -     29.4             1f.4          54.9        57,1    109.9
E. SWIIES Ne rATERIALS               194.3         26.3      26.3       136,9        7.7     56.0        E54.             -        -        -         -        -        -         -           -           -         -
F. TECHIICAL AMSISTNUE             2452.2             -         -         6.2          -                  454.2           -        -             -        -         -        -          -           -          -
9. M11*1N1                           701.2         49.4      44.9     3,29.9        79.9    92.2          42.5            *        -        -         -        -        -        -            -           -         -
Hs ISMM  TUININ
Mm  STUNT 1Tom                    193.4        532.2         -                      -     30.3            -
It. RESEC   NO
EVMIMTION                         363.5         26.3      22.0         5.5          -     76.7         14.9            -        -        -        -         -        -        -            -           -         -     2
J. SEAMTIW MIIVITI                   1192            -         -           -                9 112.2         -            -        -        -         -        -        -        -            -           - --
Total INSMENMT CSTS                   3.290          495.1     95,7      5,11.2       7045  12460.1       I:330.3      4:7.9  3.705.3  4.093.4  4:60.4  3575.9  3,353.0  4:624.9           40.9513       675.7  249".5
11.   E COM     COSTS
A. SNMIES                           530.4            -     420.0           -          -        -            -       251.6    260.5      92.5    270.6      29.6   164.1    213.3        237.3        200.4    4693
3.  LO 5MU            .                 -                                                                                     -  -  -  -  -  19.0  578  10,3  1    3.3    11.2  23.3      15.3        11.3    63.6
C. UTJLITIESPSLU9IES
MNS E    .i  EUIP                   -           -          -           -          -        -            -        45,5    3204    123,1    373.1       26.4    364.4   3M6.5          226.0        56.1    262.0
O. SUIUI       INTWI                    -           -          -        59.3          -      2.3            -        215    11122.5   229.5    1141,11 9            92.7    242.5       222.2         17.2     56.4
E. EI l MIIIT MIIEWAE               132.2        40.3        3.5        32.9          -     22.7          9.9         27.4    26.1      29.6      33.0     21.5     21.5    32.1          29.9         3.7      26.7
r.   HICE WP.                       525.4      2O050.9        -            -                  -        219.9        242.7    111.4   262,7          -    131.4        -    394.1        262.7       161.5   253.6
Total KCISJ     COSTS                 2,21m.0      1s091.2     424,1        92.           -     25.0        22oo    12175.7    767,3   657.7    743.2    307.0   6U0.9  2162.7               793.4        5.2 12416.6
Total 1*(INE COSTS                     44183.0     1.576.3      520.0     3:273.4      704,5  :485.21    12759.6        5633.7  4473.1  4751.1  5MO0M,6  3,1t2, 4023.9  5:716.6             415.7       1,31.9  391:2.!
Pntical Cantirewin                     23,9         12.6       0.7       138.9       31.3     22.5          4.5        410.7    344,6    3so.      433.2    33726    312.1    423.7        379.0        31.9    23.s
Pref Contlncnius                    1.591.3       522.9      242,9      99435.6      92.3   547.0         596.0      2,017.5  :573.5  2MGM3.4  X2,92.5  2:254.7  12412.4  2029.6         26435         327.2  2:032.9
Total PRICT COSTS                      6W105.3    2:211.2       763,5     73779        529.1  71043.6      2,350.4      1O06141  6:31.2  6714.5 3    i691.4  53470.1 174.0  3244.9    6W91ld            2427.0  4442.5
e:::::::-:a2   u    9:::::: 2 :3:::::  332333333333::sag a33:-2s    33s3 2 3:sores.   rs  Wrat s vrwrt2 s 333333  :3:3::3   :2::3 nra         I    _  _       n                   a
Foreign Exchmn                      2:324.0       203.7       34.0       54129     655.6   900.1       12330.7       1,521.3  1255.2  12267,0  1293.       979.7    971.4  1539.t        1:279.9      3l1.5   6u36
Rn 27: 29     10:55                                                                                                                                                                                                Id
o t4



-58-
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
Implementation Schedules
Management Component
Year
Pre-
Headquarters                                Project   1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
Equipment                                             X
Vehicles                                              X
Management Training Materials                         X       X        X       X       X
Long-term Advisor                                     X       X        X
Foreign Short-term Consultants                        X       X        X       X       X
Local Short-term Consultants                          X       X        X       X       X
Health Financing Study                                X
Operational Research                                  X       X        X       X       X
In-Service Training:  Headquarters                    X       X       X        X       X
Contract with University, etc.                        X       X        X       X       X
Pre-Service Training - DESA                           K       X        X       X       X
Training Ove-seas (Short-term)                        X       X        X       X       X
Study Tours                                           X                X
Two Additional Positions Approved           X
Two Positions Filled                        K X               X        X       X       X
Secretary for Management Unit                         X       X        X       X       X
Library Development                                   K       K   X        X           X
Provincial
Equipment                                             X
Vehicles                                              X
Overseas Training (Short-term)         |          |                    K X             X
Operational Research                                  X       X        X       X       X
In-Service Training:  PHSA                            X
Prov. Team Training                                           X
Refresher Training                                                             Y
Training Materials Development                        X       K        X       *       X
District
Equipment                                             X
Operational Research                                  X       X       X        X       X
In-Service Training: DHSA Authorities                         X
Refresher Training                                                             X
District Management Workshop                                  X                X
Preparation of Training
Materials                                            X       X        X       X       X
DHS Administrators (appointment)                                                       X K  K  K



-59-
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
Training Component
Year
Pre-   ___    _
Project   1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
Family Planning
Trained Annually
Harare and Bulawayo                       150      150      150     150      150     150
Districts                                  -       240      240     480      480     480
(Total)                                 (15C)    (390)   (390)   (630)   (630)   (630)
Culmilative Total                          150      540      930    1560    2190    2820
Nidwifery
Trained Annually
Existing Institutions                     85        85      120     120      120     120
Chitungwiza and Bindura                  100       100      60       60       60      60
Gwanda                                    -         60      40       40      40       40
Hasvingo                                   -         -       60      40       40      40
Mashonaland West                          -          -        -      60       40      40
Manicaland                                 -         -        -       -       60      40
Matabeleland North                   j         -         -        -            -      60
Mashonaland East                          -          -        -       -        -       -
(Total)                                 (185)    (245)   (280)   (320)   (360)   (400)
Cumulative Total                           185      430     710    1030    1390    1790



-60-                                ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
Civil Works
Pre-
No.      Activity Description                                Project  1987    1988    1989
1. Appraisal
2.1 District Hospitals (8)
Pre-Project Activity
Reproduce site plans
Survey and cost existing house repairs (128)
Produce drawings and costs for training
Produce drawings and costs for pharmacies
Produce revised layout and cost. improved F14
Survey and report mission and rural hospitals
(20) for MCH/FP Unit
Locate district HQ staff huuses
9
2.2 Working Drawings and Details, B of Q
And Tender Documentation
District hospital, training unit, pharmacy,
housing, rural and mission hospitals
2.3 Tender Procedures
District hospital, training unit, pharmacy,
housing, rural and mission hospitals
2.4 Construction Period
3.1 Clinics (82)
Pre-Project Activity
Finalize surveys and reports
Produce schematics and costings
3.2 Working Drawings, Details, Specifications
3.3 Tender Procedure
3.4 Construction Period
4.1 Radio/Video/Graphics Unit
Pre-Project Activity
Survey existing building, schematic and costs
4.2 Working Drawings, Specification, Contract Documents
4.3 Tender Procedure
4.4 Construction Period
5.1 Finalize Equipment and Furniture Lists, Dist. Hosps.
5.2   Order for district hospitals
5.3   Order for clinics
6. Agree Method and Cost of Communication of District
IHospital to Clinic



-61-
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 2
MCH/FP Innovative Activities and Operational Research
MCH/FP Innovative Activities
The funds are intended to provide the flexibility for introducing
and testing new ideas and approaches as the Bank-assisted project
develops. They are particularly intended for the use of NG0s. As it is
impossible to identify these activities at the project preparation or
appraisal stage, they would be developed during the life of the project.
Proposals for funding should concentrate on innovative approaches to MCH/FP
service delivery and client education/motivation. In particular, proposals
should focus on more effective and efricient ways of providing, and
increasing the utilization of, health and FP services -- for example, by
new outreach efforts, by the use of different schedules and combinations of
services, or by the delegation of functions to lower levels of workers.
Income-generating activities could also be designed to ep-'urage more
demand for family planning; while nutritional interventions could be
designed to address the particular needs of pregnant or lactating mothers,
or infants and young children.
Project proposals should discuss particularly carefully how the
project would be monitored and evaluated for possibilities of replication
snd/or comparison. Proposed projects which are judged to be difficult to
replicate within Zimbabwe on a wider scale are unlikely to be approved.
However, approaches tried outside of Zimbabwe could certainly be
considered. Proposals should be fully costed and have a simple design with
a duration of not more than three years; and financially smaller rather
than larger projects are enco,uraged. For programming purposes an amount of
Z $5,000 has been allocated per district per year -- giving a total amount
of Z $200,000 for the eight districts. If necessary, unapproved funds
would be reallocated between districts in the light of utilization rates.
It is expected that individual projects would not exceed Z $10,000.
It is anticipated that most proposals for innovative activities
would be developed at the district level in the districts selected for the
proposed project. Such proposals would be submitted through the district
level project coordinators. In the case of nationally coordinated NGOs,
project proposals from district level NGO personnel should receive
clearance from their respective headquarters. In the case of projects to
be carried out by health department staff, the proposal would normally be
prepared in conjunction aith the district level project coordinator before
being forwarded to the MH. For other government departments, the project
proposal would also need to be simultaneously submitted to the parent
ministry on a "no objection" basis. In addition to proposals being
developed within the selected districts, however, proposals could be
developed at the central level, though in consultation with the district(s)
concerned.



-62-
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2
MCH/FP Operational Research
In addition to the allocation for district-level innovative
activities, an amount of Z $100,000 hes been earmarked for operational/
applied research proposals which could be conducted in support of the
Government's MCH/FP program. Research projects could either focus on the
selected districts or on the national program. University departments are
particularly encouraged to submit proposals.  Proposals should address
issues likely to provide information which would contribute to the better
operation of the program; they should take into account any other related
research going on in Zimbabwe; and they should include discussion of how
the results would be made available to decision-makers in the MCH/FP
program.
Approval Procedures and Funtding
Proposals for NCR/FP innovative activities or operational
research soh',ld be submitted to the Project Coordinator, who in turn would
submit them to the Director, Family Health for commnt and clearance.
Six-monthly substantive and financial progress reports and a final report
within three months of the end of the project period would be required.
These reports would be particularly important for the consideration of any
additional requests for funding. All documentation would be made available
to the World Bank for its information and comment.



-63-
Chart 1: NEW HEALTH SERVICE STRUCTURE
Level of Care             Type of               Executive             Coordlnating             Political
Health Unit             Authority                 Body                 Structure
Ministry                                  other miniatries
QUATERNARY                                       of Health                                  Ministry of Local
Govt and Housing
centr 1
hospitals
I                provincial              provincial             provincial
referral            health services             health               authority
clinical               authority               committee
support
TERTIARY 
provincial
hospital
r distrlct health            district               istrlct
referral               services                 health                 ouncl
clinical               authority               commdttee
support
SECONDARY  I,
district
ho
referral
clinical
support
|health                                        c  enter             conmitteerua   
center                                        con2ittee          
PRIMARY I,
Village comunity and structures, and
village health workers
I/ For esee of exposition, only rural primary and secondary levels
are shown.



-'4-
a        2i PJ   _IMXW           w    Q   O^UI
~~~~2.    uI_ S,  S .    -I e                                    .      z
Uzul ~~~~1dI Slm   ~awan #A&                     m ad                                     it                                   ftwilcovm
L IAuu1 ad adU g1th bgv.2.                L      z     I                              (a) tm Ofice.                              L FI_dc bpit1aU ad .l2 _
3. SO=                                    L &sub Thdoft coomnotL.                     (b) Air  "uhWm.
4.4. FWKA0                                                                             e) awmeAit Lgt.                            3.tId1,Pd2U
5. Ham'_mna                                . Dui  tKIG                                 () _MA                                     4.
L Moomm  _.KO   6.                        L tpt H_mum  Fmcm                           (a) AR FleI
7. gotia   d S- e t     .                 7.      c swIin.                         2. urn.
ILly _    1    ad
OM  _mmdL



Lub.n  So    amJIZATICdL ILTIC           VW NmIrM v  IOFUL1H
Pr.j.et Ce.rdinar                                                                                          DI oft -
,l,-It, C."r rrr                                                                                                                buIth Spp.orot S. -
I"._y rotuonnt Serotr.y
Ad.Ilorotinof nd F_ioo,c
k1 I      7r              nIrr  Dim  Z          mL.r            r     eld                                                          *Ir 1euer        DbIu,tor        1oI-r            Sm-lno
Dt,.oior      Di motoXrNorM.1s                _uIth            lbdonl               de         Iod?           Lbne                Par t  il li rector                                Dirmet-r
Frot          Pl -1o.g          Smor.         MoI ?r           Id rtor.                       Ietr    Ie  t..-  "C-Lro y                              ud  boIcI.-  SP.tl-lt          Lohurotory
1buith II      b noa   t                      D_otnnt                               nto       id.ionltri    Scollt                                                   Pr.r            3.. fts.
And R ----rch
-am.1n  nd   H-.1gb             Monng         Ndin                                                                                                   wi4oim         Moniol           Pulbl
hild Onith    Piol~in           . Dur r-        dorotio                                                                                            _d        tlh 1o.o1t:1                   o
and F.ntI                                                                                                                                                                            !~_Pa i   -oorLori.
_lr th         Aid             fIrn             . Plo Id
DIng.: 1_o     Codu-,rti.       td.r I        Tr-ialrg                                                                                             _VDh.l-.         Go.1.            cnr.-n
.Ad trn-Ity                                   C-.odot                                                                                                               Ibozh              Lynt
knoith        _Crily           Tr. Inig
Noritci-        Idro.ts_        llrin           AdIt nl-tr om
-todi.grophy   -Omcpo?.Li-1          ci.,
w -sr;                                                                                                                                                              olwmblllt tl-     Co tnl
[ft"  rt_tl -  _"lT
"9-lIW       _   t
1 ~I .nt       L .,n
_e-le bl                                                                                                                                                                            -Al.
Di...          an*d                                                                                                                                                                    roIlo
Cotrol         toloi.                                                                                                                                                                C ticrn
Bin_r
L'-rch
.ohrMrr



2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'0                                    ...... .--4
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~..............
Oe.        (-                                    r
*                      0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t



IBRD 18695
3I -  
. f     t              z   ,- PFURA                    .                       .IMBABWE
-                   1 ,  /  9  _>.    FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
* mhu.iqp.r.
*    I~~~~~~~~~~~L
M    h                                                            ...L, 1p,.1   .f 
I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~21
~~~~*                         I                                  -*-,[TySfC0f . ....,,.,,
X  J  *                 .91  -  , -l r
N.                   IVD
\ ~      ,D Af*         ]       
). '_  L<                                  ' . j     _TANZANIA
Z~~''5-.   -'-, "                                      ,
MALW
-                    'N                           i                            AS i25
-42f    pan    . \f&lAi0ZAMBIsU
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
X~ ~~~* Y-~ '-                              ,*,                      .=:i.j  /
J         S'1-
IL' -   {   <     *    .,/                       _
/-  -/X                .        /                                    t L >      S^A:S,A MR       19
*ee',r,    '~~-.              *                         '                      FP ')  A 
MT                      .       *  :- ,,.  .  :-.
S;O          '_ *    _ 
MARCH 1 985



