Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13784
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
(LOAN 2744-ZIM)
DECEMBER 12, 1994
Population and Human Resources Division
South Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FISCAL YEAR
Government Fiscal Year: July 1 - June 30
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At time of appraisal (1986): Z$1.00 = US$1.54
At time of completion (1993): Z$1.00 = US$0.16
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CMED                 Central Mechanical Equipment Department
COW                  Clerk of Works
DHSA                 District Health Service Administrator
ESAP                 Economic and Structural Adjustment Programme
FHP1                 Family Health Project
FHP2                 Second Famnily Health Project
FP                   Family Planning
GOZ                  Government of Zimbabwe
GTZ                  Deutsche Gesellschaft fir Technische Zusammenarbeit
(German Technical Cooperation Agency)
HEU                  Health Education Unit
IEC                  Information, Education and Communication
IUD                  Intra-Uterine Device
MCH                  Maternal and Child Health
MFEPD                Ministry of Finance, Economic Planning and Development
MOH                  Ministry of Health and Child Welfare
MPCNH                Ministry of Public Construction and National Housing
NORAD                Norwegian Agency for Development
ODA                  Overseas Development Administration
OPV3                 Oral Polio Vaccine (third doses)
PC                   Personal Computers
PHC                  Primary Health Care
PHN                  Population, Health and Nutrition
PIS                  Personnel Information System
PMU                  Project Management Unit
PTC                  Posts, Telephones and Communications
RHC                  Rural Health Centre
SAR                  Staff Appraisal Report
TA                   Technical Assistance
TM                   Traditional Midwife
VCW                  Village Community Worker
VHW                  Village Health Worker
VSC                  Voluntary Surgical Contraception
ZNFPC                Zimbabwe National Family Planning Council



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
)ffl. of Dlrector-General                                                      December 12 1994
Operations Evaluation
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Zimbabwe
Family Health Project (Loan 2744-ZIM)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Zimbabwe - Family Health Project (Loan 2744-
ZIM) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No Part II was received, but the Government
provided oral comments and is processing its own completion report.
This project was designed to increase the availability and use of maternity and child care
(MCH) and family planning (FP) services and strengthen the Government's institutional capacity to
plan, manage and evaluate these services. These goals were to be achieved through the provision of
in-service training, extension of FP services at 22 urban hospitals, information, education and
communications activities to stimulate demand, strengthening of both district level referral services
and peripheral services, and management improvements. For these purposes, the project included
provision of civil works, furniture and equipment, technical assistance, training, and a research and
evaluation survey.
After some start-up problems, implementation was rapid and smooth. The project is rated
as satisfactory, institutional development as substantial, and sustainability as likely.
The PCR is of good quality. An audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Rs contents may not otherwise be disclosed wfthout World Bank authorzatlon.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
(Loan 2744-ZIM)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface                                                                              i
Evaluation Summary                                                                   ii
I.     PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE                                    1
A.     Project Identify                                                       1
B.     Project Background                                                     1
C.      Project Objectives and Description                                    1
D.     Project Design and Organization                                        2
E.     Project Implementation                                                 2
F.     Project Results                                                        8
G.     Project Sustainability                                                 9
H.     Bank Performance                                                       9
I.     Borrower Performance                                                  10
J.     Project Relationships                                                 10
K.     Consulting Services                                                   10
L.     Project Documentation and Data                                        11
M.     Lessons learned                                                       11
II.    PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                               13
III.   STATISTICAL INFORMATION                                                      14
1.     Related Bank Loans                                                    14
2.     Project Timetable                                                     14
3.     Loan Disbursements                                                    15
4.      Project Implementation                                               16
5.     Project Costs and Financing                                           17
6.     Project Results                                                       19
7.     Status of Loan Covenants                                              19
8.     Use of Staff Resources                                               21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the porfornuc of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  I






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
(Loan 2744-ZIM)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Family Health Project in
Zimbabwe (FHP1), for which Loan 2744-ZIM was approved in the amount of US$10.0
million was approved on July 2, 1986. The governments of Norway, the Netherlands, the
United Kingdom and the Federal Republic of Germany provided grants amounting to
US$10.0, 1.8, 1.8, and 1.3 million equivalent, respectively, to finance portions of the
project. The Government of Zimbabwe contributed US$27.6 million to the financing
plan. The Loan and Grants were fully disbursed. The last disbursement from the loan
was on September 29, 1993; withdrawal applications for the disbursement of the remaining
Norwegian Grant monies will be submitted to IBRD by October 31, 1994.
The PCR was prepared by the Population and Human Resources Division of the
Southern Africa Department (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III). The
Borrower did not prepare Part II, but comments received have been incorporated in Parts
I and III.
The PCR is based inter alia on the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the Loan
Agreement, the Grant Agreements, reports of Project Implementation Review Missions,
correspondence between Bank and Borrower, and interviews with Bank staff and
Government of Zimbabwe (GOZ) officials closely associated with the Project.






- jj -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
(Loan 2744-ZIM)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
The Family Health Project was the Bank's first loan to the health sector in Zimbabwe.
The project was based on the Government's White Paper on health policy, entitled Planning
for Equity in Health.
The objectives of the project were to (i) increase the availability and use of FP
services; (ii) improve the health status particularly of mothers and children; and (iii)
strengthen the Government's institutional capacity to plan, manage and evaluate MCH/FP
services. Benefits were targeted to approximately 705,000 mothers and children in 8 high
priority districts through improved MCH and FP services and district infrastructure
development, and to about 380,000 urban families through expanded FP services. The
country as a whole would benefit from improved management of the health services.
Seven components were designed to help achieve the objectives: (i) Management
strengthening for MOH at the national, provincial and district levels; (ii) In-service MCH/FP
training for 2,820 health workers and related training for 1,790 village health workers and
traditional midwives; (iii) Urban family planning services at 22 hospitals; (iv) Information,
education and commnunication for family planning demand generation and health education; (v)
Strengthening district level referral services (distrlct hospitals) in 8 selected rural districts; (vi)
Strengthening peripheral services (Rural Health Centers) in these districts; and (vii) project
management.
After some start-up problems, implementation was remarkably rapid and smooth. The
project was well calibrated to MOH's institutional capacity and financial constraints.
Supervision missions consistently rated implementation performance and progress towards
objectives as highly satisfactory. Inefficiencies, shortfalls and delays occurred, but were
relatively minor, and often due to circumstances that the MOH could not control or affect.
The project has good sustainability prospects. The Management Department is
beginning to come into its own in the Ministry, and the district health administrators, trained
under the project, are now the focal points for decentralized planning. The MOH continues to
accord FP and MCH high priority, and the follow-on Second Family Health Project (FHP2)
continues many of the activities begun during FHPl. The numerous IEC activities have had a
positive impact on knowledge, attitudes and practices, likely to continue to influence decisions
about family size and health. The district and peripheral facilities are functioning well and are
well maintained, although a lesson was learned for FHP2 that these facilities should have
differed in size and specification depending on the needs and population of their catchment
areas, rather than being all the same size. Only the urban FP component has poor



iii
sustainability, with very few of the providers who were trained still performing VSC. The
main risk to the continued sustainability of project benefits is the low level of the ministry's
operating budget, which endured steep cuts in real per capita terms as a result of severe
economic contraction. GOZ continues to show high commitment to health service provision;
the health budget was restored in nominal terms to pre-drought levels this year, and will be
restored to pre-adjustment per capita levels in the coming fiscal year. Government also
requested the recently processed IDA credit of US$64.5 million for contraceptives and
pharmaceuticals to help protect the health gains of the past decade from the effect of STDs
and HIV.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ZIMBABWE
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
(Loan 2744-ZIM)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Project Identity
Project Name:      Family Health Project
Loan No.:          2744-ZIM
Country:           Zimbabwe
RVP Unit:          Africa Regional Office
Sector:            Population, Health and Nutrition
B.    Project Background
1.    After Independence in 1980, Zimbabwe began to reform the strong curative and urban
bias of its health services by establishing preventive health programs and many new peripheral
health facilities. Family planning (FP) and health care for mothers and children (MCH) were
emphasized. The Government's commitment to the FP program helped make it one of the
most successful in Africa. However, it relied heavily on a single method of contraception
(pills) and on the parastatal Zimbabwe National Family Planning Council (ZNFPC). In order
to expand coverage and widen the choice of contraceptive methods, the public health system
needed to strengthen FP services. At the same time, the expansion of district health services
in the early 1980's created a clear need for improvements in infrastructure and management.
2.    In 1984, the Government published a*White Paper on health policy, entitled Planning
for Equity in Health. This advocated a Primary Health Care (PHC) approach and a focus on
FP as a crucial component of MCH. This provided a sound policy basis for the Bank's
support to the Ministry of Health and Child Welfare (MOH), consistent with the Bank's
strategy of supporting GOZ's efforts to reduce poverty and inequality through investments in
social and economic infrastructure. FHPI would achieve this by expanding access to basic
health care services, primarily in low-income and underserved (mainly rural) areas.
C.    Proiect Obiectives and Description of Components
3.    Project Objectives. The objectives were to (i) increase the availability and use of FP
services; (ii) improve the health status particularly of mothers and children; and (iii)
strengthen the Government's institutional capacity to plan, manage and evaluate MCH/FP
services. Benefits were targeted to approximately 705,000 mothers and children in 8 high
priority districts through improved MCH and FP services and district infrastructure
development, and to about 380,000 urban families through expanded FP services. The
country as a whole would benefit from improved management of the health services.
4.    Project Components: Seven components were designed to help achieve the objectives:
(i) Management strengthening for MOH at the national, provincial and district levels; (ii) In-
service MCH/FP training for 2,820 health workers and related training for 1,790 village
health workers and traditional midwives; (iii) Urban family planning services at 22 hospitals;
(iv) Information, education and communication for family planning demand generation and



-2-
health education; (v) Strengthening district level referral services (district hospitals) in 8
selected rural districts; (vi) Strengthening peripheral services (Rural Health Centers) in these
districts; and (vii) project management.
D.    Project Design and Organization and Management
5.     FHPI was developed over three years after a comprehensive sectoral analysis by a
population, health and nutrition (PHN) sector mission in early 1982. The PHN sector report
(4214-ZIM, 6/17/83) formed the basis of a request from Government for Bank assistance.
FHP1 was identified in late 1983, and Government's decision not to apply for a project
preparation facility resulted in a longer preparation period; appraisal took place in September
1985, and after conditionalities were met the project became effective in April 1987. It was
the first Bank project in the PHN sector in Zimbabwe, although an urban project (Loan 2445-
ZIM) had supported the construction of five MCH/FP clinics in four cities. The project
attracted a large amount of cofinancing.
6.     The project responded to clear needs and enjoyed great government and public
support. It was reasonably amnbitious, but resisted the temptation to cover all subsectors. For
example, two proposed components were dropped to avoid complexity (one was nutrition,
where other donors were contributing; the other, cost-recovery, was judged likely to have a
low benefit/cost ratio). It was timed well after the new Government had formulated policies
for the sector and begun its implementation, and had defined clear needs for aid.
7.    Identification and preparation missions produced three clear objectives and a relatively
simple design. Changes were to be made at national and district levels. The emphasis was on
management strengthening, training, health education and communication, and complementary
infrastructure improvements, including staff housing and district training facilities. Project
design was a collaborative effort by the head office, provincial and district staff of MOH and
ZNFPC, assisted by the Bank team. The Ministry of Finance, Economic Planning and
Development (MFEPD) was briefed and consulted on project design, scope and financial
implications at all stages of project development.
8.     The Secretary for Health had overall responsibility for project implementation, in
close coordination with the MFEPD. No special project implementation unit was established.
The project was managed through a small project management unit (PMU) headed by a full-
time project coordinator, who was hired primarily to manage FHP1 but also had other MOH
responsibilities. To facilitate implementation and problem solving, staff within the MOH,
ZNFPC and Ministry of Public Construction and National Housing (MPCNH) were designated
as responsible for executing each of the project components. These were existing staff; no
additional project staff were hired, except for clerks of works to help oversee the construction
works (para. 27). For the most part, these arrangements worked well. Exceptions included
the coordination and communication channels between MOH and MPCNH, which could have
been stronger, and the urban FP component, which suffered because the MOH MCH
Department tried to delegate it to ZNFPC, who were not well positioned to lead its
implementation.
E.    Proiect Implementation
9.     For a first project, of relatively large size and complexity, in a newly independent
country, implementation was remarkably rapid and smooth. The project was well calibrated



to MOH's institutional capacity and financial constraints. Supervision missions consistently
rated implementation performance and progress towards objectives as highly satisfactory.
Inefficiencies, shortfalls and delays occurred, but were relatively minor, and often due to
circumstances that the MOH could not control or affect. In the interests of learning from
error, this section gives more attention to these difficulties, but they are far outweighed by the
achievements of the project. The risk that unavoidable dependence on other Government
agencies (to repair vehicles, provide telephone lines, and carry out civil works) could cause
delays and problems was not anticipated, and perhaps could have been. But the transfer of
village-level health staff to the Ministry of Cooperatives and Community Development could
not have been foreseen. (The impact of these factors on implementation is discussed below).
10.    Most components were successfully implemented. Some training targets and the urban
FP activities had to be scaled down, but other training activities were added and additional
works were undertaken in infrastructure development. The project was extended for one year
and closed on September 30, 1993, enabling completion of the scattered small civil works and
some additional works and activities funded from accrued interest earnings on undisbursed
balances from NORAD.
11.    Component 1: Management Strengthening activities comprised (a) creation, staffing
and technical assistance (TA) for a health management department in MOH; (b) in-service
management training for provincial and district staff; (c) improving the planning capability of
district health staff; (d) setting up and running a District Health Service Administrator
(DHSA) training course and deploying graduates at least to the 8 project districts of special
emphasis; and (e) TA to strengthen the Health Manpower Department in MOH. ODA was a
parallel financier of this component, with a corresponding reduction in the Bank's
administrative role. Supervision was undertaken jointly, with close cooperation between the
Bank and ODA.
12.    This component was generally quite well implemented, despite some delays in hiring,
staffing weaknesses and high turnover. The effectiveness of the Management and Manpower
departments has fluctuated, and although they have contributed importantly, it can be argued
that they have not fulfilled their potential management role. The management training was
carried out, although opinions vary as to its effectiveness. However, one measure of the
success of (b) and (c) is that MOH felt confident that there was adequate capacity to
decentralize planning, budgeting and other managerial functions to provincial and district
levels in a far-reaching reform begun in 1993. The Manpower Department carried out a
number of studies (staff retention, training capacity and needs, etc.) and developed a very
good in-service training of trainers course and system for planning and monitoring training.
Appointment of technical advisors by ODA took longer than expected, but did find high
caliber, effective people.
13.    The DHSA course finally trained the first class in 1989 at the Polytechnic, and
evaluations have helped to improve and strengthen the course, which has graduated
administrators each year since. The reduction in civil service size as part of ESAP has
jeopardized the original intention of having a DHSA in each district. MOH has created 29
DHSA posts for all those districts which have a district hospital. This cadre is said to be very
useful.
14.    An impressive computerized personnel information system (PIS) was developed,
although hardware failures and inadequacies caused delays. There were not enough



-4 -
contingency funds for computer failures, replacements etc. The PIS is proving valuable to
personnel decision making, although is not yet being used fully for manpower planning. The
MOH has developed excellent capacity in PIS, and the system has been used as a model by a
nearby country.
15.   Component 2: Training. Original project targets were to train 135 MOH tutors and
2,670 nurses in FP, in-service midwifery courses for 2,250 nurses as well as annual
workshops in all provinces, 600 trainers and about 9,000 village development workers, and
400 traditional midwives. (Training of 240 service providers in IUD insertion and surgical
contraception methods is discussed under component 3.)
16.   Training in FP proceeded well, although it was hindered by turnover of nurse trainers
in MOH, for whom no clear career-path or promotional prospects were established. This issue
is still unresolved, mitigated by ad hoc and temporary arrangements in some districts.
Inadequate facilities were a problem while waiting for construction, solved by using local
hotels, although this was relatively expensive. It is estimated that about 1,850 nurses
completed the 6 week FP course, or 70% of the original project target. Much more in-service
refresher MCH/FP training and training of traditional midwives (TMs) has been undertaken
than anticipated, although poor reporting (especially in the early years of the project) kept
these achievements rather hidden. It is estimated that about 1,800 TMs were upgraded at least
4 times the original target number.
17.   The main variance was in the training of Village Health Workers (VHW). Before
training could begin, in 1989, plans were suspended for several years because the MOH
VHWs were transferred to another Ministry as part of a rationalization of village workers
which unified 3 different cadres, now all called Village Community Workers (VCWs). As
these staff were the mainstay of PHC outreach, MOH strongly resisted this transfer, with a
consequent delay in reaching cooperative arrangements for training and supervision with their
new parent Ministry. About 10% of the original target of 9,000 VCWs were finally trained
under FHP1. Remaining funds (in any event this component was significantly over-costed)
were usefully reallocated to support other PHC outreach and training activities by MOH.
18.   Although not included as a part of the original SAR, MOH requested new large
midwifery classrooms at Mpilo and Harare Central, to enable larger intakes. The Netherlands
Government agreed to a reallocation of training funds for this. The MPCNH designed and
built the classroom blocks. This took longer than expected, and some of the workmanship
was not of high quality.
19.   Component 3: Urban Family Planning Services. Project activities were to (a) provide
supplies and equipment to the National Cytology Service and train 10 cytology technicians in
order to achieve a ten-fold increase in Pap-smears (from 25,000 at appraisal to 250,000 by
1992); (b) train 240 nurses in IUD insertion; and (c) train 2 doctor/nurse teams at each of 22
hospitals in surgical contraceptive methods and equip 22 urban hospitals with equipment and
supplies to provide a full range of contraceptive services.
20.   The cytology sub-component goal was unrealistic without an accompanying campaign
communicating the availability and necessity of the service, and ineffective without adequate
provision for follow-up and treatment. In 1991, after the 10 technicians had been trained,
about 30,000 Pap-smears were reportedly conducted, only a small increase. Thus, although
the project activities were completed, the design of this sub-component was inadequate to the



objectives.
21.   IUD training waited upon a study to reassess client satisfaction with this method and
its advisability, given high STD/HIV rates. Some training was finally carried out, but well
below the original project targets. In total 120 nurses and midwifes have been trained in IUD
insertion between 1989 and 1993.
22.    Although it began late, training of doctor/nurse teams in surgical contraceptive
methods (VSC, or voluntary surgical contraception) was well done, making good use of
regional technical support. The original target of 22 urban hospitals was scaled down to a
more realistic 8 during implementation; the appraisal team had been overly optimistic about
MOH and ZNFPC capacity to manage a large-scale introduction of these services. By
December 1989, the VSC training was complete and equipment was procured.
Implementation of this component seemed to have taken off after an initial delay, but then
faltered for a number of reasons. Many of the staff trained especially physicians left
Government service (many emigrated); passive opposition on the part of some other hospital
staff inhibited VSC procedures from being performed; there was a lack of leadership from the
MOH for several years; and there were delays in procuring and installing equipment at the
hospitals. Supervision missions repeatedly raised these issues, but the response from MOH
was (uncharacteristically) ineffective. Some positive results are reported: in 1991, about 700
VSC procedures were performed at the 4 largest hospitals. The yearly number of vasectomies,
however, always stayed a one digit figure.
23.   The project showed that in order to ensure appropriate, and a more coordinated
approach to training, provinces and districts should have planned for their training needs.
Necessary follow-up and supervision of trainees should also have been taken into consideration
for the training to be effective. Reliance on another ministry to organize and support a major
part of the training program was ill-advised, and contributed to not reaching the target of
training VCWs. Without established posts, or a higher grade and pay, [re]training of tutors is
an inefficient use of resources, due to high turnover rates. The shortage of trained nurse-
midwives resulted in the upgraded RHCs not being fully utilized for maternity services.
24.   Component 4: Information. Education and Communication (IEC). This component
provided funds for health and FP messages through a wide range of media, by both the
ZNFPC IEC Unit and the Health Education Unit (HEU) of MOH, audio-visual equipment,
materials and supplies and training in IEC for MOH staff, and construction of an audio-visual
and graphics production facility for use by ZNFPC and MOH. The latter, and related
technical assistance, were funded by the German Government (through GTZ, the German
Technical Cooperation Agency). Impact evaluations of IEC efforts were also included.
25.   This component was slow in getting started, and plagued by poor management of the
MOH HEU unit for the first several years of the project. Supervision missions repeatedly
discussed the problem, and although MOH recognized and addressed it, Government personnel
procedures militated against a quick solution. In the final 2-3 years, after staff changes, the
HEU unit cooperated well with the IEC Unit at ZNFPC, and completed production of
numerous educational materials.
26.    Despite a slow start, by the project end ZNFPC's IEC Unit had produced considerably
more film spots, videos, radio programs, television talk shows, posters, booklets and other
print materials, community meetings and other outputs than originally envisaged in the project.



-6 -
There were periodic problems with ZNFPC's reimbursement claims and documentation.
Direct evaluation of the impact of IEC activities has been weak, but high awareness and use of
contraceptives in Zimbabwe attests to the success of IEC efforts. After delays, the audio-
visual production unit was finally completed during 1989. Poor financial record-keeping
inhibited reimbursement claims to GTZ, underlining the importance of establishing good
financial management in implementing units before implementation begins.
27.   Component 5: Stren2theninr District Referral Services. The 8 district hospitals that
were upgraded were subject to very serious cost and time overruns (handover about 18 months
after the 2-year contract should have been completed, and final cost of Z$95.6 million, 130%
higher than the contracted sum of Z$41.1 million). The contractor had made an unrealistic
time estimate, and conditions in the construction industry contributed to the overruns. At
appraisal, Zimbabwe had an excellent history in the construction industry with plenty of spare
capacity. Conditions changed during construction. Shortages of materials (mainly bricks,
cement and locally manufactured items for finishing buildings) as well as transport problems
(limiting movement of materials to building sites) developed. It is not known whether the
appraisal team's optimism was unwarranted. Cost escalations also arose from unexpectedly
high inflation and from numerous additions to the contracts that could have been avoided by
better planning and design.
28.   Initially, implementation was adversely affected by inadequate supervision of the
construction (this is also true of component 6). This was recognized early on, and missions,
donors and GOZ worked together to solve this by engaging 4 "Clerks of Works" (COWs,
funded by ODA). More COWs, and/or an extension of their contracts might have avoided the
tardy attention by the contractor to the small "snags" and final bits and pieces at the hospitals.
Procurement of equipment for the hospital and clinics had some hitches and several expensive
and/or inappropriate items were purchased (notably ironing machines and autoclaves for the
hospitals that broke down within weeks or even days). The magnitude and complexity of the
task had been underestimated, and inadequately prepared for during preparation. The MOH
coped well, considering the staff resources at their disposal and the difficulty of dealing with
the unreliable, slow and inefficient Government Purchasing Authority for local purchases.
29.   ComDonent 6: Strengthening Peripheral Services. This component included
construction or renovation of 58 rural health centers (RHCs) scattered throughout the 8 project
districts. Implementation was variable. Some of the local contractors performed very well,
completed contracts on time and to a high quality; others had large cost overruns or had to be
terminated and their work taken over by the MPCNH. Some of the RHC architectural plans
had evidently been drawn without site surveys and called for expensive changes that did little
to improve the facility. These were not redrawn despite the specific request of an early
supervision mission, Overall, the RHCs were completed at a cost of 5. 1 % over the appraisal
estimate.
30.    Most of the work at the RHCs also included new water supplies. Cooperation by the
responsible Ministry was very good. Water supply was not included in the original project
design, but was the result of a fieldtrip. NORAD funds could be made available to provide
for the service. The worst drought on record during the penultimate year of the project
caused enormous problems in completing the water works. By project end, all were reported
to be functioning well.
31.   Small civil works projects in fairly remote rural areas were added during



-7-
implementation, the primary reason for extending the project by one year. These include 10
staff houses, 2 simple training center hostel blocks and ablution facilities at "waiting mother
shelters." These were constructed by the MPCNH because of their small size, remoteness and
scattered sites, but the Ministry delayed the start for over a year after being asked to begin
work. It is not likely that local contractors would have completed the jobs any faster,
however. The important role of MPCNH in implementation and the numerous problems that
arose with the civil works, which are inherently expensive items, make it an omission that this
Ministry was not a full party to project preparation and negotiation.
32.   This component included telecommunications links between the upgraded district
hospitals and RHCs they serve. Several districts had no telephone lines, and there were years
of delay while the State authority (PTC) promised, but proved unable, to install lines, all the
while refusing permission to MOH to proceed with a radio system instead. Finally, in late
1990, MOH was allowed to proceed with a radio system. Procurement of such a technically
complicated system was difficult, but much helped by PTC's advice, and the contract was
very successfully completed at the end of 1993, significantly below initial cost estimates.
33.   Distribution of the 111 motorbikes for outreach work took 5 years, because GOZ
policy required their purchase by staff (aided by a loan scheme). The project had made no
provision for training the riders, but MOH found creative solutions to this.
34.   Vehicles are critical to the health referral and delivery system, and additional vehicles
were among the MOH's first priority for reallocated funds. The appraisal team had not
provided for replacement of vehicles, which can only be expected to stay on the road about 5
years or 250,000 kum, given the constant use and terrain. A detailed independent investigation
in 1991 found that a large part of the MOH fleet was overdue for scrapping. Delays in
repairing project vehicles have been a constant plague. The capacity of the responsible
government agency, CMED, was not investigated during project preparation, but as the
Government vehicle fleet grew, foreign exchange and other budgetary shortages developed,
CMED's resources and capacity fell into increasing deficit. This is a Government-wide
problem. The MOH worked with the donor group and then CMED to discuss possible
solutions (and the follow-on project included a covenant with respect to this) but the systemic
problems of inadequate capacity remain unsolved. The MOH is authorized to use the private
sector repair as a fall-back, but this is expensive and sometimes slow and unreliable.
35.   Component 7: Project Management. A competent and effective project management
unit (PMU) was in place throughout implementation. Initial staff were hired in a timely way.
The staff needed to manage the project had been underestimated and had to be augmented
early on. During the first 2 years, although project management was strong and effective in
most respects, financial management and planning were weak, reimbursement claims
neglected, and audits late. These problems were resolved, and supervision missions
consistently remark on the competence and professionalism of the PMU during the last 3-4
years of the project. The MOH held regular quarterly project progress meetings throughout.
The level of reporting for supervision missions improved tremendously, with some periodic
lapses from some components. Standard forms to complete would have made the task of
reporting less time-consuming for district and provincial staff. Periodic visits by Bank
procurement and disbursement staff provided important support and on-the-job training to the
PMU. The original project design made inadequate provision for resources (transport, paper,
fax/phone, xerox and personal computers, calculators, etc.) that Bank staff take for granted,
yet make an enormous difference to work effectiveness.



-8 -
F.     Proiect Results
36.    During appraisal, the MOH identified quantitative targets for 6 service delivery
indicators (contraceptive prevalence, immunization coverage, antenatal care, attended
deliveries, growth monitoring and oral rehydration) and 3 process indicators (nurses trained in
FP, and supervision of VHWs and of rural health centers). A baseline survey was carried out
at the start of the project, as well as a mid-term review, an end-of-project survey, and an
independent district management survey in the third year. These surveys were not particularly
well done, although considerable effort was put into them, but many useful data were
collected. Additionally, a reproductive health survey was done in 1989. All service delivery
targets were met except for growth monitoring, for which the project did not provide any
particular support. The process indicators were more elusive. The nurse training target was
overambitious, as this component proceeded well, except for the problem of trainer turnover.
The transfer of the VHWs to another Ministry has been discussed. Supervision of RHCs was
not adequately followed up during supervision missions, and no data were collected for this
indicator. (See Part III, para 4 for a presentation of the results in a table.)
37.    The data for the PCR estimates have been taken from the "Zimbabwe Maternal and
Child Health and Family Planning (MCH/FP) Coverage Survey 1991," produced by MOH.
The data at appraisal and at completion are not perfectly comparable because the indicators
have been defined differently for the different stages. In contraception, orals are by far the
most often used method (86%). Condoms are a distant second at 5%. Most service indicators
show a difference in coverage for urban and rural areas, reflecting the difference in access to
services.
38.    Overall, most project objectives were met or exceeded. Some of the shortfalls were
due to unanticipated changed circumstances outside of MOH control. Only urban FP can be
judged a disappointment. The project has already had a discernible positive impact on the
health status of mothers and children and on the availability of health care and FP services,
especially in the eight selected priority districts. The upgraded facilities and quality housing
have attracted staff to remote rural areas and provided an environment for effective health care
delivery. Management capacity has been built, especially at district level, through training
district health teams and posting of DHSAs.
39.    Significant achievements in human resource development have resulted from the
considerable amount of training undertaken by the whole range of health providers under the
project, from the traditional midwives who have proudly displayed their competence and
knowledge to SPN missions, to the top management of the ministry, who are embracing
creative new management styles and strategies in the face of a severe cut in operating budgets.
40.    The procurement of vehicles, new medical equipment and a telecommunications
system has improved health technology considerably, contributing to faster transport of
patients in need of referral, and better medical treatment. Poverty and per capita income have
been improved for families who could choose to space and limit the number of children as a
result of the project activities, and who have much improved access to good health care.



-9 -
G.    Proiect Sustainability
41.   The project has very good sustainability prospects. The Management Department is
beginning to come into its own in the Ministry, and the DHSAs have proved their worth.
Applications from other Ministries and neighboring countries to the DHSA diploma course
attest to its success. High turnover makes that some of the skills and resources are lost to the
MOH (although not to the trainees). The training curricula, methodologies and materials
continue to be used. The MOH continues to give FP and MCH high priority, as evidenced by
MOH support to FHP2. The numerous IEC activities have had a positive impact on
knowledge, attitudes and practices, likely to continue to influence decisions about family size
and health. The district and peripheral facilities are functioning well and are well maintained,
although a lesson was learned for FHP2 that these facilities should have differed in size and
specification depending on the needs and population of their catchment areas, rather than being
all the same size. Only the urban FP component has poor sustainability, with very few of the
providers who were trained still performing VSC.
42.   A foilow-on project, Second Family Health (LN3339-ZIM), was prepared during the
3rd and 4th years of FHP1. This led to careful and thoughtful scrutiny of FHP1, to draw out
lessons to inform the design of FHP2 (see Part I, section M), and these remain FHPl's most
pertinent lessons to date.
43.   The main risk to the continued sustainability of project benefits is the Ministry
operating budget, which endured steep cuts in real per capita terms as a result of severe
economic contraction. The MOH has recognized the need to prioritize and manage resources
more carefully, and is implementing management changes to facilitate this. GOZ continues to
show high commitment to health service provision; the health budget was restored in nominal
terms to pre-drought levels this year, and will be restored to pre-adjustment per capita levels
in the coming fiscal year. Government also requested the recently processed IDA credit of
US$64.5 million (CR2516-ZIM) for contraceptives and pharmaceuticals to help protect the
health gains of the past decade from the effect of STDs and HIV.
H.    Bank Performance
44.   There are three main strengths in the Bank's performance on FHP1: (i) continuity of
staffing: the last 3 task managers during project implementation had long periods of overlap
among them, and in all these cases Task Managers developed strong relationships of trust,
mutual respect and friendship with their Government counterparts so that problems could be
discussed openly and tackled together; (ii) considerable resources devoted to supervision, with
missions at least twice yearly (four times yearly during the middle years of implementation,
piggy-backing on the preparation of FHP2), as well as close telephone and fax contact with
the PMU as necessary between missions; (iii) considerable energy in leveraging a large
volume of cofinancing and diligently fulfilling the attendant responsibilities towards
cofinancing donors. The success of this is shown by the decision of all but one of the FHP1
^ofinanciers to participate in FHP2, and 2 additional donors to join the FHP2 consortium.
45.   The early missions made very slow progress, coming soon after Independence, when
new staff in MOH were slowly finding their feet, clarifying lines of authority and
responsibility within MOH and overcoming hesitancy about working with the Bank. By
appraisal, the roots of the excellent continuing relationship were firmly planted.



- 10 -
1.     Borrower Performance
46.    GOZ's performance has been excellent on the whole. Once a clear decision was
reached, the project received high priority from Finance and strong commitment from MOH,
as well as the ministries responsible for construction, water and telecommunications. All
resources needed have been available (with some falling off from MPCNH towards the end,
likely related to overall capacity shortfalls), with the notable exception of lack-luster
performance on vehicle repair from CMED.
47.    Unfamiliarity with Bank procedures and management inexperience and overload
caused poor reimbursement claims and financial management initially, and some suboptimal
procurement, but these were rectified and have been uniformly excellent since. Likewise, the
audit report was late in the first year only.
48.    Reporting to supervision missions improved steadily to reach extremely high
standards. GOZ has been very responsive to missions, which have without exception been
constructive, well-prepared for, and widely participated in with evident dedication (with minor
occasional lapses from some Government agencies).
49.    An important lesson for future projects is for donor missions to confer adequately with
GOZ agencies outside the MOH who will be important during implementation. It must be
borne in mind that GOZ staff all have many other responsibilities in addition to a project even
where that project is their primary task and that the work environment usually lacks the easy
access to phones, fax, computers, photocopying, secretarial support, stationery et al. that
greatly enhance productivity. Efficiency improved notably once some of these deficiencies
were addressed.
J.     Proiect Relationships
50.    Trust, respect, collegiality and continuity in the Bank-Borrower relationship were the
strengths that helped implementation proceed smoothly. All project relationships take a great
deal of time and energy to build and maintain, and FHP1 is notable for the efforts that staff
put into donor relationships, supplying large amounts of documentation, regular reports and
contacts, and making occasional visits to their headquarters. The only time a donor expressed
serious dissatisfaction it was because it felt the Bank was not passing on enough information:
participation in one mission each year and sharing the aide-memoire of the interim mission
was considered inadequate. After a very frank meeting, the Bank made much greater efforts.
While effective, this has meant a great deal of work for the Task Managers (and their staff
assistants).
K.    Consulting Services
51.    Rather modest use was made of consultants. Full-time ODA-funded Advisors for
Manpower and the DHSA Course (3 years each) and Management (2 years) filled skill gaps
temporarily, and departed once good local capacity was developed. The DHSA course has
continued well subsequently, and the Manpower Advisor worked with a strong counterpart
who developed new competence and confidence. The 4 COWs were indispensable for helping
supervise the hospital site construction. A resident German-funded Advisor played a low-key
useful supportive role in helping the audio-visual unit become established. Short-term TA was
used effectively for developing FP curricula and for specialized clinical training (in VSC), but



- l1l -
was not successful when used in the MCH Department as "an extra pair of hands." Short-
term TA must have clearly defined, specific tasks. Construction contractors performed
variably, and need attentive supervision and management.
L.    Project Documentation and Data
52.   Legal covenants were not excessive, allowing implementation to focus on achieving
the project objectives, and allowing flexibility as circumstances changed. More covenants
might have undermined the collegiality of the Bank-Borrower relationship by nudging the
Bank into a more authoritarian role. The SAR would have been more useful had it set out
more clearly the activities and funding sources for each components. The implementation
volume contained the necessary detail, but presentation was unclear and it was very difficult to
use, even for Bank staff familiar with the cost table printouts (most of which are reproduced
illegibly).
53.   The results section of the PCR would have been more easily written if standard
reporting formats had been used during supervision. Aide memoires and 590s were useful and
clear information sources. For monitoring financial flows, it is advisable that component
managers track commitments at least at the aggregate level, and preferably by subcomponent.
This task cannot be left to the accounts unit, which performs a function distinct from program
planning and management. The documentation by the Zimbabwean PMU had only some
weaknesses in the beginning of the project but was excellent afterwards.
M.    Lessons Learned
54.   Overall Proiect Planning. To engage fully the interest and commitment of the
provincial and district health workers, they must be fully involved in project planning from the
beginning. Project planning must be broad-based and participatory at headquarters level.
Given the magnitude of the project, it must be planned in the context of the overall sectoral
program for health and population. Involvement of other ministries (i.e., Construction) who
will participate in the project can have a positive impact on the project.
55.    District Hospitals and Rural Health Centers. A number of buildings in the FHP
hospitals were over-designed (e.g., laundry, kitchen, operating theater). The inflexible design
of the hospitals (all 140 beds) in FHP1 was not responsive to local conditions in the districts.
The award of the contract for eight hospitals to one contractor and simultaneous construction
of all facilities in FHPI resulted in cumbersome supervision arrangements and put a strain on
the construction industry. Tendering for medical equipment on an item-by-item basis was
administratively burdensome and led to some incompatibility of equipment. Some features of
the rural health centers in FHP1 were not cost-efficient (e.g., male/female holding wards).
The improved maternity services at the upgraded RHCs (delivery room and equipment) have
not been fully utilized thus far, because of the nationwide shortage of trained nurse-midwives.
56.   Health Transport and Communications. While FHPI vehicles have generally been
kept on the road, the shortage of spare parts and lack of prompt maintenance by the Central
Mechanical Equipment Department has hampered their use. The PTC has repeatedly failed to
install telephones in the rural health centers as promised.
57.   MCH/FP Training. In order to plan and carry out in-service training in a coordinated
and effective manner, the provinces and districts themselves must plan and budget for the



- 12 -
training on an annual basis. It is not easy to monitor and document expenditures for small,
scattered in-service training activities which are reimbursable by the donors. The large
number of short in-service courses need to be closely coordinated and combined where
possible, so that staff are not drawn away from their work unnecessarily. Tutors, once
trained, will only be retrained if they have establ shed posts and receive a higher grade and
pay to go along with their new skills/responsibilities. Training is only fully effective when
trainers are able to follow-up and supervise trainees. Given the large numbers of trainees
involved, unit costs for training need to be carefully estimated to avoid major miscalculations
of funds required for training. It was ill-advised to rely heavily on another ministry
(Cooperatives and Community Development) to organize and support a major part of the FHP
training program.
58.    Family Planning. To keep up the momentum of the family planning program, basic
services must be extended to those rural areas not yet covered effectively by ZNFPC and
MOHCW programs. The FHPI family planning activities neglected young people, despite the
fact that teenage pregnancies are increasing and the demand for Fp services among adolescents
is high. Past efforts to increase family planning acceptance were too heavily concentrated on
the use of oral contraceptives. To maintain the momentum of the FP program, a diversified
mix of methods must be offered, starting with the urban areas.
59.   Information, Education and Communication. Chronic shortages of ink and paper have
inhibited production of print materials. Effective design and dissemination of IEC materials
cannot be handled by the head office only; provincial and district involvement is required.
While mass media campaigns are an important part of IEC, there is also a pressing need to
develop training materials for service providers in communications and counselling, as well as
materials for these providers to use in communicating with clients.
60.   Management and Health Services. While there were important advances in health
management under FHP1 (especially through the establishment of the District Health Services
Administrators course), several sub-systems were not adequately tackled. Even though health
planning skills at district and provincial levels improved in FHPI (and as a result of the
planning for FHP2 itself), this was not linked to the development of budgeting and financial
control systems at these levels. The senior managers of MOH were not fully involved in
management strengthening in FHP1. This diluted the effectiveness of the program.
61.   Project Management. Given the size and complexity of the project, strong
management systems need to be established at the outset, agreed to by all component
managers, and continuously refined. Project finances need to be rigorously tracked from the
outset, and streamnlined procedures for processing reimbursement claims must be developed.
It is essential that MOH have a full-time physical planner/architect among its staff, to develop
the health facilities construction program, monitor its progress, and generally liaise effectively
with the Ministry of Construction and consulting architects.
62.   Project Documentation. The results section of the PCR would have been more easily
written if standard reporting fornats had been used during supervision. Aide memoires and
590s are useful and clear information sources. For monitoring financial flows, it is advisable
that component managers track commitments at least at the aggregate level, and preferably by
subcomponent. Project components and disbursement categoriues should coincide to facilitate
this task.



- 13 -
PART IL PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
No written comments have been received by the Borrower for this section. However,
authorities in the Ministry of Health and Child Welfare have provided comments on Part I and DI
of the PCR and their comments have been incorporated. The Borrower is in process of preparing
its own PCR which will be submitted to the Bank in due course.



- 14 -
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    Related Bank Loans and/or Credits.
At initiation of the project the strategic objectives of the Bank's program of assistance to
Zimbabwe was to help the Government promote its objective of growth with equity. The two policy
areas central to the process of economic restructuring concerned the foreign exchange and trade
regime and the public sector deficit. The Bank's program also involved support for specific
investments and policy implementation in individual sectors, with a primary focus on agriculture.
Efficient and equitable provision of services was the focus in the social sectors. At the start there
were no other Bank Loans or Credits directly related to this project. The success of the present
project, however, led to the design of two follow-on operations:
Second Family Health Project, Loan 3339-ZIM, effective February 1992
STI Prevention and Care Project, Credit 2516-ZIM, effective September 1993
2.    Project Timetable
Planned and Actual Dates of Project Processing
1m                  Original Date               Revised Date         Actual Date
Identification        4/82                        10/83                10/83
Preparation            1/84                         2/84                2/84
Appraisal             4/84                                              9/85
Loan Negotiations      1/85                         1/86             5/23/86
Board Approval        4/85                          3/86             7/20/86
Signing Date                                                         10/1/86
Loan Effectiveness    1/28/87                   2/06/87              4/28/87
Loan Closing        9/30/92                     9/30/93
Loan Completion     9/30/92                     9/30/93



- 15 -
3.    Loan Disbursements
Cumulative and Actual Disbursements of IBRD Loan(US$ million)
Bank FY          87    88      89      90      91      92      93      94
Estimate at      0.10   0.60    1.60    2.40    3.20    1.80    0.30    0.00
appraisal
Cumulative       0.10   0.70    2.30    4.70    7.90    9.70    10.00   10.00
estimate at
appraisal
Actual                 0.84    5.17    2.63    1.18    0.12    0.05    0.05
disbursement
Actual as % of          140%   323%   109%   37%    6%         17%
estimate
Comments. Date of final disbursement: September 29 1993.



- 16 -
4.    Proiect Implementation
Project Implementation by Indicator (in percentages)
Indicator           At appraisal  Target  PCR      Comment
A. Service delivery
Contraceptive       20            50       48      among married women
prevalence
Immunization       40             80       88      among children 12-24 Mo.
Coverage
Antenatal Care      50            90       95       > 2 prenatal visits
Attended Deliveries   50          75       80      by trained health workers
Growth Monitoring   30            70       89       children 12-36 Mo. with at
least 4 weighings/yr.
ORT                 40            60       51       used for treatment of
diarrhea for children under
5 yr.
B. Process
District nurses     20            100      100      Number of nurses
trained in FP
VHW supervised      10            80                visit by district supervisor
2x/mo.
RHCs visited        50            100               visit by community health
monthly                                            sister
Note:
The data for the PCR estimates have been taken from the "Zimbabwe Maternal and Child Health and
Family Planning (MCH/FP) Coverage Survey 1991," produced by MOH. The fourth column
"comments" sunmmarizes how the indicator of the Zimbabwean study was defined for the PCR on
basis of the available data. The data "at appraisal" and "PCR" are not perfectly comparable because
the indicators have been defined differently for the different stages.
VHWs were transferred to another Ministry as part of a rationalization of village workers which
unified 3 different cadres, now all called Village Community Workers (VCWs).
The monthly visit to RHC has generally been abolished by Comrnmunity Health Sisters because of
lacking allowances and transport problems. Quarterly visits have now become the routine.



- 17 -
5.    Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs at Appraisal' (US$ million)
Component                                   Appraisal Estimate
Local   Foreign   Total
Mianagement strengthening                  2. 1     1.7      3.9
FP and health training                     2.9      0.3      3.1
Urban FP services                          0.1      0.3      0.4
IEC                                        0.9      1.0      1.9
Strengthening District referral services  18.4      4.4    22.8
Strengthening peripheral services          5.3      1.8      7.1
Project management                         0.3      0.1      0.4
Physical Contigencies                      1.9      0.4      2.3
Price Contingencies                        8.9       1.9    10.8
TOTAL                                     40.8     11.8    52.6
'The actual information on Project Costs by component is not available because (i) project
components and disbursement categories do not coincide, (ii) Government spending under the Project
has been part of sectorwide program activities. Cost overruns for the Government have been around
130% for the civil works under the Project (see Part 1, para 27).
B. Project Financing Plan in SAR (US$ million).
IBRD                       10.0
Norway                     10.0  (Cofinancing administered by IBRD)
The Netherlands             1.8  (Cofinancing administered by IBRD)
United Kingdom              1.8
Federal Republic of Germany   1.3
Zimbabwe                   27.6
TOTAL                      52.6
Comments on the Financing Plan
Planned cofinancing amounted to 28.3% of the total project costs. Joint project implementation
reviews by WB and cofinanciers greatly improved the efficiency of the supervision of the project and
promoted an integrated sector wide assistance to the Ministry.



- 18 -
C. Project Financing administered by IBRD, in US$'000 by Financier and Category
Disb.              IBRD              Norway           Netherlands    Total
Category                                                             PCR
Estimate
planned    actual   planned   actual  planned  actual     actual
Civil Works              7,893     5,354    6,094              _        13,987
Furniture for            2,107      1,746    1,307               27      3,441
training
centers
Equipment                            815    2,315                        2,315
for Districts
Vehicles                             698    2,220                        2,220
Supplies and                         931    1,543                        1,543
Materials for
telecoms
TA                                   116      188                          188
Training                            1,862    2,016            2,430      4,446
Research &                           116      125                          125
Evaluation
Survey__        _ _ _  __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   __ _ _ __          _ _  _ _
Unallocated    10,000                                 2,457
Total          10,000   10,000   11,6401  15,666'    2,457   2,457      28,265
The difference between planned and actual amnounts spent under the Norwegian Grant is explained by
the fact that the agreement with the Norwegian Government allowed that interest accrued from the
Grant could be used under the Project. This has been the case.
Comments on Project Finar7:ing.
The Bank Funds and the Funds of the Dutch Government were not allocated to specific
categories, but were supposed to be used as general support for the project objectives. For civil
works Project financing by the Government of Zimbabwe amounts to around Z$ 112 million,
reflecting cost overruns and inflation. Further local Project funds were mainly used for recurrent
costs. These local recurrent project costs are, as such, hardly traceble as the Project was an integral
part of the Ministry's program.



- 19-
6.    Project Results
Not applicable.
7.    Status of Loan Covenants
The special conditions of project effectiveness had all been fulfilled as such before the project
started. Compliance with other covenants is summarized below:
Section   Covenant                                               Status
3.03     (a) The Borrower shall cause the Health Management      Done
Development Unit to begin a training program for District
Health Services Administrators satisfactory to the Bank by
September 30, 1987; (b) establish the positions for district
health service administrators no later than July 1, 1988 and
appoint them by September 30, 1988.
3.04     (a) Annual plans for health and family planning service  Patchy
delivery for each Project District to be submitted by March
31 of each year and (b) each such plan shall contain
information satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower shall
implement a plan for each such Project District having due
regard to any comments made by the Bank.
3.05     The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to ensure  Done
by June 30, 1989, each health center in the project districts
is staffed with at least 2 state certified nurses or state
certified maternity nurses and one health assistant.
3.06     The Borrower shall take all necessary measures by not later   Done
than March 31, 1987, to complete the revision of the "A'
course family planning curriculum in substance satisfactory
to the Bank.
3.07     The Borrower shall take all necessary actions so that by  Done
March 31, 987, a baseline survey shall have been completed
and submitted to the Bank for review and comments.
3.08     The Borrower shall undertake surveys of project impact  Midterm evaluation done
sustainability beginning from date 2 years and 4 years after
the Effective Date and shall submit the results to the Bank
within 6 months of completion.



- 20 -
4.01     (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained   Poor at outset;
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with   satisfactory by year 5
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to  Done
para (a) of this section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
no later than 9 months after the end of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
said accounts and the audit thereof and said records as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals    Done
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
para (a) of this Section, separate records and accounts
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts, and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
records; and (iv) ensure that such separate accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in para (b) of this
Section in respect of such separate accounts, a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the proceeds of the
Loan withdrawn in respect of such expenditures were used
for the purposes for which they were provided.



- 21 -
8.    Use of Bank Resources
Use of Bank resources
Fiscal Year         Staff weeks   Comments
pre-1984                 35.8
1984                     17.1   Preappraisal
1985                     56.8   (Pre)Appraisal, Negotiations
1986                      2.2    Negotiations
1987                     10.5   Supervision
1988                      6.7   Supervision
1989                      9.3   Supervision
1990                     19.2   Supervision
1991                     16.3   Supervision
1992                     15.8   Supervision
1993                     18.8   Supervision
1994                      2.5/   Supervision / PCR
6.0
Total                   217



