Docuznmt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-436]1-ZIM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USXI1.0 MILLION
TO
ZIMBABWE
FOR A
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
July 2, 1986
lThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY  xQUTAirS
(November 1985)
US$ 1.00 = Z$ 1.54
US$ 0.65 = Z$ 1.00
ABBREVIATIONS/ACRDUThS
CBD      Community Based Distribution
CMED     Central Mechanical Equipment Department
FP       Family Planning
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GTZ      Gesellschaft Fuer Technische Zusamuenarbeit
HA       Health Assistant
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
IEC      Information, Education and Communications
LCB      Local Competitive Bidding
MCH      Maternal and Child :lealth
#E       Ministry of Health
MPCNH    Ministry of Publlc Construction and National Housing
NGO      Non-Goverament Organization
ODA      Overseas Development Admiaistratlon
PHC      Primary Health Care
SCNN     State Certified Maternity Nurse
SCN      State Certified Nurse
UDI      Unilateral Declaration of Independence
UNFPA   UTnited Nationst Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF   United Nations' Children's Fund
USAID    United States Agency for International Development
VHW      Village Health Worker
ZNFPC    Zimbabwe National Family Planning Council
METRIC EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)                  -     3.28 feet
1 square meter (sq.m)        =    10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)            =      0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq.km)  =      0.386 square miles
GOVERENT OF ZIMBAIE
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ZIMBABWE
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:     Zimbabwe
Loan Amount:  US$10.0 million.
Terms:        Repayable in 20 years, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable rate.
Project
Description:  The project alms to increase the availability and use of
family planning services; improve the health status
particularly of mothers and children; and strengthen the
Government's institutional capacity to plan, manage and
evaluate maternal and child health and family planning
services. It comprises the following components: (i)
management strengthening (for the Ministry of Health at the
national, provincial and district levels); (ii) training (for
about 2,820 health workers in family planning, for about
1,790 health workers in midwifery, and for a variety of
related in-service activities); (iii) urban family plauning
services (at 22 hospitals); (iv) information, education and
communications (for family planning demand generation and
health education activities); (v) strengthening of district
level referral services (both health and family planning, in
eight selected rural districts); (vi) strengthening of
peripheral services (in the same selected districts); and
(vii) project management.
Benefits
and Risks:    The project would directly benefit about 705,000 mothers and
children in the eight districts through improved maternal and
child health and family planning services, and about 380,000
mothers in urban areas through enhanced family planing
services. The country as a whole would benefit through
improved health services resulting from strengthened
management, training and educational activities, and through
the social benefits arising from reduced fertility levels.
The main risks of the project would relate to the capacity of
the Ministry of Health to implement it efficiently, and the
need for support to be maintained for peripheral and outreach
services. The management component of the pro4ect would
|This document huarstrcteddistrbution and may be ued by recipientsonlyin theperformn-ce|
of thiroMdaldutcLIts contents may nototberwise be discknewithout Wold Bank authorntion -



- ii -
directly address the former risk, particularly through the
provision of technical assistance and training activities;
focussing intensified support on eight pilot districts would
minimize the latter risk.
Project Cost 1/: US$52.6 million. (Taxes and duties are negligible.)
Local    Foreign    Total
------ US$ Million
1.  Management Strengthening                       2.1        1.7       3.9
2.  Family Planning and Health Training            2.9       0.3        3.1
3.  Urban Family Planning Services                 0.1       0.3        0.4
4.  Information, Education and Communications    0.9          1.0       1.9
5.  Strengthening District Referral Services    18.4         4.4       22.8
6.  Strengthening Peripheral Services              5.3        1.8       7.0
7.  Project Management                             0.3       0.1        0.4
(Total Baseline Costs)                       (30.0)     (9.6)    (39.5)
Physical Contingencies                        1.9       0.4        2.3
Price Contingencies                           8.9       1.9       10.8
Total Project Costs                      40.8      11.8      52.6
I/ Numbers may not add due to rounding.
Financing Plan:                                             US$m
IBRD                                                    10.0
Norway                                                  10.0
Netherlands                                              1.8
United Kingdom                                           1.8
Federal Republic of Germany                              1.3
Zimbabwe                                                27.6
TOTAL                                                   52.6
Estimated Disbursements:
1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992/93
-------------------  US$ Million   ---------------------
Annual          0.1       0.6       1.6      2.4      3.2       1.8      0.3
Cumulative      0.1       0.7      2.3       4.7      7.9       9.7     10.0
Appraisal Report:  Report No. 5960-ZIM, dated June   , 1986.
Map:                IBRD  18695.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECOUSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECONMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO ZIMBABWE
FOR A FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Zimbabwe for US$10.0 million payable in 20 years, including five
years of grace, with variable interest rate, to help finance a Family
Health Project.  Cofinancing for the project would be provided by the
Kingdom of Norway In an amount of US$10 million equivalent, bv the Kingdom
of the Netherlands in an amount of US$1.8 million equivalent, by the United
Kingdom in an amount of US$1.8 million equivalent, and by the Federal
Republic of Germany in an amount of US$1.3 million equivalent.
FART I: THE ECONOMY
Background
2.        Zimbabwe is a landlocked country of about 390,000 sq km, bordered
by Mozambique on the east, Botswana on the southwest, Zambia on the north-
west and the Republic of South Africa on the south. The estimated GNP per
capita was US$740 in 19841/, and the population in mid-1985 is estimaterd
to have been 8.4 million, 98 percent of whom were of African origin. Ihe
growth rate of the population is estimated to be about 3.5 percent per
year, although the number of white Zimbabweans has been declining due to
emigration. An economic report, Zimbabwe: Performance, Policies and
Prospects, dated October 28, 1985, Report no. 5458-ZIM, was distributed to
the Executive Directors in November 1985.
Initial Post-Independence Developments
3.        At Independence in 1980, Zimbabwe inherited a well-diversified
economy, with good potential for growth and well-developed administrative
and physical infrastructure. As a result of the relative isolation of the
economy durinz the period of the Unilateral Declaration of Independence
(UDI)--1965-80--Zimhabwe had developed an economy that produced a wide
range of agricultural and manufactured products for the domestic market and
which mananed, in spite of sanctions, to export agricultural and mining
products. This occurred within a tightly controlled economic system, with
quantitative allocations of foreign exchange, price controls and
regulation of private investment. Despite the basic strength of the
economy, the Government was faced with a number of difficult issues. The
Zimbahwean population expected the Government to make rapid progress in
1/ On the basis of the World Bank Atlas methodology of calculation.



-2-
redressing severe inequalities in income, capital, land-holding and access
to hasic social services, such as education and health care. At the same
time, o-wing to foreign exchange shortages during UDI and the effects of the
war of liberation, physical infrastructure and the capital stock were
severely depleted. On the human capital side, there were significant
shortages of skilled manpower, largely due to the emigration of white
Zimbabweans and the educational policies of the pre-Independence
government. Finally, the new Government was faced with internal and
external security problems that affected both business confidence and the
transport of exports and imports.
4.        In the first two years after Independence, the Government
introduced a number of measures in pursuit of its goal of Growth with
Equity. To promote growth, the Government, anticipating rapid growth of
exports and large inflows of concessional assistance, sharply increased
foreign exchange allocations, raised agricultural producer prices to stimu-
late output and Invested heavily in the road and rail systems to repair the
damage incurred during the war. To promote equity, it undertook a rapid
expansion of education and health services, increased minimum wages, ini-
tiated a major reorientation of agricultural services toward the communal
(smallholder) areas, and introduced an agricultural resettlement program.
The combination of these policies wtth very favorable weather conditions
resulted in bumper crops (especially for maize) and an economic boom in
1980 and 1981. Growth in GDP averaged 12 percent per annum in this period.
5.        A combination of rapid growth in domestic demand and worsened
external circumstances led to the emergence of macroeconomic imbalances
from 1981 onwards. Balance of payments pressures, which had developed
shortly after Independence, intensified as exports stagnated, while imports
and service outflows rose rapidly. The current account deficit rose
alarmingly-from US$302 million in 1980 to US$762 million in 1981.
Moreover, although US$2.2 billion had been pledged by the international
community at the March 1981 Zimbabwean Conference on Reconstruction and
Development, the capital inflows were slow to materialize. As a
consequence, the Government had to rely heavily on relatively short-term,
high-cost borrowing from commercial sources and on reserve drawdown to
finance the current account deficit. Furthermore, the expansion of
government spending, increases in wages and salaries, and increases in
domestic credit resulted in a marked increase in domestic inflation.
Stabilization of External Imbalances
6.        By 1982, it was clear that a stabilization program would be
necessary in order to restore the economy to a position of reasonable
external balance. The Government put together a comprehensive package of
measures designed to achieve this within the framework of the inherited
system of economic controls. The principal policy adjustments were as
follows:
(a) sharp cutbacks in foreign exchange allocations in each year
until the second half of 1985;



-3-
(b) a depreciation of the Zimbabwean Dollar by 25 percent
between December 1982 and January 1983, and a shift to a
more flexible system of exchange rate management, with the
currency linked to a trade-weighted basket;
(c) changes in the trade regime, with a revision of the tariff
schedule and the introduction of new incentives for manufac-
turing exports; the latter included automatic foreign ex-
change allocations for required inputs for manufacturing
exports, a simplification of the duty drawback system and
fiscal incentives;
(d) a major increase in central government revenues (that rose
by about 10 percent of GDP between 1979/80 and 1983/84)
through both domestic tax increases and increased customs
revenues;
(e) the maintenance of a tight monetary policy;
(f) a freeze on wages between 1982 and mid-1955, that led to a
decline in real wages;
(g) increases in the controlled prices of key food items, and
utility and rail tariffs;
(h) the refinancing, in 1983, of short-term commercial debt to
longer maturities, followed by a highly conservative
borrowing strategy designed to reduce the use of debt on
hard terms; and
(i)  finally, in March 1984, the introdaction of temporary
restrictions on outflows of remittances of profits and divi-
dends in order to ensure adequate foreign exchange for anti-
cipated food imports and debt service obligations.
(The restrictions were lifted from the beginning of 1986).
7.        This package was effective in restoring external stability to the
economy. By 1985, the current account deficit had declined to two percent
of GNP, compared with a peak of 12 percent in 1981 and 1982, reserves had
risen from less than two months of imports to almost three months, and
inflation had fallen to about 10 percent per annum. However, the debt
service ratio had risen sharply, to 32 percent of exports, as a consequence
of borrowings to finance the current account deficits of the early 1980s
and the maturation of pre-Independence debt. The benefits of the more
prudent borrowing policy implemented since 1983 will not be felt until the
late 1980s.
8.        Much of the adjustment was effected through import reductions,
and the export performance has been mixed. The agricultural sector was
severely affected by the 1982-84 drought, that led to declines in export
volumes in this period. With the improved weather conditions of 1985,



- 4 -
there was a major recovery and agricultural exports rose by an estimated 19
percent in volume terms (to 11 percent above the average level for
1979-81). A further increase In the volume of agricultural exports, of the
order of 10 percent, is expected in 1986. On the other hand, exports of
mining sector products have siown little growth in the whole post-Indepen-
dence period as a consequence of weak international markets for most metals
and minerals. The export performance of the manufacturing sector
(excluding iron and steel) since Independence has been good. Year-to-year
fluctuations have been sharp, but average growth between 1980 and 1984 was
12 percent per annum in real terms. This constitutes an important reversal
of the long-term decline of the UDI period. The overall performance is
indicative of a high degree of responsiveness to changing incentives, with
strong growth after 1983 with the improvement in competitiveness after the
devaluation and the introduction of an Export Revolving Fund to provide
foreign exchange for inputs for exporters of manufactures. This was
supported by the World Bank's Manufacturing Export Promotion Project.
9.        The major unresolved area in the short-term stabilization program
is the budget deficit. In the last three years, budget dissavings have
heen ahout three percent of GDP, and the overall deficit, including
investment, has heen 10 percent of GDP, of which seven percent of GDP was
financed from domestic borrowing. This created little inflationary
pressure because domestic investment was low and the bulk of the domestic
financing was from non-bank financial intermediaries, mainly pension funds
and insurance companies. This situation cannot be sustained in the medium
term, as domestic investment will have to grow rapidly if growth targets
are to be achieved. It will be essential that the Government take steps to
reduce the budget deficit and reorient expenditure toward productive
investment, goods and services. Although the 1985/86 budget deficit is
unlikely to show any decline, some progress has been made this fiscal year
in the key problem of parastatal subsidies. There have heen substantial
increases in the prices of subsidized foods, petroleum products and air
tariffs.  In addition, the Cabinet appointed a Working Committee on
parastatals in February 1986, with the objective of developing
recommendations on improving their efficiency.
10.       The major stabilization program was implemented with a relatively
minor impact on real output, since much of the burden of adjurtment fell on
investment. GDP declined by two percent per annum in 1982-83 (and invest-
ment fell substantially), but a major recovery in agriculture and some
increase in exports then helped turn the economy around, with about one
percent growth in GDP in 1984 and over five percent estimated for 1985.
Incomes and Welfare
11.       The experience on incomes has been mixed.  Zimbabwe inherited a
highly unequal distribution of wealth and income, with widespread poverty,
especially in rural areas. With a population growth rate of 3-4 percent
per annum, average per capita incomes in 1985 were only slightly above the
levels prevailing in 1975 and 1980. However, there have been significant
improvements in three areas. First, smallholder incomes have risen
substantially, apart from in the drought years, as a consequence of the



-5-
highly supportive policy on agricultural pricing and the reorientation of
agricultural services toward the communal areas. Second, minimum wage
policy ..as raised the incomes of the poorest wage-earners--agricultural
laborers and domestic servants--but probably at the cost of lower
employment levels. Third, there has been a substantial expansion of basic
services, in health, family planning, education, and urban services. The
most problematic area concerns the level of formal employment, that has not
risen significantly for a decade, despite a large expansion in the labor
force.
Growth Prospects and Economic Strategy
12.       Zimbabwe's growth will continue to be constrained by foreign
exchange but, with continued effective macroeconomic adjustment, growth
rates of three to four percent per annum in the nexc few years, rising to
five percent per annum from the late 1980s, are achievable. The
performance of the commodity-producing sectors, in particular agriculture
and manufacturing, will be critical to the overall growth performance and
the gradual relaxation of the foreign exchange constraint through export
growth. The situation is particularly constrainted in the short tern owing
to a bunching of debt service payments and the need to catch up with
postponed replacement investment.
13.       The achievement of these growth rates will depend on strong
pnlicy support for the expansion in exports and increased investment
levels, and on continued effective adjustment of the budget deficit. The
First Five Year Development Plan for 1986-91 is supportive of this: it
stresses export promotion, a shift in resources to the commodity-producing
sectors, higher investment and a reduction in both the external debt
service ratio and the budget deficit. In addition to these areas, reform
in the system of controls over production and trade will be necessary. The
core of the system lies in the quantitative allocation of foreign exchange
for imports. This was inherited from the previous regime, and compared
with other systems of this type elsewhere, appears to be well administered
and free of abuse. It also appears to have had less severe costs in terms
of fostering a highly inefficient manufacturing sector than elsewhere.
However, it is a highly conservative system, and some liberalization will
be necessary to provide the incentive environment for the economic
restructuring that will be essential to medium-term growth.
14.       External Debt Management.  The projected pattern of growth and
trade is consistent with the maintenance of a current account deficit of
the order of one to two percent of GNP in both the remainder of the 1980s
and the early 1990s. The financing of this deficit will necessitate
continued capital inflows, of which the most important component is public
debt. The ratio of public debt service (including IKF) to exports of goods
and services has risen significantly in the past few years to about 30
percent. However, since 1983, the Government has adopted a very cautious
attitude to new commercial debt inflows, and the debt service ratio is
projected to stabilize in the short term and to decline after 1987. It is



-6-
of great importance that the Government mobilize the maximum level of
borrowing on concessional terms or of long maturities to improve the
structure of debt. Projections indicate that the continuation of moderate
levels of commercial borrowing to finance the projected current account
deficit is consistent with a significant reduction of the debt service
ratio by the end of the decade - to below 20 percent. It is also
consistent with a declining exposure of commercial banks in Zimbabwe.
Overall this represents a satisfactory and sustainable debt sttuation.
15.       Alternative Scenarios.  Any projections are fraught with
uncertainty, both as to external and internal developments. One of the key
variables that could evolve in a more pessimistic fashion is export growth,
whether as a consequence of lower OECD growth or less effective domestic
policies. If exports grow at less than two percent per annum, GDP growth
would have to be correspondingly reduced, to below three percent per annum
in the short term and three to four percent in the medium term, in order to
avoid external imbalance. This would certainly hamper the development
effort, but would still represent a manageable situation, with slow growth
in per capita consumption, a significant improvement in debt indicators and
a sound creditworthiness situation by the late 1980s. There is also a risk
of sudden shocks. There is a low probability of a repetition of a shock as
severe as in 1982-83, in which a bad drought and an international recession
hit an overheated economy. However, the situation in South Africa provides
a continuing source of uncertainty. Although South Africa accounts for
only about 20 percent of Zimbabwe's trade, it provides around 80 percent of
total transport of goods to and from external markets, and any major
disruption of this traffic would have a severe impact on Zimbabwe.
Overview
16.       The new Government that took over at Independence in 1980 has
executed a full policy agenda in the post-Independence period. In addition
to implementing the comprehensive package of stabilization measures, the
Government has also made major progress on the longer-term development
requirements of the country. The damaged transport and power infra-
structure was effectively rehabilitated. The basis for the country's
social infrastructure was laid, with considerable initial success in
population and health programs, urban services, and, despite the inevitable
declines in quality, in a vast expansion of educational enrollments. High
priority was given to both agriculture and mining, with the evolution of an
effective working relationship with the large-scale commercial farming
sector and the largely foreign-owned mining companies. And a start was
made toward reorienting the largely inward-oriented manufacturing sector
toward external markets. The overall program of restructuring is a
long-term task and there is a continuing policy agenda if growth is to be
maintained in the medium term. However, considering the severe constraints
and difficult environment, a substantial amount was achieved in the first
five years of Independence.



PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
16.       Before 1965, the Bank made five loans totalling US$130.8 million
benefitting Rhodesia -- two directly to the Government for agriculture
(US$5.6 million) and power (US$28.0 million), two loans totalling US$87.7
million to the Central African Power Corporation (CAPCO), and a US$9.5
million loan to the Rhodesia Railways. As a guarantor of each of the
loans, the United Kingdom serviced them after 1964. The loans for
agriculture, power and railways have been repaid, and the Central African
Power Corporation resumed servicing its two loans after the lifting of
sanctions on December 21, 1979. Since FY81, Zimbabwe has received eight
Bank loans and four IDA credits totalling US$454 million. Three operations
supported the reorientation of agricultural services toward communal areas
(US$51 million); two projects supported the Government's export promotion
program in the manufacturing sector (US$136 million); and two operations
helped finance energy development (US$106 million). Three operations in
the transport sector (US$108 million) focused on reconstruction and
rehabilitation activities, including training and manpower development in
the railways sub-sector. An urban development project (US$43 million) is
helping to increase the supply of affordable low-cost housing and related
services in the country's key urban and economic centers, and a small-scale
enterprise project (US$10 million) is aimed at providing technical and
financial assistance to the eiierging small-scale enterprise sector.
17.       IFC's first investment in Zimbabwe, approved by its Board in
February 1981, was in the Wankie Colliery Company Limited, primarily to
help finance a project for producing coal for the nearby thermal power
atation. The original investment was in the form of a US$38 million loan,
including participation, but was subsequently reduced to a total of US$22.8
million, of which US$12.0 million was for IFC's own account and US$10.8
million for commercial bank participation. IFC was also responsible for
arranging a further US$10.3 million of commercial bank financing related to
a loan by the Export-Import Bank of the United States. In March 1984, the
Board approved IFC's second investment in Zimbabwe, in UDC Limited, a hire
purchase/factoring institution. The aggregate amount of US$2.2 million
equivalent, of which US$2.0 million is in the form of a loan and the
balance in the form of equity, will assist in the expansion of the
company's capital base and in the localization of ownership. Lately, on
February 27, 1986, the Board approved IFC's third investment in Crest
Breeders International Pvt. Ltd., an expansion of an integrated poultry
operation which is designed to double by 1988 production of day old chicks,
broilers and feed concentrates for the domestic and export markets. The
total investments amount to about US$4.775 (4.8m) million equivalent, of
which US$4.15 million is in the form of a loan and the balance of US$0.625
million in the form of equity representing 20 percent of the Company's
shares. And on June 5, 1986, an investment of US$10 million was approved
for IFC's own account and US$5.1 million for thle account of participating
commercial banks to support the modernization and expansion of Hunyani
Paper and Packaging Ltd, a diversified industrial paper and packaging
operation with a significant export orientation.



-8-
18.       Bank-assisted projects in Zimbabwe in general have been
implemented rather effectively during the past few years. Recent
experience has shown, however, that staffing has emerged as the most
important problem affecting ongoing operations in varying degrees.
Frequent staffing changes in the public sector due to moves of qualified
officials to the more attractive private sector have contributed to a
decline of the country's absorptive capacity including project management
capabilities. The Government has shown willingness in reviewing and
discussing emerging implementation problems and generally has undertaken
timely corrective measures. Since the Bank's first operations in Zimbabwe
were quick-disbursing reconstruction and export promotion loans in the
manufacturing and transport secters,disburseuent rates during FY82/83 were
relatively high, averaging close to 60 percent per annum but declined to
about 24 percent in FY84 and in FY85 to 22 percent. This compares with the
Regional average of 23 percent and a Bank-wide average of 24 percent. The
Bank Group exposure is still low; the Bank accounted at the end of PY86,
for an estimated 12.1 percent of Zimbabwe's disbursed and outstanding
external debt and 5.2 percent of total debt service.
Strategic Objectives for the Bank's Program
19.       It is the objective of the Bank's program of assistance to
Zimbabwe to help the Government to promote its objective of growth with
equity. In practice, Bank activities in Zimbabwe will aim at assisting the
Government:
(a) in implementation of policy changes to support the process
of economic restructuring that will be necessary for medium-
to long-term growth with internal and external macroeconomic
equilibrium;
(b) in investment in economic infrastructure to support
long-term growth in commodity-producing sectors.
(c) to reduce poverty and inequality through investment in
social and economic infrastructure and economic policies
that support labor-intensive path.
20.       The two policy areas that are central to the process of economic
restructuring concern the foreign exchange and trade regime and the public
sector deficit. The former involves a comprehensive system of control over
foreign exchange allocations that is supported by tight investment
regulation and prlce control. It is clearly much better managed than in
other countries with comparable systems, but reform will be necessary to
support the resource shifts that will have to take place to alleviate the
foreign exchange constraint on growth in the post-Independence situation.
The problem with the public sector deficit largely lies in high current
spending of the Central Government, including subsidies to cover the
operating losses of parastatals. Tax revenue is high for a developing
country and public investment is relatively low. It is planned to develop



-9-
a program of assistance for the Bank in lending and CESW that would support
a phased policy refor- in these two areas, including export promotion,
trade liberalization, deficit management and improved performance of
selected parastatals.
21.       The Bank's program will also Involve support for specific
investments and policy implementation in individual sectors. Agriculture
will be a primary focus, with an emphasis on the efficient provision of
services for smallholders within the context of a supportive overall policy
environment for the sector. Significant support for direct investment,
Institutional development of parastatals, and policy development is also
planned for the transport and power sectors. With respect to sncial infra-
structure, the program will focus on the efficient and equitable provision
of services in the urban area and In health and population sector.
PART HII: THE HEALTH AND POPULATION SECTOR
A. Population and Health Status
22.       Demographic Situation.  Zimbabwe's population in mid-1985 was
about 8.4 million.  Fertility, while still quite high, has started to fall
-the only example yet of a fertility decline in Sub-Saharan Africa--due to
relatively high per capita inceme and literacy, increasing education,
changes in lifestyles and labor force participation and, especially, the
existence of a strong family planning (FP) program. Mortality has
continued its overall decline since the 1960s and ranks among the lowest in
Sub-Saharan Africa. The crude birth rate is estlmated by the Bank at 47
and the crude death rate at 12, resulting in a rate of natural Increase of
3.5 percent. Three population projections have been made. Under the
assumption that fertility declines In line with the experience of South
Asian countries (with a replacement level of fertility being reached by the
year 2025), the total size of the population would be 13.2 million in the
year 2000 and 18.5 million in the year 2015. If, however, fertility
continues to decline at a more rapid rate (with a replacement level of
fertility being reached in che year 2005), the populatlo-r would be abo'it
12.0 million in the year 2000, and about 15.1 million la the year 2015. If
a replacement level of fertility were only to be reached in the year 2045,
the population would be 14.0 million in the 2000 and 21.4 million in the
year 2015. Actual experience in Zinoabwe since Independence indlcates that
the rapid fertility decline projection is by no means unrealistic if there
is continued development of appropriate programs and services.
23.       Health Status.  Average life expectancy in Zimbabwe is estimated
at about 56 years, and the infant mortality rate at about 82 per 1000 live
births. Although a considerable amount has been achieved since
Independence, much of the prevailing ill-health could be effectively
addressed through preventive and relatively simple curative health
interventions.



- 10 -
B. Population Policy and Activities
24.       Population Policy.  The Government does not have a formal
population policy, but it strongly supports many elemencs of a population
program, largely carried out by the Zimbabwe National Fami2y Planning
Council (ZNFPC), a parastatal organization under the Ministry of Health
(MH). The provision of FP services is regarded by the Government as an
essential part of maternal and child health (MCI) care, and it is
governmental policy for FP services to be made available through all health
facilities. Population education is provided in secondary schools and
colleges, but there is a need for greater educational efforts, especially
directed toward men.
25.       Population Activities.  The ZNFzC is responsible for about half
of all FP services provided in Zimbabwe, mainly through the community based
distribution (CBD) program, which provides education, motivation and
contraceptive supplies to clients.   The ZNFPC also operates 28 FP clinics
primarily in urban areas and conducts FP training courses for health
personnel as well as for educator/distributors. A comprehensive
information, education and communications (IEC) strategy is being
implemented by the ZNFPC. External support for population activities has
come primarily from the United States Agency for International Development
(USAID) and the United Nations' Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA).
26.       Zimbabwe's FP achievements are very impressive.  According to a
1984 survey, the contraceptive prevalence rate almost doubled from about 14
percent at Independence to 27 percent (39 percent urban and 20 percent
rural) four years later. FP continuation rates compare favorably with
programs elsewhere. However, there is still unmet potential demand for FP
services from women who wish to limit their family size (25 percent) or
delay their next pregnancy for at least a year (44 percent). The available
contraceptive method mix is virtually limited to oral contraceptives.
C. Health Policy and Services
27.       Health Policy.  The Government of Zimbabwe has fundamentally
altered the health policy of the pre-Independence period, when health
services were largely curative and urban based, in favor of a primary
health care (PHC) approach, emphasizing appropriateness, accessibility,
affordability and acceptability of the care provided.
28.       Organization and Management.  At the district level, an entirely
new structure is being created with the establishment of district health
service authorities under the MH to support, supervise and upgrade PHC
activities and to supervise the provision of hospital care. The district
councils (financially supported by the MH) are responsible for the
administration of peripheral health facilities. The provincial level
health structure is similar to the district level, but with certain extra
specialists (such qs provincial health education officers). Each province
now has its own heal th service authority to supervise health services in



- 11 -
the province, but they too lack planning and management skills. The MH
headquarters has been enlarged and reorganized several times since Inde-
pendence, but weaknesses continue in MCH/FP management and evaluation,
health management development, planning and manpower development. The
Ministry has recently prepared a new organizational structure, under which
the MCH/FP Unit would be responsible for the planning, organization, imple-
mentation, coordination and evaluation of all MCH/FP activities and pro-
grams at the national level. The areas of planning, management development
and research would also be brought together into a single directorate.
29.       Facilities.  Zimbabwe has a relatively good network of health
facilities: 648 rural clinics/health centers operated by Government; 67
centers operated by missions; and 151 centers operated by industries and
mines. In the rural areas, the referral network of health facilities
consists of 28 district hospitals, 56 rural hospitals and 46 mission
hospitals. In urban areas, there are 50 clinics operated by municipal
authorities and four central hospitals, 12 general hospitals and 35 other
hospitals (for maternity cases, specialties and industry, etc.). Many of
the facilities need to be upgraded.
30.       Manpower and Training.  The inadequate number and training of
existing workers are major constraints on the development of health
services. Soon after Independence, the intake of the Medical School of the
University of Zimbabwe was expanded and the Government started a program to
construct a health auxiliary training school in each province. However,
there is still need to retrain many of the existing health workers in mid-
wifery, FP and management skills. The most critical cadres in the rural
areas include state certified nurses (SCNs, formerly known as medical
assistants), state certified maternity nurses (SCMNs, formerly maternity
assistants) and health assistants (HAs). The curriculum for new midwifery
students has recently been revised to incorporate FP training, and the job
description for SCNs/SCMNs is being revised accordingly. The village
health worker (VHW) program was launched in late 1981 and has expanded
rapidly to about 4,000 VBWs. Evaluations of this program are encouraging,
but show that VIWs receive insufficient support and supervision.
31.       Traditional medicine still plays a major role in Zimbabwe.  Over
11,000 traditional doctors have registered with the Zimbabwe National
Traditional Healers Association, and the eventual number expected to
register is about 20,000. In addition, there are many traditional birth
attendants, and the MH, supported by the United Nations' Children's Fund
(UNICEF), has started a program to train them at rural health centers in
safe delivery techniques.
32.       Service Delivery.  The quality of health services provided in
Zimbabwe is very good compared to other Sub-Saharan African countries, and
considerable progress has been made since 1980. The 1984 PHC Evaluation
found that 42 percent of children aged 12-23 months were fully immunized,
89 percent of mothers had received antenatal care, 80 percent knew of oral
rehydration therapy, and 83 percent of children had been weighed at least
twice during infancy. These are impressive figures. However, relatively



- 12 -
little FP work is presently carried out in the rural areas by the MH or the
local authorities, bica'ise of the historical tendency of FP work to be left
to the ZNFPC, poor physical facilities, inadequate job descriptions and,
especially, lack of trained staff. In urban areas, FP services are
provided at the ZNFPC and council clinics. Despite official governmental
policy, FP services are not generally yet available at urban hospitals.
33.       Health Expenditures.  Total private and public outlays for health
care amounted to about Z$156 million (5.3 percent of GNP) in 1980/81 - a
relatively high figure for a developing country. While the Government
provided 60-65 percent of these expenditures, other sources of finance were
insurance schemes and private individuals. The MH budget (Z$184 million)
for 1985/86 accounts for 6.6 percent of the total budget. Capital
expenditures for the MH are mainly included in the budget of the Ministry
of Public Construction and National Housing (MPCNH). At Independence, the
MH accounted for about 29.5 percent of the MPCNH budget, but only 4.9
percent (Z$3.4 million) in 1985/86. This trend reflects the Government's
early expansion of the basic health infrastructure, whereas the health
investment program is now primarily focused on conscAidation and upgrading
of existing facilities.
34.       Health Financing.  Since Independence, inpatient and outpatient
treatment (and also contraceptive supplies) have been available free to
those earning less than Z$150 a month. Since 1980/81, income from fees has
been equivalent to 2.2-2.8 percent of MH expenditure. Recently fees for
private patients in government hospitals have been raised; and a fee has
been introduced at government referral facilities for all non-referred
patients.
D. Sectoral Issues and Role of the Bank
35.       Since Independence, Zimbabwe has achieved considerable progress
in extending the provision of social services throughout the country.
Equally impressive has been the firm commitment and support shown by the
Government towards the country's FP program, which has rapidly become the
most successful in Sub-Saharan Africa.  But these accomplishments have also
created new challenges and needs. First, many of the remaining health
problems in the country are still fertility-related. Second, despite its
srccesses, the ongoing FP program relies primarily on a single method of
contraception and on the work carried out by the ZNFPC. In order both to
expand coverage and also widen the available contraceptive method-mix, FP
services provided through the health system need to be strengthened
considerably. Third, the expansion of the health services has accentuated
the need for improved support for the primary services especially at the
district level, and also for better management of these services.
36.       The Bank's strategy in Zimbabwe is to assist the Government in
addressing the above sectoral problems within the Government's overall
objective of growth witlh equity. Before this project, the Bank has not



- 13 -
directly supported family health in Zimbabwe, although an ongoing urban
project (Loan 2445-ZIM) is supporting the construction of five clinics in
four cities. The Population, Health and Nutrition Sector Report (numoer
4214-ZIM, dated June 17, 1983) formed the basis of a request from the
Government for Bank assistance. During project preparation and assisted by
the Bank, the Government developed its policy regarding the provision of FP
services in urban areas and carried out its stated commitment to involve
district representatlves in the planning process. The crucial role to be
played by the MH headquarters In the implementation of the project also
focussed attention on institutional problems within the Ministry and on the
need for structural changes. Finally, review of the most appropriate
project financing arrangements attracted the interest of other external
agencies in cofinancing on grant terms.
PART IV. THE PROJECT
37.       The proposed project was prepared by the MH with Bank assistance
and was appraised In July/August 1985. Negotiations took place in May 1986
Ln Washington. The Zimbabwe delegation was led by Mr. A. Charamba,
Deputy Secretary, Ministry of Finance, Economic Planning and Development.
Annex III provides supplementary project data.
38.       Project Objectives.  The objectives of the proposed project are:
Ci) to increase the availability and use of FP services; (Ii) to Improve
the health status particularly of mothers and children; and (ill) to
strengthen the Government's capacity to plan, manage and evaluate MCH/FP
services. To achieve these objectives, the project would support
activities at the national level and in eight selected distrlcts. The
national activities would comprise: management strengthening; FP and
health training; urban FP services; and information, education and
communications In health and FP. The district activities would focus on
strengthening referral and peripheral services in one pilot district per
province (see map No. 18695), priority being given to remote, underserved
areas. The population of the eight districts in mid-1985 was about one
million, 12 percent of the country's total. The detailed project design
work for these individual districts was done by MH, ZNFPC, provincial and
district health staff.
39.       The Government has set objectives for increases in six service
delivery iudicators for the selected dlstricts: to raise the contraceptive
prevalence rate fron about 20 percent to about 50 percent; immunization
coverage from about 40 percent to about 80 percent; antenatal care from
about 50 percent to about 90 percent; attended deliveries from about 50
percent to 75 percent; growth monltoring of children from about 30 percent
to about 70 percent; and the use of oral rehydration therapy from about 40
percent to about 60 percent. These indicative targets are acceptable to
the Bank and the proposed project is designed to assist the Government in
moving towards them.



- 14 -
Detailed Features
40.       Management Strengthening.  This component would strengthen the
management of health and FP services at the national, provincial and
district levels. At the national level, the project would enable the MH to
carry out Its role of supporting the expanded and decentralized peripheral
health and FP services.
41.       The project would provide support for MCH/FP management, health
management development, planning and manpower development activities.
MCH/FP management is presently constrained by lack of trained staff, and a
condition of project effectiveness would be that the two posts of Head of
the MCH/FP Unit and MCH/FP officer would have been fllled. A unit
responsible for health management development would be created and
supported through the project. The posting of two health management
specialists to this unit would also be a condition of project
effectiveness.  This unit would carry out several types of management
training including In-service training for the provincial and district
health service authorities and pre-service training for district health
service administrators. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that
the training program for district health service administrators would be
started by September 30, 1987; that posts for the district health service
administrators would be approved by July 1, 1988; and that one of these
administrators would be appointed to each of the eight selected districts
by September 30, 1988. The management of training activitJles would also be
supported through the project. A condition of project ef:tectiveness would
be the filling of the posts of Field Training Coordinator and Training
Administrator in the Directorate of Health Manpower Development in the MH.
The project would filance technical assistance to support these
activities. Assurances were obtained that a health manpower specialist
would be recruited by March 31, 1987. As a result of these activities, the
district health service authorities in the selected districts would be able
to make progressively more detailed annual plans (including training
activities). Iu additiou, assurances were obtained that the annual
district plans (including training activities) for the selected districts
would be completed by March 31st, prior to the start of each fiscal year,
and then made available to the Bank for review and comment.
42.       Training.  The objective of the tralning component would be
accomplished by retraining nurses in midwifery, in clinical and demand
generation aspects of FP and in a variety of other MCH activities. Two
nurse tutors per district would become master-trainers, who would provide
FP training to SCNs/SCMNs.  FP training of nursing personnel would continue
at the Harare and 3ulawayo training centers of the ZNFPC, under a revised
curriculum. Assurances were obtained from the Government during
negotiations that the curriculum would be revised by March 31, 1987.
43.       Urban Family Planniug Services.  The project would support the
increased availability of urban FP services and would ensure that all urban
hospitals offer the full range of FP methods. Nurses would be trained in
non-surgical methods of contraception, including IUD insertion, and doctors
in surgical contraceptive techniques. The former training would be carried
out by the ZNFPC, while the latter would be done in the first two years of



- 15 -
the project under the Johns Hopkins Program for International Education in
Gynecology and Obstetrics. The 22 urban hospitals would also be provided
with equipment and supplies. Laboratory services would be strengthened
through the provision of supplies and equipment to the National Cytology
Service.
44.       Information, Education and Communications.  The project would
support both the IEC Unit of the ZNFPC and also the NH Health Education
Unit. The project would finance the expanded use of mass media through TV
spot rentals, TV documentaries, production of two cinema spots and some
additional print materials. The ZNFPC Research and Evaluation Unlt would
assist the ZNFPC IEC Unit in evaluating the Impact of the IEC mass media
program. In addition, the project would fund two short overseas training
courses and a varlety of seminars for official and informal leaders. The
Health Education Unit would also be supported through radio programming
aimed at the rural population, and periodic research and evaluatlon
studies. The project would also finance IEC tralaing and materials produc-
tion for health staff and outreach workers, audlo-visual equipment and
supplies for the use of the provincial health education officers. In addi-
tion, the project would support the creation of a small audio-visual and
graphics materials production facility, staffed and managed by the Health
Education Unit.  During negotiations, assurances were obtained that a usage
protocol for the materials production facility would be drawn up for Bank
review and comment by March 31, 19B7; and that a health education officer
and a graphic artist would be transferred by the MH to the materials
production facility. To support the materials production facility,
technical assistance for the Health Education Unit would be required.
Assurances were obtained from the Government that a long-term materials
production specialist would be recrulted for three years by March 31, 1987.
45.       Strengthening Distriet Referral Services.  The project would
support the strengthening of health and FP services by upgrading eight
selected district hospitals (in Beitbridge, Gokwe, Karoi, Mutoko, Ndanga,
Nyanga, Pfura and Tsholotsho) to ensure: (l) adequate facilities for MCH/FP
care; (ii) appropriate support facllities (including laboratories,
kitchens, laundries, offices); and (lii) safe and functional buildings and
external works (drains, water supplies and electricity). Accommodation
would be provided for key staff. The component would also fund the
salaries and allowances of 326 additlonal staff for the duration of the
project.
46.       Strengthening Peripheral Services.  The project would strengthen
MCH/FP services through improvements in the peripheral infrastructure in
the selected districts. Eighty two government clinics and 20 non-govern-
ment organization (NGO) (mainly mission) facilities would be upgraded, to-
gether with a limited amount of staff accommodation. The project would
also finance the costs of needed extra staff. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the health centers in the selected districts would
each be staffed by at least two SCNs/SCMNs and one HA by June 30, 1989.
Communications systems would also be provided between outlying facilitles
and district hospitals. Assurances were obtalned during negotiations that
the detailed planning for the district communications systems would be
completed by March 31, 1987 and reviewed with the Bank prior to its imple-



- 16 -
mentation. The project would also provide the district health service
authorities with one additional vehicle per district. A total of 111
motorbikes would be made available to SCNs/SCMNs and HAs working in the
eight districts, under an on-going scheme administered by the Central
Mechanical Equipment Department (CHED). During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that the CMED would administer the loans for motorbikes
financed through the project under its normal terms.
47.       Project Management.  The project would provide for a Project
Coordinator, program assistant, procurement specialist and accountant to
manage the project, plus a secretary, driver and one vehicle. A condition
of project effectiveness would be the appointment of a Project Coordinator,
with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank, and a program
assistant, procurement specialist and accountant.
Costs and Financing
48.       The project's total costs, including contingencies, are estimated
(based on mid-1985 prices) at about US$52.6 million, US$11.8 (22 percent)
in foreign exchange. Taxes and duties are negligible. Included are
physical contingencies at 10 percent for civil works and 5 percent for
vehicles and equipment; foreign price contingencies at 1.3 percent in 1985,
7.2 percent in 1986, 6.8 percent 1987 and 1988, 7.0 percent in 1919, 7.1
percent in 1990 and 4.0 percent in 1991; and local price contingencies at
10 percent in 1985, 15 percent in 1986, 12 percent in 1987, 10 percent
annually from 1988 to 1990, and 4.5 percent in 1991. Price contingencies
account for US$10.8 million equivalent or 27 percent of base costs.
49.       Of the total project costs of US$52.6 million, the Government
would finance US$27.6 million (53 percent), and US$25 million would be in
the form of external financing consisting of the proposed Bank loan of
US$10 million and US$15 million in cofinancing on grant terms. The UK ODA
would finance most of the management component of the project (US$1.8
million equivalent). The Federal Republic of Germany through the GTZ has
approved US$0.9 million equivalent for most of the IEC component. Addi-
tional funding for the IEC component is anticipated to be approved by the
Federal Republic of Germany, but assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that should these additional funds not be forthcoming, the Government
would cover any financing shortfall necessary to cover this component. The
Netherlands Government would provide financing for most of the training
component (US$1.8 million equivalent) with funds to be administed by the
Bank. The Norwegian Government would finance US$10 million equivalent for
parts of the management component, the training component, IEC component,
district referral system component and peripharal services component.
These funds would also be administered by the Bank. A condition of project
effectiveness would be that cofinancing agreements will have been duly
signed and all conditions precedent to declaring them effective have been
met.
Procurement
50.       Procurement arrangements are summarized below.  International
competitive bidding (ICB) civil works contracts would be awarded for each



- 17 -
of the district hospitals (including respective district level training
units and accomodation). In view of the relatively low average cost (only
US$28,000) of the remaining civil works and their remoteness, local compe-
titive bidding (LCB) procedures (which have been reviewed by the Bank and
found acceptable) would be used. Furniture would be purchased throt-gh LCB
except for miscellaneous items valued at less than US$20,000 which would be
purchased by prudent shopping with at least three price quotations, provid-
ed that the aggregate value of such purchases does not exceed US$200,000.
Equipment would be grouped as far as possible into contracts valued at
US$100,00 or more and would be procured through ICB or UNICEF.   Contracts
Table: PROCUREMENT TABLE
(US$ '000)
Procurement Method
Project Element                                                         Total
ICB     LCB       Other     N.A.      Cost
Investment Costs
Civil Works                  23,181    4,620       28                27,829
(7,650)    ( - )   ( - )               (7,650)
Furniture                               1,334     200                 1,534
(-_)   (-_)                   (- )
Equipment                     2,681       500     200                 3,381
(2,222)    ( - )   C - )               (2,222)
Vehicles                        602               263                   865
(-_)              ( -)                 (-)
Supplies and Material                   1,612     100                 1,712
( - )     (5)                   (5)
Technical Assistance                                       1,372      1,372
(35)      (35)
TrairLi ng                                                 3,421      3,421
(53)      (53)
Overseas Training                                            260        260
(-_)      (-)
Research and Evaluation                                      471        471
(-)       (-)
Innovative Activities                                        240        240
(-)       (-)
Recurrent Costs                                              11,535    11,535
(-_)       t-)
Total                        26,464    8,066      791    17,299    52,618
(9,872)    ( - )      (5)       (88)   (9,965)
%                            50.3      15.3     1.5       32.9        100
Note:    (i)  Numbers have been rounded.
(ii) The numbers in brackets show the items against which the Bank
would disburse.



- 18 -
for miscellaneous equipment valued at less than US$100,000 would be
purchased through LCB, provided that the aggregate value of such contracts
does not exceed US$500,000. Items of equipment valued at less than
US^.20,000 would be purchased by prudent shopping with at least three price
quotations, provided that the aggregate value of such purchases does not
exceed US$200,000. The vehicles to be financed by the Bank loan or from
funds administezed by the Bank would be procured as a package through ICB.
The contracts for the IEC mass media productions (72 percent of total cost
of supplies and materials) would be awarded after LCB procedures, which
would also be used for the other materials and supplies required for the
project. However, prudent shopping with at least three price quotations
would be used for miscellaneous items of supplies and materials valued at
less than US$10,000, provided that the aggregate value of such purchases
does not exceed US$100,000. All Bank-financed contracts to be procured
through ICB would be subject to prior Bank review. Other contracts would
be subject to selective post award review. Apart from the consultants to
be made available directly by the ODA and GTZ, all consultants would be
employed in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
Disbursements
51.       Disbursements will be made for 100 percent of fDreign and 25
percent of local expenditures for civil works, 100 percent of foreign, 100
percent of local (ex-factory cost) and 80 percent of local expenditures for
equipment, supplies and materials, and 100 percent of expenditures for
training and consultants services. Withdrawal applications for
expenditures for civil works, equipment, supplies and materials under
contracts or purchase orders of less than US$20,000 will be submitted
against statements of expenditure; supporting documentation will be
retained in ME for review by Bank supervision missions. All other
disbursements will be fully documented. No withdrawal applications for
less than US$50,000 would be submitted. All payments below US$50,000 would
be pre-financed by Government. An indicative schedule of disbursements has
been drawn up, based on the actual disbursement profile of the Kenya
Integrated Rural Health and Family Planning Project, the only completed
Bank/IDA assisted family health project in Eastern Africa. It is expected
that the loan would be fully disbursed by September 30, 1992, nine months
after project completion.
Accounts and Audit
52.       Separate project financial records and accounts would be
maintained by an accountant attached to the Finance Directorate of the MH,
but responsible to the Project Coordinator. The project would be subject
to normal governmental accounting and auditing procedures, which are
satisfactory to the Bank. During negotiations, assurances would were
obtained that audits of the project accounts by the Auditor General or by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank would be made available to the
Bank within nine months of the close of each fiscal year.



- 19 -
Project Implementation
53.       The Secretary for Health would have overall responsibility for
project implementation, which is expected to be completed by December 31,
1991. The closing date for the project would be September 30, 1992.
Rather than using any specially established implementation unit, the
project has been designed to be implemented through the regular management
structure of the MH and the ZNFPC, though a full-time Project Coordinator,
responsible to the Secretary for Health, would be appointed. In view of
the size of the project, the Project Coordinator would also have an
assistant and a secretary. The existing MH Planning Pool (which meets
weekly and consists of the Minister of Health as Chairman, the Permanent
Secretary, the four Deputy Secretaries and various department heads as
required) would function as the MH headquarters coordinating committee for
the project. The MPCNH would be responsible for civil works.
Evaluation
54.       Primary emphasis in evaluating the project would be placed on
process indicators. Particular attention would be paid to the output of
nurses from the FP and midwifery courses. For the IEC component, the
indicators would relate to the use of mass media by the IEC Unit of the
ZNFPC and the MH Health Education Unit. Other process indicators would be
the production of manuals and booklets, and carrying-out of the planned
training workshops. Progress achieved in meeting the Government's targets
for the selected service delivery indicators in the eight districts would
also be monitored. A baseline survey for the eight districts has been
virtually completed. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that
(a) the results of the Survey would be submitted to the Bank for review and
comment by March 31, 1987; (b) the survey in the eight districts would be
repeated with similar mid-project and end-of-project surveys in the third
and fifth years of the project; and (c) an independent management review
would be carried out in the third year of the project and at the end of the
project to evaluate changes in the eight districts.   Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the results of the surveys would be
made available to the Bank for review and comment in a timely manner.
Finally, the urban component would be evaluated primarily in terms of
numbers of personnel trained in FP techniques, FP services delivered at the
22 urban hospitals and numbers of diagnostic smears reviewed.
Affordability
55.       The ME recurrent budget for 1985/86 was Z$184 million or 6.6
percent of the Government's total budget. Project-related incremental
recurrent costs should add Z$4.7 million to the MH budget. With annual
economic growth projected by the Bank to be about 4 percent over the next
five years, the MH should have little problem ir. absorbing the additional
recurrent costs, assuming that its budget remains in the region of 6.6
percent of the total Government budget. The project would be affordable to
the target population -- the rural and urban poor -- as health and FP
services are free to those earning less than Z$150 per month.



- 20 -
Benefits
56.       The benefits of the proposed project would affect three groups --
primarily poor mothers and children in the eight selected districts; to a
lesser extent mothers (and children) in urban areas; and more generally the
nation as a whole. First, most (74 percent) of the project inputs would be
directed towards the district components, which cover primarily communal
areas. The target group numbers about 705,000. While district specific
socio-economic data are unavailable, it is clear that the vast majority of
this target group live in poverty. If the project targets are achieved,
then there would be 81,000 additional FP acceptors in 1991, 21,000
additional children vaccinated, 24,000 additional pregnant women receiving
antenatal care, 12,000 additional supervised deliveries, and 42,000
additional children having their weights monitored, compared to the
situation if the project had not gone ahead. These MCH service delivery
statistics are clusely related to health status improvements in the
beneficiaries. Second, for the urian component, the primary justification
is the need to provide FP services to meet unmet demand. Third, the
national components of the project would enable the MH to plan, manage and
evaluate MCH/FP services throughout the country, while the provincial
health service authorities would have been strengthened to assist other
districts as well as those selected for intensified support through the
project. District health service administrators would also have been
trained for all of the country's districts. Similarly, health workers
throughout Zimbabwe would have been retrained in midwifery and FP, while
the IEC messages should also have reached target groups in all areas.
Risks
57.       The project has two main risks.  The first concerns the
institutional capacity of the MH to implement the project efficiently.
Given the historical weaknesses of the MH, the project has been designed to
support management strengthening through a variety of activities including
training and technical assistance. Moreover, only one district has been
selected in each province for infrastructural development. The project has
considerable high-level political support, and it is judged that the NH
would be able to carry it out as planned. The second risk concerns the
need for support to be maintained for peripheral and outreach services.
The project has been designed to take account of the existing constraints:
for example, the extent of the upgrading has been limited; the upgradings
of the clinics would be done in advance of the district hospitals; the
manpower situation is projected to ease with the expansion of the Medical
School and the ongoing construction of new training facilities, and the
Government has agreed to staff the facilities in the selected districts by
1989; the project provides for additional transport; and the additional
demands on the MH recuirrent budget have been kept small. Zimbabwe has
already made considerable progress despite existing manpower, financial and
management constraints. On balance, therefore, it is felt that the
peripheral and outreach services would be adequately supported.



- 21 -
PART Vs RECOUNENDATION
58.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington D.C.
June   . 1986



-  22  -                                        ANNEX  ..I
mama.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,.  -                -oi   nnfssasa
EMUW                      unmmm tou~awrs (Wiats awIab) 
mat                       iso.T macan swinab)   *
SETOSAIMa       AFnRICA It. OF AM"A       AV*1# ^ 4 III 0 KAiSl
mu gnMa All. 33)
TOAL                                390.4       39.1        390..
aeIOSLuAL                            47.1        72.4        74.4
am   maOmIp n                            ..          ..        740.0             1O04.                     1134., 
INIC  SMIII MR 1ITA
(uhLMMS OF OIL IAQtIVALEU)            ..        746.0       573.0              511.5                     123.9
160I1111   n IL V,C12111
IfflIafLou    n-mm  (tuw Usu)    3W0.0         526*.n      7856.0
WIRSA PrOLATiON (tOF orTAL)          12.4        D.9         25.5               32.0                      49.0
wwuunou roixcrlwns
PPUlATION 1K S"    2000 CMELL)                             14.3
ST NIM U S1 P   01ATION (SKUL)                             39.o
ProULA?1UU IOSNTLH                                          2.1
lfIattflml INILIISTI
ARsq. U.                            9.2        13.a        20.1               05.1                      37.6
Pat sq. M. GCRI. LM9              53.7        72.5         98.8              120.1                    L?u.I
,unoAu ao  sauicrisst (2)
0-1I  Yu                          4.4         41.5        52.0               45.9                      4*.5
15-4 its                          51.8        50.7        44.1               51.5                      53.1
dS S1ANbAR                          2.7         2.7         1.7                2.7                       3.3
WUIATlOU COSK  RATE (2)
TOML                                *.0         3.3         3.1                2.9                       2.4
1111                                5.7         1.7         0.1                5.1                       4.4
Cl UDE   t K     R SK R TlIUa)       55.0        55.0        52.4               47.0                     40.0
clS   WAUN mNAT (MR TWs)             14.5       14.0         12.7               15.0                      11.5
G3U SRWOODUCTh tATK                   3.9         3.9         3.9                3.2                       2.8
180N.! PLAInS
ac'ros*,          (TISI)            ..        18. I/e    507.0 Id
SKU  (I Olr tlRz  umun)            ..          ..         22.0                 4.4                      21.4
001 AM 111MnITM IT
1535 SIOF YONh KaLR (uPITA
(1949-13-100)                      17.0         93.0        72.0               *2.9                      9S.1
a CAPIt EP"LI Or
atyonE  (2 WP I tUUUrS)           193.0       87.0         93.0             9I'                        115.2
reinsIS (GUM  IM  M)              70.0        57.0        58.0               55.4                      77.3
0O  tiC8 ANIL  DUD MAE          2ao.o         21.0        22.0               1 11.5                    17.8
cam (As 1-4) 352  AM          n     17.Z        12.1         7.0               18.4                      12.5
-a~.
LIP  maCT. AT InTS (Sal)            53.0        53.9         55.6               52.0                     57.1
wIIT wR.. mTa  (5x TM1)             13.0        95.0        19.0              11.1                       91.3
ISE   So "05M MAIN  (0)
OtL,                                ..         ..          30.7 lt            4L4                      47.2
UIBAN                              ..          ..        IOOD                47.5                      93.4
a                                   ..         ..         10.0                35.3                     45.1
:ALS To RETA DISPOSAL
(I oP IO1ULAlSl)
TOTAL                              ..          ..          n.s               23.9                      A5.
Onus                               ..          ..        100.0               57.7                      43.0
mU'S.                              ... -                  14.9 71            20.?                      23.1
runTo  FM   ici*i                 4790.0      430.0       5900.0            11791.7                    4331.0
"W. MR mmsw   n t"I                :010.0   A090.0         940.0             2451.3                    145.0
per.      NIOSTAL so
TOAL                             250.0       290.0       350.0              9 381.3                   821.3
..                                           70.0         ..               3.1                       545.0
L                                   ..      101I           ..              4371.9                    2511.3
AassS  M3 MITA I                     ..         30.5        24.5 AL            37.2                      25.7
AnusA  SIZE OP SOUSUIOLD
TOAL                                ..
mm.                                .. . ..
URAL                                ..
*sm  No. or  sm       tm
TOTAL                              ..
33*                                0.5         0.7         -....
ERA                                ........
'sTir   or   ui  Pi  mcs.
tw.                                 .. . ..
urse                               ........
SAL~~         .._



-23 -                                                   ANNEX  I
XIIIIIASIIE           - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHitE
RIIIBARWI                           RKPCRNC  GROUPS jslmGt"TD AVIENAtS)  
MST                      cMuwa  NECs? En INAIL) fl
RECENT           MIDDLE INCGME          RIUDLK 1001C
1mnot.     i7Lk  LSTINATEIb       AFRICA S. OF SNlAkA   N. AFKICA & lIb LASf
:MATRON
ADJUSTED ENRnLUIENT RATIOS
PRIiARY:  TOTA                    96.0       74.0       130.0              95.7                      b9.16
StALE                 107.0       81.0       134.0              100.0                    103.7
FIBALE                 86.0       66.0       125.0              83.2                      75.2
SECOIIARY: TOTAL                  6.0         7.0        23.0              17.3                     42.9
HMALE                   7.0        Y.0        27.0               25.u                     50.y
P5n11                  4.0        6.0        19.0               14.8                     34.6
VOCAlaO. CL  I OF SEWUWD n)         17.0        1.5         U.1               5.9                     IU.O
PUPIL-TEAUCHER RATIO
PP11AC                            35.0        ..         3U.0              41.1                     29.7
SECUhDARY                         21.0       22.0        27.0              25.5                     16.5
PASSENGER CARSTIIWUSAND PUP         22.3       23.8                          20.8                     17.a
RADIO RECEivRSiTHSAND PUP            ..        27.6        34.4 /f          107.6                    175.9
TV REcEIVERS/:IDUsAmD POP            1.7        9.5        10.6 7F           20.8                     51.2
MEWSPAR  ("ILY UMZVL
INrEAzSr) CIROI.AUTO0
PER TH15lJSAND POPUIATION          24.7       15.6        16.4 h1           18.4                     37.2
CIUM  ANUOA  ATDACEIPTA              ..         ..          ..                0.4                      2.4
TOTAL lARD! FORM (THUDS)          1363.0     1647.0      2333.0
:3KAL5 (PERc %eS                  30.4       30.1        29.1              36.2                     11.0
AGRCICULTURE (hpaCKlT)            69.0       64.0        60.0 f            54.5                     42.4
IDUSTRY (PEaciu)                  11.0       13.0        15.0              18.3                     27.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TaOTL                             37.8       35.2        29.7              36.8                     26.2
HALZ                              53.3       49.7        42.6              47.1                     46.2
PErAL!                            22.7       21.0        17.6              27.2                      5.8
ECONOSIC DEPUND! RATiO               1.3        1.4         1.6               1.3                      1.s
-90 URSTWTWrl
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCE
KEGI--VED S
RIHEST 5X OF OUSEHOLDS             ..         ..          ..
HICtEST 2a1 or KOUSEHOLDS          ..         ..          ..
LUleST 20Z OF HOSEOLDS             ..         ..          ..
LOW&ST 40   OELS                  ..          ..          .....
taunt ram G&OOWB
STNLATED ARSOLUTE IPOV? INCONE
LWEVL CUSs PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..         ..          ..              590.7                    226.3
RURAL                             ..          ..          ..              275.3                    134.0
ASTDIED RltATIVE POFERT7 DICONC
IMn (USs aM CAPITA)
B                                  ..         ..          ..              565.6                    431.5
RAL                               ..          ..         ..               201.1                    326.0
ESmTDID POP. ff1.  AlSOLUTE
mixuaRt znm.s LEVU. (1)
llUs                               ........
RURAL                             ..          ..          ..                ..                      29.0
Mr AAL&ALZ
MrT APPLICS.LE
M OT E5
/a  Tbe group avurqes for each macstar are sovuaatlfmwltstei arithttic mas.  Conersi of eirntriu
ainng the ileactora depande on avalability .f data and Is not  lfeor.
/b   Unlesa otbale" noted, "Dta for 1960" refr to any year beteen 1959 end 1961; "ata for 1970" beteen
L99 and 1971; ad data for "t    Recant laclmt.' between 1981 and 1983.
/c  1972; /d 1978; /A 1977;  If 1980; 1k 1962; A  1976; nt 1979.
JUmE. 195



-24-                                             ANNEX  I
DEFDINlTOf OF SOCAL INDCAIS|
Pon: Although eda _ we rdawa from   rsen graulhyl Jdrd abe, nia uUIbOcIa od rdebh, a ahould .obe noaid aha ih,y may nsa be muniorA  y |
cammbU  bar  or dthh lk or masdaid delmionA ma amps ued by diffrent  cmtan in alicamg the data. The dat  , Mnoaielica, mdal tog
dcrnibe e  ic rmagitude. Idcte trends. nd charae erain major dilkem  bgwen eatiers
lb retnee pruup ai (I ta tsame canunty rop die ahbier: country and 12) a rwtmy prow ntb mawhat bigher ave*  income iban the scaty
wpmp dcrow bjact cuny(nfpttr -High Inmcme OnlEpcric'pumppwhere iMdlnmateNorthAtncm mid Mddle Easli5cloen belaus .aener
socioclas alliti) In tie  _enim group dao die avms  am populsuca wegihbd ainthbteu meas for Sea  indieaor and hwn eany wben niay
Etdit sumtrinia a group hau da f(or abaa indiacr Sim be covercag orcounsries aonsug te sators depen on iab rvnilability ofdata and isml unibixn,
cstuan mis be ee    in reting vaerg of one indictor to anoth. The avr  agem stil) ati ain coinpnng the vali of ant indicator ma time among
the CaUiay and rmeenm  promp
AREA (thousad sq.km.)                                          Cede Mrt Rt. f(pr rthmsaud)-Number of live births in the yea
JTeL-Totla   surface  area comprising land ama and inland walers;  per thoustndromid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 19813 data.
1960. 1970 and 19B3 daa.                                       Crde Deat Jtare (pr ut4ussd)-Number or deaths in the year
Agdabin-Eiinmte or agicukural rea used temporarily or          per thousand or nid-year population; 1960, 1970. and 19813 dats.
permanendy ror crops, pastures markcet and kitchen gardens or to  Gos Rehctru Rar--Avcrge number of daughtm a woman
li  aLbw. 1960, 1970 and 1982 data.                            will bear in her normal reproductive period if she expeiences
present age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
CNP PER CAPITA (IJSS)-GNP per capita estimates at curreni      in 1960,1970. and 1983.
arket prices, calculated by suam  converion method as World    Fhviy                     AmI (lha.mdzj-Annual am-
FAm* Atas (191143 hesist 1913 data.                            ber oratpors ofbirlh-control devic  under auspices of ntional
ENERCY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                 family planning progrm.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lipiter,     Ffiy flaaiug-Isers (perwat ofwnled usoseIr_-T    pcri-
petroklum, nsaturl gs and hydro-, nuclar and geothemal elec-   tage of muried smn of child-baring age who are practng or
tuicity) in kilograms of oil equivaklt per capita; 1960, 1970. sad  whose husbads ae practicing any frm ofcontreoeption. Wome
1982 data.                                                     of child-bearing ae are gerally vwmen aed 15-49. although for
aomc countries contracptivc usage is meesured for other ae
POPULATON AND VITAL STATSICS                                   groups.
TwalfiP  ld.u, Mid-Yw (thomsdr)-As ofJuly 1; 1960. 1970.       FOOD AND NUTRIlN
ad 1933 data.
Pfrin  Pupulude  (prcan of t.tsO)-Ratio of urban to total      laex efMrd*P%&nrm Pe  all foodL1  comditie.lNducxonpc
capito annual production of i11 food cn oditics Pr o ducion
population; diffeent definitions of urban areas may affect comlpr-  excudes anial feed and aced for agricultur. Food commodites
ability of data mong countries 1960,1970. and 3983 data.       ncude prmary commodities (e.g. sualrcane inecad of sugar)
ilbpdeie. fl#enioms                                            wbich ar edible md contain nutrients (cg. coffec and te are
rpaio   in year 2000-il. projection of population for 2000,    ecxdudl) they comprse ceas root crops pulses, oil sends.
made for each ceonomy wparedy. Starting with informalion on    vegetabi   frits, nuts, sugrane and sugar bos, livestock, and
total popuation by age and m  fertility rates, mortality rates, and  livestock produts ASggrete production ofed  country is basd
intrnational miation in die t-e year m1o0, tunm paraneten      - national avrage produce pnce wcights 1961-65. 1970, and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis or genealized  1912 data
"asumptions until the populatin  became sutionry.              Nr Cq,ia Sql ifCat n {rc(a   efur_qtvams)n-Comput-
Srsory pepekaon-Is one in wbcb age   d sex-specific mor-       ed from calorie equivaknt of net food supplies available in country
aiy rates bave tot chang  over along period. while age4pecific  per capiu per day. Available supplies comprie domestic produc-
fertity rates have simuneusly remained aI replacement levd     tion, imports kss exports, ad chges in stock. Net supplis
(net reproduction rare 51). In such a population, tbe birth ratc is  exclude animal fel, scads for use in agriculture, quantities usd in
constt ant equal to the death rate. the age sucture is also   food procesing, and le  in distribution. Requiments wae
onstnt, ad the gowth rate is zero. The stationary population   estimated by FAO bsd on physiologic  needis for norml actity
aize was estimated on the basis of the projected chractristics of  and health considring envronmental ternpentumre, body weights.
the population in the year 2100. ad the rate of drdie of fcrtilty  age and se distribution ofpopulation, and allowing 10 patent for
ate to replaemen level.                                        w        at houeol ldvel 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
epsdaoiw Mmner-ls the tendency for populton growth to          P'r C_p, spof .ha    (ums, per daf-Ptcsn eontent of
coniue beyond thte n that reacmn-lcvl fertlity has been        per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
chieved; that is. em after the net eprduct  rate hb  recched   as above. Requrments for all countries establidd by US[A
unity. The nomentum ofa population in the yer t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protin per
a ratio of the altimate staionry population to the popultion in  day and 20 grains of animal and pb protin, of wich 10 grans
the ye r. givn  the assumption that fertily reains at wpIwc-   should be animal protein. The standardsuare lowcr than those of
et klvel fron year  onward. 1985 data.                         75 grams or tot  protein and 23 pans of animal proein as an
-          idasuiry                                            avrage for the widd. prposd by FAO in the Tbird World Food
Per sqknt-Mid-year population per square kilmetcr (100 hec-    Supply, 161. 1970 and 1982 data.
tarn) of total ar; 1960. 1970, amd 1983 data-                  hr Cawita ho        Sap Rum 4.ud sod Pbs--Protem supply
*r sqatm. agrindsrau  lid--Computed as above for agricultural  offood derived from anitals and pulses in grams per day, 196145.
Ind only. 1960, 1970. and 192 dat.                             1970 and 1977 dataL
ftp.hi.. Age S%baisur 5phreas-Childn (0-14 years), work-       CAN (qa s-i) Dish Awe (per tmmadO-Number of deaths of
ingae (15-64 yr). and retild (65 yea and or) as perntage       children agd 1-4 years per thouand chibdn in the -ae ag
ofmid-ye  population; 1960, 1970, and 1983 data.               group in a g-n year For most developiAg countries data derived
hp5eu Gwomw       M Re (pems)-tat-Annmal growth rates of      from life lables 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
toa mid-y   populaion for 190-60, 1%60-70. and 1970-83.        EAL'1H
Pi Im. Gree  Re Ci-wefhmr-Aanma  gowth rates                  Lift Expyerwy at  r  (rmr)-Number of years a newborm
of rban population for 1950-60. 1960-70, and 1970-83 data.     infant would Eve if prevailing patterns of moality for all people



-25 -                                        ANNEX   I
at te time f of iu binh we so say the umm   rougbout it lifc;  R$-anche, Raiio - priwry. oid swende-Total students m-
1960, 1970 and 1993 data.                                    rild in primary and secondary kwels divided by numbes of
hghs Mmalry Rre (per ehumnsi)-Number of infrios who die    utecher in the corrsponding kvelr.
beore reacbig one year or ae per thousand live births in a given
syar. 1960, 1970 snd 1983 data.                              CONSUMMON
Awns  so SoJi W     4r     .1       i         SA M ri,  d                n , (pr        j-wAsd     Peger cars com-
mwuI-- Number of people (toWl.  an, and nurl) with reasonable  prime motor cars sating less than eight persons excluds ambul-
access to safe water supply (includes treated mufae waters or  nnces, hebses and military vehicks.
untreated but uncotam inated water sh as that from protected  a&a Receeies pr t   usdpepuleuionJ-All types or reeiver
bomhoks. springs and snitay wells) as peages of their respec-  for radio broadcasts to geral pulic pr thousand of rpopulation
tive populations. In in urban ame a public fountin or tandpost  exclue on-licensed recivger  in countries aon  in years wheo
lcated not more thn 200 metd, kom a hs may be considrd              tion of ro sets was is t n.. data for mi yea. may
as being within reLasnubk lease  or wht bouse. In rural anot be comparable since msts   countries aborsh  lIcnsing.
reasonableaccess wod  imply that tbe ouwi  or members of the
houslhold do not have to spend a disproportiae part of te day  TVRecne (per rhosaa4opuIsin)-TV feceivers for broadcast
in fetching the faniy's water neds.                          to ial pubbc per thousand population; iudes unlicnsed TV
Acwn so Erevu D;yod (prme of pe,uii -4efi-dr.ri, r ,         receives in countries and in years when rgitration of TV sts was
ma arau-Number of people (total, urban. an rural) served by  mi effect
cexerta disposal as perntages of their respecive populations  M'IwsPYEF Ciariui  (Per  mAo d GnpgulaoSe)-S bows tbh aver-
Excreta disposal may indudc the colection and disposal with or  age cidulation of daily peneu interest newspaper." defined s a
without treatment, of human excrta and waste-wakr by water-  penodica publication devoted priianly tio rcrding gnal news.
borne system  or the use of pit privies and similr istaations.  It is considred to be dsiy" ifit appea at Jewst four times a we.
Po.psfim per Pipidua-ibplation divided by number of prac-    Cais. Amul Anamaee pr Cdps per Ifru-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical slW at univeity level.    number of tickes sold during the year induding admissions to
Pbpmkgieper Nwna Pers-4npulation divided by number or        drive-in cincma and mobile units
practicing male and female grduste nurses, assistant nurses,
practicaI nurses and nursing auxliaries.                     LABOR FORCE
,ypuaf. r-r Nespikl Bes-'Wata. arn, at   -Population        Ferl La_ Fior  (tm/a_dsj-Ecnomnically active persons, in.
(total, uban, and rural divided by teir respw     awnber of  duding armed forces nd unemployed but exclading houwives,
students, etc, covening population of all ages Definitions in
hospital beds available in public and private. generl med s W   aiu  onre  r  o  oprbe  90  90ad1    aa
hospitals and reabilitation ccutem Hospitals are establidnments  vnous countries are not comparable; 1960, 1970 nd 1983 ta.
pcrmaramnly stffed by at least one physcan Esablishmts prov-  Fm*   (pawcea-Female hbor rorce S petaue of toa Labor
idng prinDciplly asodial ca  are not included. Rural hospita  force.
bowever,includehealth mead    cntapemanedysafed               tueduChwe (peremr-Labor romc in fanning, forestry, hunting
by a physican (but by a medil assistant nune, midwife. etc.)    and fishing as percentage of total labor Iour 1960. 1970 and 1910
which offer in-patient ammnodation and provide a lmitd rang  data.
of nedical faclities                                         ^fanry (psrcea)-labor force in mining conruction, menu-
AaAsia per HeNpir ed-Totl number of admissions to or         facturing and eectricity. watr and gps as permetage of total labor
dischargesm from hospitals divided by the nmber of beds.     foroe 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Fhv i mRaw (ey-iu     ,. feafr niopation
HOUSING                                                      or activity rts are computed as total mak and femae labor force
A4w    Sir of NcmeAeU (p-emis pr &meksMd-eoral, __m.         as percentgs of totaL mae and female population of all ages
a; rat-A household consists of artupWofindividualswhoshare   respectively: 1960 1970. and 1983 data. The  ar based on ILOs
iving quarters and their mai mea  A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates refng age-se structureofthe population, nd
may not be included in the houshold for statstical parposes  long time trend. A few esinutes are from natina sowu
Aere NoAber of Pns per R.m-lu_a  whm, a_, eml-               Ecamokm  Dpendency RaW-Ratio of popuktion under IS. and
Average number of pmons per room in all urban, and rural     65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 1l$64)
occupied conventional dwell,  spcvely. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent strctues ad unoccpid par                       INCOME DlSTRIDUTION
Parcsmqe of DwNags .   Eleeidy-af,; shin, m  ra wil-         hrcq  of oal D0;mak blamw (huk a cas ad kaO,-
Conventional dwellings with eleticity in living  arters as peirn-  Accruing to percentile groups of housholds rnked by total bouse-
tge of total, urban. sad rural dwlngs respectively,          hold income.
EDUCATION                                                    POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Aalsed E       iehumrnr las                                  The following estimates are very approximate mcasures of poverty
Pima   cho  - woe mafe d fag -ros totl, mak  -n   levels, and should be interpreted with considable caution.
feae enrollment of all ages at the primary lewd as percetages of  Esiewed Adihr hme4 beamw  Lavel (UMS pw cqpita)-e
respective primary school-e populaions. While eany cuntm ries  ad m-Absolute poverty income lel is that income  vel
coider primary school ar to be 6-11 yers, othes do not. The  below which a minal nutitiWnaDy adequate det plus esntial
differences in country pcics in the ag  and durtion or school  non-food requirements is not affordabtl
mc relcted in the ratios given. For -e coumtries with universal  Estimed ReaiveP huerry ibcome  el (USS per c.piaj_-a
education, gOSS enIolment may exed 100 percnt since smc      ad  rd-Rural relative povery income cl is one-hird of
pupls aw  below or above the countmys sutdad primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban lvd is
age-                                                         derived from the rurl level with adjustment for higher cost of
&Senckdry scool - ortal, mak ead feaek-Ccmputed as above.    living in urban areas.
scondary eduction rquires at lesrour yeaS of approved pnt    Er 'ad P.peuuirn BDw iAmbI hurry haiM  Levd (per-
mary msncso  provides Fneral vocational, or teacher training  srj'-eizo ad rard- Fent of population (urban and rural
ituctions for pupils usualy of 12 to 17 yars ofar corrspon-  who ait "absWute poor.'
ence course are genery ecuded.
Voaiuu  fArehmmi  (Per       Of ICAdwy)-VoCtiontl institu-             Comparative Analysis and Dat Division
dm indude technal industrial, or other progrms which qoete           Economic Analysis and Pjetion Department
idepedntly or as departame  of seconay institutions.                                June 1985



- 26 -
w9 I
Page 4 of 5
OXW DATA
aGP ER C.APrIA IN 1984 US$740
GM  IWILL PgXrT IN 1984 a/                                If!TL AVE1WZ RAlE CF GII
(%, ccstat 1980 prices)
USS Mlr..   2                1970-75    1975-79    1979-4
aGP at Market Prices         5,095    100.0                 8.1        -2.0        6.7
omss Dmtic layesbent           8D3    15.8                 11.1       -21.2       lO.9
Gomss NtimaI SavIn             627    12.3                  9.6        -5.5        2.7
Orreat Ac=m nBaIlaI0e        -177    -3.5                  na&        n.a.        n.s
Exports of G , NFS           1,3D7    25.7                  5.6        -0.5       -'.9
k rs of Goad , ImS           1,316    25.8                  3.7       -11.7        8.9
_U , LAUl FlRiCE AND RU)   UinV    IN 1984 a,
Vahue Added           labor Forc                V.A. per Workr
IlSS Nn.      %'000                I             15    % of avera
Agriaxlture                     629     13.7         1,452   61.3            433       22.4
utry b/                       1,827     39.9          276   11.7           6,62)      342.3
Servies                      2,124      46.4          641   27.1           3,314      171.4
Total/Avra                 4,580    100.0         2,368   100.0          1,934      100.0
-E            FDWN
Cetral. Gowernmit cl
Z$ Mln)        Z O fP
1984785   1983[84    1984/35
Orrent Recipts                 2,212      31.9      31.1
(iret Eeitues                 2,442      35.6      34.3
Wm= Surplhs                     -230      -3.6      -3.2
Caital EXpEIutes                483        6.3       6.8
F.xterl Borrcig (net)            487       0.8       6.9
aPeliuary estimite.
bl Mungk, uifactulng, electridcty, a        trtinn
C/ FiBlyr - July i to JuKe 3D.
April 198&



- 27 -
.
Page 5 of 5
MOtEY, CREDIT and PRICES                 1980     1961      1982      1953     1984      1985
(ZfSlin out'ndinx a3dperb9d)           (June)
Namy and Qasl M"y                       1.214    1,399    1,694    1,695    1,958    1.981
Bank Credit tz the Govermer,t (Met)    371         302       563       514      467       424
Bank Credit to Private Sectar            818    1.169    1,341    1,682    1,679    1,654
Mm"sy and Qasi Money as Z af CDP           35       32        33        28       30       :..
Ca;xer Price Index (1980-100) al          100.0    113.8    130.4    156.0    181.4    195.6
haze percentage changes 1n:
Cmmuwr Price Index                          7.3     13.8      14.6      19.6     16.3       9.5
lank Credlt to Coverwec                   85.0    -18.6       86.4     -8.7      -9.1    -17.6
lank Credit to Prlvate Sectar              13.1     42.9.    14.7.    25.4       -0.2      -3.0
uAI  O PAEN                                                              Ec1   (1964) b,
1962  1983  l966   1985
ss ?)    I&)                                     uss Ki        2
Eport of Goad  &  S       1,502  1,314 1,345  1,315          Agriiture                  474        43
IF  caf of   A      S     I 1 893  1,486  1,336   115         4nln gC /                 429        39
Rmg         m             tI     tYf  161    ft              !zari     dJ               194        18
Factor Service (Met)       -225  -220  -132   -142
Set Traufers               -143  -129   -57   -109
Balanc  arnct hAr-         -762  -2    181  -40
EarnaL          ND  -e    r
(fficiad 0rut                59    71    97       65         Diab. & Qzctudivg. ad 19      1  KIn.
eact Foa=4p blssent           0    -2      7       4
Not MILT Blcoadi            491   405   296       88         Pubic Debt, inl. Satmd    1,41660
(of dKdt MIM          D          171.3
liet Shlt    lxrrnzkg       148  -188    39       51        NarOzaraead Private  m             78.0
Other TM.= (6:.i.)          -36   -3   -122        4        Tratl Oatadlng & Diskwsed ;.i9
:o:        In P e            45    37    32    -72
Dtt Srvic Ratio, 1984  f          2
2_s Ita
Pubblic Dabt. LucL. piaraed     19.2
&a, Isenamtlam  Lhery  224   187   156    227                (of uhimdi                       1.0)
0mm    ACor a   0GP   -11.6  -9.2  -3.6   -2.0               1mrQcarad Private bbc            1.5
Total                           2177
us= w D
190D ISLOD - ZS O.643                                       I=fml   uE, Fehuay, 1966  (uss  n)
1981 1SSl.OD - ZS 0.689
19i2 UiS.OO -ZS 1.757                                                                        I       nR  M
1983 1L1.00 - ZS L.M1l
1964 IES1.OD a ZS 1.24                                      OsstCaatg & Disnad              196.7  32.6
Utshsbud                       205.6  2D.8
Otmdkig ilcL. IbLshned          023  53,L
A/ AwxW  af hflg ad . %,   c indic
b/ Fahxis migas effects  ad rewrts.
'/ ElDmad K ad materials ad merals, pd and prIa.  stals. stlan   Ir:n ad stat.
r/ Bcdwks ir; ad si,  t   :               r       .
f/ Rat!L of debt nrm t exports af pods and sric.
AprlL 19s6



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
ZIMBABWE
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of end of March 31, 1956)
Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Credit
No.    No.       Year   Borrower           Purpose                   Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
Three loans and one credit fully disbursed                          137.70 15.00
1994             1981   Zimbabwe           Transport Reha-
biliLation Imports       42.00             16.55
2212             1983   Zimbabwe           Electricity Suppply
Power Commission        105.00             72.39
2239             1983   Zimbabwe          Manufacturing Export
Promotion                70.60             0.74
2282             1983   Zimbabwe           Highway                   26.40            14.68
2335             1983   Zimbabwe           National Agricul-
tural Extension          13.10            11.23
2342             1983   Zimbabwe           Railway Development      40.00             37.35
2445             1984   Zimbabwe           Urban Development        43.00            40.34
2533 al          1985   Zimbabwe           Small Scale Enterprise  10.0               10.00
1291     1982   Zimbabwe           Small Farm Credit                30.40    13.27
1296     1982   Zimbabwe           Petroleum Fuels Supply
Technical Assistance              1.20     0.26
1368     1983   Zimbabwe           Rural Afforestation               7.30      5.88
Total                                              487.80 53.90   222.69
of which has been repaid                            85.78   -         -
402.02
Amounts sold                          41.99
of which has been repaid            40.99         1.00
Total now held by Bank and IDA                    401.02  53.90
TOTAL undisbursed                               203.28  19.41
a/ Signed but not yet effective.



29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
ZIMBABWE
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1986)
Investment                               Type of               US$ Million Equivalent
Number       Year                         Business              Loan            Equity
552-ZIM      1981   Wankie Colliery
Company Limited     Coal Mining             38.0              -
745-ZIM      1984   UDC Limited           Finance                 2.2             0.2
(Hire/purchase)
848-ZIM      1986   Crest Breeders _a/  Agribusiness             4.2              0.6
Total gross commitments                    44.4              0.8
less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                   27.4                -
Total now held by IFC                       17.0             0.8
Total now undisbursed (including             4.9             0.6
US$2.7million for participants)
a! Signed April 28, 1986



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
ZE4MAVE
FAMILY HEALTh PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I..      Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time from project identification to
appraisal                              : 21 Months
(b)  Preparation by                         : Government & Bank
(c)  First Bank mission to consider the
project                               : October 1983
(d)  Appraisal mission departure           : July 1985
(e)  Negotiations                          : May 1986
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness         : January 1987
II.      Special Conditions
A. Special conditions of project effectiveness:
(i) that the two posts of Head of the MCH/FP Unit and MCH/FP
officer would have been staffed by the MH, that the
Health Management Development Unit would have been
staffed by two health management specialists and that
the posts of Field Training Coordinator and Trai.ting
Administrator would have been filled by the MH (para.
41);
(ii) the appointment of a Project Coordinator, with
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank,
and a program assistant, procurement specialist and
accountant (para. 47); and
(iii) effectiveness of all cofinancing agreements (para. 49).



- 31 -
ANNEX II1
Page 2 of 3
C. Other special conditions:
ti)  that the training program for district health service
administrators would be started by September 30, 1987;
that posts for them would be approved by July 1, 1988;
and that a district health service administrator would
be appointed to each of the eight selected districts by
September 30, 1988 (para. 41); that the health centers
in the eight selected distrlcts would each be adequately
staffed by at least two SCNs/SCMNs and one health
assistant by June 30, 1989 (para. 46); and that the
aunual district plans (including training activities)
for the selected districts would be completed by March
31, prior to the start of each fiscal year, and then
made available to the Bank for review and comment
(para. 41);
(ii)    that the long-term management advisor; the long-term
health management specialist (para. 41); and the
long-term materials production specialist (para. 44)
would be recruited by March 31, 1987; and and that a
health education officer and a graphic artist would be
transferred to the materials productiou facility by then
(para. 44);
(ili)    that the "A" course FP curriculum revision, satisfactory
to the Bank, would be completed by March 31, 1987
(para. 42);
(iv)    that the detailed planning for the district
communications systems would be completed by March 31,
1987 and reviewed with the Bank prior to Its
implementation; and that the CMED would administer the
loans for motorbikes financed through the project under
normal CMED terms (para. 46);
(v)    that the results of the baseline survey currently
underway would be more atailable to the Bank by March
31, 1987 and that a similar survey would be carried out
during .he third and fifth years of the project; and
that the results of each of these surveye would be made
availablc to the Bank within six months of their
completion for review and comment (para. 54);



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
(vi)    that a mid-project management review would be carried
out in the third year of project implementation, under
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; and that the
review findings and recommendations, together wlth the
Government's proposed action plan to rectify identified
constraints to management objectives, would be discussed
with the Bank within four months of the survey
completion (para. 54).



sc- ~~~~~~~~f                                                                                                 i ;j;;Yq   
C,&:-I   /    \hW j7                                                                  . ,  .,.' *fit. ..-.....'*   , ;                     ;      - 
H SIO07O0H SI:
\       -
a ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~ u-V-   ';"
I. ---\                                 .          .                 \,,j.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~.1~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
k    -                                                Ie   i\
fALisu .   .I              'x\)  
I-f             ---fri                        /1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~101-M 1IO1
j!fIfC44  !OD\ 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' I _) _                                                     ,  
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f f*f                                          II' ''                     IfuIIW(



______________________________      1IBRD    18695
; PFIURA                                                        !IMBABWE
\     R 9                                         FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
z  w  X  - / -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IIII   _1 +IJ Il..lICT5
_   HARARE                   ,                                                  'ii"
J
f                                  i                                       I b  ;Efl.JII e . I Ll',,Idr,, I Bntre
'' \    , .  S20
n~~~~~~/o                                          ..... g
~~NA   A                                /f   @<, 
, ( . : ^   'f   TANZANIA
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
t  _-^  ; Y   ,      ,                        ; ',     . i  |     ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A rr R I A   
4 % '- t4,<   .. -~    .                                                         ( /      - \frUIAMBIAUE
.A P.
.MARCH t985



