Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15944
PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
ZIMBABWE
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
(LOAN 2744-ZIM)
August 13, 1996
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit = Country Currency ($S)
1988                 US$1.00              Z$1.81
1989                 US$1.00              Z$2.12
1990                 US$1.00              Z$2.45
1991                 US$ 1.00             Z$3.62
1992                 US$ 1.00             Z$5.10
1993                 US$ 1.00             Z$6.48
Abbreviations and Acronyms
CBD                  Community-Based Distributor
CMED                 Central Mechanical Equipment Department
DHSA                 District Health Service Authority
GOZ                  Government of Zimbabwe
GTZ                  Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
(German Technical Cooperation Agency)
IBRD                 International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
LSMS                 Living Standards Measurement Study
MFEPD                Ministry of Finance, Economic Planning and Development
MOH                  Ministry of Health
MPCNH                Ministry of Public Construction and National Housing
NGO                  Nongovernmental organization
NORAD                Norwegian Agency for Development
ODA                  Overseas Development Organization
OED                  Operations Evaluation Department
ORT                  Oral Rehydration Therapy
PHC                  Primary health care
PHN                  Population, Health and Nutrition
PPF                  Project Preparation Facility
PTC                  Posts, Telephones and Communications
SCN                  State Certified Nurse
SRN                  State Registered Nurse
VHW                  Village Health Worker
WHO                  World Health Organization
ZNFPC                Zimbabwe National Family Planning Council
Fiscal Year
Government:          July I - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Performance Audit Report on Zimbabwe
Family Health Project (Loan 2744-ZIM)
Attached is the Performance Audit Report (PAR) for the Zimbabwe Family Health project,
prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department. The loan (for US$10 million equivalent) was
approved July 2, 1986. The Governments of Norway (US$10 million), the Netherlanids (US$1.8 million),
the United Kingdom (US$1.8 million) and the Federal Republic of Germaniy (US$1.3 millioni) provided
grants to finance portions of the project. The Government of Zimbabwe contributed US$27.6 million. All
funds had been fully disbuised wheni the project was closed on September 29, 1993.
The project objectives were to increase the availability and use of maternal and child healtih
services (MCH) and of family planning (FP) services and to strengthen the governmnent's capacity to
plan, manage and evaluate health services. To achieve these objectives, the project included componients
to strengthen the management of the Milistry of Health (MOH) at the national, provincial and district
levels, to train health workers in family planning and midwifery and to construct and equip district
training center facilities at each of eight district hospitals. These hospitals were also to be upgraded and
primary health services in rural areas were to be strengtlhened throtigh upgrading healtlh centers and the
provision of information and educational services on healtlh and family planiling topics.
Components to strengthen management and provide training were successfully implemenited
despite delays. Health service management was strengtlhenied by the design and establishment of a
training program for district healtlh service administrators, whlo became the lIiclipinis of an improved
district health service planning and management system. While inservice nurse and midwifery training
activities were successful, project design did not pay sufficient attention to building capacity for basic
midwifery training. The audit notes problems in the effort to strengthen district hospital services, as plans
for upgrading facilities were not based on adequate estimates of local demand and service utilization
patterns and weak managemenit of civil works resulted in substantial timie and cost overruns. Both the
government and the Bank recognized these problems and expected utilization patterns for follow on
investments were scrutinized closely at the design stage. As a result, the second Family Health project is
building twice as many district hospitals as the first project at about the same cost as this project. The
information, education and communication aspects of MCH/FP services were also successfully
improved, though coordinating the use of production facilities with the MOH and the Zimbabwe
National Family Planning Council (ZNFPC) did and continiues to present procedural problems.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



2
Consistent with the findings of the Project Completion Report, OED rates the project outcome as
satisfactory, sustainability as likely and institutional development as substantial. The major institution-
building element of the project was support for management training. District-level administrators have
strongly contributed to better health service management and thus to current efforts to decentralize the
health sector.
In retrospect, project design and preparation failed to accurately predict district-level demand for
health services and utilization and did not adequately address questions of how best to assure the
appropriate supply and distribution of medical and midwifery skills. However, the establishment of an
effective working relationship between the Bank and the Borrower, the Borrower's apparent strong
commitment to project goals and implementation (particularly its willingness to learn from early errors)
make it likely that these lessons will be applied to MOH's ongoing and future health policies.
Attachment



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Contents
Preface .......................................................                                                                                                      3
Basic Data Sheet .......................................................                                                                                             5
Evaluation Summary .......................................................                                                                                          9
1.  Introduction .......................................................                                                                                          15
Demographic and Health Status .......................................................                                                                15
Organization of Health Services ........................................................ 16
Government Policy .......................................................                                                                            16
2.  Project Objectives and Design .......................................................                                                                          17
3.    Project Preparation...............................................................................19
Process and Participants .................................................                                                                          19
Project Affordability ................................................                                                                               19
Project Size ................................................                                                                                       20
Cofinancing ................................................                                                                                        20
4.  Project Implementation and Component Results .......................................................                                                           21
Project Management ......................................................                                                                           21
Strengthening of District Referral Services and Peripheral Services ............................... 21
Management Strengthening ......................................................                                                                     23
Urban Family Planning ......................................................                                                                        24
[EC Component ......................................................                                                                                24
Training in MCH/FP ......................................................                                                                           24
5.  Borrower and Bank Performance ......................................................                                                                          27
6.    Findings  and  Issues ...............................................................................................................29
Relevance ................................................                                                                                           29
Outcome ................................................                                                                                             29
Sustainability ................................................                                                                                     31
Institutional Development ................................................                                                                          32
This report was prepared by Janet Nassim (Consultant) and task managed by Susan Stout
(OEDD I), who audited the project in February 1996. Benjamin Crow provided administrative
support. The report was issued by the Agriculture and Human Development Division (Roger
Slade, Chief) of the Operations Evaluation Department (Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa, Director).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



2
7.   Lessons Learned  ................................................................. 33
Decentralization  ................................................................. 33
Iinteragenicy  Relationshlips .................................................................                                            33
Estimating Costs of Facility Upgrading ................................................................... 34
Donor Coordinationi .................................................................. 35
Changinig  Environiliment and  Flexibility  .......................................                           .......................... 35
Tables
Table I . 1. Selected Indlicators of Demograpilic and Health Status. Zimbabwe alnd Sub-
Saharan  Africa, Early  1 980s and  early  1 990s ...............................................................  15
TIable  4.1. Oveiview   of Costs of Civil Works (Z$millioni) ........................................................... 22
MAP IBRD 18695



3
Preface
This is a Performance Audit Report (PAR) on the Zimbabwe Family Health Project for
which a loan in the amount of US$10.0 millioni equivalent was approved on July 22, 1986.
Project objectives were to increase the availability and use of family planning services; improve
health status, particularly of mothers and children; and strengtheni the Government's institutional
capacity to plan, manage and evaluate MCH/FP services. The governmenits of Norway, the
Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the Federal Republic of Germany provided grants
amouniting to US$10.0, 1.8, 1.8 and 1.3 million, equivalent, in that order, to finanice portions of
the project. The Governmeit of Zimbabwe contributed US$27.6 million to the finanlcilg plan.
The loan became effective on February 6, 1987. It was closed fully disbursed on September 29,
1993.
The PAR is based on the Project Completion Report(PCR), the President's Report,2 the
Staff Appraisal Report, review of Bank files, sector and economic reports. reports of other
donors and discussion with Bank staff. An OED Mission visited Zimbabwe in February, 1996,
and discussed the loan with officials from the Ministry of Health. The PCR provides a ftill and
frank account of the project's performance. It is well-balanced, with Part 11, written by the
Borrower, providing the more interesting policy insighits.
The draft PAR was sent to the Borrower, the Norwegian Agency for Developmenit, the
Government of The Netherlands, the UK Overseas Development Administration and the
Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Tecliniscihe Zusammenarbeit (German Technical Cooperation Agency)
and comments received have been incorporated into the text where appropriate.
1. Project Completion Report: Zimbabwe. Family Health Project (Loan 2744-ZIM), Report No. 13784, December 12.
1994.
2. President's Report: Zimbabwe, Family Health Project (Loan 2744-ZIM), Report P-4361-ZIM, July 2, 1986.
3 Staff Appraisal Report: Zimbabwe, Family Health Project (Loan 2744-ZIM), Report 5960-ZIM, June 20, 1986.






5
Basic Data Sheet
ZIMBABWE-FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT (LN. 2744-ZIM)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$million)                      -
Appraisal      Actual or       Actual as % of
estimate    current estimate  appraisal estimate
Total project costs                         52.6             96.3a             183.1
Loan amount                                 10.0              10.0
Cofinancing                                  4.9               4.9
Cancellation                                  0                 0
Date physical components completed         6/88              6/92
Economic rate of return                     n.a.              n.a.
Institutional performance              Moderate
a. Based on exchange rate used in SAR cost tables and actual construction costs.
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (US$million)
Bank FY                    1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
Estimate at appraisal       0.10   0.60    1.60   2.40   3.20    1.80   0.30   0.00
Cumulative estimate at
appraisal                   0.10   0.70   2.30   4.70    7.90   9.70   10.00   10.00
Actual disbursement                 0.84    5.17   2.63    1.18   0.12   0.05    0.05
Actual as % of estimate            140%   323%   109%    37%       6%    17%
Date of final disbursement: September 29, 1993
Project Dates
Original        Revised           Actual
Identification                               4/82            10/83            10/83
Preparation                                   1/84            2/84             2/84
Appraisal                                    4/84                              9/85
Loan negotiations                             1/85            1/86          5/23/86
Board approval                               4/85             3/86          7/20/86
Signinig date                                                              10/01/86
Loan effectiveness                         1/28/87         2/06/87          4/28/87
Loan closing                               9/30/92         9/30/93
Loan completion                            9/30/92         9/30/93



6
Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Preappraisal    Appraisal   Negotiations   Supervision           ICR           Total
FY85                  58.6a                                                                       58.6
FY86                   13.6           52.1           20.0                                         85.7
FY87                                                                14.5                          14.5
FY88                                                                 7.1                           7.1
FY89                                                                 9.3                           9.3
FY90                                                                19.2                          19.2
FY9i                                                                17.4                          17.4
FY92                                                                15.7                          15.7
FY93                                                                18.8                          18.8
FY94                                                                10.3            6.0           16.3
FY95                                                                 1.0                            1.0
Total                  72.2           52.1           20.0          113.3            6.0          263.6
a. lncludes 3.58 staff weeks prior to FY84. Data derived from cost accounting system, 5/8/96.
Mission Data
Date      No of  Staff days       Specializations     Performance  Rating   Types of
(monthzA'ear) persons  infield a      representedb           rating     trend   problems
Identification/    9/85       9        n.a.               E, HS, A, n.a.
Preparation
Appraisal          7/85       8         160           E, HS, A, OA, n.a.
Supervision       11/86       2          10                        E, A       I
Supervision       11/87       2          8                       HS. 0        1
Supervision        2/88       4         24                E. A. PH, IEC       I
Supervision         1/89      6         60          E (2), D. PH, A, IEC      I
Supervision        5/89       4         90                  E (2), PH. A      I
Supervision       11/89       6         96          E (2), PH, A, D, IEC      I
Supervisioni       5/90       7         91      F (2).1 H, A, D, IEC, Mgt     I
Supervision       12/90       5         80               E (2). PH. A, F      I
Supervisioni       6/91       4         40                  E. A, D. PH      2
Supervisionl      11/91       5         50               E. A. D, PH (2)      1
Supervision        4/92       1          4                           E        I
Supervision        9/92       3         55                     F (2). A       I
Supervision        6/93       5         50             E (2). A, PH, MW       I
Supervision       11/93       5         55             E, PH (2), Mgt, A      I
Completion         6/94       3         30                    E, PH (2)       1
a. Staff days in field are estimated from Aide Memoires. PCR did not include supervision data.
b. E - Econiomist; IPH = Public Health Specialist; A = Architect; IEC = Information, Education and Communications
SpCcialist: D = Demographer: Mgt = Management Specialist; F = Financial Analyst; MW = Midwife



7
Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing Agency:
RELATED BANK LOANS AND/OR CREDITS
Operatio17                 Credit nio.      Amiioint      Board (daite
(US$n.illioll)
Second Family Health Project         Lii. 3339-ZIM        25.0           6/04/91
STI Prevention and Care Project      Cr. 2516-ZIM         64.5           6/17/93






9
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
I.     At iidependenice, Zimbabwe's healthi and demographic status was relatively better than
thlat in other Sub-Saharani African countries, bLit showed considerable room for improvement.
Mortality was significantly highier in rural areas compared with the towns, reflecting profound
differentials in access to basic health services between white and black populations. While
beginning to fall, fertility rates were also very high whichi reinforced poor health conditions,
particularly for women, and contributed to a higih populationi growth rate of about 3.5 percent per
year. Much of the prevailing ill healthi, other thani from materinal causes, was due to diseases
amenable to preventive or relatively simple (in medical terms) curative interventions.
2.     Zimbabwe also had a fairly extensive network of cliics and hospitals, compared to other
countries in the region, although rural facilities were primarily staffed by state certified nurses,
and the distribution of doctors and hospitals was seriously skewed toward urban areas. Health
expenditures were greatest for hospital and private care, and primary care services were
underfinianiced.
3.     The Zhimbabwe Family Health Project was identified in this context and was one of the
first generationi of Bank PHN projects in Africa. Discussions with the Government of Zimbabwe
(GOZ) began in the early 1 980s soon after the Board approved direct lending for health and soon
after the counitry's Independenice. Both the Governimienit of Zimbabwe and the Bank shared in the
internationial consenisus formned at Alma Ata in 1978 on the importanice of government assurance
of primary healthi care. Recognition of this commilln grounld helped overcome some initial
reluctanice to allow the Bank full Iknowledge of govermiienlt thinkinig on health policy and led to
the identificationi of this project in October 1983.
4.     Pro ject preparation, althoughl lengthly due to difficulties in agreeing on sources of finance
for the costs of preparation and extended efforts to secure cofinancing for the project, proceeded
smoothily. The techilical analyses of the project were careful and thorough, although, as is typical
of most PHN loans designed in the early 1980s, they did not include detailed estimation of the
demanid for the services to be provided through the project and lacked district specific estimation
of the potential utilizationi of services. The cost of the civil works included in the project were
seriously uliderestlimated. A detailed affordability analysis of the project was completed whici
proved, in the long rull, to be overly optimiistic.
Objectives
5.     Following the completionl of a major Bank study of the healthi and population in
Zimbabwe, and in the course of initial project discussion, the Bank identified the main constraint
to the achievemiienit of GOZ's broadly appropriate healtil policy objectives as a shortage of
trained health staff and of managemilenit capacity at all levels of the Ministry of Health (MOH)
and the need to expand and extend the provision of basic healthi and family planning and
1. World Bank. 1'18(. Healthi Sector Policy Paper; (ioverniimenit of Zimbabwe. 1984. Health with Equity.



l0
materinal and child healthi services. Three project objectives resulted from this analysis: (i) to
increase the availability anid use of family planning services; (ii) to improve hiealth status,
particularly of mothiers and childirem anid (iii) to strengtileni tile goverilmelit's institutional
capacity to plan. manage and evaluate MCH/FP services. To acilieve these objectives, the project
included specific efforts to strengthen maiagemilenlt of the MOH at nationlal, provincial and
district levels, traininig of healthi worker-s in family planning and midwifery, the constructioni arid
equipping of district traininig center facilities to be based at eachi of eight district hospitals whiici
were also to be upgraded thirougih the project, strengthienilng of periphieral services thiroughi
upgrading hiealthi centers and supportinig the provision of inforimiationi and educational services
ahout hiealtil and family planning. The objectives were relevant to Zimbabwe's healthi conditions
at the time, were specified clearly in reasonable depthi and were reiniforced tIlrougIl the definlition
of a set of key performanlce indicators consistenlt with project objectives.
Imph lemientation
6.     The project was manlaged by the MOH thiroughi a small impleinenltatioll unlit of five staff
Llider a project coordinator hired primarily for thlis purpose but whio also had othier MOH
responisibilities. Implemenitation begail slowly because detailed plans for civil works were not
completed during preparation and because of the need to build uliderstaniding of procuremenit arid
disbuL-serilenit procedures. niake necessary staff appoiitineiits, find consultanits arid involve
relevant personilel at provincial anid district levels arid in other agencies. The sLibstaritial civil
works were iiiaiaged by tile Ministry of Public Constructionl arid National Housilng (MPCNH)
and involved the State autilority for telephonie comminiiiiicationis (PTC), the Ministry in charge of
water supply arid the Centr-al Mechianical Eqilipiiienit Departniieit (CMED). The Zinibabwe
National Family Planninig Couilcil (ZNFPC) nianiaged the urbani family plalniilg component,
training for family plaininiig and the establishmiienit of an audio-visual unit to support information,
educationl and coiinmuiicatioin activities for healthi arid family planniniig. These arrangements
worked relatively smoothily, althlougil there were frequent tensionis between the MOH and the
MPC'NH and C'MIED on aspects of tihe extensive civil worlks programs, and relationshiips between
the health educatioll Units of the MOH arid ZNFPC' contilLue to suffer from procedural
differences witilin the two agencies.
7.     The rniajor variance between project objectives and implenilenitatiol occurred in tile effort
to strengthienl district hospital services, whiere problems in tile design of hospital upgrading plaiis
and in tile inanagenient of civil works resulted ini inefficienlt final designs arid significanit tinie
and cost overru1s in the completioni of upgradinig activities. The project supported the upgradilig
of lhospitals in all 8 districts according to a stanidardized, 140 bed design regardless of differelnces
in populatioin size and utilizationi patterins aiionig the 8 districts. As a consequenice, hiospitals in
several of the districts are over-dimenisionied, relative to populationi and utilizatioii patterns, and
unider-dimileisionied in othier districts. Moreover, base cost estimates of hospital upgrading were
signi,ficalntly over optimistic and actual costs were miore thian double SAR estimates. These
problemns were well recognized, hiowever, by both the GOZ arid Bank supervision missions. The
preparation for Family Healthi 11 (Lii 3339-ZIM) as well as otiler elemenlts of tile MOH's capital
investimienlt program were subject to muchi closer scrutilly, includinig projected utilization patterns
during the design stage, with the result that the second project is bLIilding twice as many
hiospitals for about the same costs as iiicurred in Famiiily Healthi 1. Procedural aspects of tile
relatiolshilp betweenl MOH and MPCNH hiave been improved, and the MOH hias establishied



I I
considerable additional capacity in facility and civil works planning and managemenit whichi will
assist in avoiding such errors in the future.
8.     Implementation of the managemiient strengthening and training elemelits of thle project
was successful, following initial delays in start up. Managemiient strengthiening efforts incilided
the design and establishmilenit of a training program for District Health Service Administrators.
whicil, in conjunction with other efforts to rationalize provincial and district level administration,
have resulted in the establishment of an improved district health service planninlg and
management system, based on a carefully thoughit out division of labor between administr-ative
and medical responsibilities. Efforts to strengthien nirse and midwifery traininig were also
successfully implemented, althoughi the project design did not pay sufficient attentioni to long ru
requirements, still to be addressed, for strengthienied capacity for midwifery traininig. Despite
appropriate and persistent efforts by Bank supervision missions and MOH to persuade the PLublic
Service Commission to change its position, it has remained reluctanit to sanctioni nurlse-tutor
posts in the districts, resultilIg in higil turilover among nurse tutors at this level and uilderminintl
the long run sustainability of this elemenit of the project.
Results
9.     Consistent with the findinigs of the Project Completioni Report, the outcome of this
project is rated as satisfactory. The project desigin was higlhly relevant to the epidemiological
and demographic conditions found in Zimbabwe at the time of appraisal, and thle managerial and
institutional aspects of the project were well calibrated to Zimbabwe's institutionial capacity. In
retrospect, the lack of detailed demanid analysis and the use of standardized designs for hospital
upgrading resulted in efficiency losses and excess capacity in selected districts, but these errors
were typical of even good healthi sector planninig at the time, and the lessons learnied have been
well integrated into the design of ongoing Bank-funded projects as well as the MOH's broader
developmenlt plans.
10.    Evidence of the project's impact on healthi and fertility status is and will remain, in the
absence of a specific impact analysis, anecdotal. Infant mortality, contraceptive prevalence and
utilization of primary health services, including, in particular, immunization coverage rates,
show consistent improvements throughout the life of the project, although the changes cannot be
directly attributed to project influenice. Since Zimbabwe maintains a well designed system of
district level healtlh service utilization indicators and has in-counitry capacity for both process and
outcome measuremenit, and the project focused attentioni on a subset of 55 districts, it shoUld be
possible to reconstruct sufficient data to examin1e impact in more depth in the future. The
disturbing plateauiing in the positive trends in healthl status during the last 3 years suggests that
more in-depth analysis of this situationi, and, particularly, the influence of increased availability
and accessibility of services durinig the 1980s and chaniging macroeconomic conditionis, Would
be worthwh ile.
11.    The audit confirms the PCR's assessment that the sustainability of the project is likely.
The main threats to project sustainability are the financial threats to the healthi sector posed by
the severe economic depression in Zimbabwe and the pressures on health system capacity
imposed by the HIV epidemic. Both factors are outside the control of the MOH. The lessons
from the project's failure to calibrate facility plans and construction estimates to detailed
estimation of district level demand and utilization patterns have been well incorporated into
ongoinig MOH procedures and policy perspectives. Thle MOH is now actively engaged,



12
supported in part by inputs from Family Health I and Family Health 11, in strengthening the
development and use of more timely and accurate estimates of service delivery costs at the
tertiary care level. This should help GOZ to anticipate and respond to emerging pressures on the
level of spending on primary health and suggests that the managerial skills necessary to assure
long run financial sustainability of the primary care network are being built.
12.    The audit concludes that the project had a substantial influence on institutional
development, consistent with the broad findings of the PCR, wvhichi did not specifically rate
institutional development. The project provided support to enhanice and expand a service
delivery strategy that was largely in place prior to project identificationi, thus supporting rather
than building institutional capacity to deliver services. The major institution building element of
the project was the support for management training, specifically the establishmenit of the
District Health Service Administrators. These officers have become the foundationi of an
institutionial base for a more effective system of district level planning and managemenlt. These
inputs are valuable complements to MOH's efforts. not directly financed throughi the project, to
strengthen local accountability for service delivery througlh an improved health informationl
system and to improve financial managemenlt skills at all levels of the miniistry. The project was
less successful in institutionalizing long run health workforce planniniig, and the questions of hiow
best to assure the appropriate supply and distribution of medical and midwifery skills were not
adequately addressed in the project design or throughi implementation. The current Bank/GOZ
dialogue on health policy and the potential contributioni of a sector investment program in healtl
provides an opportunity to focus onl these and other sector-wide issues.
13.    The project was prepared and developed during the earliest phases of the Bank's work il
family planning and health in Sub-Saharan Africa. The Bank invested heavily In the detailed
preparation of the project and was appropriately responsive to the GOZ's interest in securing
cofiianicing to assist with total project costs. In retrospect, the project preparation failed to
adequately account for district level demand for healtlh services and utilization patterns, and
work on the preparation of detailed construction plans and tendering documents was
unfortunately not completed prior to project effectiveness. However, these errors were typical of
all early investments in this sector and not unique to this project. Supervision teams developed
close and supportive relationships with the MOH, while promoting ownershiip over the project
and, most significantly, facilitating the evolution of greater cost-consciousness within the MOH
as a part of learning from the project's design errors. Overall, Bank performance is rated as
satisfactory.
Lessons Learned
13.    Toward the larger goal of strengthening the management of health services, the project
intended to support the decentralization of the Ministry of Health. Project investments in
strengthening district level management of healtlh services were a successful and useful step In
this direction. However, it is unlikely that this training effort has resulted in significant
devolution of power to the district level within the MOH beyond the more extensive involvement
of district health authorities in the preparation of MOH plans. While the steps taken so far
provide an important base for devolution of greater responsibility for budgeting, personnel
management and other managerial functions to the district level whichl will occur as part of the
broad civil service reforms currently being considered by government. The lesson which
emerges from this is that it is important for Bank staff to understand the degree to whichi a
Ministry of Health has autonomy in pursuing decentralization and related changes in budgetary



13
authority and the extent to which a Ministry of Finance is ready to support a sectoral ministry in
delegating resources and control to lower levels. It is unlikely that a Ministry of Health can
successfully pursue major structural changes in the absence of supporting policy changes on a
cross-sectoral basis.
14.    The project, like others in the sector, experienced difficulties which are attributable to
the challenige of creating effective interagenicy Iinkages. For example, changes in the relationshiip
between the Ministry of Health and the evolutioll of a new mandate for the Ministry of Womenl
and Commullity Development resulted in the "loss'" of an important level of healthi work for the
MOH. At anothier level, differences in managerial procedures between the ZNFPC and the MOH
contilue to hamper the development of a smooth working relationship on matters of health and
family planning communications, despite their shared interest and support of these activities.
Differences in procedures and orientation toward cost control between the MOH and the
Ministry of Public Constructioni and Housing (MPCNH) were a factor in the development of the
cost and time overruLIs in the civil works elemenlts of this project. A lesson that can be drawn
from this is effective cooperation between separate liie agencies is more than a matter of
agreeing on broad policy statemenits. Shared objectives cannot substitute for the detailed, and
perhaps tedious, work of documentinig and specifying the procedural and administrative changes
that are necessary to making cross-agency cooperation effective.
15.    The project aimed to strengthen rural healthi services through upgrading one district
hospital in each of eight districts. The upgrading plan employed a fixed, standard design for a
140 bed hospital for each of the eight districts, despite differences in catchment area, population
size, and demand for services among these districts. An important lesson from this experience is
that a more detailed analysis of demand and service utilization patterns, conducted prior to the
specification of facility upgrading plans, or modification of existing standard plans, can result in
significanit cost savings and more effective performance.
16.    In early stages of the project, donor coordinationi was managed primarily by the Bank.
By the end of the project, however, the MOH had evolved a more proactive stance on donor
coordinationl with positive results for both donors and the government. This evolution, as well as
other indicators of strong GOZ commitment to project goals, reinforces the often repeated lesson
thlat greater degrees of government ownershiip can contribute to greater project effectiveness.
17.    Despite the clear success of MOH's policy decision to strengthen rural health services,
and the apparent contribution of this project to this goal, increasing macroeconomic pressures on
levels of public expenditure, and the escalation in the HIV epidemic, show that health policies,
as well as specific investments, must be designed with sufficient flexibility to respond to shifts in
the policy and economic environilimenit. Given the relatively large proportion of the MOH's
capital budget finanlced throughi external finance, it is likely that a broader sector investment
approach would be more appropriate to future investments in the sector than the classic
"blueprinit" approach represented by the First Family Health project.






15
1.    Introduction
1.1    The Zimbabwe Family Health Project was one of the first generation of Bank PHN projects
in Africa. Discussions with the Government of Zimbabwe (GOZ) began in the early 1 980s soon after
the Board approved direct lending for health and soon after the country gained independence. Both
the Government of Zimbabwe and the Bank shared in the international consensus formed at Alma Ata
in 1978 on the importance of government assurance of primary health care.I Recognition of this
common ground helped overcome some initial reluctance to allow the Bank full knowledge of
government thinking on health policy. The first sector mission visited Zimbabwe in April 1982, and a
PHN sector report providing a broad overview of the nation's health status, the management and
structure of the health system and the organizational changes underway was produced in June 1983.
The first project identification mission visited Zimbabwe in October of the same year.
Demographic and Health Status
1.2    At Independence in 1980, mortality was significantly higher in rural areas, reflecting highly
differentiated access to basic health services between white and black populations. Though
urban/rural differences persisted, the early 1 980s saw dramatic changes in demographic and health
status. Mortality was on the decline and was among the lowest in Sub-Saharan Africa. However,
fertility, though beginning to fall, was still very high (see Table 1. 1). As emigration at the time was
slight, the rate of population growth was rapid-about 3.5 percent a year-at which rate it could be
expected to double every 20 years. Bank estimates put population at about 8.4 million in 1984.
Table 1.1. Selected Indicators of Demographic and Health Status, Zimbabwe and Sub-Saharan
Africa, early 1980s and early 1990s
Crude   Crude                   Infant      Total    Contraceptive
Death    Birth       Life      Mortality   Fertility,    Prevalence
Rate     Rate    Expectancy     Rate       Rate          Rate
Early i 980s
Sub-Saharan Africa       17       47            50        115        6.5             n.a.
Zimbabwe                 12       47            56         82        6.4              27
Early 1990s
Sub-Saharan Africa       15       45         49/52        104        6.5              1 1
Zimbabwe                  8       34            60         47        3.5              43
Sources: (1) World Bank. 1986. "Population Growth and Policies in Sub-Saharan Africa." (2) World Bank.
1986. "Staff Appraisal Report for Zimbabwe Family Health Project." (3) World Bank. 1994. Better Health
in Africa. (4) World Bank. 1994. World Development Report.
1.3    With such high fertility, a substantial proportion of the workload of the health services was
related to pregnancy and delivery and to problems affecting young children. The limited data
available in 1980 indicated that much of the prevailing ill health, other than from maternal causes, was
due to diseases amenable to preventive or relatively simple (in medical terms) curative
interventions-respiratory infections, gastroenteritis, measles, nutritional deficiencies and malaria.
1. World Bank. 1980. Health Sector Policy Paper; Government of Zimbabwe. 1984. Health with Equity.



16
Therefore, the bulk of the burden of disease was preventable or treatable by the interventions at the
core of the primary health care approach.
Organization of Health Services
1.4    The government had at its disposal an extensive network of clinics and hospitals, compared
with many countries in the region. However, many of the rural health facilities had been damaged in
the war of liberation. The GOZ also inherited a mixed system of health providers-the Ministry of
Health (MOH), local councils and municipalities, missions, industries and mines, and private
practitioners-which historically had all operated independently. In general, the MOH was
responsible for the network of secondary and tertiary level hospitals. Clinics were operated by local
government-by municipalities in urban areas and in rural areas by district councils. Other hospitals
and clinics were run by missions and private concerns.
1.5    The four central referral hospitals and the tertiary hospitals were in the towns, chiefly Harare
and Bulawayo, and the vast majority of the more highly trained medical personnel, doctors and State
Registered Nurses (SRNs) served in these hospitals. Rural health facilities were primarily staffed by
health workers with lower levels of training-by State Certified Nurses (SCNs). In rural areas, the
ratio of people to SCN was over 5,000 to 1, making outreach services from the clinics ineffective. As
might be expected given the pattern of facilities and manpower, health expenditures were greatest for
hospital and private care. In 1980/81, the MOH was the service provider accounting for the largest
share of health expenditures-43 percent-followed by insurance schemes and private individuals
with 3 1 percent.
Government Policy
1.6    Under the prevailing epidemiological and demographic situation and the urban bias of care,
the government's strategy in 1982 was to reorient healtlh services to ensure the provision of preventive
programs and first line curative care and to strengthen rural health services on the lines of the three
tier primary health model recommended by WHO. By the mid 1980s, it had already taken important
steps to implement this model.
1.7    The Ministry of Health had been given responsibility for bringing about coordination
between the various health providers and for expanding health services to and at the periphery-the
clinic level. It also took on responsibility for financing the recurrent costs of the health facilities
operated by local authorities and missions, though they retained administrative responsibility, and
created a third tier at the district level, the District Health Service Authority (DHSA). The DHSA
supervised the district hospitals, and together with representatives of the district council, other
ministries and NGOs was part of the district health team, responsible for the provision of first-level
services provided from the health centers and rural hospitals.
1.8    In order to provide first level outreach services, in 1982 the government had introduced a new
cadre of health worker, the village health worker. Eventually, there was to be one VHW for about 50
to 200 families. It also planned to increase the number of rural health centers, so that each would serve
a population of about 10,000 within a radius of about 15 kilometers and to upgrade one hospital in
each of the country's 55 districts in order to provide a supporting second level referral center with 140
beds.



17
2.   Project Objectives and Design
2.1    The Bank was in broad agreement with the main lines of government strategy, and the
project was designed to support it in several key respects: in particular, the allocation of
increased resources to maternal and child health including family planning (MCH/FP) and the
upgrading of rural facilities. The Bank identified the main constraints to this expansion and
strengthening of rural health services as a shortage of trained health staff and of management
capacity at all levels of the MOH-nationial, provincial and district.
2.2    The project's objectives were threefold: (i) to increase the availability and use of family
planninig services; (ii) to improve healtil status, particularly of mothers and children; and (iii) to
strengthieni the government's institutionlal capacity to plan, manage and evaluate MCH/FP
services.
2.3    To achieve these objectives the project had seven componenits:
(i)    management strengthieninig for MOIFI at the national, provincial and district
levels, mainly for manpower development and training and managemenit of MCH/FP;
(ii)   training of health workers in family planning and in midwifery , construction
and equipping of district level training facilities at each of eight district hospitals
upgraded under the project;
(iii)   urban family plannilig services at 22 urban centers and strengthening of cytology
services,
(iv)   information, education and communication (IEC) to stimulate the demand for
family planning and to improve health education;
(v)    strengtheniing district level referral facilities through upgrading district hospitals
in eight districts and providing support in key areas, such as training, building staff
accommodations, salaries for incremental staff, vehicles and equipment;
(vi)   strengtiheninig of peripheral services through upgrading and re-equipping 82
healthi centers and 20 missionl and NGO facilities in the eight districts, again providing
support in key areas: and
(vii)   project managemenit, througil provision of six extra MOH staff, and a vehicle.
2.4    The original intenition was for the selected districts, generally the most underserved, to
be pilot projects, testing the replicability of the PHC model to all of Zimbabwe's 55 districts and
allowing evaluation of effectiveiiess. The government selected several impact and process targets
against whichi to measure progress.- The benefits of the training program were expected to
extend beyond the project districts, as training capacity established in the 8 project districts
2. See "Results" section in Chapter 6.



18
would be used to train staff from a set of surrounding districts to achieve national coverage.
Similarly, building national and provincial management capacity was to be of national benefit.
2.5    Although the government was strongly committed to family planning in general, it is
likely that-within this project-the family planning objective, and, in particular, the urban
family planning component, were viewed as greater priorities by the Bank than by the
government. In the mid 1980s, GOZ was receiving a great deal of grant assistance for family
planninig, while the Bank tended to view lending for health as an opportunity for family planning
assistance, even though it was very open to grant cofinancing. However, the urban family
planning component was not large in financial terms.



19
3.   Project Preparation
Process and Participants
3.1    The project was prepared over three years from the first identification mission in
October 1983 to approval in July 1986, a little over a year longer than originally planned.
Preparation was significantly delayed by negotiations over who might fund the preparation work.
Though a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) was offered and some grant funding was also found,
the government eventually decided to finance the preparatory work itself. There was some
concern in the Ministry of Finance, Economic Planning and Development (MFEPD), which was
closely involved in the discussions, that acceptance of a PPF would commit the government to
the project and IBRD lending. Project preparation decisions on project components were the
responsibilities of the MOH. Following a Bank mission which tested an approach to district
participation, staff of district and provincial health teams contributed suggestions on the
identification of facilities to be upgraded to the MOH's project preparation work. Staff of the
ZNFPC also participated. Despite the genuine attempt to involve all major players, inevitably,
there were omissions and misunderstandings about roles and responsibilities that surfaced during
implementation. The lessons learned however, influenced the preparation of the follow-on
project several years later.3
Project Affordability
3.2    The question of sustainability given the recurrent cost implications of the project was a
frequent theme during project preparation and was raised by GOZ4 and inside the Bank. It was
made particularly salient by the downturn in economic conditions in Zimbabwe after rapid
growth in the first two years after Independence. Bank project officers responded in two ways-
first, with an assessment showing that the project was designed to be the least cost solution to
achieving the government's objectives-for example, by supporting the upgrading of facilities
rather than building new-and, second, that the Bank was encouraging GOZ to address health
financing issues to increase resource mobilization and to rationalize the use5 of health facilities.
3.3    The Bank's preparation team also attempted to estimate the demands on the
government's recurrent budget that would be generated by the building program. The Issues
paper of September, 1985, which followed the appraisal mission anticipated that the incremental
costs to be generated by the project would be about 2.6 percent in 1990/91 of the MOH's annual
recurrent budget, and that given expected buoyant tax revenues, the government would have
little trouble in absorbing them. Since the Bank-supported project accounted for all the capital
expenditures of the MOH over the project period, its advice on the project's affordability was
3. See lessons learned from First Family Health Project o overall project planning, Annex 7, Second Family Health
Project Appraisal Report, 1991.
4. The issue was also raised in the Government's PCR and is discussed more fully in the Issues Section at the end of
this audit.
5. See memorandum from Michael Mills to Mr. R. Gusten, December 2, 1983, and project brief of November 19.
1984.



20
clearly important. Although no one could have foreseen the severe drought of the early 1990s or
the severe economic constraints under which the government is now operating, the Bank was
clearly optimistic in its estimates, given its own assessment of staffing needs, for example.
Project Size
3.4   TFhough the main lines of the project were clear from the start, there were considerable
chaniges in the size and scope of the project over the preparation period. A separate nutrition
component was dropped out of concern that the project would be too complex, and a
pharmaceuticals component, judged important to generating cost savings, was financed
separately by other donors. When MFEPD made clear its concern at borrowing for a social sector
project at IBRD rates, the size of the project was reduced from an approximate US$80 million to
US$52.6 million, and the Bank worked hard to find grant cofinancing. Cofinancing was the
major issue still confronting the Bank as negotiations drew near. It ultimately secured agreement
for $15 million in grant funds. Even so, at negotiations, GOZ surprised the Bank by requesting a
reduction in the IBRD loan from US$25 to 10 million, undertaking to finance the extra $15
million itself This made its contribution-formerly expected to cover mainly local recurrent
costs-US$27.6 million. Though it evidenced of the government's strong commitment to the
activities funded under the project, there was little discussion of the broader financial
implications of this decision, including particularly the influence of their decision on the MOH's
long run capital budget plans.
Cofinancing
3.5    Other donors provided generous support to GOZ through the project. NORAD
contributed a grant of US$10 million, most of which was to help upgrade the rural health centers
and provide training. ODA provided US$1.8 million of the $3.9 million allocated to management
strengtheniig. The Netherlands initially contributed US$1.8 million of the $3.1 million cost of
the training component, later increasing its grant to US$2.5 million. The Government of
Germany contributed, through its aid agency GTZ, US$1.4 million to the IEC component,
originally costed at US$1.9 million. The NORAD and Netherlands grants were managed by the
Bank. The most expensive components were the upgrading of the district hospitals and rural
health centers whichi wvere originally estimated at US$22.8 million and $7.0 million, respectively.
The urban family planling and the project management components were each estimated at
US$0.4 million.



2J
4.  Project Implementation and Component Results
Project Management
4.1    The project was managed within MOH by a small implementation unit of five staff
under a project coordinator hired primarily to manage the family health project, but who also had
other MOH responsibilities. This arrangement was designed to slhow that the project was an
integral part of the government's program. Implementation began rather slowly because of the
need to start by finalizing plans for civil works, understand procurement and disbursement
procedures, make necessary staff appointments, find consultants and draw in the relevant
personnel at provincial and district levels and in other agencies. The civil works involved the
Ministry of Public Construction and National Housing (MPCNH), the State authority for
telephone communications (PTC), the Ministry in charge of water supply and the Central
Mechanical Equipment Department (CMED). Training for family planning and the urban family
planning components involved the ZNFPC. Despite the dependence on a variety of
implementors, supervision reports give a largely positive picture of implementation at the
project's midpoint6 with the exception of the urban family planning component. This positive
picture continued to the end, though the importance to the project of the MPCNH and some
difficulties experienced led the PCR (para. 31 ) to note that that ministry should have been
involved in project preparation, and, indeed, this was done in the follow-on project. Civil works
constituted the largest proportion of project costs-53 percent at appraisal-and cost overruns
were substantial as discussed below. Delays in completing a few health centers led to the
extension of the closing date by one year to September 30, 1993. However, disbursement of the
IBRD loan was largely complete by the end of 1991, indicating that the project was well
matched to the absorptive capacity of the MOH.
Strengthening of District Referral Services and Peripheral Services
4.2    Despite the near complete disbursements, the closing date was extended by one year
from September 30, 1992, to allow completion of the few health centers that were still
unfinished. The upgrading of the health centers and the district hospitals provided the most
difficulties during implementation. Table 4.1 provides an overview of civil works costs. Delays
of two years in finalizing the tendering documents for the eight district hospitals resulted in
higher contract prices than estimated at appraisal. Allocated funding for the hospitals (including
the training centers) at the time of appraisal was Z$29.4 million (with contingencies) while the
contract price was Z$41.4 million. The high tender figures were due to a surge in building in
1984 and 1985. This surge created acute shortages of materials, proficient contractors and skilled
labor and was exacerbated by foreign exchange shortages. Contract variations introduced after
tendering and continued price increases resulted in the total cost of civil works for the eight
district hospitals rising to a final cost of Z$95.6 million, more than twice the contract price of
Z$4 1.4 million. Physical and price contingencies allowed for at appraisal contributed only
Z$11.8 million to this difference.
6. Mission reports of May and October 1989.



22
Table 4.1. Overview of Costs of Civil Works (Z$million)
SAR Costs             At Tender   Final
Without          With
Contingencies   Contingencies
District hospitals
(including training centers)                  29.4             41.2        41.4    95.6
Rural Health Centers and                        6.1              8.5        11.3    17.2
Maternity Units                         (102 units)       (76 units)
Total costs                                    35.5            49.7         52.7   112.8
4.3    The PCR (para. 29) assessed the cost increases to be 5.1 percent over appraisal for the
construction and renovation of rural healthi centers and the addition of MCH/FP facilities to
mission and rural health centers. The audit finds this to be a substantial underestimate in two
respects: first, it does not recognize the reduction in the number of facilities that were upgraded.
Second, it does not fully take into account the cost increases. The SAR costed the upgrading of
82 health centers and 20 MCH/FP facilities at Z$6.1 million (without contingencies). In the end,
58 health centers and 18 MCH/FP facilities were upgraded or added. Bank project documents
indicate that the reduction was due to the finding that inany of the clinics originally included
were relatively new. GOZ's view was that the original allocation were too low to cover the
substantial work required. If the Bank's positioni was correct, funds would have been freed for
other purposes. If GOZ is correct, did the project fund fewer upgradings than were originally
thought necessary? Either way, the appraisal was obviously deficient in this respect.
4.4    The contract sums for the reduced number of upgraded health centers and additional
MCH/FP facilities were Z$9.9 million and Z$ 1.4 million-already 8.5 percent over appraisal for
the larger numbers. In June 1992, Z$13.4 had already been spent on the two subcomponents-at
this point about 80 percent complete.8 The June 1992 Progress Report gave an estimate for the
final cost as Z$17.2 million, Z$15.7 million for the RHCs and Z$1 .5 million for the MCH/FP
facilities. Thus, taking the RHCs and the MCH/FP facilities together, the appraisal costed 102
facilities at Z$6.1 million, or a unit cost of Z$60 thousand each. The contract price for 76
facilities was Z$9.9 million, or Z$149 thousand each. The cost wlhen 80 percent complete in
1992 was Z$13.4 million, a unit cost of Z$176 thousand, and, if the estimates of Z$1 7.2 million
made that time are correct, the unit cost at completion was about Z$226 thousand. Final cost
overruns were therefore somewhere between Z$7.3 and Z$1 1.1 million or between 119 percent
and 180 percent over appraisal and were offset only by contingencies of only $2.4 million.
4.5    The bulk of this increased burden of civil works in both the district hospitals and the
peripheral facilities was borne by GOZ. The total cost of civil works funded under the project
amounted to Z$1 12.8 million, instead of the SAR estimate of Z$49.7. Part of the increase was
due to changes and additions requested by MOH, but the reduction in the numbers of facilities
indicates problems stemming from inadequate preparation. Some financing was diverted to civil
works from other components to offset these increases during implementation, and interest
accrued on the NORAD grant was also used, but in the end GOZ contributed about Z$90 million
7. Progress report for 3rd Supervision Mission, Family Health Project, November 1987.
8. Progress report of the Family Health Project, June 1992.



23
to the total cost of civil works instead of the estimate at appraisal of $28 million.9 The lessons
learned from this experience greatly influenced the approach to civil works in the follow-on
second family health project (see para. 6.22).
4.6   limportant additional needs for upgrading the health centers were water, electricity, in
some cases, telephones and transport-motorbikes for outreach work and vehicles. Delays in
providing telephone service led finally to provision of a radio system between the health centers
and the district hospitals for four districts. There were transport problems related to purchase and
mainteniance. The aide memoire of June 1991 reports that 17 of the 33 vehicles provided under
the project were off the road and that twelve of the 17 vehicles had been off the road since the
previous November.
4.7    The main objective of the upgrading of the district hospitals and the rural health centers,
and strengthened transport and communication links between them, was to contribute to more
cost-effective use of health resources by increasing utilization of rural health centers, referring to
district hospitals only where appropriate and, in turn, reducing the demands on the tertiary level
hospitals. Although no trend data on utilization or referrals is readily available, it is clear that the
project effected considerable improvements. The provision of accommodation at both the district
hospitals and the rural health centers was a major incentive to staff, encouraging both relocation
to these districts and lower turnover. The linking of the rural health centers with the district
hospitals by radio and telephone gave patients assurance that they would not be stranded at the
healthi center and provided direct contact with a doctor.
Management Strengthening
4.8    The Managemiienit Strengthening component was also slow in getting off the ground.
With considerable financial support from ODA, it was designed to create, staff and strengthen
(throughi technical assistance) a health management department in MOH, provide inservice
managemenit training for provincial and district staff, improve the planning capability of district
healthi staff and establish a District Health Service Administrator (DHSA) course to train recruits
to this newly created position. It also sought to strengthen the capacity of the Health Manpower
Department. Most of these activities were implemented. The first two intakes for the DHSA
course graduated in 1989 and 1990, resulting in 32 trained district level administrators.
Management inservice training at all levels was carried out, and the Manpower department
produced a number of useful studies. Though the PCR (para. 14) mentions the development of an
"impressive computerized personnel information system," personnel changes since project
completion have meant that it is no longer up to date and cannot provide information to support
personnel decision making. Unfortunately, too, the health management unit established under the
project no longer exists due to staff reductions in the MOH as part of current efforts to reduce
public expenditures.
4.9    Of the management related activities funded under the project, therefore, only the DHSA
program survives. This is generally acknowledged to have made a significant contribution to
management at the district level, freeing medical staff from administrative duties. However,
there has been higlh turinover, and the district health administrators do not long stay in position.
Only one graduate of the first two classes is still in position.
9. Table 3 of the SAR allocates 56 percent of the costs of civil works to GOZ.



24
Urban Family Planning
4.10   This was the least successful component in the project and composed of two parts-(i)
expansion of the mix of contraceptives available through training in voluntary sterilization and
IUD insertioni and training and equipment to provide increased cervical cancer screening.
Thoughi the component identified important needs, it entered the project relatively late and was
never well integrated into the project conceptually or practically. There were long delays in
getting both parts of the component underway, partly due to lack of clarity about whether
ZNFPC or MOH was responsible and partly due to the Bank's failure to understand the
institutionial setting. The family planning component was cut back considerably in scope, from
22 centers to eight centers in hospitals and clinics in the two main cities, Harare and Bulawayo.
Design flaws led to these implementation problems. The municipalities responsible for city
clinics were not involved in project preparation, there was no budgetary support for them under
the project, and, as there are no organizational links between the MOH and the city clinics as
there are throughi the district health teams in rural areas, these omissions were difficult to rectify
later. There was some progress with training of doctors and nurses in sterilization and providing
equipimienit in the urban hospitals. However, high turnover among doctors meant that these skills
were not accessible following the departure of newly trained staff. Training for IUD insertions
was also much under target. Similar problems affected the cytology component. Though
additional technilcians were trained, there was no IEC support, and the services were not well
knowin to providers or the public.
IEC Component
4.11   Funded mainly by a grant from GTZ, this component financed the building of an audio
visual center. The center evolved into a much more sophisticated facility than originally intended
and was not completed until 1992. Initially welcomed by both MOH and ZNFPC and intended to
be used 70 percent by MOH and 30 percent by ZNFPC, its use by the Health Education Unit in
the MCH department of MOH is modest. Originally this was because Health Education
personnel (the few there were) were unaware of their inclusion in the project and the availability
of this resource. More recent difficulties in using the facility for health education have resulted
from siting the facility in ZNFPC grounds (which have raised "ownership" issues) and from
mzaniagerial obstacles withinl the facility. Even for family planning materials, effective use of the
facility is limited by lack of production expertise, as distinct from expertise in targeting and
message content.
4.12   With regard to I EC in general, it is apparent that ZNFPC is doing a better and better job
at using pretesting and research methods to guide the material design of promotional materials,
thanlks in some measure to a close working relationship with Population Communication
Services and others, facilitated by effective use of bilateral grants. Project documents note the
increasing outptit and rising quality of materials for family planning and, to a lesser extent,
healtlh education from 1991 on. But, it is not clear if the project itself had any influence on this
outcome, beyond the establishment of the facility.
Training in MCHAFP
4.13   Monitoring of training under this component was made difficult by the breakdown of the
tracking system because of staff turnover in the manpower development unit and because of the



25
complexity of following many small inservice training courses. This resulted in slow requests to
donors for disbursements for training undertaken under the project and to a more pessimistic
view of the contribution of the component during implementation than was actually warranted. It
was apparent by completion that a substantial amount of training had taken place under the
project, and efforts to strengthen monitoring of inservice training are underway.
4.14   There were two main technical elements in this component: first, the provision of
training in family planning to all nurses, and, second, training in midwifery for state certified
nurses, 90 percent of whom had no previous midwifery training. ZNFPC played an important
role in the family planning training. Originally, it was planned to trail 16 MCH/FP trainers for
each of the pilot districts, who would in turn train 1920 nurses. Additionally, ZNFPC was to
provide training for 135 nurse tutors to provide family planning courses as part of basic nurse
training. Finally, ZNFPC was to provide training for another 150 nurses who had no previous
family planning training each year.
4.15   By the end of the project, 26 district level MCH/FP trainers had received training-over
the target. Unfortunately, this is indicative of high turnover among the MCH/FP trainers. The
Public Service Commission has not agreed to establish special training positions (despite
intensive efforts to motivate a change in this policy by both the Bank and MOI-1), and the lack of
a career path continues to discourage trainers from staying in position. The project exceeded
targets in the training of nurse tutors, training 235 rather than the 135 planned at appraisal. This
number means that all nurses graduating from basic and post basic training from 1987 onwards
should be able to provide a full range of MCH/FP services. Some 639 out of 750 existing nurses
received the planned training. Funding was provided under the project for other courses provided
by ZNFPC, and some 2,200 MOH and ZNFPC workers benefited (in addition to the trainers and
nurse tutors mentioned above).
4.16   ZNFPC played an important role in providing training for nurse tutors who then
provided family planning training to nurses who lacked it. Implementation received a boost as
the training schools attached to the eight new district hospitals were completed under the project.
This reduced the cost of courses considerably since, previously, hotels had been rented to
provide accommodation. However, the component has suffered because the Public Service
Commission has not agreed to establish special nurse tutor positions (despite intenisive efforts to
motivate a change in this policy by both the Bank and MOH) and the lack of a career path. This
has resulted in high turnover as tutors apply for promotion back into regular nursinig channels.
Nevertheless, some 1900 nurses completed the six week family planning course, about 70
percent of the planned number.
4.17   The basic curriculum for SRN training was redesigned to include family planning, and
inservice midwifery training provided to SCNs who lacked this knowledge. This midwifery
component was considerably delayed by failure to make sites available for planned new trailinig
facilities at Harare and Mpilo hospitals, constraining the numbers trained. However, many more
traditional midwives than originally planned were also given retraining, particularly for family
planning. They received the training in the rural health centers from the SCNs and State certified
midwives when the SCNs themselves had received the training.
4.18   The main disappointment in the training component was the transfer of VHWs,
numbering about 9,000 at the start of the project, to another ministry, as part of a reorganization
of community services. Selected by the local community, provided with twelve weeks training



26
by MOH, and a small allowance, the VHWs worked from home to provide simple curative care,
health education and family planning motivation. After being transferred, they were given
additional functions in the community, and most of the planned training in family planning at
this level never took place.



27
5.  Borrower and Bank Performance
5.1    After initial delays in appointing a project coordinator and overcoming their initial lack
of familiarity with Bank procedures, the performance of the coordinatinig unit was good. At the
start there were some internal disagreements between the MOH and the MFEPD and concerns
about foreigin debt on the part of the MFEPD. There was no disagreement, however, between
ministries, or between ministries and the Bank. on the basic objectives of the project to
strengthien access to primary healthi care throughi the expansioni of rural health services. There
were several occasions when project componenits were threatened by cost overruns, chialiges to
design or by the need for additional facilities where the MFEPD made the necessary fundiiig
available. Some difficulties were experienced in coordinating with other agencies and with
provincial and district level staff. but, by midway through the project, these were generally
overcome, and collaborative mechianiisms were in place.
5.2    The project coordinator chaniged three thimes during the project. During the first part of
the project, the PCU suffered from higih staff turinover, underlining the importance of systems of
finianicial managemiient and procuremenit and their strengthiening and documentationi to guard
against disruptive effects of inevitable turnovers. By 1989, the halfway point, the project team
had developed a high degree of effectiveness, reporting on project progress was professional,
team work, and problem solving was good, a finanicial accountinig system was in place and
operating well, and communications with Bank staff were good and collegial. Borrower
performance was therefore is judged to have been satisfactory.
5.3    On the Bank side, too, there was acceptable contiluity of staff and snroothi transitions
between task managers, particularly where the new task manager had previous project
experience with this project. There were four task managers from preparation through
completioin, a period ofjust ulider 10 years. Supervision was regular and generally involved the
otther cofinanciers. The volume of telexes attests to the close interaction between the Bank and
the project team. Bank performiance therefore was also satisfactory.
5.4    The governimenit's own PCR is somewhat critical of the Bank's performance in several
areas: failure to recognize that donor coordination is the responsibility of GOZ; oversupervision
of the civi I works componlenits and changes in the Bank's teams and the involvement of district
and provincial personnel in project planning. GOZ has assumed much greater control of donor
coordinationi subsequenitly, and the PCU has instituted regular meetings with district and
provincial staff. In retrospect, Bank performance in supporting the PIU in preparing for the civil
works and in uLiderstandinig Bank procedures could have been better, but problems of
undercapacity on the part of the MPCNH wilen the works were in progress also contributed to
delays. It is not clear that oversupervision of these components was a major problem; it did take
time for the respective roles and responsibilities of participants to become established and
acknowledged.






29
6.   Findings and Issues
Relevance
6.1    Under the prevailing epidemiological and demographic situation of the country and the
urban bias of care, the government's strategy of reorienting its healtlh system from a largely
curative and urban based system to one that provided strengthienied and expanded basic healtl
care services to its largely rural population was entirely appropriate. The First Family Health
project helped to identify and address some critical constraints to the achievemilenit of that
strategy. It was therefore relevant to the health objectives of Zimbabwe. It also took into accounlt
the economic situation facing the government and tried to assess the implications of the project
for both capital and recurrent healtlh expenditures. Its estimates of project costs at appraisal,
however, were extremely poor. However, during project implemenitation ways to reduce these
costs in future were found, contributing to a remarkable cost-consciousness withiln the MOH,
especially among those concerned with the project-a lasting contributioni to the healthl sector in
Zimbabwe.
Outcome
6.2    Most of the findings and lessons from the First Family Health Project relate to the health
sector in general, and not to the eight project districts. Thoughi it was originally intended to
evaluate progress and impact in these eight districts to judge replicability and effectiveness, this
was never done. Preparation of the Second Family Health Project began in 1989, half way
through implementation of the first. At the time, progress oni the implementation of Family
Health I was good and expectations of the economy optimistic. Though baseline work was done
for the second project, it mainly related to the sixteen districts being selected for emphasis, and
the opportunity to assess achievements and problems in the original eight districts was not taken
up. It remains difficult to isolate these districts from the national program. On the other hanid,
both GOZ and Bank reports on1 project completion might have done more to consider whether
some of the process objectives of the project had been met in the eight districts-increased
utilization, improved patterns of referral, increased coverage of maternal care, of child care, for
example. Evidence on these points remains largely anecdotal.
6.3    Six target indicators and three process indicators were set for the districts selected under
the project. The PCR (page 16) gives data for the target indicators, though as indicated above,
these apply to the national level and not to the eight districts so it is not clear to what extent the
projectper se contributed to the observed outcomes. For five of the targets-immuniization
coverage, antenatal care, attended deliveries and growth monitoring-the PCR cites the MCH/FP
coverage survey of 1991 as showing that targets were exceeded; for contraceptive prevalence, it
was close; and, for ORT, there had been improvement, but the target had not been reached,
although the project did not provide specific support for the nutritioni activities. There were three
process indicators established in the project-percentage of district nurses trained in family
planning, percentage of VHWs supervised twice a month and percentage of rural health centers
visited monthly by the community healthl sister. Again, there are no or few project-specific data.
The VHWs have been transferred to another ministry; the RHCs are now visited quarterly



30
instead of monthly because of financial problems, but-the one bright spot-100 percent of
nurses in the project districts have received training in family planninilg.
6.4    The benefits accruing from this training and from the iicltisionl of family plannilig in
basic nurse training can be assessed from other sources. The 1994 Zillbabwe Demographlic and
Health Survey (DHS) indicates, as noted above, that contraceptive prevalence has increased. It is
n1ow 43 percent for use of modern methiods, as compared with 36 percent in 1988. The majority
of users-nearly 60 percent-obtain their contraceptives from a governmelt facility, 43 percent
from rural and municipal clinics, rural health centers and MOH mobile clinics. In a similar
survey in 1984, the percentage receiving supplies from government cliics was 43 percent, and
the sources for the majority of users were the ZNFPC cliics and community based workers.
Thoughi ZNFPC is still an important source, the integrationl of family planniig into MOH
facilities through the training provided by ZNFPC under the project has clearly been very
effective in helpling to expand contraceptive use.
6.5    This is borne out by another study, the Bank's recent LSMS study of "Contraceptive
Choice, Fertility, and Use in Zinbabwe,"'0 whichi concluded: "In SLIM, it would seem that at least
with the measures of availability and equality used in this analysis, investimients in infrastructure
have a positive impact on the adoption of modern methods. These effects are significanit for both
young and old women and for the less educated but not the better educated. It is quite likely that
the better educated acquire their contraceptives from private sources and so public investments
are not only productive but they also serve a distributional role by bringinig family planninig to
the poorer women of Zimbabwe" (page 22).
6.6    In addition, some district level health data is now available from preliminary results of
the 1992 Census, which gives information on trends in infant mortality and child mortality in
five of the provinces in whicih project districts were located. The data show that the infant
mortality rate declined between 1984 and 1990 in all five project districts. The average decliie
for the districts was 15 percent; for the provinces in which those districts are located it was 12
percent. However, there were large variations both in level and change among the five provinces.
Since 1989, however, some deterioration seems to have occurred, most likely due to the growing
AIDS epidemic (see para. 6.10). A similar story emerges for mortality among children aged 1-5.
6.7    It is likely that including a more robust monitoring and evaluation component in the
project could have contributed to earlier recognitioni of these trends and certainly would have
facilitated more timely analysis of project outputs. The project benefited, however, from the
relative density of demographic and health services research in Zimbabwe, as well as the
completion of the services availability survey that was conducted in the context of the 1989
Demographic and Health Status survey. Fortunately, ongoing works on the development of an
exemplary fornat for reporting on service outputs at the healthi center (T5) and hospital (T9)
levels provides a solid base for increasing use of concurrent evaluation methods to guide
program decisions in the future. ZNFPC's recent experiences with the use of qualitative methods
and the conduct of "situation analyses" at service delivery points illustrate the use of
participatory methods for evaluation research for managing program performance, buildinig on
these promising initial capacities, would be a logical starting point for improving monitoring and
10. Thomas, Duncan and John Maluccio. 1995. "Contraceptive Choice, Fertility and Public Policy in Zimbabwe."
Living Standards Measurement Study Working Paper 109. Washington, D.C.: The World Bank.



31
evaluation in future health sector investments. Based on the indicators available and the
supporting evidence, the audit rates project outcome as satisfactory.
Sustainability
6.8    The audit confirms the PCR's assessmenit that sustainability is likely. The main threats to
project sustainability are largely outside the scope of the project. They are the dual threats to the
health sector presented by the severe economic depression in Zimbabwe and the pressure on
healthi resources imposed by the AIDS epidemic. These two forces are resulting in a lack of
resources for salary improvements and for improvemenits in support services-particularly for
mainitenlanice. Turinover among more highily trained staff contintues to be highi, withi a resulting
loss of benefit to the health system of experienced workers and the investments in training. The
SAR for Family Health 11 noted, for example, that the loss rate of SRNs was about 7 percent a
year, and, if this rate continued between 1991 and 1995, it would represent a loss of some Z$] I
million in MOH training investmenlts. On the other hanid, retention rates for SCNs are higher.
Turinover has also been higih among district healthi administrators, a group widely believed to be
extremely valuable. Only one graduate of the first twvo classes is still in position. It is not clear
why. Explanations range firom lack of support to the new graduates to higih demand for their
adminiistrative skills from other agencies and the private sector. The latter is probably correct;
competition for acceptance to the course is higih, even though students are no longer recruited
first and paid a salary by the MOH while in training. Another obstacle to benefiting from
expanding this cadre is the freeze on new civil service posts; the Public Service Commission has
created positions for district adminiistrators in only about half the country's districts.
6.9    Financial constrainits have also greatly affected transport, with MOH vehicles being out
of action for long periods at a time. This threatens supervision at all levels, but most importantly
the district team's supervision of the healthi centers and referrals between hiealth centers and
district hospitals.
6.10   The effects of econom ic conditionis might well account for the fact that healtil
improvemenits seem to have leveled off since the late 1980s. With regard to birthis, the 1994 DHS
foulid that there had been virtually no change in the level of service provided to Zimbabwean
women at delivery since the 1988 ZDHS, wheni 70 percent received assistance from medically
trained personnel, and 3 percent received no assistance. The only shift was an increase in the use
of traditionial birth attendants rather than friends and relatives only. It found also that vaccination
coverage of childreni had remainied roughly unchianlged since 1988 at about 80 percent.
6.11    The importanlce of AIDS as the second factor threateninig sustainability is brought out by
mortality data wlhici show that infanlt mortality and life expectancy have deteriorated since 1989.
The Bank's draft public expenditure review1 I argues that the fact that this occurred before the
economiic downturil and is evidence of the impact of the epidemic. In fact, mortality among
infants from other causes has held stable and may have continued to decline. However, deaths
from tuberculosis and HIV amonig childreni under five years old more than doubled from 1990 to
I1. "Zirnbabwe: Public Expenditure Review."' Draft. February 1996.



32
1992. The Bank is assisting GOZ in its efforts to check the growth of this epidemic through an
FY93 project.' 2
Institutional Development
6.12   Considerable strengtheniing of managerial capacity took place under the project, but its
sustainability is threatened by the economic situation and high staff turnover. The latter
underlines the importance of putting in place systems of financial and personnel management
that are not vulnerable to inevitable staff changes. It would appear that most of the national level
maniagemenlt activities funded under the project have not lasted, and the only program still in
place is the highly successful DHSA trainin1g programi. Even here, the graduates do not stay long
in the districts. I-lowever, the audit team found evidence of considerable managerial strength at
provincial and district level in the one province visited.
6.13   A sound, computerized healtlh iiformatiotn system, thoughi not a direct product of the
project, has also been established and has been in use for the past two years. No district level
data is now available in disaggregated form at central level-an indication of increasing reliance
on the provinces and districts.
6.14   Thle building of training capacity has suffered from the reluctance of the Public Service
Coommiiission to institutionlalize the position of ntirse tutor and provide a career path. The
Economic Structural Adjustment Program (Lil. 3430/Cr. 3310-ZIM) was commonly said to be a
factor in this decision.
6.1 5   In retrospect, the project missed an opportunity to train many more midwives. The
training that was done was constrained by lack of facilities, building capacity in this respect
Would have been very beneficial. The presence of a nurse midwife is a powerful inducement to
utilize rural healtlh facilities, an importanlt factor given the importance of pregnancy and delivery-
related hiealth problems.
6.1 6   The audit team was unable to precisely determine the staffing levels at the rural health
cenlters and district hospitals upgraded under the project. There did not seem to be a shortage of
nurses, but doctors were well below norms, and in the district hospitals doctors are mainly from
overseas. In view, especially, of the substanltial amouLit of training of nuirses achieved under the
project and tiheir contr-ibution to project outcomes, institutional development may be seen as
substanitial.
12. /irnbabwe: Sexually Trafisnsitted Inifectionis: P'revention and Care Project (Cr. 25!16-ZIM).



33
7.  Lessons Learned
7.1    During preparation for the audit, three issues were identified for attentioni:
decentralization, costs and donor coordination. The latter two were raised in GOZ's project
completion report, which was submitted to the Bank after the completion of tile PCR. The
following lessons on these and other aspects of the project are noteworthiy.
Decentralization
7.2    Although the project supports the decentralizationi of services, the question of what
decentralization meant. and the precise relationships at the community level between various
ministries, was not clearly identified in the project documents at appraisal, and relationships
have evolved since that time. The implications of the assumptioni of finanicial responsibility for
rural health facilities on the part of the MOH while administrative control remained with the
rural councils wlho come under the Ministry of Local Government were not developed by the
Bank in its ongoing dialogue on healthi financing. Ol the one hanld, there was a concenltrationi of
financial responsibility in the central MOH; on the other, a new district layer of the MOH. While
the structure of the district health teams is discussed in the SAR, there is little documentationi in
supervision reports on how the teams and coordinationl mechanisms have worked. Thus, whethier.
in general, the changes brought more or less power to health authiorities at the local level, and
more or less resources, remains unclear.
7.3    Understanding these relationships is important to project outcomes. For example,
maintenance of the upgraded rural health facilities is not the responsibility of the MOH.
Misunderstanding of the structure of MOH/local government relations in the  uInllicipalities was
a factor in the disappointing performance of the urban family planniniig coIpollelnt because
municipalities did not take interest, illucil less ownershilp, of this componienit. Similarly, the
investments in the strengtheninig of district level managemilenit were useful to the extent that
authority was devolved to this level. However, it is ulilikely that there has been any real
devolution of power to the district level within the MOH beyond their more extensive
iiivolvelenit within MOH planning processes. On the other hanid, the training provided under the
project, as the PCR states, helped to create more managerial capacity in provillces aind districts.
This will allow them to assume increased responsibility for plannilng, budgeting, personiel
management and other maniagerial functionis as decentralizationi takes place as part of the broad
civil service reforms being considered by the governmienit. The lesson whichi emerges from tllis is
that it is important for Bank staff to unlderstand the degree to whicih a Ministry of Ilealth has
autonomy in pursuing decentralization and the extent to which the Milistry of Finanice will
support a sectoral ministry in delegating resources and control to lower levels.
Interagency Relationships
7.4    Difficulties attributable to the challenge of creating effective interagency relationshiips il
the name of achieving project goals are evident in this project. For example, the strengtheninig of
community level services was also negatively affected by the transfer of VHWs to the Milistry
of Cooperatives, Community Development and Women's Affairs. The PCR records that the
MOH strongly resisted the transfer, as these staff were the mainstay of PHC outreacli, but the



34
Bank was "mindful of the need to avoid interfering in such an intra-governmenital matter,"
thoughi it did wish to express its concern. 13 There have been a few attempts in some districts to
encourage retraining voluntary health workers: most are llow assigned to a range of communlity
development tasks and are no longer effective as health motivators or agents of the healtil center
network. It is hard to escape the conclusion that Zimbabwe lost its principal health outreaci
worker in this change. Thle MOH and Bank supervision missions concluded that political
pressures underlying this could not be effectively addressed, suggesting that chaliges in
interagency roles can negatively effect project outcomes. Similarly, differences in the procedures
used by ZNFPC and the MOH for the planning and production of IEC materials, and differenices
in more mundanie processes, sucIh as those goverinig release of funds for travel and the use of
audio-visual equipment, continue to hamper the development of a smooth wvorkincg relationsilip
between these two agencies, despite their shared interest in more effective healthi promotion and
communication activities. A lesson that can be drawn from this is that effective cooperation
between separate line agencies is more than a matter of agreeing on broad policy statements.
Shared objectives are valuable but cannot substitute for the detailed, and perhaps tedious, work,
ideally to be completed during preparation, of docuimentinig and specifying the procedural and
administrative chaniges that are necessary to effective cross-agency cooperation.
Estimating Costs of Facility Upgrading
7.5    Throughout the process of project preparation and implementation, the project
documents refer to dialogue with MOH (and MFEPD) on healthl financing issues, with the
intentioni of increasing the resources available to the MOH and them more rationally. While this
is important, the serious cost overruns in this project-for civil works and for equipmenit-
indicate the importance of paying close attention to the bread and butter matters of design,
tendering, procurement and maintenance. The main positive outcome of the cost overruns is the
firn way in whichi MOHi has realized that this must be avoided in future. One lesson drawn is the
need for greater flexibility in the design of district hospitals. The project funded the construction
of a fixed-design, standard 140 bed hospital. Both the Bank and the Borrower are nlow agreed on
the importance of taking into account factors suicl as population catchmenit area, building
hospitals that permit the functions of their facilities to be changed according to need and that
allow for future expansion. An important lesson from this experience is that a more detailed
analysis of demand and service utilization patterns conducted prior to preparation of facility
upgrading plans, or modification of existing off-the-shelf plans, are necessary to promote
prudent and appropriate management of capital resources. Moreover, as now well appreciated In
MOH, even good planning for capital projects in the healtil sector can be seriously undermined
by insufficient attention to the recurrent cost implications of even "simple" upgrading efforts.
7.6    Recognizing, too, the inportance of MOH input at design stage, an architect was
seconded to the project unlit during preparation and early implementationi of the second project
and has provided important liaison between the project unit and MCNPH. Procedural aspects of
the relationship between MOH and MPCNH continue to improve today, and the MOH has
established considerable additional capacity in facility and civil works planning and management
which will assist in avoiding such errors in the future. Importantly, GOZ and the Bank are nlow
cooperating in an effort to disseminate these hard won lessons throtighi the conduct of a
workshop in the Southern Africa region to discuss facility planninig and managemilenlt issues. Not
13. Aide Memoire for FebrUary 1988 mission.



35
only has this brought several significant improvements in hospital design, but it has provided
corroboration of the construction ministry's wvork and kept cost estimates broadly in line with the
budget. Substantial savings have been generated by these actions: one estimate is that the 16
hospitals to be upgraded under the second project will be built for about the same cost as the 8
built under the first. Anothier lesson learned from the first project is that making satisfactory
tender documenits a conditionl of effectiveness can forestall considerable delays.
Donor Coordination
7.7    Donors were invited by the Bank to participate in one mission a year, their
representatives in Zimbabwe were briefed or encouraged to joi1 the supervision mission and
aide-memiloires were shared among all agencies. Occasionally, there was dissatisfaction at
chailged mission dates or requests for fuller informiationl, but, in general, coordination was good,
as indicated by all but one of the cofinaniciers choosing to participate in the follow-on project.
7.8    Thle governmienlt has taken on increased responsibility for donor coordination, and MOH
now conducts biauitial meetlings chaired by the Permanenit Secretary, where Zimbabwe's healti
plans are discussed, and donors who wish to contribute are invited to support a part of the plan.
Where donors cofiianice a part of a Bank-supported project, the Bank is also trying to encourage
donors to provide support broadly-sometimes they wish to employ a line item approach whici
is costly in termis of time in administrationi and ultimately does not help since all funds are for
the same objectives. The developmenit of a more proactive stance toward donor coordination on
the part of the MOH, and reports of growing satisfaction with this approacil among several
donors, reinforces the well-knowil lesson that greater ownership can increase the effectiveness of
external resources for healthi activities.
Changing Environment and Flexibility
7.9    Thle project supported GOZ in its efforts to shift increased resources into primary healti
care and into rural areas where the majority of the population lives through the strengthening of
peripheral health facilities. Thle better or, at least, equal performance of the project districts as
compared to that in their larger provinces indicates that the project contributed to the overall
healtlh gains in Zimbabwe achieved in the last decade. However, it is also clear that events
largely outside of the direct control of the MOH, includinig, in particular, the growing pressure to
sharply limit public expenditures and the rapid growth in the incidence of HIV infections shows
that the systems established throughi the project may need to adjust to meet the requirements of
these environimenital chaniges. It is likely that future investments in the health sector in Zimbabwe
will need to consider the directions and characteristics of the health sector as a whole in order to
enable a comprehensive approach to emerginig questions in health finance and effective
responses to the HIV epidemic. Although the "blue print" approach to project design appears to
have been appropriate for Family Health 1, future projects may require greater attention to
achievinig flexibility in the use of project resources and to structuring evaluative mechaniisms
into ongoing policy discussions.






MAP SECTION






IBRO 18695
203 -4'                                                                3S'    ,J                          32'
1 09ETERS 0           '00      ;50
~~ /f A R O 0                   \           
ALES C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
>1 =  /       X f            (>   V    )    >      z_ JC\sUSnP/c U R                     ZIMBABWE
~4USHIIVGA             FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
i.>' 7'2' .0s ..................................:os                                                               -
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t" >}    ,                                            T   _.
G 0 Al WE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~renroa bodr.
Df                                                         A DaA  0<  A   F                                A
K..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
rF ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~--'- uodr 0h a1o  b   t.. ,AodfSITl>*S~  ^ ......    -   9Iude*)b' |
75       'f-            ,/                   -   _    a  -   __  ,~ tt,       /TA 7
_q _v . ,j _                       L           __L.                                                                                         __
MAC 1198
5.0
36'                           08'A-HO                                                                                                               MARCH 198









IMAGING
Report No:      15944
Type: PPAR



