Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11218-RE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(ASMP II)
NOVEMBER 23, 1992
Agriculture and Environment
Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfortnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit         =      Kenya shilling (KSh)
KSh 20                =       Kenya pound (K£) 1
US$1.00               =       KSh 32
SDR 1.0               =       US$1.40 (as of October 31, 1992)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ha     =       hectare
km     =       kilometer
I      =      liters
mt             metric ton
ABBREVIATIONS
ASAO       Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation
ASMP       Agricultural Sector Management Project
ATAP       Agricultural Technical Assistance Project
CB         Cotton Board
DGIPE      Department of Government Investments and Public Enterprises
DRSRS    Department of Resource Surveys and Remote Sensing
ESTU       Executive Secretariat and Technical Unit
FC         Financial Controller
GIS        Geographical Information System
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GOK        Government of Kenya
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
IDA        Intemational Development Association
IMF        International Monetary Fund
HVI        High Volume Instrument Machine
KNTC       Kenya National Trading Corporation
KSA        Kenya Sugar Authority
LCB        Local Competitive Bidding
MOA        Ministry of Agriculture
MOCD       Ministry of Cooperative Development
MOLD       Ministry of Livestock Development
NARP       National Agricultural Research Project
NEAP       National Environment Action Plan
NEP II    Second National Extension Project
NES        National Environmental Secretariat
NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
ODC        Oilseeds Development Council
OP         Office of the President
PPF        Project Preparation Facility
PRPC       Parastatal Reform Program Committee
PS         Permanent Secretary
SSRS       Sugar Sector Restructuring Study
TA         Technical Assistance
FISCAL YEAR
July 01 to June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT (ASMP m
CONTENTS
Page No.
Abbreviations
Credit and Project Summary                                                                    i
1 BACKGROUND ........................................ 1
Project Background ........................................                                  1
Macroeconomic Setting  .......................................   1
2 THEAGRICULTURESECTOR   . ..................................   3
The Sector Profile ........................................ 3
Development Constraints in Key Subsectors   .......             ...................   3
Constraints on Effective Sector Management  .......             ...................   6
Management of Kenya's Physical Resource Base ......               ..................   7
3 BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE AND SRATEGY  .......                              ..................   8
Lessons from Previous Bank/IDA Involvement .......                ..................   8
Rationale for IDA Involvement . ..................................   9
4 TPROJECT ........................................ 11
Project Objectives .......................................                                  11
Project Description  .......................................                                11
Detailed Features  .......................................                                  12
Project Costs and Financing ....................................    16
Procurement ........................................ 17
Disbursements ........................................  18
Accounts and Audits  .......................................    21
This report is based on the findings of a World Bank pre-appraisal/appraisal mission which took place between April and July
1992. The process was managed by Mr. G. Paimanathan (AF2AA), with support from Meor. F. Ahmed and F.
Byamugisha (AF2AE). Individual components were prepared by the following: Messrs. J. Cameron and T. Naughtin,
consultants (cotton subsector development component); C.N. Raghavan (AFTAG) (sugar subsector restructuring component);
P.V. Shenoi, consultant (oilseeds subsector development component); Professor M. Ingle, consultant (MOA/MOLD capacity
building component); J. Allaway, consultant (DRSRS support component); G. Slade (AFTEN) and 0. Sadat (AF2AA) (NEAP
preparation and implementation component); S. Al Habsy (legal aspects); and A. Bolar, consultant (accounting and auditing).
Mr. G. Donovan (AFTAG) was the Lead Advisor and Messrs. G. Byam and I. Aleem (AF2E) the Peer Reviewers.
Preparation and processing assistance was also provided by Ms. C. Jones (A2AE). Secretarial assistanec was provided by
Mmes. M. Ramchandani, R. Gachina, E. Mwai, and M. Carneiro (AF2AA) and M. Gunawardane (AF2AE).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



5 ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION .............                       22
6 BENEFTIS RISKS & SUSTAINABLITY ..............................  27
Benefits .      ................................................   27
Risks .     ..................................................   27
Sustainability .............................................  28
7 AGREEMENTS, ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION ...............  29
ANNEXES
Annex 1      Cotton Subsector Development Component
Annex 1 (Attachment) - Technical Assistance and Training Requirements
Annex 2      Sugar Subsector Restructuring Component
Annex 2 (Attachment) - Technical Assistance and Training Requirements
Annex 3      Oilseeds Subsector Development Component
Annex 3 (Attachment) - Technical Assistance and Training Requirements
Annex 4      Cooperative Subsector Restructuring Component
Annex 4 (Attachment) - Technical Assistance and Training Requirements
Annex 5      MOA/MOLD Capacity Building Component
Annex 5 (Attachment) - Technical Assistance and Training Requirements
Annex 6      DRSRS Support Component
Annex 6 (Attachment) - Technical Assistance and Training
Annex 7      NEAP Preparation and Implernentation Component
Annex 7 (Attachment) - The Process
Annex 8      Implementation of Key Technical Assistance Components
Annex 9      Disbursement Forecast
Annex 10     Key Performance Indicators
Annex 11     Supervision Plan
Annex 12     Sample Accounts Format and TOR of Financial Controller
Annex 13     Documents in Project File
Annex 14     Policy Paper on Public Enterprise and Reform dated July 1, 1992



KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT (ASMP It)
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Government of Kenya (GOK)
Beneficiaries:      Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), Ministry of Livestock Development
(MOLD), Ministry of Cooperative Development (MOCD), Department of
Resource Surveys and Remote Sensing (DRSRS), and Ministry of
Environment and Natural Resources
Amount:             SDR 13.8 million (US$19.4 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard, with 40 years maturity
Project Objectives: The main project objectives would be to: (i) develop key agricultural sub-
sectors by fostering greater private sector involvement; (ii) reform the
cooperative sector to make cooperatives more efficient and responsive to
member needs; (iii) increase the overall efficiency of MOA and MOLD by
rationalizing their role, structure and strategic functions; and (iv) ensure
the sustainable use of Kenya's physical resources by strengthening the
capability in Government to factor in the impact on the environment of
agricultural programs and policy initiatives.
Project Components: Project components would include the following: (a) Developing the
cotton subsector by providing TA, training and equipment to (i) establish
an appropriate legal and institutional framework for the cotton industry;
Qi) facilitate reforms in the processing and marketing of cotton in the
country (including the privatization of six Cotton Board (CB) ginneries;
and (iii) improve technological support to cotton farmers. (b)
Restructuring the sugar subsector by financing TA for (i) carrying out a
Sugar Sector Restructuring Study; (ii) preparing/implementing
privatization/restructuring programs for five sugar factories; and (iii)
strengthening the regulatory framework for the industry and developing
the capacity in the Kenya Sugar Authority (KSA) to fulfill its functions.
(c) Developing the oilseeds subsector by financing TA, training and
equipment as necessary to: (i) establish a legal, institutional and policy
framework for the sustainable development of the subsector; (ii) formulate
appropriate research programs and extension to provide technological
support to oilseed farmers; and (iii) improve skills among key personnel
involved in oilseed research, extension and processing. (d) Restructuring
the cooperative subsector by financing TA and equipment as necessary
for (i) a review of the cooperative legislation and formulation of changes
to the legislation (with the aim of making cooperatives independent
member-controlled organizations); (i) a study to determine the phased
transfer of MOCD functions such as audit to the cooperative movement;
(iii) a study on rationalizing MOCD's new role and its implications for the
staffing levels of the ministry; and (iv) studies on critical cooperative
policy related areas. (e) Developing capadty in MOA and,MOLD by



- ii -
financing TA, training, equipment and operating costs to (i) strengthen
operations in select technical functions; and (ii) facilitate
commercialization and privatization in appropriate areas. (f) Strenthening
the activities of DRSRS by financing: (i) a detailed management study of
DRSRS, which would examine its current capability in terms of existing
staff and equipment resources, and outline a core program of activities
over the next three years; (ii) the Geographical Information System (GIS)
with a long term technical advisor and essential new equipment; (iii) the
operation of aerial services, including salaries of internationally and
locally recruited pilots and aircraft operations; (iv) development of
information services; and (v) improvement of data quality and staff
productivity by providing office equipment for professional staff members
of DRSRS and limited, clearly specified training. (g) Developing the
institutional capacity to prepare and implement a National
Environmental Action Plan (NEAP).
Benefits:           The project would have five main benefits. First, strategies would have
been determined and key actions taken (including the divestiture of public
sector enterprises) to develop key cash crop subsectors such as sugar,
cotton and oilseeds within an appropriate policy and operating
environment and with greater private sector involvement. Second, a
strategy would have evolved and action taken to re-orient agricultural
cooperatives to being more member-controlled, effectively run entities,
less burdened by Govermment intervention. Third, the role, structure and
functions of MOA and MOLD would have been rationalized and
supported by a strengthened capacity to deliver services. Fourth, the
capacity in Kenya to collect, collate and analyze information on the
physical resource base would have been rationalized and strengthened.
Fifth, a NEAP for Kenya would have been formulated.
Risks:              There are three main risks. The first risk is the limited ability of the
Government to coordinate the various technical assistance initiatives under
the project. A clear assignment of ministerial/departmental responsibilities,
and the overseeing of the entire process by an effective Agricultural Sector
Committee, would mitigate the coordination problem. The second risk is
the unsustained and fragmented Government commitment to effectively
utilizing the technical assistance and training provided under the project to
improve its institutional and management capacity. The project is partly
designed to assist the Govermnent in carrying out reforms which have
either already begun or have been agreed to in principle. With regard to
the other components, particularly the capacity building initiative in MOA
and MOLD, the participatory and consensus building approach to
identifying key actions would build commitment as the process evolves
and implementation experience deepens. In addition, periodic and close
supervision of the project, coupled with continued dialogue on the need
for improved capacity within Government to manage the ongoing reform
program, would attempt to sustain Government commitment during
project implementation. A third risk is the Govermment's ability to
motivate and/or retain trained staff. This issue would be addressed in a



- iii -
comprehensive manner as part of a civil service reform program. MOA,
MOLD and, to some extent, MOCD would be the best placed ministries
to undergo reform when the civil service reform program becomes a
reality.
Estimated Project Costs 1/
Component                         Local      Foreign      Total
-    US$ million
A. Cotton Subsector Component      0.03        1.61       1.64
B. Sugar Subsector Component       0.47        1.07       1.54
C. Oilseeds Subsector              1.36        1.32       2.68
Component
D. Cooperative Subsector           0.09       0.14        0.23
Component
E. MOAIMOLD and Institutional      3.73       2.50        6.23
Development Component
F. DRSRS Component                 1.88       3.30        5.18
G. NEAP Component                  1.70       0.30        2.00
Total Base Cost                 9.26       10.24      19.50
Contingencies                   0.97        1.03       2.00
Total Project Cost             10.23       11.27      21.50
Financing Plan
Local     Foreign      Total
US$ million
IDA                                8.1        11.3       19.4
GOK                                2.1         -          2.1
Total                             10.2        11.3       21.5
Estimated Disbursements from IDA Credit         (US$ million)
IDA FY               22       94      9S        96      97       2
Annual              0.5      3.5      4.0       5.0     5.0      1.4
Cumulative          0.5      4.0      8.0      13.0    18.0    19.4
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable
Map: IBRD No. 21659
1/ Excludes taxes and duties.






Background
1
KiENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT (ASMP O)
BACKGROUND
Project Background
1.1   The proposed project would be the third IDA-funded technical assistance intervention in
the agriculture sector in Kenya. IDA assistance began with the Agricultural Technical Assistance
Project (ATAP-Credit 1277-KE). ATAP aimed to strengthen Government capability to plan and
implement policies, improve management and budgeting in key ministries, and strengthen the
institutional capacities of key parastatals. The follow-up Agricultural Sector Management Project
(ASMP I-Credit 1718-KE) was aimed at further strengthening the capacity of public sector
institutions to deliver key services and to formulate agricultural policy. Some managerial and
analytical capability was developed, and basic reforms in budgeting and management were
achieved; however, the capacity in key ministries to deliver technical services, manage projects
and programs, and formulate policy initiatives in a coherent and integrated fashion, while
strengthened to some extent, remains inadequate. This lack of capacity has prevented the
Government from undertaking policy and operational initiatives to exploit key, currently under-
exploited subsectors such as cotton, sugar and oilseeds, and from taking radical steps to
restructure the poorly functioning cooperative subsector. Above all, the key ministries involved
in the agriculture sector do not demonstrate an institutional vision of their role in the sector based
on organizing their activities around providing strategic services to farmers in a changing
operating environment increasingly influenced by a tightening fiscal situation and greater private
sector involvement. This lack of capacity has prevented the Government from fully implementing
the structural reform program supported by the ongoing Second Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Operation (ASAO 11-Credit 2204-KE). The reforms are aimed at bringing about a fundamental
shift in public sector involvement in the agriculture sector, while at the same time building up an
enabling environment for greater private sector participation. This aim requires a high degree of
capability within the key agricultural institutions to determine policies, and good managerial skills
to carry them out. In addition, the capability in Government to factor in the environmental
consequences of policy and investment initiatives in the agricultural sector is still in a nascent
state; it is therefore imperative that the managerial and technical capacity in the key agricultural
institutions be further strengthened and that the information base on the country's physical
resources continue to be developed.
Macroeconomic Setting
1.2   Kenya is facing a constrained macroeconomic situation, exacerbated by a combination of
weak economic management and lack of commitment by Government to major structural reforms.
This was reflected in Kenya's inability to stay within the framework of the Enhanced Structural



2                                                                           Chapter 1
Adjustment Facility agreed upon with the IMF. At the November 1991 Consultative Group
Meeting, donors expressed concern about the extent of Govermment's commitment to major
structural reforms-notably to reducing the fiscal deficit-and linked continued high levels of
quick-disbursing balance of payments support to concrete actions and to the Government's
reaching agreement with the IMF on the macroeconomic framework. The non-availability of this
type of assistance will increase the pressure on the economy. All the economic indicators point to
an increasingly fragile macroeconomic situation highlighted by a difficult fiscal situation, a weak
balance of payments position, and increasing inflationary pressures.
1.3   The Government is therefore faced with a major challenge. It is clear that economic
management has to be strengthened considerably and that the Government has to demonstrate a
greater commitrnent to undertake the fundamental restructuring of the economy. This challenge is
particularly evident in the agriculture sector. Kenya's population is predominantly rural (85
percent), and the economy depends fundamentally on agriculture. Agriculture's contribution to
GDP (nearly 30 percent), labor force (70 percent), and export earnings (about 65 percent)
highlight the importance of this sector to the economy as a whole. Given the centrality of
agriculture and agricultural trade to the Kenyan economy, improvement in the management of this
sector must become a top priority.



The Agriculture Sector                                                               3
2
THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
The Sector Profile
2.1    The performance of the agriculture sector since Independence has been better than the
average for sub-Saharan Africa. Nevertheless, the agricultural growth rate of 3.5 percent per
annum during the 1980s has not been sufficient to keep up with the high population growth of
close to 4 percent per annum. Consequently, it has proved difficult to raise per capita income
levels and protect the natural resource base. The situation has worsened recently as Kenya's
agricultural performance declined sharply; estimates indicate that the agricultural growth rate in
1991 was negative and the prognosis for 1992 is not much better (an optimistic forecast is 3
percent). The sector's vulnerability to adverse weather conditions also appears to have increased.
Given this situation, it would take a major managerial and technical effort, underpinned by an
appropriate policy framework, to raise the agricultural growth rate. The challenge is further
compounded by the fact that the major sources of past agricultural growth-land expansion in the
more fertile areas in the country, the switch to high value coffee and tea production for export,
and limited increases in crop yields and livestock productivity-no longer offer potential for future
sustainable agricultural growth. The whole pattern of agricultural production would have to
change radically, with future growth depending almost entirely on yield and productivity
increases. This raises the management and technical capability stakes considerably in planning for
future development of the sector.
2.2    The potential exists for Kenya's agriculture sector to grow at 4 percent per annum.
However, its performance is being constrained primarily by structural inadequacies characterized
by an inappropriate policy environment, weak managerial capabilities, and the domination of the
sector by badly managed, inefficient and loss-making public sector marketing and distribution
institutions. The lack of a competitive market structure and inadequate producer incentives are
critically influencing farmers' decisions to use yield-augmenting inputs to raise productivity. The
Government has recognized that a major overhaul of the policy framework and the incentive
structure is urgently needed, along with the encouragement of a more competitive marketing
structure with increased participation of the private sector in all aspects of marketing and
distribution of agricultural commodities. There is also a growing commensurate realization that to
encourage greater private initiative it is necessary to reduce the involvement of parastatals in the
sector.
Development Constraints in Key Subsectors
2.3    The Government's focus on the agriculture sector over the years has not been
evenhanded. There has been a tendency to place increased emphasis on food crop production to
the relative detriment of important cash crops. While this focus made sense at a time when food
security issues were paramount, such a limited focus is no longer tenable in light of the challenges
Kenya faces today in generating foreign exchange, creating employment and above all increasing
rural incomes. Three subsectors which offer potential for growth are cotton, sugar and oilseeds.



4                                                                              Chapter 2
In agro-climatic terms, Kenya has a comparative production advantage in all these crops which is
not being exploited because of inappropriate price, marketing and regulatory policies, poor
general overall management of the subsectors in terms of provision of services, and the exclusion
of private initiative.
2.4    Kenya's cotton production has been decreasing drastically in volume, from a peak of
around 60,000 bales in 1979 to around 30,000 bales at present (Kenya's spinning requirements
are some 120,000 bales annually). The industry is being constrained by: (a) an inappropriate
legal and institutional structure; (b) poor marketing and processing arrangements; and (c)
inadequate technology support to cotton farmers. Cotton can be a profitable crop in Kenya and
projections indicate that if the industry structure is reformed, production levels could go up to
70,000 bales in 1995 and 130,000 bales in the year 2000.
2.5    The legal framework for the cotton subsector is provided by the Cotton Act. The Act as
currently framed gives the Cotton Board (CB) major regulatory powers in the industry, which has
resulted in the stifling of private initiative and has allowed the CB to get involved in badly
managed commercial activities. The institutional structure for cotton growing is further
constrained by the existence of poorly managed and financially weak cotton cooperatives. The
combination of a CB with heavy regulatory powers and cotton cooperatives with little business
sense has steadily eroded incentives for cotton growing by farmers. Recognizing the importance
of the crop, the Government has initiated reforms to arrest the deterioration of the subsector, such
as liberalizing the marketing of lint and allowing the entry of private sector ginneries into the
industry without restrictions. However, for a significant impact on increasing incentives to cotton
farmers, further actions are needed to deepen the reforms already undertaken. In particular, the
institutional and legal framework needs to be amended, and the CB should divest itself of its
cotton gins. In fact the case exists for the Board to be restructured into an entity largely
controlled by the industry. The cotton cooperatives need to be restructured, and perhaps
amalgamated, and their operations made more effective, if they are going to survive in an
increasingly liberalized marketing system.
2.6    The industry is also constrained by lack of proper quality control arrangements in
marketing lint. No formal grading of lint is currently done in Kenya. While this may not be of
much significance at the current low level of production, quality control will become important if
Kenya is to enter the export markets. Even now, domestic spinners using Kenyan cotton are at a
significant disadvantage vis-a-vis their international competitors.
2.7    The Kenyan cotton farmer is also badly provided for in terms of technological support.
The availability of good quality seed is a serious problem. The current system of grading seed
cotton results in mixing of varieties, which has over the years resulted in severe genetic
degradation. Farmers can have little confidence that the seeds they use have any of the prescribed
genetic qualities. In addition, cotton farming is served with poorly focused and underfunded
research programs and inadequate extension. Kenya's cotton industry is therefore at a watershed:
unless immediate steps are taken to address the constraints, the production of cotton will continue
to be a marginal enterprise for the farmer and the industry will continue to stagnate at the current
uneconomic levels of production. Further details are given in Annex 1.
2.8    The situation in the sugar subsector is also not very encouraging. Kenya still imports
about 25 percent of its sugar needs even though agro-climnatically the country has a comparative
advantage in sugar production. Again, the industry is constrained by an inappropriate regulatory
and policy environment, and by the existence of inefficient public sector factories. A major
restructuring of the industry is required, beginning with reform of the pricing structure and



The Agriculture Sector                                                               5
extending to encouraging the expansion of private involvement and ownership in sugar
processing. The Government has in principle agreed to consider possible options to revitalize the
sugar factories, including restructuring and/or privatizing these entities. However, the process
has yet to begin because of the lack of capacity within Government to take critical decisions
and/or to implement them, as well as to work out restructuring/privatization options for the sugar
factories. Again, it is imperative that this capacity be developed. Further details are given in
Annex 2.
2.9   There is a strong potential in Kenya for developing the oilseeds subsector. Kenya is
currently importing about 80 percent of its edible oil needs of around 180,000 metric tons (mt)
which costs the country about US$60-80 million on an annual basis. The consumption of edible
oils is growing at around 13 percent per annum, and consumption requirements could increase to
250,000-300,000 mt by the year 2000. The subsector has the potential to produce around 80,000
mt of edible oil by the year 2000, provided the appropriate incentive framework is put in place.
Oilseeds and oil-bearing products such as sunflower, simsim, cottonseed, coconut, rapeseed,
soyabeans, groundnuts, castor seed and safflower have shown good promise under Kenyan
conditions. Simsim, safflower and castor seed can be encouraged on arid and semi-arid lands in
Kenya as they require relatively little moisture and can thrive even on poor soils. The oilseeds
subsector is constrained by a number of factors: (a) poor producer prices mainly caused by poor
marketing infrastructure; (b) a questionable import policy and tariff structure for imported palm
oil; (c) lack of appropriate technology and input support; and (d) past low priority given by the
Government to developing this subsector.
2.10   Given the changing perceptions about oilseeds in Kenya, the development of this subsector
is critically dependent on formulating a legal, institutional and policy framework which would
provide adequate incentives for oilseeds production. It would be necessary at the outset to enact
legislation which would articulate the Government's policy on the development of a market
responsive private sector-oriented oilseed policy in Kenya, and to establish a body (i.e. the
Oilseeds Development Council [ODCI) controlled by the private sector (farmers as well as
processors) to facilitate the implementation of the policy. The ODC would provide the
coordinating umbrella for efficient management of the oilseed subsector, bringing in all agencies
concerned with research, extension, input supply and processing. In addition, further studies need
to be done on such issues as long-term pricing structure, use of tariffs as a means to stimulate the
industry, basic prerequisites for greater private sector involvement in the industry, etc; and
oilseed farmers have to be supported by appropriate research programs and extension systems.
Further details are given in Annex 3.
2.11   A major factor adversely affecting the development of the agriculture sector in Kenya is
the pervasive role of cooperatives. With a membership of over two million people, representing
more than one-third of the households in the country, the 4,000 active societies could play a
positive role in the development of the sector. However, this has not been the case. The
cooperative movement has shown a less-than-satisfactory performance in terms of long-term
sustainability, business development and the level of services provided to members. A major
negative factor has been the intrusive role of the Government in the day-to-day operations of
cooperatives. As a result of the strong control exercised by the Ministry of Cooperative
Development (MOCD), in many ways the cooperatives are no longer member-controlled
institutions. There has therefore been a systematic move away from the basic principles of
cooperatives, for example that societies should have a comparative advantage in relation to other
providers of services, so that they make economic sense to members, and that they should have
sufficient business to ensure competitiveness of services to members, and to accumulate capital for
investments and for further developing their activities. In addition, the overall policy framework



6                                                                           Chapter 2
in which cooperatives operate must promote and foster financially viable operations. Above all,
they should have an appropriate management structure and proper business management and
internal control systems.
2.12   Kenya is at a crossroads with regard to cooperative development. In the face of market
liberalization the monopolistic position of cooperatives is no longer sustainable, nor is their role
as channels for Government-sponsored credit and input supply schemes within a regulated
agricultural marketing set-up. In addition, the extensive involvement of MOCD in the
management of the cooperatives is incompatible with the aim of promoting farmer-controlled
organizations which are responsive to market signals. Therefore, the legislative and policy
frameworks as they apply to cooperatives need to be liberalized to bring about the evolution of a
more independent, member-controlled cooperative movement in Kenya. This means that
MOCD's powers of intervention should be substantially reduced and its functions redefined. In
addition, the cooperatives should be given the right to sue and bring to court members defaulting
on debts and loans, and members should have the right to bring committee members to court for
outright criminal acts as well as for damages to the society caused by gross negligence.
Constraints on Effective Sector Management
2.13   The capacity in the agriculture sector, particularly in the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
and the Ministry of Livestock Development (MOLD), to manage the sector, to make critical
policy and operational decisions in a coherent and integrated manner in a changing policy and
operational framework and to identify and effectively provide key services to farmers is still
lacking. This is evident when the implementation performance of IDA-funded projects is
evaluated. For example, implementation of ASAO II has been constrained, up to now, by the
inability of the Government to fully carry out important reforms, mainly due to the inability of
the key ministries to manage the reform process (including building up the consensus for reforms
within Government), undertake key policy work and implement policy decisions already taken.
For example, the need to liberalize maize markets, and the understanding of the potential benefits
of such a policy, have yet to be fully internalized within MOA, and there is little involvement of
the ministry's technical personnel in the process. Again, field evidence in the case of maize
production suggests that the technical work, including extension advice passed on to farmers, has
little linkage with policy changes that are either taking place, or are slated to take place. Clearly,
the substantial policy analysis capacity developed in the ministry through training and technical
assistance has not filtered through in determining a vision of MOA's role and a clear
understanding of the appropriate roles of the public and private sectors in agriculture.
2.14   The situation in MOLD is similar. The IDA-financed Animal Health Rehabilitation
Project (Credit 1758-KE) is aimed at fundamentally changing the manner in which services are
provided to farmers by the Department of Veterinary Services. It is evident that the
Government's technical and financial capacity is inadequate to continue to attempt to provide all
services to every farmer and/or livestock owner in the country. This realization, although evident
in the policymaking echelons of MOLD, has not fully filtered down to the technical and key
managerial levels in the Ministry. Again, a lack of vision of MOLD's strategic function and its
appropriate role in a rapidly changing operating environment has prevented the full
implementation of measures necessary to refocus this role. Thus, further capacity development is
needed in MOA and MOLD to develop an institutional vision and a commensurate managerial and
operating framework. Further details are given in Annex 5.



The Agriculture Sector                                                             7
Management of Kenya's Physical Resource Base
2.15   Kenya's future agricultural development will be predicated on the optimum use of its
physical resources. For this purpose, comprehensive information on the country's physical
resource base must be readily available. Recognizing this, in the mid-1970s the Government
decided to develop the capacity within Kenya to expand its information base. In 1976, the
present Department of Resource Surveys and Remote Sensing (DRSRS) was set up as the Kenya
Rangeland Ecological Monitoring Unit (KREMU) under the IDA-supported Second Livestock
Development Project (Credit 477-KE), with support from the Canadian International Development
Agency (CIDA). IDA continued to provide assistance to KREMU after the end of CIDA support,
under ATAP and subsequently under ASMP I. Over the years, DRSRS has developed its
technical capacity significantly. The department now has a computerized geographical
information system (GIS), increased technical capabilities, particularly in remote sensing, an
expanded field of operations, an enhanced capability for data collection along with strengthened
planning and management capacities, and a number of trained staff. However, while the technical
quality of DRSRS's work is sound and the potential benefits from its activities are high, there is
little evidence that the information on the country's physical resource base is adequately feeding
into decision making at the technical and policy levels in the appropriate government
ministries/departments or agencies when initiatives with an impact on the environment are planned
and implemented.
2.16  In the agriculture sector, DRSRS's capability is not being used to its best advantage, with
little apparent linkage between its activities and those of the user departments/ministries. It is
critically important to develop and strengthen these linkages, particularly as there are new
challenges for the department. Important developments include (a) an increase in the number and
significance of environmental management programs in Kenya; (b) enhanced pressure on the
nation's natural resources requiring policy-makers increasingly to factor in information on
physical resources in their planning exercises; and (c) an increase in the number of potential users
in Government and outside of DRSRS's capability. Given the above, the next stage in DRSRS's
development is to begin to focus on clarifying its objectives. The most basic objective is that its
work program should be designed to efficiently and effectively assist in national development,
with particular emphasis on sustainable natural resource management. A key criterion for
evaluating the department's performance would be whether the inputs it provides are adequate to
justify its existence. Given the importance of a good physical information base, it is imperative to
re-evaluate the role of DRSRS, to strengthen its linkages with user departments/ministries and to
continue support for its activities. Further details are given in Annex 6.
2.17   As the development process works its way through the Kenyan economy, environmental
considerations will become of paramount importance. As previously mentioned, future growth in
the agriculture sector needs to come from significant productivity increases at the farm level in the
high potential areas and from the development of the full potential of the arid and semi-arid lands
in the country. This strategy would not be environmentally neutral in all aspects, and the capacity
must be built up in Kenya to assess the environmental impact of investments in the agriculture
sector and, more broadly, to deal with the environmental issues facing the country. A National
Environment Action Plan (NEAP) process, broad in scope, with which to tackle issues such as the
lack of effective policy, institutional and legal frameworks for the environment, is therefore
essential. Further details are given in Annex 7.



8                                                                          Chapter 3
3
BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE AND STRATEGY
3.1    Recognizing that future agricultural growth in Kenya can no longer be generated through
area expansion in the high potential areas, World Bank Group assistance strategy in the sector is
now focused on promoting yield and productivity enhancing initiatives for improving the quality
of agricultural support services and infrastructure, and on promoting greater private sector
involvement in agriculture. The Bank's strategy has increasingly focused on liberalizing the
policy and operational framework, with the primary aim of making Kenyan agriculture more
responsive to market signals and reducing the role of Government and/or parastatal organizations
in the sector. The strategy also aims at strengthening the provision of strategic services by
Government while encouraging the transfer of responsibilities for provision of other services to
the private sector. Some key positive steps have been taken to initiate structural change in the
sector. Under ASAO II, the Government has committed itself to taking fundamental steps to
liberalize the marketing of maize (the most important agricultural commodity), to reduce the role
of the grain marketing parastatal, the National Cereal and Produce Board, to begin the
restructuring of the dairy industry and generally to create a more enabling environment for
enhanced private sector involvement. The broad reforms under ASAO II are being complemented
by specific reforms aimed at rationalizing and improving the provision of services to smallholder
farmers and livestock holders. The Second National Extension Project (NEP 11-Credit 2199-KE)
and the National Agricultural Research Project (NARP-Credit 1849-KE) aim to improve the
provision of extension services and to develop suitable technologies to meet specific agro-
ecological requirements. The Animal Health Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1758-KE) is intended
to improve and rationalize the provision of veterinary services to livestock holders, including
developing options for transferring the provision of some services from the Government to the
private sector.
3.2   Technical assistance (TA) is expected to play a major role in this strategy; to bring about
structural change in the sector it is necessary to develop adequate institutional capacity in the key
ministries. The focus of TA, first through ATAP and then through ASMP I, was to strengthen
Government's capacity to formulate and/or implement policy reforms at the sectoral level (in
particular to support the reforms carried out under ASAO I and the ongoing ASAO 11).
Lessons from Previous Bank/IDA Involvement
3.3    ATAP, which closed on November 30, 1986, was successfully rnplemented and resulted
in many long-term initiatives in institution building in the sector. As uas recognized in the
Project Completion Report (Report No. 8798) the impact of these activities, measured in terms of
improved financial management, sectoral management capabilities and agricultural policy
formulation, was relatively significant. ASMP was designed to consolidate the efforts initiated
under ATAP and to expand ATAP's focus to include other institutions. ASMP has continued the
strengthening process; however, institution building is a long-term process and the agenda with
regard to the agriculture sector in Kenya is still incomplete.



Bank Group Assistance and Strategy                                                   9
3.4    One of the key lessons learned from the above projects is that without a clearly
formulated institutional development strategy, capacity building could end up as a piecemeal
exercise that may not be sustainable. Past IDA assistance in MOA and MOLD has tended to
focus on discrete areas. Under ASAO II and ASMP the focus has been mainly on improving the
policy analysis capability within the ministries and on improving financial management and budget
rationalization. In addition, discrete studies such as the staffing norms exercises were undertaken.
There has been little emphasis on developing an institutional vision based on a coherent
framework that would link the improvements in policy analysis capability and in financial
management to the overall technical work of the ministries-which is to provide key services to
farmers. Consequently, there is limited vision within Government as to what sort of institutional
structure would enable the two ministries to fulfill strategic functions in a changing enviromnent,
in which the private sector would increasingly take over the provision of some services to
farmers. A primary aim of the proposed project is to formulate such a coherent institutional
structure for MOA and MOLD so that they may effectively and efficiently carry out identified
strategic functions.
3.5    A second main lesson, learned from earlier IDA involvement, is that TA is crucially
needed to underpin policy and institutional changes, particularly those emanating from adjustment
(policy-based) operations. For example, when the Government decided to divest the CB of its
ginneries, no support was provided to implement this policy. Similarly, under ASAO II, while
staffing norms exercises are being financed, no assistance has as yet been targeted to aid MOA
and MOLD in implementing the recommendations. Given the weak in-house capacity in the
ministries to implement the recommendations, there is a strong possibility that critical decisions
and commensurate actions will be delayed. Another lesson learned is the need to design a project
management structure that has a stake in the implementation of the project. Under ASMP,
steering committees which did not include stakeholders and/or client groups proved to be of little
use in fostering project implementation. This lesson would be incorporated in the project design
by ensuring that the management structure is made up of people who have a stake in the
successful implementation of the project.
3.6    Other critical lessons learned from past IDA involvement in financing TA projects, in
Kenya and also in other parts of Africa, include the following: (a) the span and scope of technical
assistance projects of this type need to be well defined; (b) training under these projects should be
focused on and directed toward achieving well-defined productivity gains and/or improvements in
project implementation; (c) management of these projects should not be centralized, but project
ownership should be widely fostered with assignment of clear responsibilities; and (d) design of
the project should have sufficient flexibility to allow modification as necessary during project
implementation. These lessons would be incorprated in the proposed project's design.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
3.7   The two key, conditions the Government has yet to meet for the release of the second
tranche of ASAO II, are liberalization of maize markets and implementing staffing norms
exercises in MOA and MOLD. The inability to meet ASAO II conditions is a reflection of the
weak sector management capacity, which is seriously impeding agricultural growth and stifling
farmer initiative. Lessons from past Bank/IDA projects clearly show that institutional building is
a long-term undertaking, and there is a large unfinished agenda in Kenya. There are emerging
challenges in redefining the institutional structure of MOA and MOLD, involving formulating a
role for these ministries in an environment in which the private sector will increasingly take over
most of the service provision in the sector. In addition, assistance is required urgently to support
the preparation and initial execution of reform programs that will enhance competition and greater



10                                                                          Chapter 3
private sector involvement in the processing and marketing of key agricultural commodities.
Last, but not least, there is a crucial need to strengthen the capability within Govermment to
continue, and eventually deepen and widen, the reform programs currently being undertaken
under ASAO II. IDA is already closely involved in the ongoing work on environment and in
formulating strategies for developing the arid and semi-arid areas in Kenya. Given the foregoing,
IDA is best placed to provide the requisite assistance that is crucial to enhancing the sector's
ability to manage resources efficiently and to piloting the fundamental restructuring process. The
proposed project would also provide a key link at the agriculture sector level for the Parastatal
Reform and Privatization TA Project being presented to the Board on December 1, 1992.



The Project                                                                         11
4
THE PROJECT
4.1   In view of the inadequate technical and managerial capacity within Government for
implementing ongoing and planned programs and projects in a rapidly changing environment,
there is an urgent need to continue support for capacity building in the key institutions dealing
with the agriculture sector. This need has been further highlighted by the tight fiscal situation,
which is resulting in many of the planned activities being underfunded. The current fiscal
constraints, which have become a feature of the Kenyan economy, require that managers in the
institutions dealing with the sector focus on discerning key projects and programs for support,
take steps to reduce costs (including staff reductions), and remove parastatals from the budget
either by restructuring, reducing their role and enhancing their efficiency, or by privatizing.
Managers must also follow through on policies aimed at increasing private sector involvement in
the provision of services to farmers to compensate for the reduction in public-funded provision of
services. At present, MOA and MOLD are deficient in the requisite skills for meeting the
emerging challenges.
Project Objectives
4.2    The main project objectives would be to: (a) develop key agricultural subsectors by
fostering greater private sector involvement; (b) reform the cooperative sector to make
cooperatives more efficient and responsive to member needs; (c) increase the overall efficiency of
MOA and MOLD by rationalizing their role, structure and strategic functions; and (d) ensure the
sustainable use of Kenya's physical resources by strengthening the capability in Government to
factor in the impact on the environment of agricultural programs and policy initiatives.
Project Description
4.3    The proposed ASMP II project is expected to consist of the following major components:
- cotton subsector development
- sugar subsector restructuring
- oilseeds subsector development
- cooperative subsector restructuring



12                                                                            Chapter 4
- MOA/MOLD capacity building
- DRSRS support
- NEAP preparation and implementation
Detailed Features
4.4    Cotton Subsector Development Component (US$1.81 million). This component would
support the Government's efforts to carry out structural reforms in the cotton subsector. The
component would provide TA, training and equipment purchase to (a) establish an appropriate
legal and institutional framework for the cotton industry; (b) facilitate reforms in the processing
and marketing of cotton in the country (including the privatization of six CB ginneries); and (c)
improve the technological support to cotton farmers. In supporting the establishment of an
appropriate legal and institutional framework, the project would assist in reviewing and proposing
amendments to the Cotton Act, and in restructuring the CB to allow greater industry participation.
TA would be provided in the form of a lawyer (2 person months) and a management
specialist/accountant (18 person months). In addition, study tours for key CB personnel, and
equipment and furniture for establishing the restructured CB, would also be financed. In
facilitating reforms in processing and marketing, the project would support the process of
privatizing the six CB gins (Kibos, Salawa, Mwea, Makueni, Meru and Hola), rationalizing the
organizational structure of the cotton cooperatives, and establishing quality control systems for
lint. TA would be provided in the form of:(a) an accountant (3 person months) and a ginnery
engineer (I person month) to review the operational status of the ginneries and prepare them for
privatization; (b) an economist/accountant (2 person months) to review the cotton cooperatives;
(c) a lint marketing specialist (6 person months); and (d) a lint classification and high volume
instrument machine (HVI) technician (6 person months). Finally, in developing technological
support for cotton farmers the project would assist in improving the production of good quality
seed, formulating appropriate research programs and strengthening the extension system. TA
would be provided in the form of: (a) a seeds agronomist (24 person months); (b) a cotton
research expert ( 24 person months); and (c) a cotton extension specialist (24 person months).
Training would be provided in pure seed production and distribution and in research techniques
and methodology for key personnel. Full details of the project components are given in Annex 1.
Agreement was reached with GOK at negotiations that a restructured CB with greater industry
participation would be established by December 31, 1993; and that by June 30, 1994, the
Government would have privatized three ginneries and have privatized or brought to the point of
sale1 the other three.
4.5    Sugar Subsector Restructuring Component (US$1.69 million). Under this component,
a market-responsive, private-sector-oriented sugar industry in Kenya would be set up. The
proposed project would finance TA for: (a) carrying out a Sugar Sector Restructuring Study
(SSRS); (b) implementing privatization/restructuring programs for five sugar factories (Chemil,
Muharoni, Mumias Nzoia and South Nyanza); and (c) strengthening the regulatory framework for
the industry and developing the capacity in the Kenya Sugar Authority (KSA) to fulfill its
functions. The SSRS would, among other things focus on: (a) determining an appropriate
institutional and regulatory structure for the efficient development of the subsector based on the
principles of price and market liberalization and full involvement of the private sector; (b)
Point of sale means execution of audit and valuation, plan for strategy and modalities of sale, preparation and
issuance of prospectuses or tender documents and of advertisements and notices.



The Project                                                                         13
restructuring and strengthening the KSA as the primary technical and policy advisory body
dealing with the subsector; (c) formulating measures to divest public majority ownership of sugar
companies; and (d) determining systems for providing sugarcane growers with appropriate
technological support.
4.6    The SSRS would be undertaken in two parts, to be done simultaneously by two teams of
consultants. The first team (35 person months of long-term TA supported by about 25 person
months of local TA) would cover issues on privatization, asset valuation and financial
restructuring of the sugar factories, and work towards taking them up to the point of privatization.
The second team (20 person months for five experts supported by about 14 person months of
local TA) would cover issues such as the phasing in of price liberalization, sugarcane- related
research, development of smallholders, market liberalization, regulation of imports and
restructuring of the Kenya National Trading Corporation (KNTC) and KSA. The project would
also finance three positions (18 person months in total) in KSA to facilitate institutional
strengthening, as well as some limited operating costs. Full details of the project components are
given in Annex 2. Agreement was reached at negotiations that following the completion of the
SSRS, and no later than December 31, 1994 Government would privatize two factories and the
other three would also be privatized or brought to the point of sale.
4.7    Oilseeds Subsector Development Component (US$2.95 million). This component
would provide the initial impetus to develop a market-responsive, private-sector-oriented edible oil
industry in Kenya. (Full details are given in Annex 3.) The component would finance TA,
training and equipment as necessary to: (a) establish a legal, institutional and policy framework
for the sustainable development of the subsector; (b) formulate appropriate research and extension
programs to provide technological support to oilseed farmers; and (c) improve skills among key
personnel involved in oilseed research, extension and processing.
4.8    The project would finance the start-up costs of establishing an Oilseeds Development
Council (ODC), including acquisition of assets and operational costs like rentals, salaries, etc, for
the first three years of operation. Thereafter, the cess to be collected on imports and domestic
production will finance the administration of ODC. Agreement was reached at negotiations that
by December 31, 1993, the government would set up the ODC and establish a mechanism
satisfactory to IDA to enable ODC to be self-sustaining.
4.9    Technical assistance would be provided in four important policy and support areas: (a) an
economist (pricing and marketing policies) for 6 person months; (b) a specialist in oilseeds
development policy for 12 person months; (c) a specialist in farm support services, for 6 person
months; and (iv) a specialist in edible oil processing systems for 6 person months. The
consultants would prepare the detailed plans and programs in their respective areas with the
support of ten international specialists (up to 2 months each) in various aspects of oilseeds
research and production and ten more international specialists (up to 2 months each) in different
aspects of oilseeds processing.
4.10   The training program under this component would have two aspects. Overseas training
would be in the form of observation and study missions by twenty Kenyan agricultural scientists
involved in research, extension and seed production. Ten more Kenyan oilseed specialists in the
five different processing disciplines would also be trained overseas. The second aspect of the
training program would be conducted in Kenya by Egerton University. About 400 Kenyan
professionals would be trained in the following disciplines: (i) policy framework for oilseeds
development; (ii) oilseeds technology, including breeding, agronomy, entomology, pathology,



14                                                                         Chapter 4
etc.; (iii) oilseed extension and seed production; (iv) cost-effective technology and management in
oilseeds processing; and (v) efficient management of ODC.
4.11   Cooperative Subsector Component (US$0.23 million). This component would finance
TA and equipment as necessary to develop a framework for efficient cooperative development in
Kenya. This TA would be financed under the project to undertake the following: (a) review the
cooperative legislation and suggest changes aimed at liberalizing the sector (with the aim of
making cooperatives independent member-controlled organizations); (b) a study to determine the
phased transfer of MOCD functions, (c) a study on the strategic functions of MOCD; and (d)
studies on critical cooperative policy related areas. Full details are given in Annex 4. Agreement
was reached at negotiations that following the completion of the above studies, the Govermment
would, by December 31, 1993, discuss and agree with the Bank on an action plan to implement
the recommendations of the studies.
4.12 MOAtMOLD Capacity Building Component (US$6.85 million). The institutional
strengthening of MOA and MOLD would be based on rationalizing their role, structure and
functions. Thus the institutional strengthening component would focus on four key areas. The
first area would be identification of the role and functions of MOA and MOLD in a changing
liberalized agricultural sector framework which will be increasingly dominated by private sector
initiative, at the same time taking account of a changing fiscal environment characterized by
constrained resources. In this respect, some important work has already been done. A study on
the role of the Department of Veterinary Services (DVS) has already identified functions that
should no longer be undertaken by MOLD. Consensus already exists within MOA that the
Tractor Hire Services function should be privatized. Both ministries are currently undertaking
staffing norms studies under ASAO II which are expected to outline a staffing structure based on
a rationalized role for the two ministries. The project aims to implement the recommendations
arising from these studies and to develop additional strategies to deepen the restructuring process.
The second area, following on from the identification of the role and functions of MOA and
MOLD, would be strengthening the management of operations in select technical units that have
to remain in the public sector. In MOA this would include soil conservation and extension; in
MOLD it would include extension, range management advice and the epidemiological functions of
DVS. The third area would be facilitating commercialization in appropriate functions which,
though remaining within the public domain, have the potential for part or full cost recovery. This
would include extension on key cash crops or selected epidemiological services to large dairy
farmers. The fourth area of focus would be facilitating privatization of appropriate functions.
This would include Tractor Hire Services in MOA and Artificial Insemination services and
Clinical Services in MOLD.
4.13   The project would focus on several technical divisions and sectoral tasks in which
preconditions exist for immediate improvement (some areas have already been identified by
previous studies or other related work). Preconditions (or criteria) congruent with GOK policies
at societal and/or sectoral levels would be established and used in determnining which technical
divisions and sector tasks should receive attention in ASMP II. The capacity building process
would then focus on outlining the aims and objectives of the process for sectoral stakeholders and
technical leaders in a series of workshops. The objective would be to build commitment in the
technical divisions and among stakeholders in the sector for immediate improvement of the
function or task. ASMP II would finance the necessary technical assistance, training, studies,
vehicles/equipment and incremental operational costs required to develop detailed implementation
plans and successfully implement the institutional management dimensions of the project. Full
details of this component are given in Annex 5. Agreement was reached at negotiations that the
Government would, following work done under the capacity building component, discuss and



The Project                                                                       15
agree with the Bank on an action plan to strengthen key technical functions of MOA and MOLD
and implement the commercialization and/or privatization of other identified MOA/MOLD
functions.
4.14 Technical assistance would be provided as follows. First, two long-term international
consultants and various short-term international/local consultants would be financed by the
project. For the international consultants, an institutional management specialist with extensive
institutional strengthening and organizational development experience in the context of agriculture
in less developed countries would serve as TA team leader and be required for 36 months; the
other, an action-training and group facilitation specialist well versed in agricultural issues, would
be required for 18 months. This consultant's role would be to organize and facilitate the
workshops to be conducted to deepen understanding of the new role and functions of
MOA/MOLD. A pool of 30 person months of short-term local and international specialists to
assist with strategic management, policy implementation, financial sustainabiity, program
management and project management would also be financed with the primary task of improving
the management of the operations of those technical functions which would remain with the two
ministries. The detailed terms of reference for these consultants are provided in Annex 5.
Second, nine experienced Ministry officials would be seconded to the implementation team as
"officer consultants' for the life of the project. Three of these consultants would be entrusted
with the main responsibility for implementing the sugar subsector, cotton subsector and oilseeds
subsector components. The specific terms of reference and selection procedures for these officer
consultants are being prepared under the PPF. The TA provided under ASMP I would be
supported by the local advisors provided under ASAO II to MOA and MOLD (details in Annex
5). The local advisors would be the main source of policy analysis competence in determining the
new roles and functions of MOA and MOLD.
4.15   The project would also finance short-term overseas training courses in aspects of
institutional management improvement and visits by key managers in MOA and MOLD to
selective institutional management improvement sites in Africa and Asia, and to clearly defined
postgraduate training programs (up to Masters level) in areas which are critical for the future role
and functions of MOA and MOLD. The Government would provide, as a condition of credit
effectiveness, a training plan for the project period which would provide specific details on the
first-year training program. Additional specific areas for postgraduate training primarily in
Kenyan Universities would be identified during project implementation as the critical functions of
the ministries become more clearly defined. An indicative training proposal for the first project
year is given in Annex V, Attachment 2. Training programs for subsequent years will be
provided to IDA by March 31 of each year, together with an analysis of the impact of both short-
term and long-term training programs. The proposed project would also finance strategic analysis
and studies aimed at assisting the privatization efforts. The details of these studies would be
determined during the project implementation stage. Vehicles would be provided to the technical
assistance pool (a total of three four-wheel drive vehicles and three saloon cars). The primary
equipment requirements are for computers and software not already provided for under ASAO I.
A detailed inventory of the current computing capability in the two ministries and additional
requirements to be financed under ASMP 11 is being prepared under the PPF. The project also
proposes to fund computer maintenance costs, vehicle operating costs and costs associated with
introducing cost recovery methods (i.e., vehicle operating and maintenance costs, staff
allowances).
4.16 DRSRS Support Component (US$5.71 million). This component would provide broad
support to DRSRS for key aspects of institution strengthening, and would directly support
fundamental activities such as the GIS, aerial surveys, and the publications program. Broad



16                                                                            Chapter 4
institutional support would be directed at improving work planning and the management of the
individual projects within DRSRS's overall work program. Sub-components would include, first,
a detailed management study of DRSRS, which would examine the department's current capability
in terms of its existing staff and equipment resources, and would outline a core program of
activities over the next three years. The study would also identify critical training needs for staff,
equipment needs for quality control, expanding interaction with users and maintaining the GIS
operations, and options for expanding cost recovery in services provided. In addition, the study
would also specify a financial management system for DRSRS. A second project component
would be support for the GIS in the form of a long-term technical advisor and essential new
equipment. The advisor would primarily ensure that the system is used to support the core
program of DRSRS. A third component would be support for aerial services, including funding
for full salary and expenses for one internationally recruited chief pilot for three years, two
internationally recruited staff pilots for two years, and initially two, increasing to three, locally
recruited staff pilots for the full four years of the project; for the operation of aircraft for natural
resource-related work; and repair and maintenance costs. A fourth component would be support
for information services, including the publications program, library, literature database and
extension services to users. Funding would include support for (i) computer and peripheral
equipment (word processing, desktop publishing, printing, bibliographiclliterature database) and
supplies; (ii) staff training; (iii) workshops and extension training for users of DRSRS products;
and (iv) library materials and equipment. A fifth component would provide support for data
quality and staff productivity by providing office equipment for professional staff members of
DRSRS and limited clearly specified training. Further details, including the detailed terms of
reference for technical assistance and the proposed training plan are given in Annex 6.
4.17   NEAP Preparation and Implementation Component (US$2.2 million). This
component would support the final preparation and the subsequent implementation of the NEAP.
The process to be financed under the project would be a multi-sectoral approach with wide
participation. It would be a demand-driven, in-country, participatory process and is expected to
include: (a) appointment of a NEAP coordinator to run the activities of the Working Group on a
day-to-day basis; (b) establishment of a ministerial-level policy steering committee; (c) formation
of a NEAP Working Group under a strong government agency such as a strengthened National
Enviromnent Secretariat (NES); (d) formation of task groups to prepare individual components of
the NEAP; and (e) setting up an advisory group of principal donors, private sector representatives
and NGOs. The project would finance (a) costs associated with the establishment of the NEAP
working group (such as office equipment, transport, a library, staff salaries and operational costs);
(b) consultant fees for the task group members; (c) costs associated with organizing and
conducting workshops; and (d) costs of long-term and short-term TA needed for preparing
studies. Details of the NEAP process are given in Annex 7. Agreement was obtained at
negotiations that the NEAP coordinator would be appointed by Credit Effectiveness.
Project Costs and Fnancing
4.18   Total project costs, excluding taxes and duties during the four-year project period are
estimated at Ksh 688 million (US$21.5 million) with a foreign exchange component of about 52
percent. The cost estimates are summarized in Table 1, below.



The Project                                                                               17
Table 1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Local   Foreign    Total    Local    Foreign    Total
K Shillings (M)              US S (M)
Cotton Subsector                  0.96    51.52    52.48      0.03       1.61     1.64
Sugar Subsector                  15.04    34.24    49.28      0.47       1.07     1.54
Oilseeds Subsector               43.52    42.24     85.76      1.36      1.32     2.68
Cooperatives Subsector            2.88    4.48      7.36      0.09      0.14      0.23
MOA/MOLD Institutional          119.36    80.0    199.36      3.73      2.50      6.23
Strengthening
DRSRS                            60.16   105.60    165.76     1.88      3.30      5.18
NEAP                             54.40    9.60     64.00      1.70      0.30      2.00
Total Bascline Costs            296.32   327.68    624.00     9.26      10.24    19.50
Contingencies                    31.04    32.96    64.00      0.97       1.03     2.00
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS             327.36   360.64     688.0     10.23     11.27    21.50
4.19   An exchange rate of 1 US$ = 32 KSh has been used in the estimates. Base cost estimates
are also based on projected June 1992 prices and reflect recent quotations and appraisal estimates.
Physical and price contingencies arnounting to about 10 percent of base costs have been included.
4.20   The IDA Credit would finance 90 percent of project costs (US$19.4 million) net of taxes
and duties. GOK would finance the remaining 10 percent. IDA financing includes a PPF of
US$500,000 and an SPPF for the NEAP totalling US$86,000.
Procurement
4.21   The project procurement methods are shown in Table 2. About 75 percent of the
estimated project cost is allocated for TA and training. The provision for civil works, vehicles
and equipment accounts for roughly 8 percent, and the remaining 17 percent is allocated for
incremental operating expenses.
4.22   The Bank guidelines will be used in the hiring of consultants. The details of services for
the internationally and locally recruited consultants are provided in the Annexes describing each
of the components. These details were agreed with Government during negotiations. There would
be five major packages of consulting services required. Agreement was reached at negotiations
that the draft letters of invitation, including a draft contract for the technical assistance services
would be cleared with IDA prior to Credit effectiveness. A procurement timetable for these five
packages is given in Annex 8. GOK would provide a detailed program with regard to training,
which would specify the qualifications of the candidates, types, costs, training institutions and
period of training.
4.23   The only civil works under the project is the construction of a pre-fabricated building for
housing of project and TA staff. The civil works would be procured using local competitive
bidding (LCB) in accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA. The total requirement for
vehicles is small, and all vehicles are to be purchased and put to use during the first year of the



18                                                                              Chapter 4
project. The total cost of these vehicles is estimated at US$250,000, and they would be procured
on the basis of LCB, advertised locally in accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA. With
regard to procurement of goods, contracts estimated at US$100,000 or more would be bid by
international competitive bidding (ICB). Contracts for less would be bid by LCB (with the
aggregate amount not to exceed US$500,000), because adequate local competition exists for these
items. Small contracts estimated at less than US$20,000 each would employ shopping procedures
(minimum of three quotations) with the aggregate not to exceed US$200,000. Under ICB,
domestic manufacturers bidding for goods would be allowed a margin of preference of 15 percent
over the CIF price of competing foreign bidders or the existing rate of import duty, whichever is
lower. In the case of spares for aircraft, these would be purchased by inviting bids from the
original manufacturers of the aircraft and from manufacturers of components and sub-assemblies
(where applicable).
Table 2: PROCUREMENT METHOD
uss '000
ICB      LCB       Other   Special v/     Total
Civil Works                                   220                              220
(132)                           (132)
Vehicls                              -        250         -           -        250
_________  (250)                         (250)
Equipment                          440        550       200           -       1,190
(440)    (500)      (160)                (1,100)
Technical Assistance                  -         -     10,910          -      10,910
(10,910)              (10,910)
Training                                        -      5,300          -       5,300
(5,300)               (5,300)
Incanntal Operating Costs             -         -      2,780        850      3,630
(858)      (850)     (1,708)
TOTAL                               440      1,020    19,190        850      21,500
(44)      (882)   (17,228)      (850)    (19,400)
a Aircraft spares.
4.24   Procurement review. The civil works bidding package would be subject to IDA prior
review. All bidding packages for goods procured under ICB, consulting services, and goods
contracts estimated at US$50,000 or more would be subject to IDA prior review procedures. All
contracts below this threshold would be subject to IDA post review procedures. GOK would
prepare and submit for IDA approval standard bidding and contract documents for goods and
consulting services based on sample Bank documents. GOK would also promptly report on
contract awards and furnish to IDA quarterly reports giving updated information on bidding
packages and contracting. Contract documents for purchases of aircraft spares, along with the list
of spares to be purchased, should be submitted for IDA review and clearance.
Disbursements
4.25   The proposed project is expected to be implemented in four years. The disbursement
forecast is given in Annex 9 and extends over a five-year period. This is consistent with the
disbursement profile for TA projects in Kenya. Disbursements of IDA funds would be made
against major categories as shown in Table 3.



The Project                                                                      19
Table 3: MAJOR DISBURSEMENT CATEGORIES
Amount of the
Credit Allocated        % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                            SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                                 140,000              100% of foreign
expenditures
and 60% of
local
expenditures
(2) Vehicles, furniture and equipment           850,000              100% of foreign
expenditures
and 80% of
local
expenditures
(3) Consultants' services and studies         6,750,000              100%
(4) Training                                  2,710,000              100%
(5) Incremental operating costs
(a) Aircraft operation                    530,000              100% of foreign
(excluding fuel)                                            expenditures
(b) Vehicles                               90,000              100% of foreign
expenditures,
80% of local
expenditures up
to an aggregate
of $70,000,
50% of local
expenditures up
to an aggregate
of $100,000,
and 30% of
local
expenditures
thereafter.



20                                                            I            Chapter 4
Amount of the
Credit Allocated        % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                            SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(c) Office expenditures                     270,000               100% of foreign
and equipment, maintenance                                    expenditures,
and allowances                                                80% of local
maintenance, and                                              expenditures
allowances                                                    up to an
aggregate
$200,000, 50%
of local
expenditures
up to an
aggregate of
$320,000 and
30% of local
expenditures
thereafter.
(6) Refunding of Project Preparation            350,000               Amounts due
pursuant to
Section 2.02 (c)
of this
Agreement.
(7) Refunding of Special Project                 60,000               Amounts due
Preparation Advance                                               pursuant to
Section                                                           2.02 (c) of this
Agreement.
(8) Unallocated                               2,050,000
TOTAL                                     13.800.000



The Project                                                                      21
4.26   Disbursement categories have been designed to fit the project accounts. The items would
be clearly marked and separated from other sources of funding so that statements of expenditure
may be linked to relevant ledger accounts and supporting documentation. Disbursements for
incremental operating costs and local training costs would be made against monthly statements of
expenditure. The ledger accounts and supporting documentation would, however, be retained for
inspection by IDA and for audit purposes. Disbursements against all other items would be fully
documented except for contracts of less than US$50,000 equivalent for which certified statements
of expenditure would be used and supporting documentation retained for IDA review during
supervision missions.
Accounts and Audits
4.27   A single set of consolidated accounts would be prepared for the project. The
Government's appropriation accounts would no longer be accepted by IDA as an adequate
representation of expenditures incurred under the project. Responsibility for preparing the project
accounts would rest with the project Financial Controller (FC) who would be appointed
specifically for this purpose (the terms of reference for the FC are given in Annex 12). The FC
would be attached to the ASMP Management and Implementation Committee (para. 5.7) in
MOA/MOLD. The FC would obtain information from MOCD, DRSRS and the NEAP
coordinator and incorporate this information in the consolidated accounts. Sample formats for
presenting the accounts are given in Annex 12. The accounts would be audited by independent
auditors satisfactory to IDA. During negotiations agreement was obtained from GOK that: (a) the
Financial Controller would be appointed and in place by Credit Effectiveness; and (b) the
accounts would be audited by an independent auditor. A certified copy of the accounts, together
with the auditors report, would be submitted to IDA within nine months of the closing of the
fiscal year, including a separate opinion on the records and accounts used to support disbursement
against statements of expenditures (SOEs).
4.28   A foreign exchange Special Account would be established for the project with a
commercial bank through the Central Bank of Kenya on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. Upon Credit Effectiveness an initial deposit of US$200,000 equivalent would be deposited
in the account, representing about 4 months operating expenditures. Operation of the Special
Account, including replenishments, would follow Bank procedures.



22                                                                         Chapter 5
5
ORGANIZATION, MANAGEM1ENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
5.1   Project organization, management and implementation would have three distinct facets.
First, three of ASMP II's components are "stand-alone' components and would be organized,
managed and implemented independently. These are the cooperatives component, the DRSRS
component and the NEAP. Second, the cotton, sugar, and oilseeds components are an integral
part of the capacity building component and would therefore be organized, managed and
implemented in an integrated manner. Third, the privatization of cotton ginneries and sugar
factories would be managed and implemented by MOA under the overall supervision and
guidance of the Executive Secretariat and Technical Unit (ESTU, details in para. 5.10) following
the processes outlined in the Parastatal Reform and Privatization TA Project. However, as stated
in para. 4.28, all seven of ASMP II's components would be integrated where financial reporting
is concerned. Financial information on project-related expenditures would be maintained
according to the established format for each of the components, and this information would be
transmitted to the project financial controller.
5.2   The cooperatives component would be implemented by MOCD, with the head of the
Development Planning Department as the project coordinator. The director of DRSRS would be
responsible for implementing the DRSRS component. A steering committee would be formed to
oversee DRSRS's overall activities. The committee would be chaired by the permanent secretary
(PS) of Planning and Development, and would consist of the PSs of MOA, MOLD, Ministry of
Environment and Natural Resources, Ministry of Reclamation and Development of Arid and
Semi-Arid Areas and Wastelands, Director of the Kenya Wildlife Service and Director general of
the Kenya Agricultural Research Institute. The Steering Committee would meet at least twice a
year and would be responsible for ensuring that the DRSRS work program focuses on Kenya's
high priority natural resource-related issues. DRSRS would prepare a management/work plan by
March 31 of each year, commencing in 1993 which would be endorsed by the Steering
Committee and discussed and agreed with the Bank before the beginning of the fiscal year.
Agreement was reached at negotiations that the DRSRS Steering Committee would be established
by Credit Effectiveness.
5.3    Details of the NEAP process are given in Annex 7. The process to be followed would be
a multi-sectoral approach with wide in-country participation. The NEAP process will be done in
two stages. Stage I will focus on getting agreement in Kenya on the process itself and the
institutional framework to carry it out. This will involve the following steps: (a) explanation of
the concept of a NEAP process based on openness and broad participation through a series of
individual meetings; (b) formation of an informal but representative group (Treasury, Planning,
NES, other selected government agencies, key donors, NGOs) to discuss and agree on the Kenya
NEAP process to be followed; (c) confirmation of political support for the process by the Minister
of Environment and Natural Resources presenting the process to Cabinet for consideration and



Organization, Management and Implementation                                      23
approval; and (d) appointment of a NEAP Coordinator in consultation with the Bank. Stage n
will be the actual carrying out of the agreed process This will involve the following steps: (a)
appointment of an appropriate chairperson of the NEAP Presidential Commission or Working
Group; (b) preparation of terms of reference for Task Groups; and (c) initiation of the work of
the Task Groups. Agreement was obtained from GOK at negotiations that this process would be
followed in preparing the NEAP.
5.4    The MOAIMOLD capacity building component and the cotton, sugar and oilseeds
subsector components would be implemented under the overall direction of an agriculture sector
committee (ASC), which would have responsibility for overall policy guidance, resource
allocation and review for implementation of these four components except in the case of managing
the privatization process of the cotton ginneries and sugar factories. ASC would be co-chaired by
the PSs of MOA and MOLD, and would consist of the director of the External Resources
Department, a representative of ESTU, the chairperson of the Cotton Board and the chairperson
of the Kenya Sugar Authority (KSA). In addition, ASC would co-opt as members,
representatives of the parastatals involved and representatives from private sector concerns. The
chairperson of the ODC would also automatically become a member as soon as this body has
been set up and the chairperson identified. The committee would meet regularly in workshop
sessions planned and facilitated by project staff (provisions have been made to conduct such
workshops under the capacity building component). It would also be responsible for approving
the proposed postgraduate programs. The overall responsibility for managing the privatization
process of cotton ginneries and sugar factories would rest with ESTU.
5.5    The day-to-day management of these components (except for managing the privatization
of cotton ginneries and sugar factories) would be the responsibility of the ASMP Management and
Implementation Committee (MIC). The chairman of this committee would be the project
coordinator. This committee would comprise the heads of the Development Planning
Departments of MOA and MOLD, project 'officer consultants" seconded to the project,
representative division chiefs from the two ministries, and the project Financial Controller. The
committee would develop project teams in the technical and sectoral areas. Specifically, project
teams would be developed to implement the cotton, sugar and oilseeds subsector components.
TMis committee would be assisted by appropriate technical assistance which has been provided for
in the project. The implementation of the components of ASMP II would form an integral part of
the capacity building exercise in the two ministries.
5.6    The Privatization of Cotton Ginneries and Sugar Factories. The guidelines for the
entire process of privatization, including preparation of the enterprise for sale and the execution
and implementation of the divestiture transaction, are outlined in. more detail in the Government's
Policy Paper on Public Enterprise Reform and Privatization of July 1, 1992 (see Annex 14). The
guidelines are aimed at ensuring that each divestiture transaction adheres to a standard set of
procedures that is both transparent and subject to public scrutiny. The guidelines recognize that
each divestiture transaction is likely to have certain aspects which differ from all others and,
therefore, the guidelines will be used flexibly rather than as a fixed set of rules and regulations.
The principles that will guide the privatization process are consistent with the objectives of
transparency, a level playing field for all participants in the process, and creation of a competitive
market environment. The main principles are: (a) enterprises will be divested into competitive
markets-purchasers will not obtain an intact or unregulated monopoly; (b) purchasers will not be
accorded special protection or access to credit on concessionary terms; (c) where Government
retains a minority shareholding, it will not exercise any special voting rights except in limited,
and well defined, policy areas; (d) there will be a moratorium on new Government investments in



24                                                                             Chapter 5
enterprises that are to be privatized; (e) no specific class of potential purchasers will be excluded
from participating in the process; and (f) all transactions will be conducted in a transparent
manner including disclosure to potential investors of all relevant information on the enterprise to
be sold, publication of bidding procedures and criteria for bid evaluation, public opening of bids,
public disclosure of winning bid and conditions of sale, availability in the public domain of
valuation of assets and details of all offers received. In addition, the principles articulated in the
policy paper make it clear that no direct sale or negotiations by private treaty will be entertained
except after publicly solicited bids have been obtained.
5.7    None of the six CB ginneries nor the five sugar factories are listed among the 33 strategic
state enterprises to be retained in the public domain in the Policy Paper on Public Enterprise
Reform and Privatization. The Mumias sugar factory has already been included in GOK's list of
enterprises selected for the first phase of the divestiture program. Agreement was reached at
negotiations that the six CB ginneries and the other four sugar factories would be submitted for
inclusion in the selected list for the first phase divestiture program as stipulated in the
government's July 1 policy paper.
5.8    The process of privatization of cotton ginneries and sugar factories would conform to the
basic policies, procedures and institutional arrangements to be followed under the proposed
Parastatal Reform and Privatization Technical Assistance Project. ASMP II would finance the TA
necessary to take the cotton ginneries and sugar factories up to the point of sale, after which the
privatization processes under the Parastatal Reform and Privatization Technical Assistance Project
would apply. Some of the key aspects of the process are described below.
5.9    The President of Kenya has appointed a high level policy-making body called the
Parastatal Reform Program Committee (PRPC) under the chairmanship of the Vice President.
The functions of the PRPC are: (a) to supervise and coordinate the implementation of the
Parastatal Reform Program in general; (b) to determine priorities and sequencing of sales; (c) to
approve operational guidelines for privatization to be followed by ESTU; (d) to give final
approval for divestiture actions (reasons justifying any rejections are to be recorded in the
minutes); (e) to monitor and evaluate program implementation; and (f) to provide political impetus
for privatization and participate in building public awareness and a national consensus in support
of the program.
5.10   The management, coordination and implementation of the divestiture program, as
approved by the PRPC, will be the responsibility of ESTU, which acts as the secretariat of the
PRPC. The functions of ESTU are: (a) to formulate and recommend divestiture policies,
procedures, programs and guidelines; (b) to prepare target lists of privatization candidates for
PRPC approval; (c) to prepare enterprises for privatization and monitor all technical privatization-
related consultant activities, including valuation, selection of privatization methods and sale
techniques, preparation of prospectuses or offering memoranda, elaboration of marketing plans,
identification of financing options, etc; (d) to organize the bidding process, receive and evaluate
offers and proposals and prepare recommendations to PRPC; and (e) in collaboration with the
Capital Markets Authority, to carry out all activities related to public issues of shares, including
appointment of intermediaries, lawyers, etc. Consequently, the consultants working on bringing
the cotton ginneries and sugar factories up to the point of sale would be supervised by ESTU.
Additional contingency funds have been included under ASMP II to finance further technical
assistance required (subject to approval) to allow ESTU to undertake further preparation of the
cotton ginneries and sugar factories up to the point of sale and/or to implement their privatization.
Agreement was reached with Government at negotiations that terms of reference of the consultants



Organization, Management and Implementation                                         25
working on the privatization of cotton ginneries and sugar factories would be approved by ESTU
prior to proposals being invited and that ESTU would be solely responsible for supervising the
work of the consultants.
5.11   Until the privatization process of the cotton ginneries and the sugar factories is
completed, the oversight of the operations, including any envisaged restructuring of the CB
ginneries and sugar factories, would be the responsibility of the newly established Department of
Government Investments and Public Enterprises (DGIPE), as stated in the Government Policy
Paper. Details of DGIPE's functions and responsibilities are clearly articulated in the Policy
Paper. DGIPE's main role would be to lead the reform process and to represent GOK's
ownership function with regard to the cotton ginneries and sugar factories. DGIPE would
therefore supervise the performance of the six cotton ginneries and the five sugar factories,
monitoring their investments and debt management, and acting as the accounting officer for all
their investments, debts and voted funds. DGIPE is also expected to coordinate the privatization
program with ESTU. More details of the institutional arrangements for managing public
enterprise reform and privatization are given in the Staff Appraisal Report for the Parastatal
Reform and Privatization Technical Assistance Project.
5.12   The current legal framework, as it applies to the cotton and the sugar industries, provides
no impediments for the privatization process. However, a review of the legal and regulatory
framework is being undertaken to assess the legal aspects of privatization which would allow
identification of procedural bottlenecks to the process. Following the identification of possible
issues that might impede the process, steps would be taken to remove them. In addition, the
Parastatal Reform and Privatization Technical Assistance Project is providing logistical assistance
to the Office of the Attorney General, which will help alleviate any logistical and operational
problems that may delay the revision of the Cotton Act and the Cooperative Act and the drafting
of the oilseeds regulations.
5.13   The privatization of the cotton ginneries and the sugar factories would have a staff
redundancy impact. In addition, the project would also have an impact on the staffing patterns in
two boards (CB and KSA) and possibly also in the parastatal KNTC. A detailed study on a
possible social safety net scheme has just been carried out, in anticipation of this eventuality, as
part of the preparation efforts of the Parastatal Reform and Privatization Technical Assistance
Project. The provisions of such a social safety net scheme would apply to those workers made
redundant as a result of the privatization of the cotton ginneries and sugar factories and the
restructuring of the CB, KSA and KNTC. Initial recommendations of such a scheme include a
voluntary package, which is largely cash based. It is anticipated that a tsafety net retrenchment
fund" would be established along with supporting initiatives for retraining.
5.14   The project is also expected to have a significant impact on the structure, role and
staffing patterns in three ministries (MOA, MOLD and MOCD). A major implication of the
reform/restructuring effort would be the ensuing staff redundancies. This issue is being explored
with the Govermnent under the ongoing dialogue on civil service reform. The staff reduction
initiatives in the three ministries would need to come under an overall civil service reform
umbrella. ASMP II aims to provide the blueprint for restructuring MOA, MOLD and MOCD,
with implementation of the restructuring to be executed under the overall civil service reform
program, which would have a social safety net attached to it.
5.15   Midterm Review and Project Reporting Arrangernents. At the end of the second year
of project implementation, a midterm review (MTR) would be undertaken jointly by the



26                                                                         Chapter 5
Government and IDA. The MTR would focus on progress made in implementing the various
components of the project as specified in the key implementation indicators schedule shown in
Annex 10. Since the main emphasis of the project is on provision of technical assistance services,
the MTR would evaluate the process by which the TA was recruited and managed and assess its
impact and sustainability. The criteria for evaluating the impact of the TA and the performance
of the consultants would be discussed and agreed with IDA prior to the MTR. The MTR would
also review the steps taken to implement the key recommendations arising from the TA and
studies financed under the project. Agreement was reached at negotiations that the MTR would
be conducted two years after project effectiveness, and in any case no later than December 31,
1995. Agreement was also reached that three months prior to the MTR, GOK would prepare and
furnish to IDA reports as shall be needed to undertake the review. Semi-annual progress reports,
to be finalized and submitted to IDA by March 31 and September 30 each year, would be the
responsibility of the individual component coordinators (i.e, the head of the Development
Planning Division, MOCD, for the cooperatives component, the director of DRSRS for the
DRSRS component, the NEAP coordinator for the NEAP component and the chairperson of MIC
for the other components). These progress reports would be channelled through the ASC. The
format of the progress reports would be discussed in detail during the first IDA supervision
mission. A Project Completion Report would be prepared not later than six months after the
Credit closing date. Agreement on the above was reached at negotiations.



Benefits and Risks                                                                27
6
BENEFITS, RISKS & SUSTAINABILITY
Benefits
6.1    The project would have five main benefits: first, strategies would have been determined
and key actions taken (including the divestiture of public sector enterprises) to develop key cash
crop subsectors such as sugar, cotton and oilseeds within an appropriate policy and operating
environment and with greater private sector involvement; second, a strategy would have evolved
and action taken to re-orient agricultural cooperatives to being more member-controlled,
effectively run entities less burdened by Government intervention; third, the role, structure and
functions of MOA/MOLD would be rationalized and supported by strengthened capacity to
deliver services; fourth, the capacity in Kenya to collect, collate and analyze information on the
physical resource base would have been rationalized and strengthened; and fifth, a NEAP for
Kenya would have been formulated.
6.2    There would be other benefits from the project as well. The project's focus on
improving the incentive structure for stimulating agricultural production, and on improving
services in general would have a considerable impact on small farmers' incomes. The focus on
increasing production of cotton, sugar and oilseeds would reduce the need for imports of these
commodities. The inclusion in the project of subsectors such as cooperatives, cotton, sugar and
oilseeds would allow the Government to take a wider approach to the management of the
agricultural sector, allowing policy-makers to factor in the impact of policy measures in one
subsector on others. This ability would come into sharper focus as the liberalization process
would work its way through the agricultural sector in general and in the economy as a whole.
Also, the privatization options developed as a result of the project (particularly in the cotton,
sugar and cooperatives subsectors) would allow an enhanced capability within Government to
undertake restructuring/privatization of key agricultural parastatals and increasing productivity in
these subsectors. Finally, the support to DRSRS and to the NEAP process under the project
would lead to the enhanced capability within Government to undertake meaningful environmental
assessment of proposed programs and projects.
Risks
6.3    There are three main risks. The first is the ability of the Government to coordinate the
various technical assistance initiatives under the project. A clear assignment of
ministerial/departmental responsibilities, and the overseeing of the entire process by the effective
functioning of the Agricultural Sector Committee, would mitigate the project coordination
problem. The second main risk is the unsustained and fragmented Government commitment to
effectively utilizing the TA to improve its institutional and management capacity. The project is
partly designed to help the Government carry out reforms which have either commenced or have
been agreed to in principle; with regard to the cotton, sugar, DRSRS and NEAP components,



28                                                                         Chapter 6
Govermment commitment has already been satisfactorily demonstrated and the project will assist in
deepening and strengthening that commitment to implement key actions and reforms. With regard
to the other components, particularly the capacity building initiative in MOA and MOLD, the
participatory and consensus-building approach to identifying key actions would build commitment
as the process evolves and implementation experience deepens. In addition, periodic and close
supervision of the project (planned IDA supervision inputs are given in Annex 11) coupled with
the continued dialogue on the need for improved capacity within Government to manage the
ongoing reform program, would attempt to sustain Govermment commitment during project
implementation. A third risk is the Government's ability to motivate and/or retain trained staff.
This issue would be addressed in a comprehensive manner as part of a civil service reform
program. Under ASAO II, some interim measures have already been introduced to increase staff
productivity by increasing operation and maintenance support and initiating staffing norms studies
which would provide the basis for rationalizing the staffing complement within MOA and MOLD.
MOA, MOLD, and to some extent MOCD, would be the best placed ministries to undergo
reform (which is likely to include both a reduction in staffing levels and a positive adjustment of
professional staff remuneration) when the civil service reform program becomes a reality.
Sustainability
6.4    The project would not result in a net increase in the need for government resources to
sustain project initiated activities. Increased outlays in some areas would be more than offset
by the savings expected from privatization, restructuring and improved cost recovery. Discrete
TA and training activities are major components of the project which would largely be completed
during the life of the project. The project aims to lay the framework for the sustainable
development of the cotton, sugar, and oilseed subsectors. In initiating privatization of cotton
ginneries and sugar factories, restructuring the CB and KSA and establishing a self-sustaining
ODC, the project would build long-term self sustainability in these sectors, reducing the need for
government outlays. Estimated government outlays to support the regulatory structure in these
three subsectors is around US$500,000 per annum. Similarly, by refocusing the role of MOA
and MOLD (and to a lesser extent that of MOCD) and restructuring their functions, and
increasing cost recovery, the project would enhance the financial sustainability of their activities.
The project would also aim to improve DRSRS' priority setting and planning capabilities,
improve its link with major client groups and build a sustained demand for its services.
Additional government financial support (approximately US$1.5 million per annum) would be
required for DRSRS in the medium term. The preparation of the NEAP would be completed
under the project.



Agreements, Assurances and Recommendations                                       29
7
AGREEMENTS, ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1    The following agreements were reached with GOK during negotiations:
By Credit Effectiveness
(a)    A training plan for the project period, with specific details of the first year
training program would be provided (para. 4.15);
(b)    The NEAP Coordinator would be appointed (para. 4.17);
(c)    The five technical assistance proposals would be prepared and the letters of
invitation packages (consisting of the TORs, model contracts and short lists) for
each proposal would be cleared with IDA (para. 4.22);
(d)    The Financial Controller would be appointed (para. 4.27); and
(e)    The DRSRS Steering Committee would be established (para. 5.2).
During Project Implementation
(a)    The Cotton Board would be restructured by December 31, 1993; and
Government would bring to the point of sale all six ginneries not later than June
30, 1994, with at least three privatization transactions completed (para. 4.04);
(b)    The Government would, following the completion of the SSRS, bring to the point
of sale all five sugar factories not later than December 31, 1994, with at least
two privatization transactions completed (para. 4.06);
(c)    The Government would by December 31, 1993, set up the ODC and establish a
mechanism satisfactory to IDA to enable ODC to be self-financing (para. 4.08);
(d)    Following completion of the studies on the cooperatives sector, the Government
would discuss and agree with the Bank by December 31, 1993, an action plan to
implement the recommendations of the studies (para. 4.11);
(e)    The Government would, following work done under the capacity building
component, discuss and agree with the Bank on an action plan to strengthen key



30                                                                           Chapter 7
technical functions of MOA/MOLD and effect commercialization and/or
privatization of other identified MOA/MOLD functions (para. 4.13);
(f)    An annual training program would be provided to IDA by March 31 of each
year, together with an analysis of the impact of the previous year's short- and
long-term training (para. 4.15);
(g)    A single set of consolidated accounts (independent of the Appropriation
Accounts) would be maintained for the project as a whole and these accounts
would be audited by a firm of independent auditors; and the accounts would be
submitted to the Bank within nine months of the fiscal year, including a separate
opinion on the records and accounts used to support disbursements against SOEs
(para. 4.27);
(h)    By March 31 each year commencing in 1993, DRSRS would prepare a
management/work plan endorsed by the Steering Committee and discussed and
agreed with IDA (para. 5.2);
(i)    The TORs of the consultants working on privatization of cotton ginneries and
sugar factories would be approved by ESTU, prior to proposals being invited,
and their work would be supervised by ESTU (para. 5.10);
(j)    A midterm review would be conducted two years after project effectiveness and
in any case no later than December 31, 1995 three months prior to the review,
the government would prepare and furnish to IDA such reports as shall be
needed for the review; and semi-annual progress reports would be furnished to
the Bank by March 31 and September 30 each year (para. 5.15).
Recommendation
7.02   With the above assurances, agreements and conditions, the project would be suitable for a
credit of SDR 13.8 million (US$19.4 mnillion equivalent) to the Government of Kenya on standard
IDA terms, with 40 years maturity.



- 31-
Annex 1
Page 1 of 9
KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Cotton Subsector Development Component
Introduction
1.    Cotton in Kenya can be grown successfully and it is apparent that farmers are more than willing
to grow the crop provided the right incentive structure exists. However, the industry is being constrained
by: (a) an inappropriate institutional structure; (b) poor processing and marketing arrangements; and (c)
inadequate technological support for cotton production. Unless immediate steps are taken to address these
constraints the production of cotton will continue to be a marginal enterprise for the farmer and thus the
industry will continue to stagnate founder at the current uneconomic levels of production.
Profile of the Cotton Industry in Kenya
2.     Cotton production in Kenya has varied over the years but it never has been a major industry.
Over the last thirty years production peaked in 1978/79 at about 60,000 bales and today it is
approximately 30,000 bales (the domestic spinning requirement is around 120,000 bales). The low
production levels are characteristic of a production system that is at a very low technological level
reflecting the current institutional and economic climate for cotton production in the country. Compared
to other crops the return from cotton is very poor and accordingly farmers place a low priority on cotton
growing. The situation has worsened in recent years and average yields have declined. In 1979 average
yields for rainfed cotton ranged from 300 kilograms of seed cotton per hectare in Nyanza to 600
kilograms in Rift Valley. In comparison, in 1989, average yields declined by about 50 kilograms per
hectare below the 1979 average.
3.    Cotton can however be a profitable crop in Kenya. If the industry structure is reformed and the
farmers are provided the right incentives it is possible for production levels to go up dramatically.
Projections indicate the possibility of a production level of 72,000 bales in 1995 and 132,000 bales in
2000.
4.    The Legal and Institutional Framework. The legal framework for the cotton industry is
provided by the Cotton Act. The Act established the Cotton Board which consists of fifteen persons.
Of these fifteen people only four are elected by cotton growers. The remaining eleven are appointees.
The principal objective of the CB as stated in the act is to promote the cotton industry in Kenya. The
particular functions of the CB are to: (a) plan, monitor and regulate cotton growing and ginning; (b)
license and control ginners and other persons dealing with cotton; (c) regulate and carry out quality
control of raw cotton and cotton ginning; (d) regulate the export or import of cotton lint or cotton seed;
(e) advise the Minister on the pricing of raw cotton; (f) regulate and control the quality and supply of
planting seed through ginneries; (g) carry out and promote research and development in cotton production
and processing technology; (h) provide training or coordinate training for any aspect of the cotton
industry; and (i) render any service prescribed by regulations made under section 41 of the Act.



- 32 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 9
5.     Section 41 of the act provides the Minister with extensive powers ranging from production
matters, pricing of raw cotton, licensing powers, the physical movement of all cotton products and the
collection of fees. The Act therefore has allowed the CB to become involved in activities, such as
installing and operating gins, in which it has no comparative advantage in doing. The provisions of the
Act have also acted as a constraint to greater private sector initiative and investment in the sector.
6.     The CB has been the principal actor in the cotton industry in Kenya. However it has failed in
its principal objective to promote the cotton industry in Kenya. This is evidenced by the low level of
output brought about by very poor yields, poor farmer returns and low acreages sown to the crop; the
poor condition of the ginning industry; and uncertain and poor marketing procedures.
7.     Staff numbers at the CB have escalated and they are now at a level of about 460 full-time
personnel. The CB has been financed in part by their increasing returns from the sale of lint and cotton
seed. In 1985/86 the estimated return to the CB after paying for seed cotton, ginning, the delivery fee
and the return of cotton seed to the farrner for planting was KShs6.64 per kilogram of lint sold. In
1990/91 the estimated return was KShsl 1.74 and in the current year it is KShs 18.99. It is clear that the
farmer and industry generally has not benefitted from these substantial profit margins secured by the CB
through a closed and uncompetitive ginning and marketing system.
8.    The second most important actor in the industry have been the Cotton Cooperatives. Cooperatives
have not performed any better than the CB. Management is weak, financial status is unknown but
believed to be poor and assets are in a run down condition.  MOCD has failed to monitor the
performance of cooperatives and failed to provide timely audits.
9.     A positive development in the industry following the liberalization in early 1992, has been the
growing importance of private sector gins in the country. It is estimated that the private gins now take
in about 40 percent of the crop, and are competing effectively with the CB gins and the poorly run
cooperative gins. It is clear that the industry would benefit from greater private sector involvement in
the ginning activity. In this scenario there is no room for the CB gins in the future, nor for cooperative
gins unless they can operate efficiently and compete effectively with the private sector gins.
10.   Processing and Marketing of Seed Cotton. Prior to the current ginning season all ginneries in
Kenya operated as an agent for the CB and ginned the crop for a set fee which was determined by the
Board. Up until recently the fee for ginning was KShs3.25 per kilogram of lint. The ginning fee of
KShs3.25 has been in force for many years and many of the cooperative ginneries hold that this low fee
is the major reason for their current financial plight. It should be noted however that a number of private
gimnners have also been operating under this same fee structure and they have continued to gin and make
profits. The fee for ginning has been discontinued with the liberalization of the industry as ginners are
now selling lint and cotton seed directly to spinners and oil mills respectively.
11.   The total estimated capacity of all gins (including one planned gin) is 90,000 bales over a twenty
week ginning season. The fundamental assumption of this estimate is that all ginneries are in good
operational condition and maintained regularly. The current actual capacity of ginneries is not known
but it believed to be substantially less than the estimated 90,000 bales. Nevertheless, there is more than
adequate capacity for the current Kenyan crop of about 30,000 bales. If the industry structure is
improved (an output of 130,000 bales is achievable) additional ginning capacity will be required by the
year 2000 but, if the industry is deregulated, the private sector will, in all probability, build new
ginneries.



- 33 -
Annex I
Page 3 of 9
12.    Prior to this current season all lint was marketed by the CB on the basis of price negotiation with
local spinners. In January 1992 the Government announced that the industry was to be liberalized and
as a result private and cooperative ginners are now marketing their lint direct to spinners. CB ginneries
continue to market their lint through their head office. The method of sale currently utilised by the
private and cooperative ginners is in line with world industry practice even though it lacks the
sophistication of many cotton marketers. It is important to recognize that this marketing system will
develop the necessary degree of refinement as the size of the crop grows and as the knowledge of cotton
marketing increases in the industry.
13.     Kenyan farmers are receiving about 60% of the value of lint and cotton seed. This has ranged
between 50% in the 1987/88 season to 67% in 1990/91. These returns are net of costs associated with
ginning and delivery of seed cotton to the gin. By comparison, farmers in Australia receive about 90%
of the value of seed and lint ex- gin yard. This suggests that the Kenyan farmers' share of the total lint
price could be greatly improved making cotton growing attractive .
14.    Classification of Seed Cotton and the Grading of Lint. Currently seed cotton in Kenya is
classified into two categories. These grades are AR; the best grade, and BR. The segregation of BR
from AR is primarily based on color. Irrespective of the processes employed in a cotton gin, segregation
of seed cotton into long even running lots is important to ensure consistent even lines of lint. This is not
happening in Kenya. Apart from the fact that lines of each variety are too mixed to ensure a high quality
even output, varieties are being mixed. Also, varieties have suffered from severe genetic degradation
so, even though a farmer or ginner believes that he may be picking or ginning a particular variety, there
are now differences within each of the two varieties from within a given cropping area. The result is a
lot of 50 bales of lint which is not homogeneous. The problem is exacerbated further as planting seed
from the already very mixed seed cotton is used for the following year's crop.
15.    No formal grading (classification) of lint quality is currently done in Kenya. This puts domestic
spinners at a significant disadvantage vis-a-vis their international competitors. Kenya will have to develop
an international grading system if it plans to compete in the export market.
Existing Technological Constraints Affecting Cotton Production
16.    Availability of Good Quality Seed. The availability of good quality seed is a serious constraint
to the development of the industry. Currently, ginned cotton seed is treated with a copper based
fungicide and bagged at the ginneries for distribution to farmers. The CB designates the quantity of seed
that each ginnery must put aside, treat and bag for distribution. This seed is either sold to farmers, for
cash or on crop credit at a price set by the CB, or given free to farmers under a production contract.
The CB, Cooperative Unions, Primary Societies and private ginners all sell seed to the farmers under one
or other of these arrangements.
17.    This system has some major inherent problems. These are: (a) Genetic degradation of the cotton
varieties; (b) poor germination of seed resulting in excessive use of planting seed to achieve a plant stand;
(c) seed is not delinted and remains a major source of disease infection; (d) there is no control over
varietal mixing; (e) seed is treated with outdated chemical, in a haphazard manner, resulting in little or
no effective protection against disease; (f) there is no attempt at quality control of planting seed and no
incentive to produce quality planting seed.



- 34 -
Annex I
Page 4 of 9
18.   The net result of the current planting seed production system is a low quality product, of dubious
genetic origin, with unknown germination rates, haphazardly treated with ineffective chemicals providing
little disease control. Farmers, quite rightfully are very reluctant to pay the price set for it because of
these problems.
19.   Poorly Organized Research.  Cotton research has been undertaken in Kenya since 1950,
initially by the British Cotton Development Corporation (CDC) as part of a research program covering
Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda. The CDC finished operating in 1975. Cotton research was then
undertaken by the Kenya Agricultural Research Institute (KARI), which at that time was part of the
MOA. In 1987 KARI was placed under the direction of the Ministry of Research Science and
Technology (MRST). Funding is provided through the Ministry for specific cotton research programs.
20.   KARI's research activities are confined to rainfed cotton. The National Irrigation Board (NIB)
undertakes all research into irrigated cotton as part of its program of providing agronomic services to the
irrigated cotton industry. Its activities include agronomy, entomology, and varietal testing. The NIB
coordinates its research activities with KARI. KARI maintains a loose association with MOA and assists
with training of extension staff through workshops and field days.
21.    Cotton research has always had a low priority in Kenya, compared to other cash and food crops.
Funding allocations to the NFRC's has been progressively reduced in recent years; e.g. funding was
reduced by 25% from 1987/88 to 1988/89. No external funding from donor agencies has been available
for cotton research since 1986. The NFRC's are able to generate some income through sales of produce,
however the contribution is insignificant to their total budget. As funding has decreased the proportion
of recurrent expenditure to development expenditure for trial work has increased. Overhead recurrent
costs e.g. building maintenance, salaries, transportation costs etc, have taken priority over operational
funding for trial work. Thus while the organizational structure has been maintained at a static level, the
volume of trial work has decreased dramatically and many planned projects have been shelved or
postponed indefinitely.
22.    Cotton Extension. At present extension activities in the cotton subsector are channelled through
two main organizations, the MOA and the CB. The MOA infrastructure is very extensive. e.g., in
Nyanza Province there are 117 staff at the sub-location level, WHO provides extension services on all
crops. MOA also provides support in the publication of farmers manuals and technical literature and
press releases for the local media. The CB provides two types of extension services: (a) ginnery
inspectors to provide technical advice to co operative and private gins and enforce CB regulations and
(b) field officers at regional offices and gins to coordinate buying programs, liaise with farmers and
perform an extension role.
23.   Cotton occupies a low priority in MOA's extension activities. The main emphasis is on food
crops. Field staff lack training in cotton production techniques and adequate instruction materials. The
MOA is suffering from lack of funding. Little money is currently available for travel and training
activities. There are also problems in packaging research results into a form that can be used by
extension workers in the field. Consequently, farmer's adoption rate of recommended practices was low.
Notwithstanding the above, field observations indicate that farmers are generally aware of recommended
practices. These farmers could identify their insect pests and were aware of the benefits of full spray
programs and early planting. They deliberately chose a production system geared to minimum cash cost
and minimum labour effort, however they recognized that they were loosing potential yield. They
expressed a willingness to adopt recommended practices if cotton production was made more profitable.



- 35 -
Annex I
Page 5 of 9
Scenario for Future Development of the Cotton Industry
24.   The cotton industry in Kenya has the potential to develop significantly if major reforms are
undertaken. The thrust of the reform measures should be aimed at creating the appropriate legal and
institutional framework for the development of a competitive dynamic industry; deepening and widening
the liberalization process already being undertaken by improving processing and marketing of lint; and
providing appropriate support services to farmers to increase yields. Measures to be taken are explored
in detail below.
25.    Reforms in the Legal and Institutional Framework. It is clear that the Cotton Act has to be
modified to provide the legal framework for a competitive industry. The Cotton Act defines the functions
of the Board and these should be reviewed. In particular, the following roles of the Board should be re-
evaluated: (a) the regulation of the cotton industry; (b) the licensing of ginners and other persons dealing
with cotton; (c) regulation of and carrying out quality control of raw cotton and cotton ginning; (d)
regulation of exports and imports of cotton lint or cotton seed; and advising the Minister on the pricing
of raw cotton.
26.    Apart from the above functions, sections 19 and 41 of the act also requires careful review. In
view of the recommendations for the privatization and deregulation of the industry most of the Minister's
and CB's powers under this section would need to be revised. Additionally, Section 22 of the act dealing
with CB's role of purchasing and selling all lint should be reviewed and amended.
27.   In a competitive industry structure there is no prima facie need for the Board to continue to exist
in its present form. The Board should be restructured and include representatives from farmers (perhaps
one farmer from each cotton producing province), spinners representatives, ginners and marketers, and
an executive director. The executive director of the restructured CB would head a small secretariat of
probably no more than ten professionals plus administrative support. The restructured CB would not have
a general industry regulatory role. Its main aim would be to provide a forum and channel through which
industry information can pass. It will be an initiator of many aspects of the industry based on feedback
from the entire cotton industry. The main role of the Board will be to determine industry standards and
policy in the areas of cotton seed breeding, research and extension and lint classification and planting seed
sales. The secretariat will also monitor industry quality control standards and collect and disseminate
price and production information.
28.    The Cotton Act will need to be modified to restructure the CB. The restructured Board will fund
itself by providing lint classification and testing services and through the distribution of planting seed.
Additional funding may be necessary through an industry levy. Any levy should ensure that the farmer
is not paying the total levy in the form of a reduced price for seed cotton. It is probably most appropriate
if this levy is collected at the ginnery.
29.    Reformns in Processing and Marketing of Cotton. The first and most important action involves
the selling off of CB ginneries to the private sector and the withdrawal of the CB from any form of lint
marketing. The second action necessary is to arrest the declining financial viability and market share of
cooperative unions. The concentration of cotton unions in Nyanza and Western Provinces and the
relative proximity of existing ginneries to each other provides a real opportunity for the rationalization
and centralization of union management and ginning activities.



- 36 -
Annex 1
Page 6 of 9
30.   Grading and classification of Lint. An objective lint testing and grading system based on
USDA standards should be set up by the CB. The service should be offered to the industry on a charge
back basis but the service should not be made compulsory; competition from within the industry will
ensure that all lint will eventually be tested. The objective should be to ensure that every bale of cotton
produced in Kenya be individually identified and graded in line with international classification standards
and that this objective be accomplished within three years. The CB should provide this classification
service and use the service as a revenue earning activity. This revenue should first be invested to fund
further ongoing training of the grading staff, with the balance being applied to cotton breeding and pest
control research. The machine purchased by the CB should be adequate in throughput capacity to test
the entire Kenyan crop for many years to come.
31.   Technological support for Cotton Farmers. The first objective in improving the technological
support for cotton farmers should be to increase farmer access to good quality certified seed.
Consequently a seed certification scheme should be introduced. The basis of the scheme would be that
all seed processed by ginneries would be sold for processing. None would be retained at the gins to be
used by farmers for planting. This should be enforced by regulation.
32.   The certified seed production system would have three components: (a) A research component
to develop and test varieties; (b) a production component to grow, store, gin, delint, treat and package
planting seed; and (c) a distribution component to distribute and wholesale market planting seed.
33.   The second key objective is to refocus and improve the quality of research going into cotton. In
that respect the proposed research should be industry driven and the restructured CB should have the
overall responsibility to determine research policies and priorities for the industry, in conjunction with
MOA and MST. A clear long term research strategy must be evolved, by consensus amongst all parts
of the industry, to cater for the present and future needs of an expanding industry. The thrust of research
should not be confined to plant breeding, agronomy and entomology, but broadened to include farming
systems, agricultural economics, ginning, marketing, classification and textile technology.
34.   The third key objective is to strengthen the extension efforts targeted at the cotton farmers. The
MOA should remain the major channel for extension activities. The role of the restructured CB will be
to supplement and assist the MOA in this role and to develop other channels for extension.
Proposed Project Components
35.    Under ASMP II technical assistance, training and some equipment procurement would be financed
to; (a) establish an appropriate legal and institutional framework for the cotton industry; (b) facilitate
reforms in processing and marketing of cotton in the country; and (b) improve the technological support
for cotton farmers. The specific scope of the proposed sub-components are explored below; detailed
terms of reference for the proposed technical assistance are in Attachment 1. The long-term consultants
would be required to transfer skills to local counterparts. The performance of these consultants would
be evaluated on the basis of, among other things, the extent to which a transfer is actually effected.
Legal and Institutional Framework
-   Technical assistance in the form of a lawyer will be required to review current cotton
legislation to determine changes required to provide the legal framework for the reformed
industry structure. It is anticipated that one man month will be required for this process.



-37 -
Annex 1
Page 7 of 9
Technical assistance in the form of a management specialist/accountant to: (a) assist in the
preparation of the basis for restructuring the CB; (b) assist with recruitment of personnel for
the restructured CB; and (c) assist with the establishment of the new organization and
prepare operational procedures. It is anticipated that 12 man-months would be required for
this purpose.
Training in the form of a study tour for the executive director and chairman of the
restructured CB to other cotton producing countries which have similar organizations to the
restructured CB.
Office equipment and vehicles for CB use.
Cotton Processing and Marketing:
Technical assistance in the form of two consultants would be required to: (a) review the
operational status of the CB's ginneries; (b) prepare a "going concern valuation of the CB's
ginneries; (c) assist with the identification of potential buyers; (d) assist in facilitating the
divestiture process.  The first consultant will have a background in economics and
accounting will require a time input of three man months. The second consultant, a ginnery
engineer will require a time input of one month.
Technical assistance in the form of a consultant (economist/accountant) would be required
for 2 man-months to: (a) review the financial status of cotton unions; (b) prepare proposals
for restructuring the cotton unions; and (c) negotiate with unions to achieve agreement on
proposals for restructuring.
Technical assistance in the form of a lint marketing specialist consultant for 6 man-months
to: (a) review current marketing procedures and provide advice for the marketing of the
crop; (b) prepare operational procedures for the marketing of lint and cotton seed; and (c)
train personnel in use of cotton hedging procedures.
Technical assistance in the form of a lint classification and HVI technician for 6 man-months
to: (a) assist with the installation of the new HVI equipment; (b) recommend and initiate
changes to lint classification facilities including the design of a classing laboratory; (c)
establish grades for Kenyan cotton based on USDA standards; (d) train local personnel in
the use of HVI equipment and lint classification procedures; (e) oversee lint classification
and the operation of the HVI equipment; and (f) develop a simple system for classifying
seed cotton at buying centres.
Technological Support for Cotton Production:
Technical assistance in the form of a seeds agronomist consultant for 24 man-months to: (a)
identify where a cotton seed enterprise should be set up; (b) assist with the establishment and
operation of a cotton seed enterprise; (c) train staff in acid delinting; (d) train staff in seed
germination and vigour testing procedures; (e) establish quality control standards; and (f)
provide agronomic support for seed production.



- 38 -
Annex 1
Page 8 of 9
Training for personnel associated with the pure seed production aspects of the industry in
pure seed production and distribution in a commercial environment in an advanced cotton
producing country.
Technical assistance in the form of a cotton research expert for 24 man-months to assist with
the establishment of a relevant research program and to establish lines of communication
between research personnel and farmers. The consultant would: (a) work with CB to
determine research priorities; (b) assist research institutions, particularly KARI, to establish
sound and practical research procedures and priorities for cotton; (c) assist with day to day
research problems; (d) provide advice to the CB on funding proposals; and (e) provide
advice on the commercial multiplication and breeding of planting seed.
Training for personnel involved in research related to cotton on research techniques and
methodology.
Technical assistance in the form of a cotton extension specialist for 24 man-months to: (a)
advise the CB and MOA on appropriate extension techniques for cotton; (b) establish lines
of communication between CB, KARI, MOA, extension officers and cotton farmers; (c)
establish a procedure for the flow of information back from the farmer to research
organizations; (d) advise CB and MOA on an appropriate extension structure for cotton and
oversee its establishment; aned (e) prepare and conduct training programs for extension
personnel.



- 39 -
Annex 1
Page 9 of 9
Project Costs
36.    The costs of the subsector component of ASMP II is US$1.81 million. A breakdown of the costs
is given in the attached table.
KENYA
SECONID AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
COTTON - Subsector Development Component
Cost Table (in US$)
(A) TECHNICAL              No. of M.M.       Rate      Total Fees  Expenses      Total Fees
ASSISTANCE                                                                       and Expenses
Lawyer                          4             6,000       24,000       2,000        26,000
Mgt. Spec./Accountant           12            15.000      180.000      20,000       200,000
Economists                      3             15,000      45,000       7,000        52,000
Ginnery Enginecr                 1            15.000      15,000        6,000       21,000
F.A. Cooperative Specialist     2             10,000      20,000        5,000       25,000
Lint Marketing Specialist       6             12,000      72,000       5,000        77,000
Lint Technician                 6             12,000      72,000       5,000        77,000
Seeds Agronomist                24            15,000      360,000      15.000       375,000
Cotton Research Expert          24            10,000      240,000      10,000       250,000
Cotton Extension Specialist     24            10,000      240,000      10,000       250,000
Contingency Consulting   T    lump sum -                                            50,000
Funds                    l
TOTAL (A)                                               1,308,000      93,000      1,401.000
B. TRAINING
Management & Institution                      6,000        24,000      16,000        40,000
Seed Training                  lump sum                                             100,000
Research Training              lump sum                                             100,000
TOTAI (B)                                           _                               240,000
TOTAL BASELINE COST                                                                1,641,000
PRICE AND PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES a 10% TOTAL COST                                   164,000
T O  T A L   C 0 S T                                                             1,S05,D00



- 40 -
Annex 1
Attachment
Page 1 of 5
KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Cotton Subsector Development Component
Technical Assistance and Training Requirements
Legal and Institutional Framework
1.  The project would finance the services of a lawyer and that of a management specialist. The
lawver (required for two man months) will have experience with reviewing and drafting legislation
and with the preparation of memorandum and articles of association or constitutions of cooperatives
and industry organizations. Experience in the cotton subsector in developing countries should be
highly regarded. The terms of reference for the lawyer are as follows:
(a) Review of the current Cotton Act and provide recommendations for its amendment.
(b) Review of the legal issues associated with the amalgamation of the cotton cooperative
unions.
(c) Review of the legal issues associated with the sale of the CB ginreries, if any.
(d) Preparation of a draft constitution for the restructured CB and draft by-laws for the
proposed amalgamated cooperative union.
(e) Preparation of, in conjunction with the Attorney Generals's Office, any necessary draft
legislation.
2.  The management specialist/accountant (12 man-months required) would be someone with
extensive knowledge on the institutional aspects of cotton industries, and experience in establishing
the regulatory structure. The specific terms of reference for this consultant is as follows.
(a) Assist in the preparation of the basis for restructuring CB.
(b) Assist in recruitment of personnel for staffing the restructured CB.
(c) Preparation of an organizational structure for the CB and appropriate operating procedures.
(d) Assist CB staff in establishing the organizational procedures and in making these
procedures operational.



- 41 -
Annex 1
Attachment
Page 2 of 5
(e) Assist CB staff in determining their office equipment/vehicle needs and then subsequently
manage the procurement of the same to be financed by the project.
3.  In addition the project would finance a study tour by the executive Director/Chairman of CB
to other cotton producing countries which have similar organizations to the proposed CB.
Cotton Processing and Marketing
4.  Technical assistance in the form of two consultants would be required to: (a) review the
operational status of the CB's ginneries; (b) prepare a going concern valuation of the CB's ginneries;
(c) assist with the identification of potential buyers; and (iv) assist in facilitating the divestiture
process.
5.   The first consultant (3 man-months required) would have a background in economics and
accounting. The specific terms of reference is as follows.
(a) In conjunction with the Ginnery Engineer (GE) assess the viability or otherwise of the
ginneries currently owned and operated by the cooperative unions and the CB and develop
a ginneries rationalization strategy.
(b) Prepare a valuation of the CB ginneries. It is anticipated that this valuation will be
prepared on a "going concern" basis. This means that projected cash flow will be utilised
to assess the value of the ginneries and this projected cash flow will be discounted to
determine the "going concern" valuation. It is anticipated that the discount factor will be
high to take into consideration the high risk.
(c) Prepare a strategy for the divestment of ginneries by the CB.
6.   The second consultant (1 man-month required) would be a Ginnery Engineer (GE). The
engineer will have experience with double and single roller gins. Terms of reference for the GE
engineer are.
(a) For each ginnery owned by the cotton cooperative unions and the CB determine: (a)
current maintenance procedures; (b) spare parts inventories; (c) management and
engineering expertise; (d) operational status of the ginnery; (e) training requirements of
management and operators; and (f) economic threshold of each ginnery.
(b) In conjunction with the first consultant determine a strategy for the rationalization of
ginnery capacity.
(c) Provide details of spare parts and other requirements for ginneries and estimate future
operational costs given efficient operation.
(d) Provide a maintenance program for the ginneries which have been recommended to remain
in operation and make recommendations for the ginneries which are to be closed down.



- 42 -
Annex 1
Attachment
Page 3 of S
7.   Technical assistance would also be required to: (a) review the operational financial status of
cotton unions; (b) prepare proposals for the restructuring of the cotton unions; and (c) negotiate with
unions to achieve agreement on proposals for restructuring. It is anticipated that two man-months
of services would be required of a financial analyst/cooperatives specialist consultant. The detailed
terms of reference is as follows.
(i) Review the current financial status of the cotton cooperative unions and determine their
viability. Review alternative options which will ensure that the union ginneries remain a
viable competitor within the industry.
(ii) Prepare proposals for the restructuring of unions.
(iii) Provide details on operational, personnel and financial requirements of the new
organization.
(iv) Participate as required during any negotiations for the restructuring of the unions.
(v) Prepare guidelines for the accounting procedures to be followed by the restructured unions.
8.   Technical assistance would also be required in the form of a lint marketin2 specialist (LMS).
A LMS is required to provide assistance with the establishment of a lint marketing system within the
amalgamated cotton cooperative union and, if applicable, the new organization operating the CB
ginneries. Experience in cotton marketing is essential and experience with commodity hedging is
desirable. It is anticipated that one person would be required for six months in two three monthly
periods.
The terms of reference for the LMS are as follows.
(a) To review current marketing procedures and provide advice for the marketing of the crop.
(b) To prepare operational procedures for the marketing of lint and cotton seed.
(c) To assist and train personnel with the marketing of the crop.
(d) To provide advice to CB on aspects of lint and cotton seed marketing.
(e) To train personnel in use of cotton hedging procedures.
9.   Technical assistance would also be required in the form  of a lint classification and HVI
technician. The LCIHVI technician will be responsible for the establishment of lint classification
standards, the operation of the HVI equipment and the establishment of grades for the purchase of
seed cotton from  farmers.  Formal training in USDA classification standards is essential as is
experience with HVI equipment. One person will be required for six months in two three monthly
periods. The terms of reference for the LC/HVI are as follows.
(a) Assist with the installation of the new HVI equipment.



- 43 -
Annex I
Attachment
Page 4 of 5
(b) Recommend and initiate changes to lint classification facilities including the design of a
classing laboratory.
(c) Establish grades for Kenyan cotton based on USDA standards.
(d) Train local personnel in the use of HVI equipment and lint classification procedures.
(e) Oversee lint classification and the operation of the HVI equipment.
(f) Develop a simple system for classifying seed cotton at buying centres.
Technological support for Cotton Production
10. Technical assistance in the form of a Pure Seeds Agronomist (PSA) consultant would be
required for 24 man-months. The PSA will be required to assist with the establishment of a pure
seeds industry in Kenya and to assist with the presentation and promotion of the product to farmers.
The consultant would have experience in the cotton pure seeds industry and formal qualifications
in agronomy. The terms of reference for the PSA are as follows.
(a) Determine options for establishing a structure to manage the production, processing and
distribution of seed.
(b) Assist with the establishment and operation of an appropriate cotton seed enterprise.
(c) Train staff in acid delinting and in seed germination and vigour testing procedures.
(d) Establish quality control standards.
(e) Provide agronomic support for seed production.
(f) provide recommendations on research requirements and on the importation of planting seed
for trial and establish a trials program in conjunction with KARI.
(g) Determine a training program for personnel associated with the pure seed production
aspects of the industry in pure seed production and distribution in a commercial
environment.
11. Technical assistance would also be required in the form of a cotton research expert for 24 man-
months to assist with the establishment of a relevant research program and to establish lines of
communication between research personnel and farmers. The Cotton Research Scientist (CRS) would
be a senior scientist.
The terms of reference for the CRS are as follows.
(a) Work with CB to determine research priorities.
(b) Prepare a research strategy for the medium term and discuss this strategy with KARI.



- 44 -
Annex 1
Attachment
Page 5 of 5
(c) Assist research institutions, particularly KARI, to establish sound and practical research
procedures and priorities.
(d) Identify any equipment and manpower needs necessary to effect any recommended research
program.
(e) Assist with day to day research problems.
(f) Provide advice to CB on funding proposals.
(g) Provide advice on the commercial multiplication and breeding of planting seed.
12. Technical assistance would also be provided in the form of a cotton extension specialist. The
aim is to establish an effective extension strategy and to train personnel who will be responsible for
providing extension services. The TORs for the EO are as follows.
(a) Advise CB on appropriate extension techniques.
(b) Establish lines of communication between CB, KARI, MOA, extension officers and
farmers.
(c) Establish a trial to determine the effectiveness of crop spraying utilising electrodyn
technology and provide farmer demonstrations utilising this technique.
(d) Establish a procedure for the flow of information back from the farmer to research
organizations.
(e) Advise CB and MOA on an appropriate extension structure and oversee its establishment.
(f) Prepare and conduct training programs for extension personnel and others.
(g) Undertake extension work as appropriate.
(h) Prepare extension literature and aids.



- 45 -
Annex 2
Page I or 9
KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Sugar Subsector Restructuring Component
Introduction
1.    The Government of Kenya plays a central role in the ownership and control of the sugar
industry, and has a professed policy of self-sufficiency in sugar as the central objective for the sector.
However, except for a brief period in the eighties, the performance of the industry has been on a
steady decline, with the country currently having to import about 20% of its domestic requirements.
The decline of the sector is largely a consequence of an industry organisation that is characterised by
the existence of inefficient parastatals, an ianappropriate policy environment which has distorted
incentives for cane growing and poor technological support for cane growing.
2.    From an agronomic and socio-economic point of view sugar is an important commodity in
Kenya. It is a significant energy component in the Kenyan diet. The sector provides employment for
33,000 industrial workers, and 90,000 small farmers. The typical agro-industrial nexus of farmers
and millers has been a crucial factor in the industrialization of the Western and the Nyanza belts.
Kenya also has a comparative advantage in growing sugar: it is one of the few countries in the world
where agro-climatic conditions permit year round milling, which is above twice the world average.
Despite current constraints, the technical performance of the growing and milling operations are
above the world average. Finally, the recent changes in the policy environment is encouraging: GOK
has announced a commitment to privatization, and has already taken some steps towards it; prices,
though continuing to be controlled, have been revised to restore incentives for producers.
Profile of the Sugar Subsector
3.    The sector consists of seven factories, a cane area of 92,500 hectares largely in the hands of
small holders, a network of private transport contractors, and two parastatals, the Kenya Sugar
Authority (KSA) and the Kenya National Trading Corporation (KNTC) directly involved. The sector
is under the jurisdiction of the MOA, with other ministries (finance, cooperative, commerce, science
and technology) and parastatals being involved in specific aspects.
4.    The Factories. With the exception of one mill (now under closure) which is south of
Mombasa, the sugarcane areas and sugar factories are located in the west of the country, and in two
distinct zones: the Nyanza Sugar Belt (NSB) and the Western province. The two differ considerably
as regards soil and other agro-climatic conditions. The NSB was historically the pioneer in sugar
development. It has three units (Chemelil, Muharoni, and Miwani Sugar Companies) with a total
production capacity of 7200 tonnes per day (TCD). The other three companies ( Mumias, Nzoai and
South Nyanza) in the western belt have a total capacity of 12,700 TCD. The factories operate for
300 days a year, and at 80% time efficiency have an annual sugar production capacity of 500,000
tons.
5.    Five of the seven factories (Mumias, Chemelil, Sony, Muharoni and Nzoia) are parastatals,
organized as public companies, with GOK ownership at between 76 to 99.8%. Miwani, started in the
private sector in 1922, was closed in 1988, and was retrieved by GOK from receivership in June



- 46 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 9
1991, with GOK retaining 49% of shares and a private concern the remaining 51%. Ramisi factory,
started in 1927 south of Mombasa by the Madhvani group, also went into receivership in 1988, and
still remains closed. The sunk capital in the seven companies is about Ksh. 3.3 billion ($110
million). In 1991 the production of sugar totalled 427,000 tonnes, representing a capacity utilization
of 85%, on the norm of 80% time availability, or 68% on total nominal capacity. The recovery rate
was 10.4% in 1990, with the ten year average (1981-1990) at 10.47%.
6.     All companies, despite their present technical and financial situation, have plans for expansion
and/or modemization. Mumias, under a management contract with Booker Tate International, has
lans for a marginal expansion to 8000 TCD capacity, but with emphasis on rationalizing present
layout and equipment. Nzoia has expanded recently from 2000 to 3000 TCD, and intends to follow-
up (under study by Arkel International, USA) with a doubling of the capacity. The management of
Chemelil, Muharoni and Sony have blueprints for expansion, which are at different stages of
evaluation.
7.     GOK is also planning the establishment of two more factories of 90,000 tonnes sugar
production each annually, at Busia and Siaya. The former, with Booker Tate as the technical
promoters, and with the active lead role of the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC), is at
an advanced stage of negotiation with the consortium of financiars, including the CDC, IFC, IDB,
EADB, for financing of a total estimated cost of $150 million. GOK has agreed that the ownership
of the new company will be mainly in the private sector, with GOK minority participation. With the
proposed expansions, the total capacity is planned to be nominally at about 32,000 TCD by the year
2000.
8.    Cane Growing. The area under cane reached a peak of 108,000 hectares in 1987, when all
the seven factories were operating, of which the outgrowers (OG) accounted for 90,000 ha (83%).
With the closure of Miwani and Ramisi factories in 1988, the area at the beginning of 1991 fell to
92,250, with the OGs holding 79,600 ha ((86%). The average small farmer holds about 2 to 3
hectares, and grows sugarcane on about half the area, and foodcrops on the rest.
9.    The cane belts fall under two distinctly different agro-climatic types. The Nyanza Sugar Belt
(NSB: Chemelil, Muharoni and Miwani) is of the black cotton soil, while the Western province
(Muraias and Nzoia) and the Nyanza province (SONY) have predominantly red loam soil. This has
pronounced effect on the economics of cane cultivation in the two zones. Land preparation in the
NSB requires heavy machinery, while relatively lighter machines are adequate in the WSB. Land
preparation cost at NSB is about 100% higher than in the WSB. Cane yields per hectare are much
lower in the NSB (65 to 70 tonnes per ha) compared to the WSB (105 to 110).
10.   Cane Harvesting is Fully Manual. Cane is burnt for cutting only in the Mumias nucleus
estate and the NSB. Harvesting costs (set by agreement between the Federation of Kenyan Employees
and the Kenya Union of Sugar Plantation Workers) are nearly half for burnt as compared to green
cane. Availability of labor is becoming a constraint in recent years. Private contractors play a
crucial role in cane transport from the field to the factory, moving about 11,000 tonnes a day
amounting to about 80% of the total. The KSA sets the rates for transport, but at unremunerative
levels. In 1990, one study found the estate operating costs are 80% higher than the KSA rate, and
while the private contractors operated more economically, the rates were unremunerative even for
them.



- 47 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 9
11.   Research on sugarcane is currently undertaken by the Kenya Agricultural Research Institute
(KARI), under the Ministry of Research, Science and Technology. KARl's field organizations
specific to cane are the Sugar Research Institute at Kibos, and the sub-stations at Opapo, Kakamega,
and Mtwapa. The track record of the institute in testing/developing/propagating new varieties is
poor; the widely cultivated variety CO 421 was introduced in 1934. Lack of finance and coordinating
mechanisms are the main causes for this.
12.   Extension and other services to the farmers are intended to be provided by different forms of
farmer's organizations, under the Kenya Sugar Growers Organization, and the companies. Mumias,
Nzoia and Sony have outgrowers companies, with only the first having a measure of success.
Chemelil and Muharoni have sugarcane growers cooperatives which are not effective.
13.   Institutional Arrangements. The KSA was established in 1973 with the objective of promoting
and fostering the effective and efficient development of the sugar industry. Under a part-time chairman,
and a Chief Executive, the Board of KSA is predominantly government controlled, except for two
representatives each of farmer's and millers. Its staff number about 80, of which 25 are in the sub-office
in Kisumu, and the professinal people number only about 10. Its annual budget of about Ksh. 20 million
is from the GOK budget. In practice today, it is an advisory body to the MOA, with the main functions
of: assisting with data and analysis for the annual price review; setting contractors' charges for
agricultural operations and cane transport; providing GOK representation on sugar companies boards;
and coordinating overseas training programs, financed by GOK.
14.   Industry Associations. The sugarcane farmers are represented by farmer's organizations at the
factory level and the Kenya Sugarcane Growers Association (KESGA) at the national level. The millers
are represented by the Kenya Sugar Manufacturer's Association (KESMA). The Kenya Society of
Sugarcane Technologists (KSSCT) is a body for representing the professionals. Sugarcane transporters
do not have an organized representative body.
15.    Pricing. The sector operates under a price regime set by GOK at all levels: cane growers,
millers, distributers and consumers. The structure of prices at the various levels, and the effects are dealt
with below.
16.    Cane Growers and Millers. The basic pricing mechanism is based on a cost plus approach.
The prices determined for cane and milling are on the basis that: (a) the prices shall be uniform for all
zones in respect of cane and all factories in respect of milling margin; and (b) they shall be based on the
average cost of cane growing in all zones and milling in all factories. Distribution margins are set at
three levels: for KNTC as the primary purchaser, for wholesalers and then for retailers. The consumer
price is determined after addition of a margin to the ex-factory price, inclusive of an excise duty of
currently KSh1500 per tonne, and the distribution margins. The price is uniform for most of the places,
but an additional margin for transport is allowed for places not served by the railways, and involve long
roadhaul.
17.   The pricing structure has acted as a major disincentive for sugar production. The retail prices
remained unchanged from 1976 to 1980. Betwen 1981 and 1989, the average increase allowed was
7.3%, less than the average annual wage increase of 8.5%. Only since 1990 has there been pressure for
relatively larger increases of the order of 15. %, 41%, and and 22% in the last three revisions. During
the same period, cane and ex-factory prices (excluding excise) changed by 10%, 28%, and 21 % for cane
and 19%, 45%, and 24% for the factories.



- 48 -
Annex 2
Page 4 of 9
18.   Despite the increase of about 71% in cane price and 114% in sugar price since 1989, prices
continue to be unremunerative to producers. They have served more to bridge the gap created in the
past. In addition the following inadequacies exist in the current system: (a) With NSB and WSB having
basic differences in agro-climatic conditions, a system of setting prices on sectoral average costs is
inequitable, and puts the NSB factories perpetually in the red; (b) the cost computations in respect of
milling understates the true cost, as depreciation costs are based on historical data, financing charges do
not reflect what would have been incurred commercially instead of through subventions from the budget,
and capital levels exclude investments in replacement which should have been incurred had the financial
situation been optimum; and (c) even after the relatively large increases recently, ex-factory price is about
18% lower than the import parity price based on medium term projections of international price
movements.
19.   Marketing. Sugar is centrally marketed in Kenya (except for sugar produced by the Miwani
sugar company). The KNTC is by law the monopoly primary wholesaler of sugar in Kenya, and until
1990 the sole importer. KNTC is a parastatal, formed as a company, with a Board chaired by a part time
non-official, and representatives of the University of Nairobi, Kisumu district, ICDC, Ministry of
Commerce, Office of the President, and the Ministry of Finance, and an MD. It has a chain of 38
depots, six regional offices, and a staff of about 770, 75% of whom are in the commercial department.
It engages in distribution of commodities other than sugar also (cement, salt,fertilizer,matches etc), but
sugar constitutes 85 to 90% of its turnover of about K pounds 320 million. Its sugar activities consist
of: allocation of monthly quotas to be moved to various areas; purchase and movement of sugar from the
factories to its depots, either through railways (nearly 75% of the total), or by road through contractors;
maintenance of a strategic reserve sugar stock; selection of wholesalers for movement from its depots;
and imports of sugar. Its total annual trading expenses are of the order of K pounds 5 million, and in
1989 it made a profit before tax of about K pounds 475,000. Its main income is from the margin on
sugar of KSh. 1106 per ton.
20.   KNTC does not handle sugar movement by owning its own fleet, but utilizes private traders who
form a significant link in the marketing chain. Road contractors moving sugar from factories or railheads
to KNTC depots were licenced by MOC until 1989 (on three year contracts), and from 1993 will be
selected by KNTC.
21.   Imports. Except during 1981-83, Kenya has been a net importer of sugar. Imports have varied
from a low of 4000 tons in 1984, to a peak of 142,500 tons in 1986, and was 64,050 tonnes in 1990.
Since 1991, imports of sugar have been liberalised.
22.   Consumption.  Per capita consumption reached a peak, of 22.12 kg in 1989 (and total
consumption of 521,500 tonnes). It fell marginally to 21.98 kg in 1990, and to 19.07 in 1991.
Consumption in Kenya is above the African average of about 13 kg and the world average of about 20
kg. The expenditure elasticity for sugar has been estimated to be 14%. An estimate of consumption in
the year 2000 based on an estimate of population growth at 3.8%, and two alternative scenarios of: (a)
the freezing of the per capita consumption (through fiscal measures and import management) to the level
estimated for 1993, after allowing for an increase at 1.5% per annum until then; and, (b) a continuous
increase at the historical level of 1.5% from 1991, indicates per capita consumption and total requirement
of 19.65 kg and 698,000 tonnes, and 21.80 kg and 775,000 tonnes respectively. At the level of projected
production, the country will achieve self-sufficiency under the former, and will require imports of the
order of about 80,000 tonnes under the latter. The gap will widen under both scenarios in later years.



- 49 -
Annex 2
Page 5 of 9
Constraints to Sector Development
23.    At a total installed nominal capacity of 20,000 tcd, and at 80% time availability over 300 days,
the sector should crush about 4,800,000 tonnes of cane and produce about 500,000 tonnes of sugar per
annum. In recent years, the sector has been crushing about 4 million tonnes of cane for a production of
about 430,000 tonnes of sugar.
24.   Some of the main reasons for the under performance are as follows.
(a) The closure of Miwani and Ramisi factories in 1988, reduced effective capacity to about
450,000 tonnes of sugar per annum; though Miwani was reopened in June 1991, it is yet to
stabilize its operations.
(b) The NSB has been deficient in cane, and the problem was compounded with the closure of
Miwani, when nearly half the area went out of cane. Though the utilization of the cane from
the other half of the NSB area temporarily helped Chemelil and Muharoni, the regular cycle
of planting new areas was discontinued, which will now have its full adverse effects with the
reopening of Miwani.
(c) All factories have suffered from the impact of government administered prices, primnarily
aimed at subsidizing the consumer. Despite recent price revisions in 1991 and 1992, the
cumulative adverse effects have left all but the Mumias factory in heavy financial deficits -
around KSh.200 million in operating costs alone in 1990. All except the Mumias factory
will require financial restructuring as a prelude to any reform.
(d) Management of the sugar factories has been less than satisfactory, except to some extent in
Mumias, which has been under a management contract from the inception, formerly with
Booker Agricultural International, and now with Booker-Tate.
(e) Rehabilitation of the factory machinery and replacement of agricultural fleet have suffered
for lack of finance.
25.   In addition to the above the agronomic performance of the sector has also declined in recent years.
The average yield had dropped from 108 tonnes in 1978 to 64 by 1983. Though the yield has since
increased to 92 in 1990, it is still below the level achieved in 1978. The constraints on performance are
as follows.
(a) The current pricing mechanism of averaging all zones as regards costs, disregards the natural
differences between the NSB and the WSB zones, and inhibits incentives to improve
productivity.
(b) Sugarcane research as currently organized is not geared to a program of varietal
improvement and propagation.
(c) The sector is dominated by outgrowers, and the record of the companies (except to an extent
Mumias) in providing assistance to them by way of extension, inputs etc is poor.
(d) The access of outgrowers to credit from cooperatives or other institutions is restricted.



- 50 -
Annex 2
Page 6 of 9
26.   The institutional structure governing the industry has also retarded its growth and development.
The sugar sector in Kenya is the concern of a multiplicity of organizations: ministries of agriculture,
finance, commerce, research, science and technology, and cooperatives, KNTC, the Agricultural
Development Corporation, KARI, the Industrial Finance Corporation and the private sector in transport
and distribution. The MOA, which has the lead responsibility for the management of this sector, needs
a technical body to coordinate the various industry interests, and act as the technical advisor to it in policy
formulation. KSA is the logical agency for this. But today it is poorly fitted for this role. Its
professional wings are inadequately staffed, it has no organic links with the industry, and remains a fully
government controlled and financed agency, with limited advisory functions. Restructuring the KSA to
primarily strengthen its technical wing, to allow it to act as a link between the industry and the MOA,
will be a priority institutional reform.
27.   While KNTC has by and large functioned effectively in sugar distribution, within the limitations
of GOK controls and parastatal organization, there is a general impression that their prograniming and
adjustment to market needs are not fully satisfactory. Nor is any assessment available regarding the
efficiency of their operations, with a staff of 770 mainly engaged in sugar distribution. Though it is
making profits recently, its accumulated losses until end June 89 (later figures not available) were over
K pounds 500,000. (A portion of it, however, is due to the margins set by MOC, particularly in the
reimbursement of transport charges.) Clearly in a liberalised marketing environment with greater private
sector involvement in the wholesale business KNTC's role would need to be radically changed.
Scenario for Future Development of the Sub-Sector
28.   The future development of the sugar sub-sector in Kenya will be dependent on the promotion of
private initiative in ownership, management and trade, and the removal of controls on production, prices
and marketing.
29.    Measures would need to be evolved to divest public majority ownership of sugar companies and
promote privatization. It will be necessary to ensure transparencv and public credibility in the process.
The critical steps involved would be as follows: (a) revaluing the assets of sugar companies to establish
current worth; (b) formulating a blue print for the financial restructuring of all the companies; (c)
determining company specific recommendations on the manner of privatization (negotiated sale, public
offering, competitive bidding), and identification of interested parties.
30.   The capacity within Government to manage change in the sugar sub-sector also needs to be
developed. GOK will require a set of guidelines to monitor sector health, determine reasonableness of
prices and availability of sugar and take corrective steps to meet distortions in market behaviour. Second,
it would need institutional support for data collection and analysis.
31.   There are also a number of technical issues that need to be addressed in moving to a more
liberalised industry organisation. Some of these issues are examined below.
-   Sugarcane. Given the zonal agro-climatic conditions, an equitable assessment of cost has
to be based on the quality: sucrose content, fibre and optimum yield per hectare under given
soil conditions. While individual quality testing is not possible, given the number of
outgrowers, a possible option is the setting of norms for each factory zone on an area basis,
and assess premiums/penalties on the basis of year-end results. A second option is to link
the price of cane as a percentage of sugar price, but this is less optimal than the first.



- 51 -
Annex 2
Page 7 of9
Sugar Milling. To assess the efficiency of production, import parity pricing is generally
cited as the economic yardstick. But in the sugar sector, this cannot be the sole guide as
international prices are residuary, and do not reflect the cost of production. What is
required, particularly in the context of developing countries with sunk investment in the
sugar sector, is a balance between border prices and the cost of production on norms of
efficiency.
32.   The future development of the sugar sub-sector would also be dependent on establishing an
appropriate institutional and regulatory framework for the sub-sector. In this context the restructuring
of KSA shall be a priority component. The objective would be to: (a) expand its focus to allow it to
serve the entire industry; (b) strengthen its technical divisions where it is weak at present; and (c) redefine
its role to allow it to serve as a link between the private sector and the GOK.
Project Components
33.   The project would finance: (a) a Sugar Sector Restructuring Study (SSRS); (b) implementation
of the privatisation program; and (c) the institutional strengthening of KSA.
34.   The broad objectives of SSRS would be to: (a) initiate institutional and policy reforms aimed at
stimulating the development of the sub-sector; (b) provide options to maximize economic and technical
efficiency in the sub-sector; and (c) provide options for meeting the distributional objectives of the
Government where consumers and canegrowers are concerned, in a transparent and effective manner.
The study would focus on the following main areas.
-   Determining an appropriate institutional and regulatory structure for efficient development
of the sub-sector based on the principles of price and and market liberalisation and full
participation of the private sector and the commensurate removal of Government (including
parastatal) involvement.
-   Formulating measures to divest public majority ownership of sugar companies, and promote
privatization. These would include: (a) determination of the current worth of the companies,
through an asset revaluation exercise; (b) working out options for financial restructuring of
the companies based on a projection of the financial prospects of the sector; (c)
determination of efficiency norms for the the industry; and (d) determination of private
ownership options, including the level of shareholding by cane growers.
-   Determining systems for providing sugar cane growers with apprpriate technological support
i.e. in research on sugarcane, extension etc.
-   redefining the role of the KNTC in the light of the privatization of the trade in sugar.
-   restructuring and strengthening of the KSA as the primary technical and policy advisory body
dealing with the sugar sub-sector with appropriate association of, and control by, the private
sector.
-   determining options for efficient utilization of by-products from  the sugar mills in an
environmentally sustainable fashion.



- 52 -
Annex 2
Page 8 of 9
35.   The study would be undertaken in two parts, to be done simultaneously, by two teams of
internationally recruited experts, to be funded under the project. The detailed terms of reference for the
study are given in Attachment 1. The first team (ST I) would cover issues on privatization, asset
valuation, and financial restructuring. The second (ST II) would cover issues on the pricing of sugarcane
and sugar, research on sugarcane and development of the smallholders, transition to private trade in
marketing, regulation of imports and the restructuring of KNTC and KSA.
36.   The project would also finance the technical assistance requirements related to implementing the
privatization options determined by the SSRS and the institutional strengthening of KSA.
Costs
37.   The component costs total to about $1.662 million including price and physical contingencies, are
detailed in the table below.



Annex 2
53 -Page9 of 9
KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimates - Sugar Subsector Restructuring Component (in USS)
SUB TOTAL         TOTAL
VEHICLES & EQUIPMENT
VEHICLES                          T_r
4 WD (2 X 25,000)                              _        50,000
Saloon Car (20,000)                                     20,000                      _
70,000
EQUIPMENT
Office Equipment/Computers (MIS)                        45,000            45,000         115,000
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                TOTAL M.M.   RATE PER M.M.
1. FOR SSRS
STUDY TEAM 1                           35             15,000            525,000
(A) Long Term TA
- Team Leader
- Accounting Expert
- Civil Engineer
- Legal Expert
- Sugar Engineer/Agricul. Engineer
(B) Short Term TA                                         3,500             87,500        612,500
STUDY TEAM 11
(A) Long Term TA                          20             15,000            300,000
- Economist
- Sugar Technologist
- Fmnancial Specialist
- Sugar Marketing SpeciaList
- Sugarcane Agronomist                                                               _
(B) Short Term TA                         14              3,500            49,000         349,000
11. Contingency TA Funds                                                                  100,000
Ill. SUPPORT TO KSA
Technical Assistance (3 Nos.)          20              10,000           200,000         200,000
________________  _________________ _              ;  1,376,500
OPERATING EXPENSES
Vehicle Operating Cost                                   60,000
Office Operat. Exp. (Kisumu-lumpsum)                     100,000           100,000         160,000
BASE LINE COST                                                    |_ _|_1,536,500
PRICE AND PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES 4 10%                                                153,500
T O T A L
1,690,000



- 54 -
Annex 2
Attachment
Page 1 of 6
KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Sugar Subsector Restructuring Component
Technical Assistance and Training Requirements
The Scope of Work and the Terms of Reference of Study Team 1 (ST 1) on Privatization Aspects
1.     Asset Revaluation. A revaluation of the assets of the sugar companies under this component is
necessary to establish their true net worth. The study would cover: (a) an initial revaluation of all assets
of the sugar companies, using consistent methods common to all the companies; and (b) annual updating of
the revaluation to reflect the current values of the assets in the consolidated accounts and financial
statements that GOK may prepare for its use.
2.     ST I will be responsible for the following major tasks.
- Preparation o guidelines including methodology to be used for revaluation of the assets (the
revaluation should cover not less than 25% of the physical assets, accounting for not less than
80% of the total value).
-   Performance of the revaluation exercise for all the sugar companies and the estates. In this,
the team should determine a basket of major assets individually for each company covering
80% of the total asset value. The assessment should include a determination of the assets'
useful value based on a technical appraisal of the current condition of the asset, the mix of
foreign and local percentages in the assets' capital cost; and the method of depreciation to be
adopted on economic grounds, irrespective of the legislative provisions for taxation purposes;
-   Submission of a report for each company.
-   Formulating a methodology for frequently updating the revaluation and for reporting the
updated revaluation on an enterprise as well as on the industry basis to KSA. While a
comprehensive physical revaluation is not envisaged on an annual basis, a mechanism short of
physical verification would be required for updating industry status. Towards this the study
should establish: a method of ascertaining prices for the foreign components to be imported;
indices to be used for updating the local costs (material, labor); and the formula for combining
the two into a derived revaluation.
3.    Financial Restructuring. ST I would also formulate an appropriate framework for financial
restructuring of the enterprises to supplement the asset valuation. In doing so ST I would be responsible
for the following:
-   A review of restructuring programs, if any, carried out since the inception for each mill and
comment upon the adequacy of the measures.



- 55 -
Annex 2
Attachment
Page 2 of 6
A review of any restructuring scheme that has been proposed by a company and is under
GOK consideration.
-   The preparation of a financial restructuring plan in the light of the financial prospects, for
each company individually, identified by ST 11, taking into consideration: (a) an optima] debt:
equity ratio; (b) the treatment of surplus arising out of revaluation, on a basis common to all
companies; (c) the justification for grants, concessions and write-offs if found to be necessary
(considering the differential status of the companies in the Nyanza Sugar Belt and the Western
Region; and (d) the transactions in the restructuring that would involve foreign creditors.
4.     Divestiture. ST 1 would prepare a privatization action plan and detailed procedures for
implementation. In doing so, ST I would: (a) consolidate the technical, financial, and asset valuation
inputs into a status report for each company, and for the industry as a whole; (b) review the legal
provisions for privatization, and the issues and claims that will need settlement, and recommend
appropriate action; (c) set a range of monetary values (for the enterprises) for negotiations with potential
investors (clearly specifying the basis for the assumptions); and (d) identify, on a company-specific basis,
the domestic and foreign investor interest, and on that basis recommend appropriate privatization strategy
for each company, recommending a minimum of shareholding that should be retained by GOK, for future
divestiture to cane growers, industry employees, and the public.
5.    Composition of the Team, and Qualifications and Experience. The ST I will be composed of
the following: Team leader, Civil Engineer, Accounts Expert, Legal Expert, Sugar Engineer and
Agricultural Engineer. The qualifications and experience needed and the task responsibilities are given
below.
6.    The Team Leader should be a management specialist, with a background in economics, and at
least 10 year's experience with a firm or firms with proven track-record in privatization exercises
involving enterprises of similar characteristics. The team leader should have demonstrated skills in dealing
with public sector organizations and in leading multi-disciplinary teams. Apart from overall responsibility
for the team's output, the leader will be specifically in charge of the following: (a) liaison with the
Chairperson of the Task Force, and the Project Coordinator, and the Team Leader of ST 11 on all aspects
of the the study; (b) assignment of primary and secondary responsibilities for each task keeping in view
the inter-connected nature of the responsibilities of the team members; (c) (company specific) on the basis
of norms, to be documented, in respect of lifetime operational hours and annual requirements; (d)
recommend optimum fleet, machinery and implement levels based on iii above.
7.    The Civil Engineer would have relevant experience of at least five years and would be
responsible for the engineering evaluation of buildings, all other civil constructions, factory and other
foundations (where required), and irrigation structures. The civil engineer would provide inputs for the
determination of the current value, replacement costs, rate of depreciation etc.
8.    The Accounts Expert would have at least five year's experience at senior levels in accounts/audit
firum  of recognized standing, and experience in having been associated with similar assignments. The
Accounts expert's responsibilities would, inter alia, include the following:
(a) checking of financial information provided by the companies in response to the questionnaire,
and correlation with the financial analysis provided by ST Il;



- 56 -
Annex 2
Attachment
Page 3 of 6
(b) determining appropriate valuation basis and methodology, and the overall valuation of the
assets on that basis; and
(c) assuming primary responsibility for the tasks involving financial restructuring.
9.    The Legal Expert would have expertise in company law administration and experience in the
legalities of floatation of new ventures. The legal expert would:
(a) review the legal provisions for privatization, and the issues and claims that will need
settlement, and recommend appropriate action;
(b) set guidelines for the execution phase to follow in respect of: prospectus in the case of public
offering; public notice in the case of direct offering; governrment clearances necessary; manner
of dealing with existing contractual obligations, particularly in respect of labor and cane
growers; and
(c) detail the amendments to existing legislation or enactment of new legislation as required,
particularly in respect of the restructuring of the KSA and KNTC.
10.   The sugar/agricultural engineer would have expertise in sugar/agricultural engineering. The
engineer would:
(a) check information from factories regarding costs, date of purchase, current book value, etc;
(b) determine the list of major items of machinery to be evaluated, their total and remaining
useful life, and the mix of local and foreign costs;
(c) checking of information from the factories as regards cost, date of purchase, current book
value, etc. of machinery, equipment and vehicles involved in cane: (i) land preparation; (ii)
cultivation, including fertilizing, weeding and ratoon management; (iii) loading; (iv) transport
to the factory, including unloading at factory site and night storage;
(d) determine the list of major items of machinery to be evaluated, their total and remaining
useful life, the mix of local and foreign costs;
(e) set up efficiency operation standards for the above (company specific) on the basis of norms,
to be documented, in respect of lifetime operational hours and annual requirements;
(f) recommend optimum fleet, machinery and implement levels; and
(g) provide inputs as required by ST II.
The Scope of Work and Terms of reference for Study Team II (ST II) on Industrial Liberalization
Aspects
11.   The scope of ST II's work is to formulate a set of measures aimed at:
(a) removing controls on prices and marketing of sugar;



- 57 -
Annex 2
Attachment
Page 4 of 6
(b) restructuring the roles of KNTC and KSA in the industry;
(c) formulating the basis for providing technological support to cane growers; and
(d) designing a mechanism for GOK to periodically review the status of the industry. The
composition and tasks of the team are detailed below.
Implementation Schedule
12.   The team shall consist of a team leader (economist), sugar technologist, financial specialist, sugar
marketing specialist, and a sugarcane agronomist. The profiles of these experts and the subgroup of tasks
to be completed are given below.
13.   The team leader would be an economist with at least five years experience in a top managerial
position in a sugar companylsugar consultancy firm. The team leader also should have proven record of
having coordinated similiar studies and of tactful interaction with government organisations). The
responsibilities of the Team Leader will be twofold: he will assume primary responsibility for economic
analysis, wherever involved, and for the institutional reorganization of the KSA and KNTC; and secondly,
he shall be responsible for overall coordination of this study. The tasks will be as follows:
- Procedural: liason with the Chairman of the Task Force, and the Project Coordinator, and
Team Leader of ST I on all aspects of the conduct of the study; assignment of primary and
secondary responsibilities for each task, and coordination of output; acting as firm's
representative on contractual matters; and assumption of overall responsibility for the timely
finalization of the inception, interim, and final reports:
*   Study issues; economic analysis of sugar and cane producetion, price levels, and imports;
working out economic levels of production and imports to be targetted for over the next 10
years; reorganization of KNTC; restructuring of KSA, with a view to strengthening its
technical wings, redefining its role as a link between the private sectorand GOK and serving
as the primary policy advisory body of the GOK in respect of the sector.
14.   The Financial Specialist would have at least five years experience, in a sugar company in
managerial position or in sugar consultancy, either with a firm or independently. The financial specialist
would be responsible for the following:
(a) analysing the balance sheet of all companies for the last five years upto 30 June 92, and
compilation of the balance sheet and profit and loss account for the year ending 30 June 92, in
advance of audit;
(b) reviewing the impact of the government policies on pricing and marketing, (with inputs from
the Marketing Specialist), as reflected in the financial status of the enterprises;
(c) establishing a format for compilation of the cost of production (separately for the cane
production and milling), with special reference to cost centers and allocation of overheads;



- 58 -
Annex 2
Attachment
Page 5 of 6
(d) preparing projected balance sheets and profit and loss accounts for each company for the next
five years (30 June 1998);
(e) designing a format for the determination of costs of efficient production for the industry on a
national scale, and revenues, for the use of GOK.
15.   The Sugar Technologist would have at least five years experience in a sugar company in positions
equivalent to a factory technologist supervising shift technologists. The sugar technologist's reponsibilities
would be as follows:
(a) assessing the technical performance, in milling and boiling houses and analyzing factors
affecting optimum performance;
(b) assessing the remedial measures under implementation or consideration, and propose a
package of corrective steps needed;
(c) evolving norms for the efficient operations of the milling and boiling stations, and for overall
factory time and process efficiency, material usage and steam consumption (this will take into
account the differences in the fiber and sucrose content of cane in various estates);
(d) providing data for the computation of the costs of efficient factory operations, breaking them
down into appropriate cost centers;
(e) examining and commenting on the proposals for modernization or expansion of the sugar
factories particularly linking these proposals to the maximization of steam efficiency, for
bagasse savings, and to environmental concerns regarding liquid and solid waste and gaseous
emissions, and recommending abatement measures;
(f) examining the potential and prospects for by product utilization i.e of bagasse and mollasses.
16.   The sugarcane agronomist should have specialization in sugarcane agromomy, by way of at least
five years experience in sugarcane field management in a sugar company in a senior management position,
and in dealing with small-farmer *outgrowers. The sugar cane agronomist's responsibilities are as follows:
(a) reviewing briefly the historical production and yields of the cane sector assessing the yield gap
between the outgrowers and estates, and among estates themselves and suggesting further
research possibilities;
(b) reviewing briefly the organization of sugarcane research, identifying constraints and drawing
up the terms of reference for further studies;
(c) reviewing current practice of price determination and identifying its impact on efficiency on
growers under different circumstances and suggesting measures for payment based on cane
quality, for compensating growers as a group for performance above norm (or penalties for
below norm), and provision of inputs;



- 59 -
Annex 2
Attachment
Page 6 of 6
(d) providing guidelines for the valuation of land and the standing crop; and
(e) reviewing existing institutions, and providing inputs to the Team Leader on the organization
of out-growers, and their credit requirements.
17.   The sugar marketing specialist would have at least five years experience in a sugar firm in top
managerial position, or in consultancy with a sugar consultant firm or independently. The specialist would
also have a proven record of knowledge and experience in domestic and international marketing of sugar,
including the working of the London and the New York Sugar terminal pricing mechanics, and shipping
and freight. The specialist's responsibilities would be as follows:
(a) reviewing the current pricing pattern for sugar at the producer, distributor and consumer
levels and analyzing the distortions;
(b) analyzing consumption patterns and trends, and suggesting a level of consumption that should
be targetted, to serve as a guide for production and imports;
(c) analysing the situation likely to prevail in a liberalised market, i.e consumer and producer
price movements and demand and supply situations;
(d) specifying guidelines for setting efficiency prices for the sugar producers (considering import
parity price and the cost of efficient production), and analysing the levels of consumer prices
in different areas that would be justifiable on reasonable distribution margins, and examining
the potential for using imports as a regulator to correct market distortions;
(e) reassessing the role of KNTC (including its organizational structure and staff reduction
implications) in a liberalised environment by reviewing its current structure and activities
under monoplistic conditions and defining a role that would take into account the maintenance
of a national reserve stock, supply to remote areas, possible participation in trade on a
competetive basis, and the possible lease/sale of warehouses to the private sector; and
(f) formulating a time table for implementing the reform measures needed.



- 60 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 5
KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Oilseeds Subsector Development Component
Introduction
1.    Kenya is currently importing about 80% of its edible oil requirements which costs the country
about US$60-80 million on an annual basis. The consumption of edible oils has grown at about 13%
per annum during the period 1978-1991. There is reason to believe that given a supportive policy
environment with adequate incentives, the farmers of Kenya can substantially increase the production
of oilseeds and the processing industry can significantly augment and modernize the processing and
marketing infrastructure. The available information points to the fact that there is strong potential in
Kenya to develop the oilseed sub-sector and to reduce imports.
2.    There are indications that the oilseeds sub-sector is constrained by a number of factors, the
critical ones are as follows: (a) poor producer prices, mainly caused by poor marketing infrastructure;
(b) a questionable import and tariff structure for imported palm oil; (c) lack of appropriate technology
and input support; and (d) past low priority given by the Government for developing this sub-sector.
3.    Given the changing perceptions about oilseeds in Kenya, the development of this sub-sector is
critically dependent on formulating an institutional and policy framework which would provide
adequate incentives for oil seeds production. It would be necessary at the outset to establish a
coordinating mechanism for efficient management of the oilseed sub-sector, bringing in all agencies
concerned with research, extension, input supply, processing and marketing. In addition, further
studies need to be done on such issues as long term pricing structure, use of tariffs as a means to
stimulate the industry, basic pre-requisites for greater private sector involvement in the industry etc.
Profile of the Oilseeds Sub-sector in Kenya
4.    At present, oilseeds are agronomically not an important crop in Kenya. Oilseeds like
sunflower, rapeseed and simsim occupy less than 2% of the agricultural land in the country and
account for about a third of domestically produced edible oils (estimated at around 17,400 MT);
coconut provided about 30%, maize about 27% and cotton about 8%. Some private sector oilseed
processors endeavored to promote 'contract-farming", under which they provided seeds and other
inputs as well as guaranteed prices; they did not succeed. The main reason was the low prices they
had to offer to the farmers; they could not offer higher prices since they had to compete with the
cheap imported oil which was sold in Kenya at low prices. The prices offered to Kenyan oilseed
farmers are lower than the typical support prices declared by Governments in oilseeds growing
countries. Cost of production studies show that the farmers need to be offered prices about 50%
higher than actually offered, if they have to be motivated to undertake oilseed cultivation. Yet, the
research work done by KARI so far, inadequate as it is, shows that agronomic potential exists to
increase production in farmers' fields by a factor of 75% to 100%, if incentive prices are offered.
5.    Oilseed Processing. There are over 30 oilseed processing units, engaged in different
activities appropriate for processing different oilseedsloils: expelling, solvent-extracting, refining, and
hydrogenating. Small scale expellers called 'ram presses' can help production of crude edible oil and
oilcakes at low unit costs. The total installed capacity, estimated at 412,000 tons per annum, is



- 61 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 5
hardly utilized (estimates indicate 40%), leading to high unit costs of processing, low profitability and
poor motivation to modernize. The demand for the by-product of edible oil processing i.e., oilcakes
and meals, is high and will go up sharply as the livestock industry develops emphasizing its critical
linkage with the edible oil industry.
6.    Edible Oil pricing and Marketing. There is wideranging consensus in the oilseeds industry
that the existing fiscal, pricing and marketing structures are not providing an incentive price for the
oilseed farmer which would allow oilseeds farming to become a profitable farming activity. Palm oil
is available in the international market at a low price, due to distortions caused by export subsidies
given by major exporting countries. The Government of Kenya has desisted from imposing a tax on
these imports and prices for edible oils, including those of kinds which are consumed by affluent
sections of the community are controlled and held down to a low level distorting the domestic price
structure further. Consumer prices for edible oils in Kenya are amongst the lowest for developing
countries with deficits in edible oil production. Considering that much of the edible oils is consumed
by relatively richer sections in Kenya, there is justification for removal of price control for all edible
oil; the one exception could be the vegetable cooking fat, consumed by poorer sections, whose price
may be controlled for a period of two years, at a level equal to the cost of supply of domestically
produced sunflower oil (as a reference).
7.    The demand for edible oil has risen at a very high annual rate of 13 % over the last 12 years,
under conditions of cheap availability. Assuming economic pricing to encourage domestic oilseed
production, the rate of increase is likely to come down to 4% per annum, which is the rate of growth
of population. Even at this rate, the demand for and consumption of edible oil by 2000 AD may rise
to 245,000 tons, from the present level of 180,000 tons, for an estimated population of 35 million.
8.    With appropriate policy support, it should be possible for the Kenya oilseed sub-sector to
produce 80,000 tons of edible oil (i.e. four times the level in 1991) by 2000 AD. Oilseeds and oil-
bearing materials like sunflower, simsim, cotton-seed, coconut, rapeseed, soybeans, groundnuts,
castor seed and safflower show good promise. Simsim, safflower and castor seed production can be
substantially encouraged in the ASAL area, since these crops need relatively less moisture and can
thrive even in relatively poor soil.
Future Scenario for Growth of the Oilseed Sub-Sector
9.    Kenyan experience shows that farmers can respond enthusiastically and adopt modern
production technology and increase yields, if they are encouraged by package of incentive prices,
technology, inputs, credit and other requisite farm services. Private sector experiences in promoting
production of barley, tobacco and horticultural produce sectors, has shown that high growth rates
could be triggered through 'contract-farming" i.e. provision of integrated services to the farmer,
including 'buy-back'm arrangements. It is possible that the Oil-seeds sub-sector in Kenya could also
be induced to develop strongly providing the appropriate policy, institutional and legislative
frameworks are developed to provide the right economic climate for oil seed production by farmers.
10.   Oilseeds Policy Framework. In the first place, the Govermment of Kenya should declare a
positive oilseed production and processing policy, for efficient utilization of Kenya's agricultural and
industrial resources, to achieve cost-effective import substitution and export promotion. The
Ministries concerned-Finance, Agriculture, Industries, ASAL and Livestock-have to play active parts
in this process, to support the private sector in the relevant activities.
11.   Establishment of an Oilseeds Development Council (ODC). Secondly, a coordinating
mechanism-Oilseeds Development Council (ODC)-should be set up consisting of both public and
private sector members, which can develop and implement an integrated policy to provide incentive



- 62 -
Annex 3
Page 3 of 5
prices, technology, inputs and services to both the oilseed farmers and processors. Private processors
would be encouraged to develop 'contract-farming", with the ODC sharing an appropriate part of the
costs during the early stages. ODC's revenue would be derived from a cess on imported oils; the
cess should be the difference between the market price of domestically produced sunflower oil (as a
reference ), on cost-effective basis, and the market price of efficiently marketed imported palm oil.
After three years, the domestic processing industry would be required to pay an appropriate cess. It
would be necessary to enact a law to provide for the imposition of such cess and to regulate its
efficient use, through the ODC.
12.   This 15-member Council should be headed by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of
Agriculture; but only one third of its membership should be from Government: Ministries of
Agriculture, Industry, Finance, Livestock and KARI. There should be four representatives of private
processing industry, and four from the farming community; the Deputy Vice-Chancellor of Egerton
University, which will be the 'think-tank'm of the ODC and the Chief Executive Officer of the Council
will be ex-officio members. This will ensure appropriate leverage to the private sector to ensure that
market oriented and realistic decisions would be taken by the Council.
13.   The ODC should take the shape of a business promotion agency rather than that of a
Government office engaged in regulating and disciplining public activity. Its Chief Executive Officer
should be someone with a Kenyan agri-business background with a proven record of success.
Egerton University, which has done considerable work in policy analysis of the oilseeds sub-sector,
should be the 'think-tank' for the Council. The CEO should be assisted by three specialists in: (a)
marketing policies to help develop incentive environment for farmers and processors; (b) oilseed
production, to help identify profitable opportunities for oilseed production and to develop and
implement private sector oriented programs; and (c) oilseeds processing, to develop and implement
private sector oriented projects to increase efficiency of the processing industry.
14.    Fiscal Reforms. A variable cess on edible oil imports can be effectively used to provide
adequate resources for developing the domestic industry. The Government has already accepted the
need for this cess in principle and an Inter-Ministerial Committee has recommended an effective cess
of 40% on crude oil and 50% on refined palm oils. This cess should be imposed with immediate
effect as an interim measure until further work on calculating the appropriate cess (to be financed
under ASMP II) is completed. Sunflower oil should be used as the reference and the economics of
producing and selling sunflower oil in the retail market should be established; the cess should then be
adjusted to the difference between the representative retail price of sunflower oil and the
representative retail price of imported palm oil without the cess. At the same time, the consumer
prices of all edible oils should be decontrolled, except of vegetable cooking fat for two years; the
price of the latter should be equal to the representative retail price of sunflower oil
15.   Encouragement of Effideint Crop Production and Processing. ODC would need to
implement 5 year plans for efficient crop production and processing drawn up by intemational experts
in consultation with Kenya's private and public sector actors in the oilseed sub-sector. The crux of
the oilseed production and processing is the efficient supply of technology, inputs and other services
needed by the farmers and the processors respectively; and the 5-year plans would be implemented
efficiently by the ODC with the assistance of private sector and public sector partners.
16.   Human Resource Development. The efficient implementation of the five-year plans by ODC
would need considerable human resource development inputs, to inform and train all the players in
the private and public sectors in the objectives, strategies, operations, time schedules and other
aspects of the concerned development activities.



- 63 -                           Annex 3
Page 4 of 5
Project Components
17.   ASMP II will finance the necessary technical assistance and training required to establish the
necessary, policy, institutional and legal frameworks for developing the oilseeds sub-sector. In
addition the project would finance the start up costs of the ODC. A summary of the project
components are given below. Full details of the technical assistance and training are given in
Attachment 1.
18.   Technical Assistance. Technical assistance would be provided in four important policy and
support areas: (a) economist (pricing and marketing policies) for 6 man-months; (b) specialist in
oilseeds development policy for 12 man-months; (c) specialist in farm support services, for 6 months;
and (iv)specialist in edible oil processing systems, for 6 man-months. The detailed terms of reference
for these four consultants are provided in Attachment 1. The consultants would prepare the detailed
plans and programs in their respective areas with the support of 10 international specialists (upto 2
months each) in various aspects of oilseeds research and production and 10 more international
specialists (upto 2 months each) on different aspects of oilseeds processing. The Terms of reference
for these 20 specialists would be prepared by the above four consultants.
19.   Training. The training program would have two aspects to it. Overseas training would be
provided in the form of observation and study missions to 20 Kenyan agricultural scientists involved
in research, extension, seed production etc. 10 more Kenyan oilseed specialists in the five different
processing disciplines would also be provide with overseas training. The second aspect of the
training program would be conducted in Kenya by Egerton University. 400 Kenyan professionals
would be trained in the following disciplines: (a) appropriate fiscal and pricing policies; (b) policy
framework for oilseeds development; (c) oilseeds technology including breeding, agronomy,
entomology, pathology, etc.; (d) oilseed extension and seed production; (e) cost effective technology
and management in oilseeds processing; and (f) efficient management of ODC. Full details of the
training programs are given in Attachment 1.
20.   Start-up Costs for the ODC. The project would also fund the start-up costs of ODC,
including acquisition of assets and operational costs like rentals, salaries, etc, for the first three years
of operation. Thereafter, the cess collected on imports and domestic production will finance the
administration of ODC.
Costs
20.   The total cost of the Oilseed Component of ASMP is estimated at US$2.948 million including
physical and price contingencies. A detailed breakdown is given in the attached Table.



- 64 -
Annex 3
Page 5 of 5
KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Oilseeds Subsector Development Component
Cost Estimates (in US$)
NO. OF M.M.          RATE            AMOUNT
VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT                                                                       .
Equipment for Startup of ODC                                                               60,000
TECINICAL ASSISTANCE
Medium Term (4 Nos)                    30               12,000           360,000
Short Term (20 Nos)                    40               15,000           600,000        960,000
Local Staff Support                          _                      _440,000
TRAINING
Overseas For Kenyan Specialists       60                6,000           360,000
Local Training for Kenyans           400                  800           320,000
Egerton University Course Fees        25                20,000          500,00        1,180,000
OPERATING COST
Various Expenses for Startup                                             40,000          40,000
BASELINE COST                                                                       2,680,000
PRICE AND PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES a 10%                                               268,000
T  O   T  A  L                                                                      2,948,000



- 65 -
Annex 3
Attachment
Page 1 of 9
KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Oilseeds Subsector Development Component
Technical Assistance and Training Requirements
Detailed Terms of Reference for Consultants
1.    Consultant Economist in Pricing and Marketing Policies (6 man-months). The single
biggest constraint to the enhancement of oilseed production is the medley of import
duties/VAT/remissions applicable to imported oil as well as controls on consumer prices in domestic
sales. The fiscal reforms, for developing an incentive environment for the farmers, have to be
designed for a dynamic setting, with fluctuating international prices for different kinds of imported
oils, variations in the cost of domestic production of oilseeds, as well as in the costs of different kinds
of processing and marketing activities. A cess is necessary on imported oil, not only to create a well-
deserved incentive price for the farmers, but also to raise adequate resources for the development
activities in the course of structural reforms. Such a cess should be equal to the difference between
the cost of efficient domestic production of oil from a typical oilseed like sunflower, and the cost of
imported oil; this cess will provide the incentive price to the farmers, while penalizing him if his
costs of production are out of this line. This requires constant monitoring of the concerned economic
variables and a reliable system of collecting information. An interim cess will be imposed pending a
thorough-going analysis of the extent of protection needed by farmers; the process of assessing an
optimal cess should be completed within a year.
2.    The consultant would be required to study the Kenyan oilseeds sub-sector and make
recommendations to the Treasury and the Government on an optimal fiscal and pricing policy on oil
seeds. The consultant would also be required to present a seminar on the subject after four (4)
months of study, at which the professional economists at the Treasury, other branches of Government
and the Bank as well as the economists in the academic institutions would be able to review the
consultant's findings and recommendations. The consultant would also be required to design an
annual training course for all actors and stakeholders in such fiscal and pricing policy, to be held at
the Egerton University, for personnel from the Treasury, MOA, ODC, Processing Industry and
others.
3.    The consultant's specific terms of reference would be as follows:
(a) Review the data base on factors influencing demand for and supply of oilseeds, edible
oils, oil cakes/meals and other co-products and recommend ways and means of improving
the data base.
(c) Study the economics of production of different oilseeds (including oil-bearing materials
like cottonseed/maize) and establish the hierarchy of comparative advantages in their
production; in particular, the economic costs of replacing an existing crop with an
oilseed crop and the possibilities of using fallow lands in cultivated areas as well as
using unused fallow lands in ASAL areas for water-saving crops like simsim and
safflower.



- 66 -
Annex 3
Attachment
Page 2 of 9
(c) Review the economics of oilseed and oil processing industrial units and establish the pre-
conditions for their efficient functioning.
(d)  Review the economics of the animal feeds industry particularly of poultry, piggery and
dairy cattle in relation to the oilseed sub-sector and establish linkages.
(e) Examine the prevailing structure for marketing of oilseeds, oil and co-products and
identify any distortions and make recommendations for achieving an efficient marketing
structure for these products.
(f) In the light of the above factors, establish a model for ascertaining the incentive prices
for different oilseeds (including oil-bearing materials) and the corresponding prices of
different oils, taking into account their relative premia in the market (e.g. a maize germ
oil will always enjoy a premium since it has high percentage of poly-unsaturated fats);
also establish a procedure for annual updating of such incentive prices for different
oilseeds, taking into account variables like cost of production.
(g) Review the consumption pattern of different kinds of oils- rural vs urban and amongst
different income deciles/quartiles, as closely as permitted by the available data for
Kenya/neighboring countries with similar socio-cultural and economic conditions, and
recommend ways and means of providing a safety net, to the extent administratively
feasible, for the less affluent sections of the community.
(h) Review the fiscal levies imposed by Government of Kenya on imported oils of different
kinds and examine the cost structure of the import section of oil industry from the stage
of landing to the stage of retail sale and make appropriate recommendations for
achieving cost savings.
(i) Consider the economics of oilseed production and processing as well as imports of oil in
Kenya and advise on the degree of import substitution that can be achieved in Kenya, on
cost effective basis.
(j)  Examine the economics of import of crude versus refined oils, considering the costs of
refining in Kenya as well as the implicit encouragement to the export of refined (as
against crude) oil by the exporting countries.
(k) In the light of the foregoing, prepare a model to fix an appropriate cess on imported
oils, which would afford optimal protection to the domestic oilseeds growers and
processors without undue sacrifice of economic efficiency.
()  Project the demand and supply of oilseeds, edible oils and co-products for animal,
industry as well as soap/detergent industry, upto the year 2000 AD.
(m) Identify officials/persons in different branches of Government, primary and secondary
industry, who need to be given training in the development of an appropriate pricing
and marketing structure.



- 67 -
Annex 3
Attachment
Page 3 of 9
(n)  Develop a syllabus, as well as identify resource persons, in Egerton University and
elsewhere, for providing an effective two to three weeks training course annually in the
development of a healthy pricing and marketing structure, for 90 Kenyan nationals over
three years.
(o)  Estimate the costs of strengthening the VOPS in Egerton University for updating the data
base and analytical capability on the foregoing issues so that it can bring out an annual
report for the ODC on the status of 'Appropriate Pricing and Marketing Policies"; this
would help the ODC to make appropriate moves to secure adequate incentives to oilseed
farmers and processors on a continuous basis.
4.    Consultant Specialist in Oilseed Development Policy (12 man-months). There is a lack a
policy for development of the oilseed sub-sector, even though uncoordinated efforts have been made
both in the public sector (KARI, MOA, MOI) and in the private sector (OCD, Elianto & Unga) for
stepping up oilseed production without much success. What is needed is an explicitly stated dynamic
policy to prqvide farmers and processors with incentive prices as well as productive technology and
inputs plus a credible institutional mechanism to carry out such policy in collaboration with the
private and public sector agencies.
5.    An institutional framework needs to be established for the oilseeds subsector, and an Oilseeds
Development Council, with the participation of actors both from private and public sectors, needs to
be set up. It has to be specially designed, with imagination, to secure the best of enlightened, non-
intrusive public regulation and dynamism of a creative private sector. The consultant would work
with the Government and the private sector in Kenya to formulate an Oilseeds Development law to be
passed by the Parliament. He would then assist in establishing and operationalising an Oilseed
Development Council (ODC) to carry out the developmental objectives stated in the law. The
consultant would be initially required to assist MOA set up a 'shadow' ODC, to which the consultant
should be able to make presentations every month on proposals in order to get their counsel to draft
the policy framework and the law.
6.    The consultant's specific terms of reference would be as follows:
(a)  undertake a survey of institutional linkages necessary for developing the oilseed sub-
sector and evaluate the existing and desirable contributions to be made by different
research, extension, input supply, credit, marketing, fiscal and other service units in the
Government Ministries as well as in private sector including cooperatives, the Chambers
of Commerce and other Associations. processing and marketing of oilseed and oils.
(b)  Draft a policy statement on structural reforms for the development of the oilseeds sub-
sector and assist the Ministry of Agriculture in taking all necessary steps to secure the
approval of the Government to the public declaration of that policy.
(c)  Conduct a survey of legislation influencing oilseed development directly and indirectly in
developing countries; and in the light of such survey, establish the basic features of a
law for Kenya, taking into account the past experience of parastatals, cooperative
societies and private sector in the development of agriculture in general and oilseeds in
particular.



- 68 -
Annex 3
Attachment
Page 4 of 9
(d)  In the light of the publicly declared policy, and the above survey, draft a legislation to
provide a regulatory framework, for the establishment of an ODC. The Law should
specify the ODC's mandate and functions, its composition, source of funds, its
autonomy, its accountability to the Parliament, its reporting and accounting arrangements
etc.
(e)  Develop an organogram for the proposed ODC, complete with the list of duties and
powers and lines of accountability to carry out the functions of the ODC efficiently and
cost-effectively.
(f)  Prepare recruitment rules for the different positions in the ODC and training plan as
appropriate.
(g)  Prepare an operations manual for the ODC, laying down a time-bound schedule of
operations with different partners and setting out the principles and contents of the
respective operations, particularly for preparing policy and operational papers for the
Board of ODC and an annual calendar of operations for the Board as well as all the
executives.
(h)  Prepare a plan of action and budget for setting up the ODC office.
(i)  Establish a management information system, to assist the executives of the ODC in
assessing the status of important policy parameters e.g. pricing and marketing policies.
(i) Prepare a broad five-year projection of the cesses likely to be made available by the
Treasury after collecting the same under the Oilseeds Development Act.
(k) Prepare with the assistance of the other medium-term consultants, a broad five-year
development plan to assist: (a) the private processing industry, in its "contract farming"
activities to motivate oilseed farmers to enhance production; (b) the private processing
industry, with technical advice for improving the productivity of its processing
operations; (c) KARI, in oilseed research activities; (d) MOA in agricultural extension
including field demonstrations; (e) Kenya Seeds Company for production of quality
seeds, taking into account potential demand; and (f) other development activities which
help enhance oilseed production and otherwise increase efficiency of the sub-sector.
(1) Advise on the augmentation of capacity at the Egerton University for a concurrent
evaluation of the operations of ODC and to act as a 'think-tank" for the ODC; and
estimate the cost of performing these functions.
(m) Prepare a syllabus in consultation with Egerton University and estimate the cost of
training 40 Kenyan executives/planners annually for 3 years in the private and public
sectors on the development of policy framework for oilseed development and on the
mandate and operations of ODC.



- 69 -
Annex 3
Attachment
Page 5 of 9
7.    Consultant Specialist in Farm Support Services (6 man-months). The development of the
oilseed sub-sector would crucially depend on an efficient supply of technology, inputs and other
services to the farmers. The considerable potential for increasing yields of various oilseeds has been
established by KARI; however, KARI needs further backstopping in these research efforts.
Concurrent with the pricing and fiscal reforms and establishment of an ODC, it is essential that steps
should be taken to strengthen the various farm support services like extension, supply of seeds,
fertilizers, pesticides, farm implements, credit support, etc. The agencies involved in these services
need to be specially oriented towards the requirements of the oilseeds subsector. The consultant
specialist would need to have substantial experience of promoting oilseeds production in a developing
country. The detailed terms of reference for the consultant specialist in farm support services are set
out below:
(a) Survey the agro-ecological zones of Kenya and identify the potential for growing suitable
oilseeds on cost-effective and commercial basis. Prioirity should be given to those
oilseeds that can be grown without unduly replacing economically grown crops; special
consideration may also be given to new oilseeds like safflower and castor, which prima
facie can be grown cost-effectively and on ecologically sound basis in ASAL areas.
(b) Review the research work done by KARI in oilseed crops, visit the concerned field
research centers and identify the future lines of research needed in each of these crops
for the next five years.
(c) Prepare terms of reference for short-term consultants, upto 10 in member, for the
purposes stated above.
(d) Prepare a program, with costs, for training about 10 KARI researchers, engaged in high
priority oilseeds research, at reputed research centers engaged in those relevant research
themes, particularly for sunflower, simsim, coconut, groundnut, safflower, castor,
soybean, etc. for a period of about two months (the training season should be carefully
chosen so that the research scientist can see the crops in the research fields).
(e) Prepare a program, with costs, for training 60 KARI scientists in different disciplines
(breeding, agronomy, entomology, pathology, physiology etc) dealing with different
oilseeds at various research centers of KARI, for which KARI specialists (and to the
extent necessary specialists from overseas) would be requested to act as resource
persons; the duration would be about two months.
(f) Develop a syllabus and training plan, with costs, for training 10 Kenyan agricultural
scientists from public, private and cooperative sectors involved in development (other
than research) aspects of oilseed development such as extension and seed production,
over the course of 3 years, in developing countries where oilseed production has been
successfully stepped up.
(g)  Develop a syllabus and a training plan, with costs, for training annually 30 extension
personnel from public, private and cooperative sectors, for a period of 2/3 weeks, for 3
years; selection should be made taking into account the weights of different provinces
growing different oilseeds; the training will be held at the Njoro Campus of Egerton
University.



- 70 -
Annex 3
Attachment
Page 6 of 9
(h)  Survey the progress made in the private sector in extension, input supply and other
promotion efforts including those by M/s Elianto, Unga, OCD, KBL and BAT; identify
the lessons of experience and use them for preparing a 5-year Plan for enhancing
production towards an indicative production target of 80,000 tons of edible oil from
around 400,000 ha of land by 2000 AD; analyze the efficacy and economics of different
extension strategies in this context, particularly field demonstrations, training camps for
farmers, printed literature, audio-visual methods etc., and make recommendations for
improvement.
(i)  Review the system of production and sale of quality seeds of oilseeds, in collaboration
with Kenya Seed Company and other reputed seed producers, and develop a Production
and Sales Plan for quality oilseed seeds, on a realistic basis; assess the critical technical
assistance needed by the seed producers and incorporate it in the 5-year Production Plan
to support oilseed production.
(j) In consultation with appropriate officials in the private and public sectors, develop a
model for 'contract-farming' system, under which the processing units can motivate the
farmers, supply inputs and buy back oilseeds at agreed incentive prices; advise on the
criteria for sharing of costs for such promotion work between ODC and the private
entrepreneur; advise on the ways and means of preventing/discouraging 'poaching".
(k) Prepare a comprehensive 5-year Oilseed Production Plan, with costs, putting together all
the research, extension, training, input supply and other elements, setting out objectives,
strategies, time schedules, milestones, institutions to be involved, strategy for motivating
partners, and sources of funds, with the aim of producing a target of 80,000 tons of
edible oil (four times the level produced in 1991) from about 400,000 ha of land by
2000 AD.
(1) Prepare a Management Information System for ODC, together with a monitoring and
evaluation system to monitor the progress of the 5-year oilseed production plan by ODC.
Consultant Specialist in Oilseed Processing (6 man-months). The constraints faced by the
industry includes sub-optimal (40%) utilization of capacity with resultant high unit costs and
disincentive to modernize, discriminatory duty structure, processing inefficiency etc. The industry is
also unable to provide oilcakes/meals at economic rates to animal feed industry on account of high
unit costs as well as cheap imports. Concurrent with the enhancement of the oilseed production, it is
essential to upgrade the efficiency of this industry. The detailed terms of reference of the consultant
specialist in oilseeds processing are set out below:
(a)  Undertake a survey of the 30-plus processing establishments of different kinds, to assess
the status of the industry and to make recommendations for stepping up efficiency and
promoting future growth: the survey should focus on existing capacity and its utilization,
capitalization, working results, raw materials availability and factors influencing it,
method of collecting raw materials, levels of skills of staff, other constraints,
profitability etc.



-71-
Annex 3
Attachment
Page 7 of 9
(b) Review the technical and economic feasibility of the 'ram-press' and similar
decentralized, village based small scale processing unit in the context of advantages
claimed (rural nutrition, jobs, farm incomes) and, indicate the potential for further
development of this rural based enterprise and the policy initiatives required.
(c) Review the availability of supporting services for improving efficiency of processing
operations e.g. expert advice from the Ministry of Industry, University and Consultancy
firms, timely availability of spare parts, etc.; the objective is to increase the yield of oil
from oilseeds, improve the quality of oilcakes and to reduce unit costs of processing.
(d) Review the efforts made, if any, by the processing units to encourage farmers to grow
oilseeds for sale to these units, through provisions of inputs and credit, if any, guarantee
of buy-back at incentive prices, and the result of such efforts; if there was any
"poaching' of such contract farmers, an account of how it took place and the likely
higher prices paid and facilities offered by the 'poachers"; and suggestions for
discouraging/preventing such 'poaching' should be reviewed.
(e) Review the minimum conditions, including financial support from ODC, under which
the processors are willing to re-start the "contract-cultivation' arrangements, particularly
in the light of good experience of M/s Kenya Breweries for barley and MIs BAT for
tobacco.
(f) Analyze the pattern of disposal of the products of the processing units - oil,
oilcakes/meals, fat for detergents/soap and assess the profitability of these sales.
(g) In consultation with the Ministry of Livestock Development, develop a blue print for
providing support to animal feed industry.
(h) Project profitability of the representative units in the industry at 60%, 80% and 90%
capacity utilization respectively and indicate the capability of these units to undertake
capital investment for modernization.
(i) Evaluate the potential for exports in the industry and the pre-conditions for successful
exports.
(j) Elicit and analyze the comments of the industry on the fiscal and pricing policies of
Government to help the industry reach/improve viability.
(k) Prepare a detailed program for technical assistance through the 10 short term
consultants and training of 150 Kenyan staff including terms of reference for consultants,
selection of resource persons for training in Kenya, essential syllabus, etc. and also help
Egerton University to prepare syllabus for training Kenya specialists.
(1) In the light of the foregoing, prepare a 5-year development plan for the entire oilseed
processing industry to be implemented by ODC, with costs for all elements, setting out
detailed objectives, strategies, priorities, time-schedules, milestones, institutions to be
involved, accountability, strategies for motivating different actors and sources of funds



- 72 -
Annex 3
Attachment
Page 8 of 9
which can help process about 250,000 tons of oilseeds and produce 80,000 tons of edible
oil in 2000 AD.
(m) Prepare a Management Information System, together with a monitoring and evaluation
system for monitoring the 5-year plan indicated above.
Training Programs
8.    A. Overseas Training: 30 Kenyan professionals would be trained overseas.
(a) 10 scientists from KARI would be trained in reputed research centers engaged in high
priority research themes, particularly for sunflower, simsim, coconut, groundnut,
safflower, castor, soybean etc. for a period of about 2 months each. The scope, the
centers, and timing of the training program would be designed by the consultant
specialist in farm support services.
(b) 10 scientists involved in other aspects of oilseed development including extension, seed
production etc would be trained in suitable developing countries where oilseed
production has been successfully carried out. each scientist would be trained for about 2
months. The scope, location and detailed plan of the proposed training would also be
prepared by the consultant specialist in farm support services.
(c) 10 Kenyan specialists from the processing industry would be trained in countries
which employ labor intensive processing methods for a period of 2 months each. The
scope, location and detailed plan of this training program would be developed by the
consultant specialist in oilseed processing.
B. Training in Kenya: The training program will be conducted by the Egerton University.
The specific syllabuses and the detailed training plans would be developed by the various specialist
consultant.
(a) An annual training course would be conducted for around 25 professionals from the
Treasury, MOA, farmers' organizations and processing industry for a period of 2 to 3
weeks on the subject of 'Appropriate Pricing and Marketing Policies". Three such
courses should be organized over 3 years, training about 75 professionals. The
consultant economist would develop the courses, as well as identify resource persons in
Egerton University and elsewhere for providing this training program.
(b) An annual training course (213 weeks) for around 30 Kenyan executives/planners both
from the private and the public sectors would be trained in the development of a policy
framework for oilseed development and on the mandate of the ODC (about 90
executives/planners in total). The Consultant specialist in oilseed development policy
would prepare the training plan, the courses etc in conjunction with Egerton University
and identify suitable resource persons both from within Egerton and elsewhere. The
costs of training for private sector participants would be met by their respective
employers.



- 73 -
Annex 3
Attachment
Page 9 of 9
(c) 50 scientists from KARI would be trained in different disciplines (breeding, agronomy,
entomology, pathology, physiology etc) dealing with different oilseeds at the various
research centers of KARI, for which KARI scientists and overseas specialists would be
used. The training plan, and scope etc would be developed in conjunction with KARI
by the consultant specialist in farm support systems.
(d)  25 extension personnel would be trained annually (75 in total) for a period of 2/3 weeks
in oilseeds specific extension. The people to be trained would be selected from the
public sector, the private sector and from cooperatives. The detailed training plan and
course contents would be developed in conjunction with Egerton university by the
specialist consultant in farm support services.
(e)  100 operatives in the oilseeds industry would be trained (3/4 week courses) in the cost
effective management of different industrial processes prevailing in Kenya. The
consultant specialist in oilseed processing would prepare a detailed training program,
course content, etc., in conjunction with Egerton University. The costs of training for
private sector participants would be met by their respective employers.



- 74 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 7
KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Cooperative Subsector Restructuring Component
Introduction
1.   The performance of Kenya's agricultural sector is being constrained by structural inadequacies
characterized by an inappropriate policy environment, weak managerial capabilities, and the
domination of the sector by badly managed, inefficient and loss making public sector marketing and
distribution institutions. The Government has recognized that a major overhaul of the policy
framework and the incentive structure is urgently needed, along with the encouragement of a more
competitive marketing structure with increased participation of the private sector in all aspects of
marketing and distribution of agricultural commodities.
2.   A major factor influencing the agricultural sector in Kenya is the pervasive and often adverse
role of the cooperatives. With a membership of over 2 million people, representing more than one
third of the households in the country, the 4000 active societies could play a positive role in the
development of the agricultural sector. However, this has not generally been the case, and the
cooperative movement has shown less than satisfactory performance in terms of long term
sustainability, business development and the level of services provided to members.
3.   Kenya is at a crossroad with regard to cooperative development, since in the face of market
liberalization the monopolistic position of cooperatives as well as their role as channels for
Government sponsored credit and input supply schemes within a regulated agricultural marketing set-
up is no longer sustainable. In addition, the extensive involvement of the MOCD in the management
of the cooperatives is incompatible with the aim of promoting farmer controlled organizations which
are responsive to market signals.
Profile of the Cooperatives Sub-sector in Kenya
4.    A distinct feature of the Kenyan cooperative set-up is the close involvement of the government
in the promotion and control of the cooperative societies. Within the framework of the rural
development policies, cooperatives are seen as a feasible channel for providing supply and marketing
services to smallholder farmers. The 1964-70 National Development Plan stated that the government
would 'assume a greater role in supervising cooperatives on financial and managerial matters". It
was, furthermore, announced that 'it is hoped that these supervisory powers will only have to be
exercised for a short period, after which a viable, responsible and articulate movement, able to
govern itself, should emerge". In the beginning of the 1990's, more than a quarter of a century later,
this still remains the official policy of the government. There are, however, now indications of a
possible reassessment of the government's policy towards the cooperative sector reducing the
supervisory role of the government.
5.   The Organizational Structure. The cooperative movement as at the end of 1989 consisted of
2.5 million individual members, 4000 active primary societies, 51 district or regional unions, 10
country-wide secondary or tertiary cooperatives and, at the apex level, the Kenya National Federation



- 75 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 7
of Cooperatives (KNFC). The annual business turnover of the primary societies and the union was
KShs7 billion (US$241 million).
6.   In the agricultural sector there were 950 active marketing societies with 702.000 active
members as at December 12, 1991 (source MOCD). The main activities of the primary agricultural
societies are primary collection and processing of crops or animal products produced by their
members, supply of farm inputs and administration of production credit. The level of activities vary,
however, greatly depending on the stage of development of the individual societies.
7.   The primary agricultural societies are typically affiliated to district or regional unions which
provide them with centralized services in the fields of farm input supply, marketing, accounting,
savings and credit, staff training, and member education. As is the case with the primary societies,
the services provided by the unions show considerable variations in magnitude and quality. The most
comprehensive range of services is provided by the unions in the coffee growing areas, whereas in
other parts of the country the unions are often practically defunct and unable to give meaningful
support to their affiliated primary societies.
8.   There are 10 specialized nation-wide cooperative organizations, the most important of which
are: (a) Kenya Planters Cooperative Union which handles the processing of coffee from cooperatives
as well as large-scale producers; (b) Kenya Cooperative Creameries, which has had (the dairy sector
was deregularized 21/5 1992) a dominant position in the dairy industry and which receives milk from
cooperatives as well as directly from individual producers; (c) Kenya Grain Growers Cooperative
Union (KGGCU) which is the major importer and distributor of fertilizers in the country; (d) Kenya
Union of Savings and Credit Cooperatives which extend training, accounting and financial services to
the credit unions; (e) Cooperative Insurance Services which handles a substantial part of the insurance
requirements of the cooperatives; and (f) the Cooperative Bank of Kenya which is the central financial
institution of the movement and the fifth largest bank in the country.
9.   KNFC, the national cooperative apex organization, functions as the spokesman of the
cooperative movement and extends printing, auditing and training services to the primary societies
and unions. Despite its status as apex body only a mere 10 per cent of the cooperatives are members
and it plays a rather marginal role in promoting cooperative development.
10.  The Policy and Legal Framework. The government's ambition to promote, guide and control
cooperatives, notably those in the rural areas, has its origin in their perceived role as institutional
channels for provision of technical and material resources to the smallholder agricultural sector. The
central role which the cooperatives in independent Kenya has played in the official development
strategy has caused the government to intervene into their affairs. They have been integrated, often
as agents of parastatal bodies, into a regulated marketing and supply system. Under this set-up, the
cooperatives have had to conform to certain standards in their operations, and the promotional and
controlling powers vested in the Commissioner for Cooperative Development (CCD) in the
Cooperative Societies Act have been extensively and increasingly used for that purpose.
11.  The Cooperative Societies Act of 1972 gives the Commissioner for Cooperative Development
(CCD) a wide mandate to promote and control the societies. Apart from having the exclusive rights
of registration, dissolution and compulsory amalgamation of societies, the CCD has powers to
prescribe accounting and internal management procedures; approve budgets; monitor the financial
performance through submission of quarterly financial statements by the societies to the CCD; audit



- 76 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 7
the cooperatives; approve remuneration, salary or other payments to staff or members of a society;
approve the hiring and dismissal of graded staff; and dictate a society's mode of organization.
12.  One particular amendment to the Cooperative Societies Act that should be carried out as a
matter of urgency is related to the regulation of members' debts and loans to their society. At present
a member cannot be sued and brought to court when defaulting. The Act now prescribes that matters
like nonpayment of debts or loans by member shall be referred to the CCD, something that has hardly
ever happened. A similar amendment that also should be made in the Act refers to the relations
between the society and the committee members (and appointed commissions). The cooperative
society must be in a position to sue committee members for outright criminal acts as well as for
damages to the cooperative caused by gross negligence. These two amendments would certainly go a
long way to installing respect for the assets and properties of the cooperative societies.
13. It is increasingly evident that the current government policy on cooperatives and the extensive
involvement by the MOCD in the management of the cooperatives is incompatible with the stated aim
of building democratically controlled farmers' organizations. The centralized government control
over the cooperatives coupled with the role of the cooperatives as channels for government-sponsored
credit and farm input supply schemes within a regulated agricultural marketing set-up has clearly had
negative effects on the cooperatives. Some of the key implications are as follows:
(a) The intrusive role of Government has not been conducive to the emergence of a genuine,
member-controlled, self-reliant and sustainable cooperative movement. Many members
have, in fact, come to regard the cooperatives as an extension of the government's
administrative machinery established in order to channel government support to the rural
areas. This has resulted in poor member participation and control, low share capital
contributions and mismanagement. Ordinary members often lack understanding of their
rights as members and of the technicalities involved in the management of the cooperative
as a business enterprise.
(b) The MOCD administrative regulations which govern the operations of the cooperatives are
often not compatible with the flexibility required for running the cooperatives as business
enterprises. Quick decisions cannot be taken in response to an ever-changing market
environment. This is probably one of the factors explaining the relative lack of success of
cooperatives trading in an open competitive market (such as marketing of non-regulated
food crops).
(c) Related to the point above is the observation that the standardized operational procedures
and institutional arrangements, being the hallmark of the systems designed and
implemented by the MOCD, sometimes are too elaborate and costly for small societies to
comply with, considering the often small volumes of their activities.
(d) The mutualist self-help character of cooperatives has been diluted by the longstanding
government policy of using the cooperatives as instruments for implementation of
agricultural development schemes and for channelling of, often subsidized, credit and farm
inputs to farmers. Formation of cooperatives for the purpose of obtaining government-
sponsored credit has been a typical feature of the expansion of cooperatives into less
developed areas. Not surprisingly, the repayment rates under these schemes have been far
from satisfactory as the loans received have been regarded as 'government money' that
need not be repaid.



- 77 -
Annex 4
Page 4 of 7
(e) The regulated agricultural marketing and pricing system-which now gradually is being
dismantled-has affected the cooperatives in several ways,. e.g., the coffee cooperatives,
having monopoly of smallholder coffee marketing, have in recent years tended to become
increasingly inefficient. This is evidenced by decreasing rates of payments to members for
coffee delivered, as well as by substantial delays in disbursements of members' payments.
Even if, admittedly, falling world market prices have contributed to this development, the
major contributing factor appears to be high operating costs and a failure by the coffee
societies to adjust and rationalize their operations in response to lower prices.
(f) Audit is one of the statutory functions of the MOCD. The audit position of many
cooperatives including the cotton cooperatives is very unsatisfactory. For example, the
audit position of all types of registered societies in the whole of Nyanza Province is
unsatisfactory-42% of the active societies have their audits two or more years in arrears.
Audits in the other provinces is reportedly also in arrears. The MOCD has in other words
not been able to ensure that the books of accounts of the cooperative societies are being
timely audited.
Scenario for Future Sustainable Development of Cooperatives in Kenya
14.  The fundamental pre-requisite for effective cooperative development is the need for the policy
framework and the cooperative legislation to be radically liberalized to provide for an independent and
member-controlled movement. The powers of intervention by the MOCD need to be substantially
reduced and its functions redefined. The primary function of the MOCD should be; registration of
societies fulfilling the formal legal requirements; deregistration of societies which are dissolved at the
initiative of their members or which cease to operate due to business failures or for other reasons;
ensuring that the registered cooperatives operate in accordance with the law; and the MOCD would be
the body to which cooperatives members could appeal if their rights have been violated - perhaps in
the form of a " Cooperative Members' Ombudsman" institution. All other functions should be
transferred to the Cooperative Movement.
15.  A revision of the Cooperative Societies Act along the above suggested lines would also
necessitate and revision of Model Bye-laws and Rules for cooperative societies. It would be
necessary that checks and balances safeguarding members' rights and interests are incorporated in the
Act, Rules and Bye-laws.
16.  The above suggested changes would mean that a number of functions that are now carried out
by the MOCD would be discontinued and transferred to the cooperative movement itself. To a
certain extent, there is already an alternative, movement-based institutional framework consisting of;
the Kenya Union of Savings and Credit Cooperatives which is capable of promoting and assisting
savings and credit cooperatives formed by salary and wage earners (SACCOs); the Cooperative Bank
of Kenya which is already engaged in supporting the further development of savings and credit
activities in the agricultural cooperatives; the Kenya National Federation of Cooperatives which is the
principal spokesman of the cooperative movement, in addition the Federation has an Audit Section for
audit of cooperative societies; the Cooperative Development Information Centre, a newly formed
secondary cooperative with the objective of becoming the dominant supplier and developer of
computer based administrative systems to primary and secondary cooperatives in Kenya ; and, the
National Organization for Cooperative Education and Training Ltd. whose objective is to be the
policy-making, coordinating and implementing institution of cooperative training and education in



- 78 -
Annex 4
Page 5 of 7
Kenya. The Cooperative College of Kenya, which now constitutes part of the MOCD, should be
transferred to the movement as well.
17.  The transfer of the audit function and the promotional and supportive functions now carried out
by the MOCD would, not least for practical reasons, have to be effected over a period of time in
order to avoid disruptions and allowing time for the movement institutions to properly establish
themselves. It would also be necessary for the government to continue, at the request of the
respective movement organization, availing personnel and providing part-financing until such a time
the cooperatives themselves are in a position to assume full financial responsibility. The modalities
regarding these transfers of functions would need to be worked out and agreed upon jointly by the
government and the relevant movement organizations. It is proposed that technical assistance support
is provided to facilitate the planning of this transfer of functions.
19.  In summary the main steps that need to be taken to restructure the cooperative sector are as
follows:
(a) The government should explicitly recognize the cooperatives as private sector enterprises
formed and managed by their members in accordance with internationally recognized
cooperative principles. The Government should not impose a centrally determined activity
pattern and structure but leave the cooperatives free to operate and maintain a structure
which is defined on the basis of the needs of the members.
(b) The policy framework and the cooperative legislation should be radically liberalized to
provide for an independent and member controlled cooperative movement. The powers of
intervention by the MOCD should be substantially reduced and its functions redefined.
(c) Two particular amendments to The Cooperative Societies Act should be carried out as a
matter of urgency: (a) a cooperative society should have the right to sue and bring to court
members defaulting on debts and loans; and (b) a society should have the right to sue and
bring to court committee members for outright criminal acts as well as for damages to the
society causes by gross negligence.
(d) The statutory audit and the promotional and supportive functions now carried out by the
MOCD should be transferred to the cooperative movement. The transfer should be carried
out over a period of time in order to avoid disruptions and to allow time for the movement
institutions to properly establish themselves. The modalities regarding the transfer of
functions should be worked out and agreed upon jointly by the Government and the
relevant cooperative organizations.
Proposed Project Components
20.  The project would finance technical assistance to undertake the above mentioned structural
changes. The proposed technical assistance is outlined below The detailed terms of reference for
these studies are given in Attachment 1.:
(a) A study, to prepare a proposal for new legislation, including model bye-laws and rules,
that are in line with the suggested policy changes would be financed. International expertise
on cooperative legislation should be utilized for the proposed study.



- 79 -
Annex 4
Page 6 of 7
(b) technical assistance would be provided in the form of a consultant who would determine
the modalities of the transfer of the audit function and the promotional and supportive
functions now carried out by the MOCD to the cooperative movement.
(c) a study on rationalizing the role of MOCD, in light of its revised limited functions and to
outline the staff reduction implications would be financed
21.  The project would also finance a vehicle and two computers for the use of the Development
Planning Department (DPD) of MOCD. In addition, the project would also finance studies, to be
managed by the DPD, on critical cooperative policy related areas.
Component Costs
22.  The proposed component is expected to cost US$ 0.25 million, including physical and price
contingencies. Details are provided in the attached Table.



- 80 -
Annex 4
Page 7 of 7
KENYA-SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT (ASMP 11)
COOPERATIVE Subsector Restructuring Component
Cost Estimtes iDn USS)
L_____|  RatetM.M.            Amount       Expenses          Tota
Vehicles
Saloon Car                                        20,000                          20,000
Equipment:
Computers 2 x 5000                               10,000
Other      5000                                   5,000                          15,000
TOTAL                                                                           35,000
No. of     Rate/M.M.         Amount       Expenses          Total
M.M.____                                              _
Legal Expert            3           15,000          45,000         6,000           51,000
Economist               2           12,000          24,000         5,000           29,000
Inst. Specialist         2          12,000          24,000        10,000           34,000
LOCAL
Lawyer                   1           6,000           6,000         6,000           12,000
STUDIES (lumpsum)                   60,000                                         60,000
Vehicle Operating Cost                                       _                      6,000
BASELINE COST                                                                      227,000
PRICE AND PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                             23,000
TOTAL               250,000



- 81 -
Annex 4
Attachment
Page 1 of 2
KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Cooperatives Subsector Restructuring Component
Technical Assistance Requirements
1.   Study on the Cooperative Legislation. The proposed revision of the Kenyan Cooperative
legislation will result in a totally new relationship between the Government and the cooperatives. The
revision would also require amendments of the Rules and model Bye-laws in such a way as to
encompass necessary checks and balances safeguarding members rights and interests. The new
Cooperatives Societies Act will thus be essentially different to the present legislation. TA would be
provided in the form of a recognized expert (1 man-month) on cooperative legislation with experience
in developing countries to assist the Kenya Government in formulating a modern cooperative
legislation for independent and member controlled cooperatives. This consultant would be assisted by
a locally recruited lawyer who would assist in drafting the legislation.
2.   The specific terms of reference for the consultant would be as follows.
Review the Cooperatives Societies Act and propose recommendations for revising the Act to
create the legal framework for liberalizing the cooperative movement from Government
(MOCD) control to becoming independent member controlled organizations. In proposing
revisions to the Act, the consultant would pay particular attention to: (a) redefining MOCD's
role in a liberalized agricultural environment; (b) giving a cooperative society the right to sue
and bring members to court for defaulting on loans; and (c) allowing society members the right
to sue committee members for criminal acts and gross negligence.
3.   Study on the transfer of functions to the Cooperative Movement from MOCD. A key
aspect of the liberalization program and freeing the cooperative movement from Government control
is the transfer of the audit and the promotional and supportive functions from the MOCD to the
movement. This transfer should be done in a phased manner to avoid disruptions. The objective is
to work out a strategy and plan for the transfer of the various functions so that the operation can be
carried out in an orderly and rational way without unnecessary delays. TA would be provided in the
form of a consultant (2 man-months) who is an economist/organization and management specialist to
prepare the modalities of the transfer. The consultant's specific terms of reference is as follows.
(a) review the current audit and the promotional supportive functions provided by the MOCD
to the Cooperative movement.
(b) following the review, formulate recommendations for a phased transfer of these
responsibilities from MOCD to the Movement. In doing so the consultant should pay
particular attention to: (i) minimizing disruption and where possible improving on the
current situation; (ii) accommodating voluntary staff transfer from MOCD to the



- 82 -
Annex 4
Attachment
Page 2 of 2
Movement as the functions are transferred; and (iii) completing the transfer ia a short a
period as feasible.
(c)  after formulating the recommendations the consultant should identify the process,
including timing and other assistance as required to complete the transfer process, and
then reach agreement with the Government.
4.   Study on MOCD Rationalization. It is clear that if the role of Govermment is revised in the
cooperative sector MOCD would need to be radically restructured to perform its new and much more
severely reduced functions. A major fall out of the restructuring exercise is the staff reduction
implications. The objective is to clearly identify the organizational structure of MOCD in the new
liberalized environment, work out the staff reduction implications clearly identifying where the staff
reductions would take place. TA would be provided in the form an organizational and management
specialist for 2 man-months. This consultant would be expected to commence work after the new
legislation has been drafted by the consultant specialist in cooperative legislation. The specific terms
of reference for this consultant is as follows:
(a)  review the current organizational structure of MOCD including its staffing establishment.
(b)  review the proposed new cooperative legislation which would provide the legal
framework for a new role for MOCD and work out the organizational structure of a
MOCD with a drastically reduced responsibilities.
(c)  after formulating the revised organizational structure work out the staffing needs of the
reformed MOCD, and identify the redundant staff numbers and location.
(d)  work out the process, including the timing of key actions, by which the organizational
structure of MOCD should be revised.



-83 -                            Annex 5
Page 1 of 7
KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and Ministry of Livestock Development(MOLD)
MOA/MOLD Capacity Building Component
Introduction
1.    The Kenyan economy continues to be dominated by agriculture, and rapid growth of this
sector figures prominently in the Government's overall economic strategy. The sector accounts for 30
per cent of the Gross Domestic Product, 60 per cent of merchandise exports, and 70 per of
employment.
2.    Kenya's agricultural sector has been strong in the past, and the potential exists for it to grow
at 4% per annum. However, the recent performance of the sector is being severely constrained by a
number of external and internal structural inadequacies. Externally these include reduced public
investment in the sector, inappropriate public service incentive structures, cumbersome regulatory and
procedural systems, as well as depressed world prices for some important crops. Internally, the
sector is characterized by a weak strategic management structure that has responded only sluggishly to
dramatic changes in the international agricultural market and to the tightening fiscal situation in
Kenya. This is partially evidenced by the continued existence of a number of inefficient and loss
making public sector marketing and distribution institutions. Together these constraints merge to
produce a non-competitive market apparatus and inadequate producer incentives that are critically
influencing the decisions of farmers and other agricultural actors to develop the sector.
3.    The Govermment has recognized that a major overhaul of the policy framework and incentive
structure is urgently needed, along with the rationalization of the structure and functioning of key
agricultural sector institutions. Measures are underway to encourage a more competitive structure
with increased participation of the commercial and private sector in all aspects of marketing and
distribution of agricultural commodities. There is also a growing realization that the rationalization
process will involve a gradual shift in roles and attitudes on the part of Government. This shift,
while significant, will not in the long run decrease the importance of the public sector, but will
certainly redirect it from that of primary service provider to one of enabler and facilitator of the
development process.
Profile of Institutional Management in the Agricultural Sector
4.    Recent performance of the agricultural sector has been uneven and below expectations. In
1991, the sector registered a negative growth rate of 1.1 per cent. Over the last three years, the
degree of self-sufficiency in basic foods has declined. As a result, imports of maize and increase
imports of sugar have become necessary. Sporadic shortages of maize, milk and sugar have been felt
by consumers in the second half of 1991 and 1992. Coffee and oil crop production has declined
substantially, and the performance of the cotton subsector is still unsatisfactory.
5.    The Ministries of Agriculture (MOA) and Livestock Development (MOLD) are at the core of
the sector. The principal functions of MOA are: extension, training, migratory pest control, services



- 84 -                           Annex 5
Pgge 2 of 7
and planning/policy formulation. The MOLD is responsible for: extension, training, veterinary
services, range development/management, collection and dissemination of livestock marketing
information, vector control and planning/policy formulation.
6.    A major factor influencing the performance of the agricultural sector is that no operational
mechanism currently exists for rationalizing the roles of the various public and private institutions,
effectively integrating their functions, and improving the allocation and management of limited
resources. In brief, the MOA and MOLD are not formulating and implementing critical policy and
operational decisions in a coherent and integrated manner responsive to the changing sectoral
environment which is being increasingly influenced by a tightening fiscal situation and the need for
greater private sector involvement.
7.    The sector also has a critical resource deficiency. Its allocation of Government resources has
fallen from 9% in the 1970's to 3% currently. The composition of expenditure has also deteriorated.
In real terms, the current operating and maintenance allocation for the Ministry of Agriculture is one-
tenth the level received in FY 1980-1981; for the Ministry of Livestock Development the level is one-
twenty-sixth of the 1980-81 level. Low and poorly composed allocations are reflected in low unit
productivity, and in the poor services provided to farmers and other clientele in terms of research and
extension information, credit, rural infrastructure, etc.
8.    Previous IDA funded technical assistance to the agricultural sector has developed substantial
technical and analytical capacity, and brought about some basic reforms in budgeting and policy
analysis. While these improvements were certainly necessary, at best the results have been piece-
meal and have not provided the MOA/MOLD with sufficient capacity to perform in a strategic and
integrated fashion and to determine a vision of the appropriate role of public vis-a-vis private
organizations in the agricultural sector.
9.    A major capacity building effort is currently underway financed by the on-going ASAO II
project aimed at developing the policy analysis capability in the MOA and MOLD and in other
ministries involved in the sector such as MOCD and the Ministry of Supplies and Marketing. The
aim of the program is to provide an integrated package comprising training and technical assistance to
strengthen the capacity within Kenya to formulate and implement better agricultural policy analysis to
meet the challenges of the 1990s and beyond. The training proposed would be in the form of in-
country short-term courses, and on-the-job training. The training modules have been structured to
reflect priority policy-related work undertaken by the ministries. The on-the job training would be
provided by eight local advisors who would also be expected to carry out more detailed quantitative
policy analysis as the need arises. The challenge and, the objective of ASMP n is to ensure that the
results of the training and TA exercise under ASAO n is integrated with the development of
restructured role for the public sector in the agricultural sector.
Scenario for Institutional Management Strengthening of MOA and MOLD
10.   The institutional strengthening of MOA and MOLD would need to be based on rationalizing
the role, structure and functions of MOA and MOLD. Thus the institutional strengthening exercise
would need to focus on four key areas:
(a) Identifying the role and functions of MOA and MOLD in a changing liberalized
agricultural sector framework which is increasingly dominated by greater private sector
initiative; and also to take account of a changing fiscal environment which is



- 85 -
Annex 5
Page 3 of 7
characterized by constrained resources. In this respect some important work has already
been done. The study on the role of the Department of Veterinary Services (DVS) has
already identified functions of DVS that should no longer be undertaken by MOLD.
Consensus already exists within MOA that the Tractor Hire Services function should be
privatized. Both ministries are currently undertaking staffing norms studies under ASAO
II which are expected to outline a staffing structure based on a rationalized role for the
two ministries. The project would aim to implement the recommendations arising from
these studies and develop additional strategies to deepen the restructuring process.
(b) Following on from the identification of the role and functions of MOA and MOLD,
strengthening the management of operations in select technical units which have to remain
in the public sector. In MOA this would include soil conservation and extension; in
MOLD this would include extension, range management advise and the epidemiological
functions of DVS.
(c) Facilitating commercialization in appropriate functions which though remaining within the
public domain have the potential for part or full cost recovery. This would include
extension on key cash crops or selected epidemiological services to large dairy farmers.
(d) Facilitating privatization of appropriate functions. This would include Tractor hire
Services in MOA, Artificial Insemination services and Clinical services in MOLD.
11.   The project would focus on several technical divisions and sectoral tasks where preconditions
exist for immediate improvement (some areas have already been identified by previous studies or
other related work). Preconditions (or criteria) congruent with GOK policies at societal and/or
sectoral level would be established and used in determining which technical divisions and sector tasks
should receive attention in ASMP II.
12.   The institutional management strengthening process would then focus on outlining the aim and
objectives of the process to sectoral stakeholders and technical leaders in a series of workshops. The
objective would be to build commitment in both the technical divisions and among stakeholders in the
sector for immediate improvement of the function or task.
Performance Milestones for the Capacty Building Component
13.   The institutional strengthening process will represent a major commitment and undertaking of
MOA/MOLD in collaboration with sectoral stakeholders inside and outside the Government. In terms
of functions, the process to be followed and achievement targets include the following:
(a) Implementation Plan. Priority setting and development of action plans (including
expected accomplishments, milestones, roles and responsibilities, monitoring, etc.) for the
capacity building component of ASMP II - prepared through a series of interrelated
action-planning workshops, making maximum use of the substantial technical and
management expertise which already exists in the agricultural sector. This is expected to
be completed by Credit effectiveness.
(b) Project Launch. Hold several 'project launch' workshops that initiate the sector-wide
institutional strengthening effort. These workshops will develop the first annual 'work



- 86 -                           Annex 5
Page 4 of 7
plan' for the component and kick-off task group formulation and actions at the technical
and sectoral task levels.
(c) Task Group Formation. Formation of three task groups (focussing on the cotton sugar
and oilseeds subsectors respectively) to begin implementation of those components.
Formation of two other task groups (one focusing on critical operating tasks of
MOA/MOLD and the other on privatization /commercialization issues) to be headed by
an "officer-consultant".
(d) Annual Review and Planning. At the end of the first year, hold an annual review and
planning workshop for key members of all the task groups to report/reflect on
progress/weaknesses of first year's activities, and prepare second annual work plan. This
annual workshop will become a regular feature of the ASMP II implementation process.
A workshop report will document institutional strengthening results for the first year of
the project for distribution outside the Government.
(e) Training Needs Identification. As an integral part of the annual review and planning
workshops, task groups would identify managerial and technical needs in their areas.
Resources from the technical assistance and training pools will then be allocated using
agreed-upon criteria related to the objectives of the project. A comprehensive training
plan will be developed by November 1994.
(f) Strategic Planning Process. Convene a strategic planning workshop to begin the
process of rationalizing the strategic structure and management of the sector based on
experience with reform implementation in the sector and state-of-the-art experience in
other peer developing countries. This culminates six months later in both a strategic
planning document endorsed by key sectoral stakeholders and a commitment to revisiting
the strategic issues on a 3 to 5 year cycle basis.
14.   The capacity building process in MOA and MOLD would need to be have clearly defined
performance targets over the four year project period. By the end of the first project year, the
Government should reach internal agreement (up to the highest necessary level) on what the future
role and structure of the two ministries should look like, based on studies done prior to the
comrnencement of ASMP II, work done under ASMP II and on the results emanating from the
commitment building workshops. By this time there should emerge a clear consensus on what
services should be retained by MOA/MOLD and which of these need to commercialized and, which
services should be privatized. By the end of the second project year the Government should have
decided on the following: (a) the management strengthening process for key services retained by
MOA/MOLD; (bi) commercialization process for those services from which partial and/or full cost
recovery is possible; and (c) the process by which selected services would be privatized. By the end
of the fourth project year the following should have happened: (i) the management of services
retained by MOA/MOLD should have been strengthened and the O&M to salary ratio should have
been brought to 1:1; (ii) cost recovery mechanisms should be in-place and the recovery levels should
be at 75 percent of the theoretical maximum; and (iii) all privatization exercises should have been
completed.



- 87 -
Annex 5
Page 5 of 7
The Proposed Project
15.   ASMP II will finance the necessary civil works (one pre-fabricated office building), technical
assistance, training, studies, vehicles/equipment and incremental operational costs required to develop
detailed implementation plans and successfully implement the institutional management dimensions of
the project. A summary of the components are given below.
16.   The project would finance the construction of a pre-fabricated office block to house project
and technical assistance staff.
17.   Technical Assistance (TA). First, two long term international consultants and various short
term international/local consultants would be required. For the international consultants, an
institutional management specialist with extensive institutional strengthening and organizational
development experience in LDC agricultural contexts, would serve as TA team leader and be required
for 36 months. The other, an action-training and group facilitation specialist well versed in
agricultural issues, would be required for 18 months. This consultant's role would be to organize and
facilitate the workshops to be conducted to deepen understanding of the new role and functions of
MOA/MOLD. A pool of 30 person months of short term local and international specialists to assist
with strategic management, policy implementation, financial sustainability, program management, and
project management would also be financed with the primary task of improving the management of
the operations of those technical functions which would remain with the two ministries. The detailed
terms of reference for these consultants are provided in the Attachment. Second, nine experienced
Ministry officials would be seconded to the implementation team as 'officer consultants' for the life
of the project. Three of these consultants would be entrusted with the main responsibility for
implementing the sugar sub-sector, cotton sub-sector and oilseeds sub-sector components. The
specific terms of reference and selection procedures for these officer consultants are being prepared
during the PPF-financed implementation design stage. The TA provided under ASMP II would be
supported by the local advisors provided under ASAO n to MOA and MOLD. The local advisors
would be the main source of policy analysis competence in determining the new roles and functions of
MOA and MOLD.
18.   Training. The project would also finance short term overseas training courses in aspects of
institutional management improvement and visits by key managers in MOA and MOLD to selective
institutional management improvement sites in Africa and Asia. In addition 40 postgraduate training
courses (upto Master's level) would be supported (details of the training program is Attachment II).
19.   Strategic Studies. The proposed project would also finance strategic analysis and studies
aimed at assisting the privatization efforts, including the transfer of the functions to the cooperatives.
The details of these studies would be determined during the project implementation stage.
20.   Vehicles/Equipment. Vehicles would be provided to the technical assistance pool. A total of
3, 4-wheel vehicles and 3 saloon cars. The primary equipment requirements are for computers and
software not already provided for under ASAO II. A detailed inventory of the current computing
capability within the two ministries and additional requirements to be financed under ASMP II is
being done under the PPF funded project design stage.



- 88 -
Annex 5
Page 6 of 7
21.   Incremental Operational Costs. The project also proposes to fund computer maintenance
costs, vehicle operating costs and costs associated with introducing cost recovery methods ( i.e vehicle
operating and maintenance costs, staff allowances, etc).
Costs
22.   The proposed costs of the institutional management component of ASMP II is US$6.85
million including physical and price contingencies. A detailed breakdown is given in the attached
Table.



- 89 -
Annex 5
Page 7 of 7
KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
MOA/MOLD Capacity Building Component
Estimates (in US$)
NO.      RATE    AMOUNT   SUB-TOTAL                   TOTAL
VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT
CIVIL WORKS                                                                                        200,000
Pr-fabricated Building
VEHICLES
Saloon Cars                        3    20,000    60,000
4 WD Vchicles                      3    25,000    75,000         135,000
COMPUTERS                          50     5,000                   250,000
OTHER INPUTS                           Lump Sum                                     110,000       495,000
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE            NO. OF
M.M.    RATE    AMOUNT
INTERNATIONAL (L.T.)
- Institutional Manag. Specialist  36     16,000     576,000
- Workshop Training Specialist     18     16,000     288,000      864,000
LOCAL CONSULTANTS (L.T.)
- Officer Consultants (9x48x4000)  432    4,000    1,728,000
- Financial Controller             48     4,000      192,000     1,920,000           2,784,000    2,784,000
SHORT TERM CONSULTANTS
- Various Consultants              30    10,000      300,000      300,000
LOCAL STUDIES/SURVEYS                 lump sum                    260,000             560,000      560,000
TRAINING S
TA- OveI    Short Courses          20    12,000      240,000l
- Local Workshops                  24     8,000      192,000
- Postgraduate Training          20-40              1,000,000                        1,432,000    1,432,000
OPERATING COST
- Vehicles (6 Nos)                 24    6,000       144,000
- Computers/Office                                   500,000
- Cost Recovrcy Program                              110,000
(Introduction of pilot cost                                                                        754,000
Recovery Mechanism)                    _                                                                   l
BASE LINE COST                                                                 6,225,000
PRICE AND PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES 0 10%                                             |__622,000
T O  T A L                                                      [            |6,847,000



-90-                               Annex 6
Page 1 of 9
KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Department of Resource Surveys and Remote Sensing (DRSRS) Support Component
Introduction
1.   The Department of Resource Surveys and Remote Sensing (D)RSRS) originally was set up as
the Kenya Rangeland Ecological Monitoring Unit (KREMU) in 1976. Its purpose was to provide
quantitative data on wildlife, livestock and land use in Kenya's rangelands. The core of the work
program was aerial surveys that conducted census and recorded the distribution of wildlife and
domestic livestock. The surveys also were intended to record environmental conditions (e.g.,
presence of water, vegetation types and condition), to be able to model the relationship between
animals (numbers and distributions) and range conditions.
2.   Over the years, KREMU/DRSRS has expanded its program greatly, undertaking a much wider
range of natural resource surveys and data analyses and extending its technological capabilities.
Significant developments include: (a) establishing a sophisticated computerized geographic information
system (GIS); (b) increasing its technical capabilities in remote sensing; (c) expanding its scope to
cover Kenya's agricultural as well as rangeland areas; (d) expanding its operations to include land use
mapping, crop forecasting, and a wide variety of ecological and vegetation studies; and (v) having a
number of senior staff undergo advanced technical or professional training.
Profile of DRSRS' Current Capability and Operations
3.   DRSRS currently possesses some of the key elements of a major national center for the
collection and analysis of natural resources data, including: (a) high-performance GIS equipment and
trained staff; (b) aerial survey and photography equipment (including aircraft) and staff; (c)
professional and technical staff with capabilities in a number of biological and physical sciences; (d)
interest and some experience in multi-disciplinary studies; and (e) facilities and equipment to support
field work, including vehicles and ample office space. Its operational capabilities are reflected in its
current work program. Major data collection and analysis projects include: (i) the complex and
wide ranging program of data base development and data analysis centered in the computerized
Geographical Information System (GIS), foundation for many projects in the work program; (ii)
annual maize and wheat harvest forecasts, with results provided to the Government's food security
committee during the growing season; (iii) periodic aerial surveys of rangeland livestock and wildlife;
(iv) land use surveys in higher potential agricultural districts; (v) mapping of forest cover and forest
types; (vi) various other vegetation and ecological studies and mapping; (vii) urban and other aerial
photography; (viii) satellite imagery interpretation; and (ix) aerial surveys of vegetation and
ecological attributes.
4.   DRSRS Unkages to Users. As a data collection and analysis service organization, links
between DRSRS and the users of its products are key to its effectiveness. Close communication and
cooperation are necessary to ensure that products are of the types that are needed and are used
efficiently. The Department also must establish new links as new opportunities or national needs for
its services arise. In past years, DRSRS links to user organizations generally were weak. Recently,
DRSRS has recognized the need for improvement and has initiated significant changes. Agencies
with at least intermittently effective ties and making practical use of products have included: (a) the



- 91 -                              Annex 6
Page 2 of 9
national inter-ministerial committee on food security, which uses the annual wheat and maize harvest
forecasts; (b) the successive Governmental wildlife agencies, which used nationwide elephant
population estimates in mobilizing anti-poaching campaigns and stimulating agency reorganization; (c)
some district livestock officers, who use estimates of livestock numbers in planning facilities; (d)
some district agricultural officers, who use statistics on crop acreage and land use in preparing annual
development plans; (e) the Office of the President which used the special Kinale Forest mapping
project in forest management decisions; and (f) the United Nations Enviromment Program, which
commissioned testing of a methodology for desertification assessment.
5.   Constraints to Effective Functioning. A number of constraints to DRSRS's effective
functioning result from weaknesses in internal policy or procedures. These fall in the following
categories: (a) long range policy, and orientation or scope of work; (b) work program planning and
management; (c) usefulness of products; (d) communication with users; and (e) responsiveness to
identified problems. In addition, a number of significant operational constraints result from the
institutional and financial framework within which the Department functions.
6.   Long Range Policy, and Orientation. The most fundamental policy constraints arise from
lack of clarity about the Department's mission and role and therefore the proper scope for its
activities. This inevitably results in unclear guidance for work planning and management and
therefore inefficient operations. A key issue is how significant a contribution does DRSRS (and the
investment in DRSRS) make to national development in Kenya. DRSRS is intended to be mainly an
applied-not a basic-research institution (although some basic research is essential to build the
foundation for future management capabilities). A related issue is the type of contribution DRSRS
should make to national development. By its original charter and its objectives under ASMP,
DRSRS's role is in the field of sustainable natural resources management and development.
However, DRSRS's work program in recent years has shown a progressive increase in projects only
distantly related to renewable natural resources.
7.   Work Program Planning and Management. Available staff, equipment and funding
resources are inadequate for all the work DRSRS is trying to do. Effective functioning requires that
the Department undertake a manageable work program, guided from the beginning by clear objectives
and based on detailed planning. A critical problem is setting priorities for allocating limited
resources, both in initial planning and then adaptively during work program execution as changes in
priorities or resource usage or availability inevitably occur. The most critical resources appear to be
flying time (planes and pilots), and funds for field expenses (vehicle operations, field allowances,
hotels).
8.   Usefulness of Products. A basic constraint on the Department's effectiveness is the limited
practical application of its products. A significant portion of DRSRS's activities and funding produce
results that are not, in fact, used by anyone to improve planning or management of Kenya's natural
resources or to contribute to national development. Two conditions explain this: (a) management
levels and the capability to use data are low in most natural resource agencies in Kenya; and, (b)
DRSRS projects and their products are generally not specifically designed for practical application.
Improved procedures for selection and design of projects would help with both problems. Selection
criteria must include whether a project will make a significant contribution to Departmental
objectives, or might contribute in the future. Projects also must include provisions for training or
extension assistance to users, to help them see the potential applications of the data and help them
work with the products. In addition, the intended users of project results often should participate in
designing data collection and analysis; this would help ensure that what is researched is what they
need and that the results are presented in the most useful form.



- 92 -                            Annex 6
Page 3 of 9
9.   Communication with Users. Close communication with users of products is essential for the
Department's effectiveness, as noted above. Problems developed over several years but have begun
to be alleviated recently. They include: (a) failure to create an inter-ministerial steering or advisory
committee for DRSRS; (b) weak participation by users in project design or initiation; (c) few formal
contacts such as workshops, seminars or training courses with user groups; and (d) limited contacts
with the larger scientific community, little exchange of views and information, and absence of wider
contribution to design of projects, review of methods, or critique of preliminary results.
10.  Responsiveness to Identified Problems. Another constraint has been limited responsiveness to
identified problems in the DRSRS program. Major progress has been made in strengthening several
aspects of performance identified in the course of ATAP and ASMP implementation, as noted earlier.
However, little progress has been made in dealing with numerous important aspects. In addition to
the problems of work planning and management, communication with users, and hiring local pilots as
discussed above, these include: (a) Data and Methodological Quality. Little progress has been made
in improving methods and resulting data quality, or the ability to use the resulting data, in several
areas including aerial survey front-seat-observer data on vegetation and environmental conditions, and
the vegetation survey program in general. (b) GIS Support. Despite the success of the GIS under
ASMP, a number of problems have received inadequate attention including maintenance servicing of
the computer, upgrading hardware and software, and expanding peripheral equipment.
I 1. Scenario for the Future Role of DRSRS. DRSRS provides the Kenya Government with a
valuable data collection and analysis capability. The Department should have a significant role in
strengthening natural resource planning and marlgement in Kenya in future years. However, it also
could take on other roles. Potential activities fa exceed what can be handled and bounds and
priorities for the Department's scope of work are necessary. It is essential that Government review
the various potential contributions that DRSRS might make and define its future role. Given
development needs in Kenya, current capabilities within DRSRS, and skills available elsewhere in
Kenya, the following features would seem appropriate in DRSRS's future role.
12. Natural Resources and Environmental Focus. In broadest terms, natural resources and
environmental conditions should remain the focus of the Department's work, with continued
concentration on renewable resources and agricultural land uses. Work on other resources (e.g.,
water) and other aspects of land use (such as infrastructure developments and urban land use) should
be secondary and limited to a scale that does not significantly detract from higher priority work.
Specific projects can not be defined in detail at this stage. A work program planning exercise sbould
be undertaken to: (a) identify important data needs in natural resources management in Kenya that
DRSRS could satisfy; (b) examine the contributions of existing DRSRS projects to these needs; (c)
discard outdated or low priority projects and revise or design new projects as necessary to fill high
priority needs;
13. New Initiatives. A number of new sectoral or multi-sectoral initiatives in Kenya offer major
opportunities for DRSRS to revitalize its contributions to national development. Several are being
supported by the Bank. These initiatives include:
(a) Wildlife and National Parks. The restructuring of the government wildlife agency into the
Kenya Wildlife Service (KWS), and the recently signed major World Bank-led, multi-donor
project to strengthen it, are bringing great improvements to management of Kenya's
wildlife and its national parks and reserves. With this improvement comes a greatly
increased need for wildlife and ecological data of the kind DRSRS can provide. Links
between DRSRS and KWS also will include close cooperation on GIS work. KWS is
setting up its own small GIS, and it is expected that DRSRS wDl provide training and other



- 93 -                            Annex 6
Page 4 of 9
assistance. On-line links between the two systems also are anticipated, to make best use of
the different capabilities of each.
(b) ASAL Development. Several of DRSRS's routine data collection programs monitor
important ASAL resources, including livestock and wildlife populations and vegetation and
water conditions. Special DRSRS projects in ASAL regions have included rangeland
woodfuels assessment, erosion studies, desertification methodology development, and land
use impacts of the Bura irrigation scheme. Considerable potential exists for DRSRS
support to the forthcoming ASAL strategy, and to other specific projects in ASAL areas.
(c) Forestry. DRSRS may participate in the Indigenous Forest Conservation Project and the
Forestry Masterplan under the Bank-led Forestry IV project, by providing remote sensing
and GIS data analysis services. Also, when DRSRS's own nationwide mapping of
indigenous forests eventually should provide important information on the status of Kenya's
diminishing natural forests.
(d) Integrated Land Use Planning and Management. The conflicts and inefficiencies that
result from the absence of integrated decision-making on rural land use are becoming
increasingly appreciated in Kenya, and the need for a land use planning process is
beginning to be accepted in several sectors. Attempts to develop land use planning
approaches are parts of the ASAL strategy and the wildlife/parks project, both of which are
supported by the Bank. DRSRS's multi-disciplinary staff and data collection and analysis
capabilities (particularly the power of the GIS as a tool for data integration and
management) make the Department well suited to have a central role in land use planning
programs as they develop in Kenya.
(e) Environmental Impact Assessment. Similarly, environmental protection in Kenya suffers
from the absence of a process for assessing likely impacts of Government or private
developments. Although specialists widely recognize this, little is yet being done to
establish such a process.
(f) Environmental Assessment of Bank Projects. DRSRS should not itself carry out
assessments of the environmental impacts of proposed World Bank projects, but it will be a
major source of baseline data and could carry out environmental monitoring during project
implementation.
(g) Environmental Action Plan. ASMP II is also supporting preparation of an environmental
action plan for Kenya. DRSRS would be a source of information, and could carry out a
variety of additional kinds of surveys and analyses. All, however, need to be re-evaluated
in relation to the revised Department objectives, and modified as necessary or terminated if
not directly contributory. Projects likely to have a place in DRSRS's future role include:
(i)  Crop Forecasting. The program forecasting long rains maize and wheat crops likely
will be maintained and may be expanded for continued use in national food security
planning.
(ii) District Development Planning. Development planning in Kenya is increasingly
focused at the district level, and several kinds of information produced by DRSRS can
usefully contribute. These include statistics on land area under various crops,
statistics and distribution information on livestock in the rangelands, and numbers and
locations of agricultural facilities such as cattle dips. DRSRS also could develop the



- 94 -                            Annex 6
Page 5 of 9
skills to carry out agricultural land capability evaluation for future programs of land
use planning.
(iii) Rural Infrastructure Planning. When integrated into agricultural and natural
resource development planning, aerial photography and derived mapping of rural
infrastructure can help minimize undesirable environmental impacts and have a useful
supporting role in DRSRS's work program.
(iv) GIS Center. DRSRS has the unique capacity to serve as a GIS service center for the
Kenya Government. The Department's GIS already handles and stores data for the
national petroleum company and is setting up a geographic base for the Central
Bureau of Statistics census data. The potential for expanding GIS applications is
enormous, and DRSRS is building up the necessary equipment and staff expertise to
set up data bases and provide GIS services in a wide range of fields. It also can grow
into a center providing help and training to other organizations in setting up their own
geographical information systems, as it is doing with KWS. As long as tasks on the
Department's GIS are managed so that high priority projects contributing to the
Department's basic natural resource objectives receive adequate attention, this
expanded use of the GIS is desirable.
14. A Steering Committee would need to be formed to oversee DRSRS' activities. The Committee
would be chaired by the PS, Planning and Development, and would consist of the PS's of
Agriculture, Livestock, Environment and Natural Resources, and ASAL, the Director of KWS and
the head of KARI. In addition other organizations may also be asked to participate in the Committee.
The Committee would meet at least twice a year and ensure that DRSRS focuses on Kenya's high
priority natural resource issues in planning and undertaking its work program.
Project Components
15.  Funding for DRSRS under ASMP II would provide broad support for key aspects of institution
strengthening, and directly support fundamental resources and activities such as the GIS, aerial
surveys, and the publications program. Broad institutional support would be directed at improving
work planning and the management of the individual projects within DRSRS's overall work program.
Project components would include:
(a) A detailed management study of DRSRS, which would examine DRSRS' current
capability, in terms of its existing staff, and equipment resources, and outline a core
program of activities over the next 3 years. The study would also identify critical training
needs for staff, equipment needs for quality control, expanding interaction with users and
for maintaining the GIS operations and options for expanding cost recovery in services
provided. In addition the study would also specify a financial management system for
DRSRS. The study would be undertaken by a firm of consultants, fielding a team of 3
experts and would take 3 months to complete. Detailed terms of reference are in
Attachment 1.
(b) support for the GIS in the form of a long term technical Advisor (for 36 man-months) and
essential new equipment. The advisor would primarily ensure that the system is used to
support the core program of DRSRS. This Advisor would also be responsible for phasing
in the new equipment purchases financed under the project, ensuring that the new
equipment is only phased in when the current system is being used to its full capacity. The
Advisor's detailed terms of reference are in Attachment 1.



- 95 -                                  Annex 6
Page 6 of 9
(c) support for aerial services, including funding for: full salary and expenses for: (i) one
internationally recruited chief pilot for 3 years; (ii) two internationally recruited staff pilots
for 2 years; (iii) initially 2 increasing to 3 locally recruited staff pilots for the full 5 year
project period; and (b) operation of aircraft for natural resource-related work, and repair
and maintenance costs.
(d) support for information services, including the publications program, library, literature data
base, and extension services to users. Funding would include support for: (i) computer and
peripheral equipment (word processing, desk top publishing, printing,
bibliographic/literature data base) and supplies; (ii) staff training; (iii) workshops and
extension training for users of DRSRS products; and (iv) library materials and equipment.
(e) support for data quality and staff productivity in terms of providing office equipment for
professional staff members of DRSRS and limited clearly specified training. Details of the
proposed training is given in Attachment 1.
Costs
16. The DRSRS component is estimated to cost US$5.7 million, including physical and price
contingencies. Details are in the table below.



- 96 -                                    Annex 6
Page 7 of 9
KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
DRSRS Support Component
Cost Estimates (In USD)
|   NO. OF M.M.          RATE   |_ AMOUNT               TOTAL
VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT
(GIS, Infonnation
Services & Quality Control)                                                                600,000
NO. OF M.M.            RATE        AMOUNT            TOTAL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
INTERNATIONAL
GIS Adviser                                36               16,000         576,000
Chief Pilot                                36               15,000         540,000
Pilot (2 Nos.)                             48               12,000         576,000
1,692,000
Management Expert                           3               20,000          60,000
Technical Expert                            1               20,000          20,000
Finance Expert                              1               20,000          20,000
100,000
LOCAL
Pilots I X 36 mm and 2 x 24 mm             84                8,000         672,000         672,000
GIS Training (UK/USA)                      28                5,000          140,000
(14 for 2 months each)
GIS Training in Netherlands                10                6,000          60,000
(5 for 2 months each)
Seminars, Workshops & Conferences          lump sum                         100,000        348,000
OPERATING COSTS                                           _              _
Aircraft Operation                    _                                    1,500,000
Other                                                                       280,000        1,780,000
BASELINE TOTAL                                                      [  5,225,000       5,192,000
PHYSICAL & PRICE CONTINGENCIES @ 10%                                                     519,000
T  O   T  A  L                                                               5,711,000



- 97 -
Annex 6
Page 8 of 9
Explanatory Notes of the Categories of Items to be Financed by the Bank
(1) Vehicles and Equipment
Four-wheel drive passenger vehicles are necessary for data collection operations. These
vehicles would be purchased from the proceeds of this credit for a period of 3 years. Two vehicles
will be purchased in the 1st year, thereafter 1 every year. The equipment for information services,
e.g. computer and peripheral equipment (workstations, desk top publishing, printing, bibliographic
(literature data base) and supplies. Software purchases Arc/Info and ERDAS for Unix workstations
and PC's, as well as miscellaneous compilers word processors and spread-sheet packages. The
Arc/info and ERDAS Unix licenses will also be supported by the Bank. The quality control
equipment, e.g. desk-top publishing equipment, word processing, laser printers, soft ware, furniture,
books and presentation materials. The Bank has recommended the purchases of personal computers
and peripheral equipment for the senior officers to promote data quality and work productivity
improvement.
(2) Technical Assistance
The long term technical advisor through the life of the project will be supported by the Bank.
The advisor would primarily ensure that the system is used to support the core program of DRSRS.
The salaries and the related allowances will be supported by the Bank for the period of three years.
(a) International Pilots
The Bank's support for aerial services includes funding for full salary and other expenses
for:
(i) One full-time internationally recruited Chief Pilot for 3 years.
(ii) Two internationally recruited staff Pilots for 2 years.
(b) Part-time Consultants
The Bank will engage a Management expert for 3 months, Technical Expert for 1 month
and a Finance Expert for 1 month. The expenses of the consultant fees, air tickets and
hotel expenses of the consultant fees, air tickets and hotel expenses while in Kenya will be
met against the credit.
(c) Local Pilots
There will be initially 2 increasing to 3, locally recruited staff pilots for the full 5 year
project period. The proceeds against this credit will meet the salaries and other expenses.
They will be employed on contract terms and salaries will be based on local market levels
for Pilots.



- 98 -
Annex 6
Page 9 of 9
(d) Training
The training program will consist of short term courses aimed at improving management
and technical skills clearly related to core programs. The training program is expected to
consist of the following:
(i)  Senior management course for the Director in the USA, aimed at improving skills in
managing an agency like DRSRS.
(ii) Management courses (2 months) for the Accountant DRSRS, to be acquainted fully
with the management and accountability of project funds.
(iii) Training courses in resource management/remote sensing/GIS and environmental
management for DRSRS-technical staff in selected institutions in the USA/UK and
Netherlands.
(e) Operational Costs
The funding against this category will support the maintenance and operations of the aircraft
for DRSRS purchased through the proceeds of the previous IDA credits. This includes the
proceeds of the previous IDA credits. This includes purchases of the aviation gas, repairs,
servicing, and purchase of the aircraft spare parts which are not locally available especially
for the turbo-charged paternavia aircraft. The payment of landing fees and other related
expenses.
The other expenses which will be supported against this credit include:
D insurance for aircraft
* insurance for GIS-Computer equipment
* publications programs including the printing of the reports
* library materials and equipment
* computer papers and plotting pens.
The maintenance and operations of the DRSRS vehicles will also be supported against this
proposed project, e.g. purchases of petrol, spare parts, repairs and servicing.
The support of aerial services will include staff allowances, e.g., hotel expenses and
accommodation allowances while in the field trips related to natural resources core projects.
The annual maintenance contracts for the GIS-computer and other related equipment will
be supported against the said project.



- 99 -                            Annex 7
Page 1 of 3
KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
National Environment Action Plan (NEAP) Preparation and Implementation Component
Introduction
1.   The NEAP process in Kenya should be broad in scope to cover the wide range of
environmental issues which the country faces today. These issues include the lack of national
effective policy, institutional and legal frameworks for the environment as well as sectoral and
technical issues. Many of the issues of concern to Kenya are well known and some have benefitted
from detailed study. A NEAP process in Kenya can therefore take advantage of much work that has
already been done. Where a break through is required is in the design of an implementation structure
which will allow problems to be solved after they are identified.
2.   The process which should be followed would be a multi-sectoral approach with wide
participation. This is the same basic approach that has been employed in other countries where the
process has been initiated. It should be a demand-driven, in-country, participatory process. Broad
participation and support from within and outside of government is necessary to achieve consensus on
issues to be addressed in the NEAP and in the design and implementation of solutions. The process
in Kenya (which is spelled out in greater detail in the attachment) should include: (a) the
establishment of a minister-level policy steering committee; (b) a NEAP Working Group under a
strong government agency; (c) a NEAP Coordinator who would have separate offices and a small
staff to run the activities of the Working Group on a day-to-day basis; (d) task groups to prepare
individual components of the plan; and (e) an Advisory Group of principal donors and NGOs.
The NEAP Preparation Process
3.   The NEAP Process will be done in two stages. Stage I will focus on getting agreement in
Kenya on the process itself and the institutional framework to carry it out. Stage II will be the actual
carrying out of the agreed process. Next steps at each stage are, Stage I:
(a)  Appointment of a NEAP Coordintor in consultation with IDA. (Note that it is possible
for the NEAP Coordinator and the Chairperson to be one and the same).
(b)  Through a series of individual meetings, continue to explain the concept of a NEAP
process based on openness and broad participation.
(c)  Convene an informal but representative group (Treasury, Planning, NES, other selected
government agencies, key donors, NGOs) to discuss and agree on the Kenya NEAP
process to be followed. If the groundwork for the meeting is properly laid the outcome
will be satisfactory and along the broad participatory lines indicated above.
(d)  Confirm political support for the process by the Minister of Environment and Natural
Resources" presenting the process to Cabinet for consideration and approval, which would
also establish the policy steering committee.



- 100 -
Annex 7
Page 2 of 3
Stage II:
(a) Appointment of an appropriate Chairperson of the NEAP Presidential Commission or
Working Group.
(b) Preparation of terms of reference for Task Groups.
(c) Participatory orientation seminar to initiate work of Task Groups.
Costs
4.   The costs to be financed under the project estimated at US$ 2.2 million, including physical and
price contingencies are gven in the attached Table.



- 101 -
Annex 7
Page 3 of 3
KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT (ASMP II)
NEAP Preparation and lmplementation Component
Cost Tables (in US$)
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
LODCAL
Task Force Groups (Honoraria)
Long Term & Short Term Consultancies on Various        250,000
Issues
550,000     800,000
TRAiING
Overseas Study Visits and Participation in
Seminars/Conferences
250,000
Local Seminars and Workshops/Conferences
350,000     600,000
OPERATING COST
Various Local Operating Cost to
Support Local Consultants/Groups
600,000
BASE LINE COST
2,000,000
PRICE & PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES 010%                                200,000
T O  T A L       C O  S T                       l                2,200,000



KENYA SECONI) AG.RICULJTURAL SECIOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT (ASMP 11)
IMPLEMENTATION OF KEY TECIINICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENTS
Before Credh          Year I             Year 2             Year 3              Year 4
Effedivmerm         If1111tIV       I n  II  IV       In 1f Iv            In   mi Iv
COMPONENTS
1. COTTON SUB-SECTOR COMPONQNT
a. Selection of ConeullanbTAmA
b. Conwinocy %erviea
. Lon-Temn TA                                                       _
2. SUGAR SUB-SECTOR COMPONENT
a. Sebletion of ConsultnadaFTA
b. Conuly Service
e. Long-Term TA
3. OILSPEDS SUB-SECTOR COMPONENT
a. Sekdeion of ConouItagU.TA
b. Conautany Services
e. LonSg-Term TA                                                              -                            _        _  _
4. INSItlrTIONAL DVLPMT COMPONENT
a. Seledion of Conoilta/TA
b. Corwuttancy Setv e
c. LongSTerm TA
S. DRSRS MANAGEMENT STuDY
e. Seeion of ConauhltmrTA
b. Consiuany Servkies
o. Long-Tenn TA                                                                      ___
Noter:                                           pI                                --ID -                                
Selein of conrehard whom tequired betor eredi  ffe a   dvKmM ONm0w  bndiiaIy afwen SAR                                                                            co
n2 - Indicates conMiUiOo  possible shoit-em  eonrukanle.  -  -  _   -
/1 - Except for 'IS  icltist eU consuftancles and long4ene TA mIgrmune shoiuld be ootnilawd
by And of the 3rd pmjted year.



- 103 -
Annex 9
KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT
Estimated Scbedule of Disbursementsl/
IDA Fucal Year      Disb.        Cumulative           Disbursement Rate    Country Profile for
(US$M)       Disbursements        used for Projet     All Sectors
(USSM)             (% of Total)        (b of Total)
1993
2nd Semester             0.50             0.50                  3.0               0.0
1994
1st Semester             1.75             2.25                 12.0               3.0
2nd Semester             1.75             4.00                 21.0               6.0
1995
1st Semester            2.00              6.00                 31.0              14.0
2nd Semester             2.00             8.00                 41.0              22.0
1996
1st Semester           2.50             10.5                  54.0              30.0
2nd Semester             2.50            13.0                  67.0              42.0
1997
1st Semester            2.50             15.5                  80.0              54.0
2nd Semester             2.50            1S.0                  93.0              62.0
1998
1st Semester             1.4             19.4                 100.0              70.0
Project Completion Drue: June 30, 1997
Project Closing Date: December 31, 1997
/lThe disbursement rate under this project is expected to be faster than the profile, as it is a TA
project, with no major hardware investments



- 104 -
Annex 10
Page 1 of 4
KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Key Performance Indicators
1.  Cotton Sub-Sector Component
Year 1
- review and amend cotton legislation;
- restructure CB;
- review status of ginneries and formulate privatization plans;
- review status of cotton unions and formulate restructuring plans;
- recruit required technical assistance;
- estabish seed cotton classifying system;
- commence training programs;
- install HVI equipment.
Year 2
- bring six ginneries to the point of sale;
- complete the privatization of three ginneries;
- initiate actions to restructure cotton cooperative unions;
-  operationalize lint marketing procedures;
- establish and equip a classifying laboratory;
- establish suitable grades for classifying cotton;
- complete training of local personnel;
- formulate a proposal to establish a seed production system;
- identify research priorities in cotton and formulate research program;
- establish a structure for cotton extension services.
Year 3
- seek donor funding to establish a seed production system;
- operationalize research program in cotton;
- operationalize extension service program to cotton farmers.
2.  Sugar Sub-sector Component
Year 1
- prepare guidelines, including methodology to revalue assets of the sugar companies;
- formulate a methodology for updating the revaluation of the sugar companies;
- review past financial restructuring programs and initiate formulation of financial
restructuring programs for the sugar companies;



- 105 -
Annex 10
Page 2 of 4
- initiate preparation of a divestiture plan for the sugar companies;
- review the roles of KSA and KNTC and formulate restructuring/reorganising options;
- review basis for providing technological support to the sugar industry.
- review sugar pricing policy.
Year 2
- complete financial restructuring as necessary of the sugar companies;
- complete preparation of the divestiture plans for the sugar companies upto the point of sale;
- restructure/reorganize KSA and KNTC as necessary;
- initiate actions to provide technological support to the sugar industry.
Year 3
- complete divestiture of two sugar companies.
3.  Oilseeds Sub-Component
Year 1
- complete study on the economics of the oilseeds sub-sector;
- complete drafting of legislation for the oilseeds sub-sector;
- prepare a training program for researchers to provide farm support services to oil seeds
growers;
- complete survey on oilseeds processing establishments in Kenya;
- commence overseas and local training programs.
Year 2
- establish the ODC;
-  continue with training programs.
Year 3
- complete training program.
4.  Cooperatives Sub-Component
Year 1
- complete review of the Cooperatives legislation and identify areas for revision;
- determine modalities for transfer of audit functions from MOCD to the Cooperative
Movement;
- complete the study on the strategic fnctions of MOCD.



- 106 -                            Annex 10
Page 3 of 4
Year 2
- complete revision of the Cooperatives Act;
- complete study on MOCD's strategic functions;
- discuss and agree with IDA on a plan to refocus the role of MOCD.
5.  Institutional Management Component
Year 1 and 2
- prepare a detailed training program based on identified training needs and cost effectiveness
considerations;
- reach internal agreement on what the future role and structure of the two ministries should
be, based on studies done prior to the commencement of ASMP II, work done under ASMP
II and on the results emanating from the commitment building workshops. By this time
there should emerge a clear consensus on what services should be retained by MOA/MOLD
and which of these need to be commercialized and, which services should be privatized;
- decide on the following: (a) the management strengthening process for key services retained
by MOA/MOLD; (b) commercialization process for those services from which partial
and/or full cost recovery is possible; and (c) the process by which selected services would
be privatized;
- evaluate the training program for the first year and incorporate lessons learned in the second
year training program.
Year 3
-  initiate (a) management strengthening process for key services retained by MOAIMOLD;
commercialization process for those services from which partial and/or full cost recovery is
possible; and (b) the process by which selected services are privatized.
Year 4
- achieve the following: (a) strengthen the management of services retained by MOA/MOLD
and bring the O&M to salary ratio to 1:1; (b) establish cost recovery mechanisms at around
75 percent of the theoretical maximum; and (c) complete all privatization exercises.
6. DRSRS Component
Year 1
- complete management study and commence implementation of the recommendations;



- 107 -
Annex 10
Page 4 of 4
Year 2
- complete implementing the Management Study recommendations.
7. NEAP Component
Year 1
- appoint a NEAP Coordinator;
- convene a representative group and discuss and agree on the NEAP process to be followed;
- establish a NEAP working Group;
- complete preparation of terms of reference for the task groups;
- begin work of the task groups.
Year 2
- compile first draft of NEAP;
- review recommendations in local regional and national seminars;
- revise draft NEAP following recommendations from seminars;
- review draft NEAP at an international seminar;
- finalise NEAP and present to Government.
Year 3
- approve NEAP;
- initiate and complete action on formulating policies and legislation to implement the NEAP.



- 108 -
Annex 11
Page 1 of 2
KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Supervision Plan
1.    Bank Supervision Input. The staff input indicated in the table below is in addition to regular
supervision needs for the review of progress reports, procurement actions, and correspondence
estimated to require six staff weeks per year during the project.
2.    Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
(a) Annual Work Plans (AWP) and Budgets are to be submitted by December 1 each year
for the following year's program.
(b) Progress reports are to be submitted as follows:
(i)  in a format, acceptable to IDA, to be discussed in detail during the first
supervision mission after project effectiveness;
(ii) semi-annually by March 31 and September 30 of each year;
(c) Project monitoring and coordination will be the responsibility of the Agricultural Sector
Committee (ASC) to be jointly chaired by the PSs of MOA and MOLD, with inputs
from the technical divisions. The ASC will meet at least once every 6 months.



- 109 -
Annex 11
Page 2 of 2
BANK SUPERVISION INPUT INTO KEY ACTIVITES
Approximate
Dates            Activity Requirements   Expected Skills           Staff Input
(Month/Year)                                                       Staff Weeks
12/92           Review tender documents   Procurement               3.0
2/93             Project Launch Workshop   Procurement              6.0
Disbursement
Institution-building
4/93             Evaluation of Consultant   Procurement             3.0
proposals
7/93             Supervision Mission     Financial Analysis        10.0
(review start-up,       Accounting systems
implement. of org.      Procurement
arrangements &          Institution-building
accounting system       Pnvatization
1/94             Supervision Mission     Privatization              6.0
Institutional development
Procurement
7194             Supervision Mission     Privatization              6.0
Institutional development
1/95             Mid-term Review         Privatization              8.0
Institution-building
Procurement
Disbursement
7/95             Supervision Mission     Institution-building       6.0
Privatization
1/96             Supervision Mission     Institution-building       6.0
Privatization
7/96             Supervision Mission      Privatization             6.0
Institutional development
1/97             Supervision Mission     Institution-building
Privatization
7/97             Supervision Mission, inc.   Financial Analysis     10.0
preparation of PCR      Institution-building
Procurement
Privatization



- 110 -                       Annex 12
Page 1 Of 10
KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference (TOR) for Financial Controller (FC) and
Proposed Sample Accounting Records
The accounting records and the books of accounts should be designed to present not only
the historical record of receipts and payments but should be able to depict the "financial status' of
the project at the end of an accounting period. Given below is the proposed terms of reference
for the Financial Controller (FC) and some proposed sample financial record formats.
Terms of Reference for the Financial Controller (FC)
DURATION:           Initially for a period of one year.
QUALIFICATION:  Professionally qualified in Finance, Management Accounting and/or Cost
Accounting, from a recognized institution. Should be computer literate.
EXPERIENCE:         Post qualification experience of minimum 10 years.
KEY FUNCTIONS: The FC should be fully familiar with the financial record keeping required
under the project, as specified in the Development Credit Agreement.
The FC will be responsible for consolidating all financial records for the
project. In doing so the FC will coordinate with accountants in individual
ministries, in preparing the relevant financial records. In addition the FC
would coordinate with the Auditor General's Department for annual audit
in accordance with IDA requirements. The FC would also interact with
the divisional heads of individual project components for preparation of
Annual Work Program, budgets, and allocation of funds. In addition the
FC would establish a record of actual disbursement matched with
provisions made in the project documents under each major category of
expenditure, and compile data showing current and cumulative actual
expenditure and commitments, under each category and project
component. The FC would also design, and implement a computerized
management information system for monitoring and reporting project
expenditure information to different levels of management and to the
international funding agencies.
Training: of local staff and development of local talent on the above
activities to maintain project benefits after funding terminates.



- 111 -                       Annex 12
Page 2 of 10
TABLE: A
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT (ASMP Mn
PROFORMA - PROJECT OPERATING EXPENDITURE
(FOR THE YEAR ENDED) ........)
K.SHS.
CURRENT    PREVIOUS
YEAR         YEAR
Salaries - Local staff
House rental
Travel allowances
Vehicle operating cost
Office supplies/expenses
Postage/telephones/fax
Building maintenance
Power & Water
Consultancies
- Local
- Foreign
Training
- Local
- Overseas
Insurance
Others
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES            (A)
DEDUCT: INCOME/RECEIPTS            (B)
NET OPERATING COST           C) = (A-B)
NOTE:      This is carried over to Balance Sheet.



- 112 -                Annex 12
Page 3 of 10
TABLE: Bi
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT (ASMP-II)
AIRCRAFT OPERATING COSI
(Excluding Salaries/T.A)
REPORTING PERIOD:                               Cost Center: DRSRS
FLYING HOURS      AS PER     ACTUAL TOTAL   % OF B TO A
SAR
(A)    CURRENT  CUMU
LATIVE
(B)
AIRCRAFT I
AIRCRAFT II
AIRCRAFT m
TOTAL NO.
OF HOURS                               _
OPERATING COST    SAR         ACTUAL COST    COST/HOUR
(KSHS)         l        l
TOTALS  CURRENT  CUMU   CURRENT  CUMU
___ __    ____ _  LATIVE      LATIVE
FUEL & LUB.
SPARE PARTS
SERVICING &
REPAIRS
LANDING FEES
INSURANCE
OTHER ITEMS
TOTAL
HIRE
TOTAL
OPERATING
COST
COMMENTS:
Note: It is recommended that separate cost sheets are prepared for individual aircraf,t.



- 113 -              Annex 12
Page 4 of 10
TABLE: BlI
KENYA-SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT (ASMP II)
COST ESTIMATES FOR AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS (IN USD)
(TO BE USED FOR ANNUAL WORK PROGRAM)
ESTIMATED FLYING      I Q TR II Q TR  III Q TR  IV Q TR  TOTAL
HOURS                                                    l
AIRCRAFT 1
2
3
4
TOTAL
OPERATING
EXPENSES        .                                   l
A.  PILOT
REMUNERATION
(INCLUDING
BENEFITS)+
INTERNATIONAL
LOCAL                                .
TOTAL                                         ___-_
B.  FUEL AND
LUBRICANTS
C.  SPARES                                 ___
D.  OUTSIDE SERVICING
- OVERSEAS
- LOCAL
TOTAL
E.  INSURANCE                                      _
F.  LANDING
FEES/OTHERS
TOTAL A TO F                                      _
COST PER HOUR



- 114 -                Annex 12
Page 5 of 10
TABLE: C
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECt (ASMP -II)
UTILIZATION REPORT - T.A/
C.C: COITON
REPORTING PERIOD:
AS PER        ACTUALS        BALANCE
SAR                          AVAILABLE
NO.   COST
A.T.A.          OF             NO. OF  COST  NO. OF   COST
M.M           M.M.   (S)    M.M.      (S)
FEES & EXPENSES
LAWYER           2    4100
MGT. SPL/ACCTT  12   307000
ECONOMISTS       3    52000
GINNERY ENGR.   1    21000
F.A/COOP. SPLT.   2    37000
LINT MKT. SPLT    6    97000
SEEDS
AGRONOMISTS    24    37500
COTrON RE-EXPT
SPLT            24    37500
TOTAL (A)              1777000
NOTE: ACTUALS SHOULD INCLUDE COMMITMENTS MADE, I.E. CONTRACTS
SIGNED DULY APPROVED BY GOK AND IDA.
SIMILAR REPORTS SHOULD BE PREPARED FOR INDIVIDUAL C.C.



TABLE: D
KENYA SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT (ASMP-I1)
UTILIZATION REPORT - TRAINING
COST CENTER:
REPORTING PERIOD
AS PER SAR    ACTUAL AS   BALANCE      REMARKS
(KSHS)       AT          AVAILABLE
OVERSEAS TRAINING l_l_|_|__
2 .                                                       _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
3 l
TOTAL (A)
LOCAL TRAINING    l            l_l_|__
TOTAL     (B)      _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _   _ _  _ _ _    _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _
TOTAL (A + B)                                                                               e __
x
SIMILAR REPORTS SHOULD BE PREPARED FOR INDIVIDUAL COST CENTERS                               0,
C-)



TABLE: El
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT: ASMP- If
SUMMARY OF DISBURSEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS (US DOLLARS)
A) DIRECT PAYMENT  W/A DATE W/A AMOUNT/ AMOUNT  ALLOCATION TO DCA CATEGORY
AND REPLENISHMENT  NO       CURRENCY   IN USS
OF SDA                       AMOUNT
BRIEF DESCRIPTION                               (1)  (2) (3) (4) (5) TOTAL
OF EXPENDITLTRE
TOTAL                                             .___
B) COMMITMENTS     S/C  DATE  SIC AMOUNT/
NO         CURRENCY
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF
ITEM & REF OF IDA
APPROVAL.
TOTAL (B)           =    =
TOTAL (A & B)                _
r :>
x
0



TABLE: El[
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT (ASMP-II)
REPORT ON IDA DISBURSEMENT & COMMITMENTS - AS AT:
(US '000)
CATEGORY                  TOTAL - DCA           AMOUNT        BALANCE    % OF            REMARKS
AVAILABLE (B) ON (A)
DISBURSED      A - B
SDR'000   USD'0Q     &
(SDR=I S!COMMITTED
| _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ .(A )        (B)
EOUIPMENT
A) VEHICLES
B) EQUIPMENT
C) COMPUTERS
D) OTHER INPUTS
TECH - ASSISTANCE
A) FOREION
B) LOCAL
TRAINING
A) OVERSEAS
B) LOCAL
OPERATING COST
A) AIRCRAFT
B) VEHICLES
C) OFFICE
PPP REFUND
UNALLOCATEV
TOTAL
o |



TABLE: F
Page l.of 2
KENYA - SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT (ASMP 11)
PROJECT COST SUMMARY - ASMP Il-IDA SHARE
PERIOD: (IN K.SHS.'000)
CITON (I1)     SUGAR (2)       OIL SEED (3)   MOW/MOLD        TOTAL (I4)
IDA GOK TOTAL  IDA GOK TOTAL  IDA GOK TOTAL  IDA GOK TOTAL  IDA  GOK  TOTAL
EOUIPMENT
A) VEHICLES
B) EQUIPMENT
C) COMPUTERS
D) OTHER
INPUTS
TECH - ASSISTANCE
A) FOREIGN
B) LOCAL
TRAININO
A) OVERSEAS
B) LOCAL
OPERATING COST
A) AIRCRAFT
B) VEHICLES
C) OFFICE
TOTAL
% OF IDA/GOK                                                                                               >
o r,.
0



TABLE:F
Page 2 of 2
KENYA-SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT (ASMP 11)
PROJECT COST SUMMARY - ASMP 11 (KSHS.'000)
PERIOD:
COOP          DRSRS         NEAP             TOTAL (1-3)   TOTAL PAGE    TOTAL PAGE
IDA GOK TOTAL  IDA GOK TOTAL  IDA GOK TOTAL    IDA GOK TOTAL  IDA GOK TOTAL  1+2
IDA GOK TOTAL
EOUIPMENT
A) VEHICLES
B) EQUIPMENT
C) COMPUTERS
D) OTHER
INPUTS
TECH -
ASSISTANCE.
A) FOREIGN
B) LOCAL                                                                                                  '
TRAINING
A) OVERSEAS
B) LOCAL
OPERATING
COT 
A) AIRCRAFT
B) VEHICLES
C) OFFICE &
OTHERS
|TOTAL                                                       _
% OF IDAICOK
>
(D
x
0
0-



- 120 -
Annex 13
KENYA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents in the Project File
1.    Cottoi Sub-Sector of Kenya, John Cameron & Terry Naughtin
(Consultants), Agriculture Australia, Sydney, May 1992.
2.    The Development of oil-seed Sub-Sector in Kenya
Dr. P. V. Shenoi (Consultant) June 1992
3.    Preparation of the Cooperative component of ASMP II,
Karl Fogelstrom (Consultant) May 1992.
4.    Project Design for the Institutional Management of ASMP,
Ministry of Agricultural/Ministry of Livestock.
5.    Institutional Management Component of (ASMP)
Dr. Marcus Ingle (Consultant)
International Development Management Center (IDMC)
in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture and the
Ministry of Livestock, July 1992.
6.    Preparation Report - Department of Resource Surveys and
Remote Sensing (Kenya)
James Allaway (Consultant) April, 1992



- 121 -            Annex 14
REPUBUC OF KENYA
POLICY PAPER
ON
PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM
AND
PRIVATIZATION
DATED: JULY 1, 1992
ISSUED BY:    THA OFFICE OF THE VICE-PRESIDENT
AND MINISTRY OF FINANCE,
KENYA.
(DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNNMENT
WEMIErNTS AND PUBLIC ENTERPRISES
TOGEnR Wrr THE EXECUTIVE
SECRETARIAT AND TECHNICAL UNMT)



- 122 -
Annex 14
page 1 of 23
I.    INTRODUCTION
1.    The Government of Kenya (GOK) is implementing a comprehensive Public Enterprise 1/
Reform Programme with the overall aims of:
a)     enhancine the role of private sector in the economy, by shifting more of the
responsibility for production and delivery of products and services from the
public to the private sector, to create a more level plaving field by eliminatine
preferential treatment, including monopoly rights, and to enable the private sector
to enter the areas of activity of the Public Enterprises. (PE's) on an equitable
basis;
b)    reducing the demand of the Public Enterprises on the Excheguer so as to imnrove
the use of Kenya's scarce resources, and to enhance the returns on those
resources by achieving greater efficiency in both Private and Public Enterprises
through greater responsiveness to market signals and commercial criteria;
c)    reducing the role and rationalizing the operations of public enterrprise sector;
d)    improving the regulatory environment by selecting more economically rational
means of regulation, thereby reducing conflicts of interest between the regulatory
and commercial functions of public enterprises, that are consistent with
Government policy; and
e)     broadening the base of ownership and enhancing capital market development.
2.     The two instruments that will be used to achieve these aims are a public enterprise reform
programme (PERP), and a privatization programme. This policy paper sets out the
objectives, principles, scope and other significant aspects of the public enterprise reform
programme in PART I, and the principles and procedures that will guide the Parastatal
Reform Programme Committee (PRPC) and its Executive Secretariat and Technical Unit
(ESTU) to facilitate the privatization process in PART II.
3.     Wbile the PRPC and the ESTU will coordinate the privatization component of the
programme, The Departnent of Governrment Investment and Public Enterprises (DGIPE)
will be responsible for tnose aspects of the reform programme that are related to strategic
parastatals which are to remain in State hands.
.1/ NOTE: Although strictly speaking a 'public enterprise' or "parastatal" is an enterprise in
which the Govermnent of Kenya has all or a majority of the equity, for purposes of this paper
the terms 'public enterprise', 'PE" and 'parastatal" will also include an enterprise in which
the Government owns a minority equity interest. Where a distinction in relative ownership
need to be made, the terms 'majority owned PE' is used to denote an enterprise in which the
Government has a controlling shareholder interest.



- 123 -
Annex 14
page 2 of 23
II.    SCOPE OF THE REFORM PROGRAMME
4.    There are two hundred and forty (240) commercially oriented public enterprises with
direct, or indirect government ownership through ICDC, IDB, KTDA, KTDC, and other
entities. Of these the Government has designated thirty three (33) PEs (see Annex 1) as
"strategic enterprises" and intends to retain its ownership and active Board participation
in them for the time being. The remaining two hundred and seven (207) PEs (see Annex
2) have been classified as "non-strategic enterprises" and they constitute the
Government's privatization programme. Of these enterprises the PRPC has selected 45
PEs (see Annex 3) to begin the first phase of the privatization programme, leaving one
hundred and sixty two (162) PEs to be processed for subsequent privatization.
5.    The scope of the PERP will cover the following:
(a)   the 33 PEs deemed to be strategic the core activities of which will be retained in
the public sector. Of this total, 5 enterprises with major impact on the economy
and the Government finances will be selected for early restructuring, and
(b)   the 162 non-strategic PEs, as mentioned above, are targeted for later privatization
and will meanwhile be made as efficient as possible.
6.    In this context, GOK defines PEs as "strategic" if they provide essential services or are
considered to play a key role from the view points of national security, health and
protection of environment.
7.    Companies where government has minority holdings are not strictly parastatals, but are
to be divested through the ESTU for reasons of active portfolio management by the
Development Financial Institutions (DFIs) and for budgetary resource mobilisation for
the Government.
8.    Grounded projects in which the Government or DFIs have a majority or minority
shareholding will be divested by the ESTU to encourage private sector to complete the
projects and thereby create employment opportunities.
9.    Privatization is an integral and visible element of the Government's overall parastatal
reform programme and it should not be viewed as an end in itself, but as a progressive
effort to promote productive efficiency, to strengthen competitive forces in the economy,
and to support entrepreneurial development.



- 124 -
Annex 14
page 3 of 23
PART I
POLICIES, PRINCIPLES AND GUIDELINES
OF PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM



- 125 -
Annex 14
page 4 of 23
PART I
Im.    POLICTES. PRINCIPLES AND GUTIDELINES OF PE REFORM
Obiectives of the PERP
10.   The PERP will have the following primary objectives:
(a)   to enhance the efficiency and performance of the PE sector;
(b)   to reduce the financial burden of the sector on Government; and
(c)   to achieve these objectives through the introduction of reforms that will enforce
financial discipline, mobilize managerial and financial autonomy and set up
adequate accountability and appropriate incentives, all toward the aim of having
PEs operate on commercial principles.
Princi2les of PE Reform
11.   All actions of the PERP will be based on the following principles:
(a)    The operations of PEs will include one viable commercial activities, except for
certain cases where GOK directs the PE to also undertake activities for other than
commercial reasons. However, such non-commercial activities will only be
retained on a separate operational and accounting basis and with contractual
arrangements giving the PE full compensation for the activity through transparent
budgetary provisions. Where PE operations now include regulatory functions
related to other than public services, they will be separated and either eliminated
or assigned to another non-commercial PE entity.
(b)    PEs will operate on a self-sustaining basis and with a hard-budget constraint that
will oblige them to institute and maintain adequate financial discipline. Subsidies
will be phased out except for those relating to non-commercial activities as
mentioned under (a) above.
(c)    A major goal of PEs is profitability through efficient operations in a competitive
environment. Over the longer term, a crucial reform objective is to move to
market pricing wherever competition is possible. Tnis goal will be promoted
through the breakup of monopolies, reduction of trade barriers, and elimination
of barriers to private entry. In order to facilitate PEs' achievement of these
aims, their managements will be provided with the maximum autonomy over key
operational variables (such as prices, procurement and salary levels) that is
compatible with prevailing conditions.
(d)    Public service PEs operating under monopolistic conditions will, in common with
private entities of similar nature, be regulated as needed to protect the public
interest, primarily through review and approval of tariffs, maintenance and



- 126 -
Annex 14
page 5 of 23
replenishment of all kinds of capital resources, and cost containment. Such
regulation will be implemented through autonomous, specialized bodies operating
independently from the government line structure, thus insulating them from
political interference.
(e)    It is the function of the legal regulatory framework to provide a 'level playing
field', i.e. facilitate an equitable and fair basis for the efficient functioning of
both private and public sector enterprises under competitive and freely market-
based conditions, and to provide protection to consumers when necessary. With
this objective, the legal framework applicable to the private sector, including,
inter alia, the Companies Act, will be made equally applicable to PEs.
(f)    GOK's ownership functions over majority-owned PEs include the same rights and
responsibilities as the analogous functions in the private sector. In its ownership
role GOK will thus: (i) select and appoint competent and qualified persons to PE
boards according to a widely publicized and transparent process; (ii) provide PE
management with clear, non-conflicting objectives; (iii) agree with management
on the strategy and corporate instruments reflecting it; (iv) leave management as
free as needed to achieve the objectives; (v) oblige management to full and
transparent accountability; and to this purpose (vi) perform ex-post evaluations
of management performance. All of these principles are incompatible with
political interference in PE management matters.
(g)    All aspects of PE business will be performed in a commercial and transparent
manner. The fact of being a PE will not constitute an acceptable reason for
directly or indirectly according favourable treatment to PEs, e.g. through
exemption from taxes or fiscal charges and preferential access to imported and
domestic inputs.
Institutional Arrangements
12.   Relations between Government agencies and PEs will be clearly defined to ensure
transparency and accountability. They will avoid multiple PE accountability. The
Government has established the Departrnent of Governmnent Investments and Public
Enterprises (DGIPE) within the Ministry of Finance (MOF), charged with specific
functions and powers which will render it as autonomous as possible. DGIPE will be
headed by a person of Permanent Secretary rank reporting to the Permanent Secretary,
Ministry of Finance, and will be given adequate authority to enable it to carry out
effective oversight and leadership of the public enterprise reform process. Sector
ministry functions in relation to PEs will be limited to developing sector-wide policies
and programmes. PE boards of directors will be responsible for setting corporate
operational policies and to ensure that executive managements carry them out. These
respective roles are detailed below.



- 127 -
Annex 14
page 6 of 23
Roles and Functions of DGIPE
13.   DGIPE will:-
(a)    represent GOK's ownership function in regard to PEs and other investments in
all sectors; and
(b)    exercise oversight and leadership functions in setting majority-owned PEs'
strategic objectives and ensuring that those objectives are met.
14.   DGIPE's major tasks will essentially fall into two categories:
(a)   the temporary task of designing and implementing the PE reform process; and
(b)   the permanent tasks of: (i) centrally monitoring and supervising the performance
of majority-owned PEs and monitoring of all other investments; (ii) carrying out
effective PE debt management; and (iii) controlling, and ensuring PEs'
accountability for all budgetary allocations to PEs as well as funds by PEs'to
GOK.
15.   In addition, DGIPE will have a special function related to the social safety net which is
summarized in paragraph 15 below.
16.   Spreadine the PE reform process will give DGIPE the lead role in designing and
supervising the introduction of: (i) sector-wide reform measures which will not only
enhance the efficiency and performance of the PEs to be retained in the public sector
(either permanently or pending their privatization) but also reduce their burden, both
direct and indirect, on government finances; and (ii) other measures that are aimed at
improving the structure and efficiency of selected major PEs whose ability to achieve and
sustain improved performance is crucial to the PE sector's global results and impact on
the economy. In furtherance of this task, DGIPE will:
(a)    carry out diagnostic studies that will identify the nature, extent and impact of the
reform measures to be taken, and determine implementation strategy including
action plans as well as the appropriate instruments to be used (decree, instruction,
directive, etc.);
(b)    coordinate reform implementation action with: (1) sector ministries and PE
boards in respect of all PEs to be retained at any given time, and (ii)
PRPC/ESTU, with regard to PEs designated to enter the privatization/divestiture
process in the future ('pipeline PEs");
(c)    design and implement system for: (i) the settlement of indebtedness and adoption
of measures to prevent its repeat buildup; Cii) ensuring PE financial discipline,
operational autonomy and responsiveness to market signals in regard to both
inputs and outputs; (iii) reforming, where necessary, the financial and
organizational structures of majority-owned PEs to enable them to operate on a



- 128 -
Annex 14
page 7 of 23
sound commercial basis; (iv) selection and appointment of competent and
qualified persons to PE boards according to a transparent process, and providing
logistic and other support to the boards' selection and appointment of sucb
persons to senior executive management positions under a sirnilar process; and
(v) monitoring and evaluating PEs and other investment performance including
processes for specific remedial action when necessary.
(d)    develop and implement plans for rationalising GOK investments in enterprises in
which GOK holds a majority equity interest;
(e)   in coordination with the Attorney-General's Office, assist in reviewing and, if
necessary, modifying the regulatory and legal framework to:  (i) create
competitive environment; (ii) separate PEs' commercial from their non-
commercial (including regulatory) functions; and (iii) strengthen regulation by
appropriate independent bodies whenever this is required to protect the public's
and particularly the consumer's interest; and
(f)    ensure that the timing of reform measures is effected in sequence that maximizes
their impact and effectiveness. Sequencing will inter alia respect the top priority
of: (i) measures to improve the enabling environment within which the PE sector
operates since such measures will have an across-the-board impact on the ability
of the entire sector to act in an efficient and competitive manner, and (ii)
measures that will improve the performance of selected key PEs.
17.   In its Dermanent function. DGIPE will:
(a)    set strategic business objectives, key performance indicators and targets for
majority-owned PEs;
(b)    set up and maintain a database of qualified candidates for PE board and senior
executive management posts, recommend all PE board member appointrnents
from the database in accordance with the principle of transparency as per para.
8(f)(i) above and ensure that boards appoint senior managers in accordance with
the same principle;
(c)   in accordance with Treasury guidelines, review and approve (i) PE corporate
plans, budgets, investments, capital restructuring proposals, and commitments,
which have actual or contingent implications for the Government's budget; (ii)
specific subventions and subsidies in accordance with approved votes; and (iii)
PE borrowings which involve Government guarantees;
(d)    participate in drafting, negotiating and administering performance contracts for
majority owned PEs;
(e)    monitor and evaluate PE performance and financial flows against agreed targets;



- 129 -
Annex 14
page 8 of 23
(f)    reward or sanction board members of majority-owned PEs according to their
contribution to overall results (executive managers will be similarly dealt with by
the boards);
(g)    determine dividend policy for majority-owned PEs and approve dividend payment
proposals submitted by PE boards;
(h)    aggregate and analyze PE performance on a sector-wide basis and report to the
Minister of Finance on sector financial performance, commitments and trends;
(i)    for each majority-owned PE, nominate independent qualified auditors for
appointment by the Auditor-General (Corporations);
(j)    ensure that majority-owned PEs publish their audited accounts within three
months of their being approved by the board;
(k)    carry out PE debt management including recording, preparing and signing
onlending agreement; liaison with creditors; issuance of statement and
reconciliations; and recovery and arrears management; and
(1)    control and ensure PE accountability on all GOK allocation of funds to PEs and
control and account for funds due GOK and received from PEs; track these and
all other financial flows to and from PEs, flag and provide early warning on
undesirable situations as necessary, and issue appropriate reports on both
activities.
DGIPE's role as Administrative/Manager Social Safetv Net:
18.   GOK recognizes that the social impact of the parastatal reforms will require unified action
in designing and administering the substantive and institutional scheme for a social safety
net arrangement that will address labour redundancies resulting not only from
privatization/divestiture but also from rationalization of the remaining PE sector entities.
The likelihood that there will be redundancy from both parastatal reform and privatization
has led GOK to the administrative decision to have the system not only designed, but also
for an initial period administered by DGIPE. It is expected that the arrangements will
largely consist of various forms of cash benefit to protect workers' minimum
consumption levels.
Role of Sector Ministries:
19.   Sector ministries will develop sectoral policies and programmes in their respective
sectors. In the context of such policies and progranmes they will: (i) provide critical
reviews of PE reform measures introduced and implemented by DGIPE, and Cii) receive
corporate plans and other key documents of PEs operating in the respective sector
ministries' sectoral subject area. This will enable sector ministries to contribute to the
initiation and implementation of the PERP and its component parts.



- 130 -
Annex 14
page 9 of 23
20.   The primary interest of sector ministries in PEs and in the documents summarized in the
preceding paragraph is to ensure consistency between the PEs' actual or projected
activities as reflected in those documents and the sector ministries' respective policies and
programmes. The sector ministries will therefore send to DGIPE any comments they
may have that have a bearing on such consistency and if necessary will make any relevant
suggestions towards enhancing such consistency.
Roles of PE Boards and Executive Manazement
21.   A basic purpose of PERP is to introduce major changes in corporate governance so as
to achieve (i) separation between ownership and management functions, and (ii) enhanced
management autonomy and accountability. PE boards' functions and composition will
therefore be redefined to reflect their character as the top organ of the PE that also
provides the interface with its owners. Boards will be actively and closely committed to
and involved with supervision of management and its operations; individual board
members will be limited as to the number of boards they may serve on.
22.   Starting early in the reform process, boards will be expected (i) to participate in'the
design of reform measures so as to make them effective in corporate practice, and (ii) to
cause executive managements to introduce relevant reform measures into day-to-day
operations in smooth and expeditious manner so as to produce the corresponding benefits
as early as possible. Moreover, just as it is up to DGIPE to ensure that the right PE
boards are in place to preside over the introduction of the reform measures, it is up to
the boards to have the right PE managers in place to produce improved performance.
23.   Principal functions of PE boards and of executive managements will be as follows:
(a)    Corporate 2olicy and strategy: set by board, carried out by management;
(b)    Corporate plans and budgets: proposed by management, approved by board;
(c)    Staffing and empllovment:  The system  for board and top management
appointments will be determined on the basis of corporate governance study
being undertaken internally by GOK. Management salary levels and other
employment terms and conditions decided by board, others proposed by
management, approved by board. All of these variables will be determined and
applied according to best commercial practice and not to Civil Service rules,
standards and terms and conditions;
(d)    Pricing. procurement and other operational variables: decided by management
up to stated limits, above which board must approve;
(e)   Investments within aRproved plans and targets. asset sales in connection with
apDtroved restructuring 2lans:  proposal initiated by board or management,
elaborated by management, approved by board;
(f)    Monitorine monthly/quarterly Derformance: by board;



- 131 -
Annex 14
page 10 of 23
(g)    Annual reports: approved by board. Dividends proposed by board, approved
by DGIPE;
(h)    Rehabilitation/restructurin : Management/board participate in proposal with help
from DGIPE's technical assistance; for majority-owned PEs, endorsed by
DGIPE, approved by Minister of Finance; and
(i)    Performance contracts (applicable only to majority-owned PEs): Drafted by
management, draft endorsed by board; negotiated by board/management with
DGIPE, other involved GOK agencies if and as coopted; signed on government
side by DGIPE/Minister of Finance, on PE side by board co-signed by
management. Followed and monitored by a committee comprising all the above
chaired by DGIPE.
The above attributions of approve authority are modified as per para. 14(c) above
whenever Government budgetary implications exist.
Holding Companies:
24.   For various historical and other reasons, the pattern of GOK  equity holding in PEs is
complex. PEs may be held directly or through other PEs which thus have a holding
company role. The main conclusion to be drawn from this situation in the context of
PERP is the need to establish and preserve direct accountability to GOK (as personified
by DGIPE) by all majority-owned PEs, whether directly or indirectly held. This means
that the functions of holding companies will be limited to holding the shares of subsidiary
PEs as designated by GOK. It also means that they will not act as surrogate of the GOK
as owner; as made clear in the preceding sections, that function will henceforth be vested
in DGIPE for purposes of: (i) instituting the reform measures, and (ii) carrying out
supervision and related functions as defined earlier. Above all, it would be impossible
for DGIPE to carry out its work if this direct access to PES for operational and control
purposes were to be impaired by interposition of holding companies; hence the
abovestated limitation on the holding companies' future connection with the PEs in its
portfolio.



- 132 -
Annex 14
page 11 of 23
PART II
PRINCIPLES, PROCEDURES AND GUIDELINES
FOR PRIVATIZAnON



- 133 -
Annex 14
page 12 of 23
PART II
IV.   PRINCTPLES. PROCEDURES AND GUIDELTNES FOR PRIVATIZATION
Institutional Arran2ements
25.   In order to achieve the Government's objectives in the above mentioned programme, the
President has appointed a high level policy-making body, the Parastatal Reform
Programme Committee (PRPC) under the Chairmanship of the Vice-President and
Minister of Finance. The functions of the PRPC are:-
(a)   to supervise and coordinate the implementation of the Parastatal Reform
Programme in general;
(b)   to prioritise and deternine the timing of the sale for each non-strategic PE;
(c)    approve the operational guidelines for privatization to be followed by the
Executive Secretariat and Technical Unit (ESTU), including the criteria and
procedures to be followed in the divestiture decisions;
(d)    give final approval or rejection for the sale of public assets. In the event of a
rejection, the reasons justifying the action will be recorded in the Minutes of the
said meeting;
(e)   to monitor and evaluate the progress of implementing the programme; and
(f)   to provide political impetus for privatization and participate in building public
awareness and the national consensus in support of the goverrnent programme.
26.   The management, coordination and implementation of the divestiture programme, as
approved by the PRPC, will be the responsibility of the ESTU, which acts as the
secretariat of the PRPC. ESTU has been established as an autonomous executing agency
and it will be insulated from any government or political interference. The functions of
the ESTU are:-
(a)   to formulate and recommend policies, procedures, programmes and operation
guidelines for divestiture;
(b)   to prepare, with the collaboration of the holding companies where applicable,
target lists of candidates for privatization for approval by the PRPC;
(c)   to prepare, with the collaboration of the holding companies where applicable,
PEs for privatization and monitor all technical privatization matters undertaken
by consultants, including: valuation; selection of optimal privatization method
and sale techniques; preparation of prospectus or offering memorandum;
elaboration of marketing plan; identification of financing options; etc., and



- 134 -
knnex 14
page 13 of 23
(d)    to organize bidding process, receive, evaluate offers and proposals and prepare
recommendation to PRPC. In collaboration with the Capital Market Authority
(CMA) carry out all activities required for public issues of shares as required,
including appointment of intermediaries, lawyers, etc.
27.    In order to facilitate the divestiture process, the ESTU  will establish Privatization
Implementation Teams (PITs) to undertake the necessary technical work for each PE.
The PITs will consist of a group of short tern consultants (local or international)
consisting of financial analysts, valuers, accountants, lawyers, engineers, and industry
specialists as required. Where applicable, the PITs will also include technical officers
nominated by the holding companies. The PITs will be responsible for managing the
detailed aspects of the divestiture operations, including inter alia, asset valuation, choice
of sale technique marketing plans, labour redundancy, offering price for the sale of
shares through stock exchange, review and appraisal of offers and proposals.
Alternatively, ESTU may contract a merchant bank or any other specialised financial
institution to implement the overall privatisation process for selected PEs. Int he event
of the latter option, the contracted agency, reporting directly to the ESTU, will be given
the full mandate for preparing all the necessary steps to enable the successful
implementation and conclusion of the transaction.
28.    The PRPC and the ESTU are mandated to ensure that the highest level of transparency
and accountability is maintained in the entire privatization programme in accordance with
the principles and procedures outlined in the latter section of this document.
Principles of Privatization:
29.    The principles guiding the privatization process will be:-
(a)    enterprises will be divested into competitive markets; purchasers will not obtain
an intact or unregulated monopoly.
(b)    purchasers will not be accorded special protection or access to credit on
concessionary terms.
(c)    in cases where Government retains a minority shareholding, it will not exercise
any special or extraordinary voting rights, except in a limited, predetermined and
well defined policy areas.
(d)    excluding financial and operational (but not physical) restructuring that are
necessary to prepare enterprises for sale, there will be a moratorium on new
governrnent investments in enterprises that are to be privatized.
(e)    all privatization sales will be on a cash-only basis, with the possible exception of
shares sold to the workforce of the affected firms.
(f)    no specific class of potential purchases will be excluded from participating in the
process.



- 135 -
Annex 14
page 14 of 23
(g)    all transactions will be conducted in an open and transparent manner, consistent
with normal standards of commercial discretion. Unless justified by the existence
of legal rights, no predetermined direct sale or negotiations by private treaty will
be entertained except after publicly solicited bids have been obtained. At the
completion of the sale, all aspects of the transaction will be in the public domain
where appropriate, this means:-
-      a prospectus or offering memorandum will be prepared and publicised
for each firm to be sold;
-      a full body of financial, management and other information will be
available for disclosure to the investing public;
-      fair and equitable bidding procedures will be established;
-      criteria-for ranking bids will be established and publicised;
-      bids will be opened in public;
-      upon completion of the sale, the names of purcbasers, the price paid, and
the conditions of sale will be made public, and
-      the valuation of the assets and the details of all offers received will be
placed in the public domain.
(h)    to promote and ensure the competitiveness of the markets in which privadzed
companies will operate, the Government wfll continue to build upon existing anti-
monopoly legislation and the institutional capacity to implement it in a
transparent manner, including publicising it. The Government will also continue
its efforts to liberalize import controls and rationalise tariffs, and continue the
process of price decontrol and the removal of marketing restrictions in all
sectors. A more specific review of the regulatory framework will be carried out
as and when enterprises, currently classified as strtegic, are offered for sale.
(i)    The sale of a PE or portion thereof to another PE or public institution will not
be considered as privatisation.
G)     No new parastatals will be established in the productive sector, except for
investments made purely for venture capital assistance through the restructured
DFIs.
Enterprise Selection Criteria:
30.    Selection criteria for parastatals to be divested, which are listed below, have been
identified for use by the ESTU. These will ensure that the whole enterprise selection
process is objective and fully transparent.



- 136 -
Annex 14
page 15 of 23
(a)    Maiority government ownershiD:  The Government will give preference to
privatizing firms in which it has a majority ownership/
(b)    Minimal restructuring:   To  accelerate implementation of the divestiture
programme, priority will be given to parastatals that will not require extensive
operational, financial, or legal restructuring prior to sale.
(c)    Profitabilitv: To facilitate the process of divestiture, preference will be given to
parastatals that have generated an operating profit (before depreciation and debt
service) for at least the past two years, excluding subsidies and subventions.
Other complimentary indicators will also be reviewed to select enterprises that
are attractive to the private sector including: rate of return on assets and equitv:
debt and debt to equity rate; and inventory turnover and accounts receivable
collection periods.
(d)    Sector diversity: Enterprises will be drawn from diverse sectors of the economy.
(e)    Available and reliable enterprise data: Operational and financial records and
accounts should be reasonably accurate, up-to-date and readily available to the
privatization implementation team and tO potential investors.
(f)    Minimal reLulatory adiustments:  In the interests of implementation speed,
enterprises in the initial list of PEs for privatisation will not be selected if there
is a need for time-consuming, costly regulatory adjustments prior to divestiture,
as is likely to be the case with monopolies.
(g)    Minimal staff redundancies: Preference will be given to parastatals that are not
severely overstaffed, so as to avoid the necessity of undertaking significant lay-
offs as part of the divestiture process. This is particularly important in the early
stages of the programme, before a fully funded safety net is in place.
(h)    Reduction of Budget drain: Parastatals that have needed large Treasury support
will be considered for dilution of ownership with management and financial
restructuring pending full divestiture.
Guidelines for the Divestiture Process:
31.    In addition to the selection criteria, the ESTU will use a set of operating guidelines that
will also guide their consultants when implementing a divestiture transaction. The
guidelines given below will ensure that each divestiture transaction adheres to a standard
set of procedures that is transparent and subject to public scrutiny. Each divestiture
transaction is likely to have certain aspects which differ from all others and, therefore,
the guidelines will be used flexibly rather than a fixed set of rules and regulations.
32.    The divestiture process will involve two distinct phases: preparation and execution. The
first phase will entail a detailed review of the parastatal (covering operational, financial
and legal issues) in order to determine its current condition, its strengths, weaknesses,



- 137 -
Annex 14
page 16 of 23
potential, and financial restructuring requirements, if any.  This is followed by
constructing a computerized operational and financial model for the enterprise to project
likely results and their expected variances under several scenarios. These steps lead to
valuation of the enterprise as a going concern, which forms the basis for establishing a
range of values that can be used in negotiations with prospective investors and in setting
the share price for a public offering. For comparative purposes, an asset valuation will
also be conducted to ascertain the value from both a replacement and a liquidation
perspective. This phase will also include a preliminary determination of prospective
investor groups, and will conclude with the preparation of a 'privatization action plan'
that fully documents the results of all the analysis conducted up to this stage. The action
plan also includes a detailed set of recommendations on how to proceed to execute the
transaction. At this stage, the key decision makers at the ESTU will fully review and
approve the analysis that has been conducted, as well as the contents of the action plan.
33.   The second and final stage, execution will entail implementation of the transaction. By
this stage, all key decision makers will have approved the privatization action plan.
Tasks to be performed during this stage include where necessary the preparation of the
sales documentation (e.g. prospectus, information memorandum), completion of any
financial and operational restructuring required prior to divestiture, resolution of all
outstanding legal issues that effect the sale, the design and implementation of a public
relations campaign to inform the public of the impending sale, and finally execution of
the sale itself.
34.   Preparation.  The objective of this phase is to set the stage for the divestiture by
conducting an analysis of the enterprise so as to determine a realistic range of values for
the targeted enterprise and developing a credible sales strategy.
35.    The bulk of the work is carried out on-site by the Privatization Implementation Team
(PMT) and will include, gathering the necessary information, meeting regularly with key
members of the management and operating team of the enterprise, and interviewing other
decision makers that have a stake in the outcome of the transaction, such as tax
authorities and union representatives. This preparatory work will also draw on the
support of DGIPE and the DFIs as appropriate. Some of the most important components
of this analysis will include:-
(a)    prospects for the industry in which the enterprise operates;
(b)    the quality and competitiveness of the enterprise's products/services;
(c)    potential for performance enhancement, such as increasing and/or diversifying
output, reducing costs or restructuring debt;
(d)    market assessment and analysis of enterprise strengths, weaknesses and potential;
(e)    preliminary design of an appropriate financial structure for the enterprise, once
privatised;



- 138 -
Annex 14
page 17 of 23
(f)    evaluation of management/employee relations and identification of outstanding
human resource issues, such as the competitiveness of the compensation
structure, overstaffing, etc; and
(g)    identification and assessment of investor demand, both domestic and foreign.
36.    The preparation phase will result in a number of written reports that serve both as a
guideline for future action and as documentation verifying to the ESTU and PRPC that
the analysis is thorough and complete. This 'paper trail" is the raw material that will
ensure that the transaction has been prepared and executed in a transparent manner.
Among the documents that may be produced during this preparation stage are:-
(a)    Technical issues memorandum: In virtually all cases the PIT will include an
industry specialist who will concentrate on a technical appraisal of the
enterprises' operational strengths, weaknesses and potential. This appraisal will
include, for example, an assessment of the plan and equipment, the
competitiveness of the operating cost structure and the quality of the work force.
Any observations about the need for financial and management restructuring prior
to divestiture would be raised at this time, along with an estimate of costs and
timing, bearing in mind that these will be DGIPE's responsibility. The results
of this appraisal will normally be written in the form of a memorandum and key
aspects will later be incorporated in a more comprehensive enterprise appraisal
report.
(b)    Financial issues memorandum: A similar exercise will be undertaken by the
financial analyst, resulting in a report that will raise key issues surrounding the
financial performance of the enterprise as well as the need, if any, for financial
restructuring prior to divestiture, including specifically any proposals on the
treatment of debt.
(c)    Asset valuation report: This report, prepared by technical experts, will present
the appraised value of the parastatal's plant, equipment and real estate. The
aggregate net value of the assets, minus the transaction costs associated with the
divestiture and the aggregate net amount of the enterprise's debt, normally
indicate a floor price for the sale.
(d)    Legal issues memorandum: This report wIll usually be prepared by an attorney
assigned to the privatization team. It will identify oustanding legal issues and
claims, such as preemption rights, that must be resolved or noted prior to putting
the enterprise up for sale. Also it will recommend strategies for overcoming any
legal constraints to the transaction.
(e)    Onerational and financial projections and sensitivity analysis:   Financial
projections will be developed, based on expected operating performance and
forecast prices for key inputs. Projections will be carried out to take into account
various scenarios (e.g. selling prices increase/decrease by x%, cost of vital raw



- 139 -
Annex 14
page 18 of 23
material increases/decreases by x%). The cash flows that result from these
projections serve as the basis for valuing the enterprises as a going concern.
(f)    Valuation memorandum: This report will present the range of values derived by
the privatization team, along with all relevant assumptions and documentation.
The report will review and discuss the main inputs used for the valuation, such
as asset values, projected cash flows, country risk considerations, rationale for
selection of discount rates, and the value attached to intangible assets, if any.
(g)    Marketing memorandum: A preliminary review will be presented of the most
likely prospective investors, alternative shareholding structures and strategies
describing how investor groups should be approached. This report will also
clarify the privatization method(s) to be used.
37.   In most cases some of these memoranda can be consolidated into a single written report.
However, in almost every case the end result of these preliminary written reports will
constitute a comprehensive document (the privatization action plan! that synthesizes the
information from the preparation phase that will be most relevant to decision makers at
the PRPC.  This document is the prime deliverable document presented by the
privatization team to the ESTU and constitutes the initial blue print to be followed during
the execution stage.
38.   Execution. The objective of this final phase of the work programme is to complete the
sale of the enterprise at an optimal value, within a reasonable time-frame and in a manner
that is fully transparent, which therefore will engender public confidence in the
privatization process.
39.   The essence of transparency and public confidence in the privatization process is the
manner in which the key documents associated with the transaction are prepared and
disseminated. Although in some instances there may be a need to maintain confidentiality
of some issues until the transaction is completed, the Government will eventually subject
the process for each transaction to public scrutiny. The key documents prepared during
this phase will include:-
(a)    Information memorandum: The information memorandum, or prospectus in the
case of a public offering, contains information about the enterprise and the
proposed transaction that is of interest to prospective investors. The information
contained in the information memorandum is almost totally derived from the
enterprise appraisal report, the valuation report and other relevant information
gleaned from the privatization action plan. This is a sales document that is
written so as to elicit interest from targeted investors who have either been
identified by the privatization team or have already demonstrated an interest in
participating in the purchase of the enterprise.
(b)    Biddin! documents:  An open, transparent bidding process begins with the
preparation of the public notice requesting buds, which will be published in
newspapers, trade journals and other publications. The announcement will



- 140 -
Annex 14
page 19 of 23
provide a brief description of the enterprise, the bidding requirements the time
frame for submitting a bid and the assurance that those who respond to the
announcement will receive a copy of the information memorandum upon request.
The nature of this announcement will vary widely depending on the size and
complexity of the enterprise. The criteria to be used to evaluate the bids will be
consistent and well publicised. Since the ESTU will play a pivotal role int he
evaluation and selection process, there will be a clear and well documented set
of procedures in place that fully describe how the winning bidder will be
selected.
(c)    Government nermits and aJnrovals: Although each transaction is likely to be
different, in virtually every case a number of government ministries, under the
coordination and supervision of the ESTU, will become involved and require that
the proposed transaction meet specific regulatory requirements (e.g. tax
compliance, labour law, industry-specific regulations). If the transaction includes
a debt restructuring involving foreign creditors (e.g. debt-for-equity swaps, debt-
for-debt swaps, debt buy-outs), the Central Bank of Kenya must be consulted and
its approval must be obtained before reaching any final agreement on the terms
and conditions of the financial restructuring. Any debt repurchases that are
conducted either by enterprise itself or the Central Bank will be carried out in a
fully transparent manner.
(d)    ALreements related to the transfer of ownership: Depending on the method of
sale, legal sales agreements must be prepared and executed. The documentation
required for a public offering of shares, will differ from that required for a
private placement or an employee buy-out. But regardless of the method, usually
the services of a Kenyan merchant bank or other privatization specialists,
working closely with local legal counsel, will be used to prepare the documents
outlining the terms and conditions of the sale.
(e)    Public relations documents:  Mobilizing public support for the privatization
programme will be a major responsibility of ESTU management. Part of this
process will involve generating broad public interest in the public share offerings
that are anticipated. With the active assistance of local and foreign public
relations specialists, a public relations campaign will be designed and executed
so as to elicit the broadest possible public participation in the process and keep
the public informed of all stages as they progress.
Publication of Tender Notice:
40.   (a)    The Tender Notice for the sale of assets will be published in at least 2 major
newspapers twice a week for a period of three weeks. In the case of companies
that require foreign expertise, finance, technology and marketing, notices will
also be placed in one or more foreign pubiications. In the case of the latter,
mail-out letters will also be sent to Kenya Embassies and High Commissions in
major commercial countries as well as local Embassies and High Commissions
of major industrial countries.



- 141 -
Annex 14
page 20 of 23
(b)    Notices will provide necessary information on the scheduled date of bidding and
will invite prospective bidders to obtain the Sales Prospectus.
(c)    Interested parties will be invited to visit the PE and inspect its operations.
(d)    Sufficient lead-time, ideally 60 days, will be provided from  the initial
announcement of tender to closure date for prospective bidders to prepare their
bids.
(e)    The financial and technical bids will be submitted in two separate sealed
envelopes marked only with the name of the PE being tendered.
(f)    bids must be accompanied by a banker's cheque or bank guarantee for an amount
representing 10% of the total offer.
(g)    Bids must remain valid for at least 60 days after the closing date.
Pregualification of Bidders:
41.   In order to facilitate the evaluation of tenders, the following factors will among these be
taken into consideration for the purpose of pre-qualifying prospective bidders:-
(a)    The bidder's proven history of sound management and expertise to improve the
performance of the enterprise.
(b)    The bidder's financial strength not only to purchase the enterprise but also to
undertake any necessary additional capital investment.
(c)    The bidder's ability to bring in new technology, including international marketing
knowledge and experience.
(d)    Bidder's intention to offer expanded or related services.
(e)    Bidder bringing in foreign exchange for the investment.
Tender Evaluation Committee:
42.   The Parastatal Reform  Programme Committee has appointed a Tender Evaluation
Committee which is composed of representatives of the following institutions:-
-      The Executive Director, ESTU - Chairn.
-      The Treasury,
-      The Parent Ministry of the enterprise,
-      The Holding Company of the enterprise,
-      Any other Professionals the ESTU may deem necessary to co-opt.
Public Opening of Tender Bids:



- 142 -
Annex 14
page 21 of 23
43.   The PRPC Tender and Evaluation Committee will be responsible for the public opening
of all bids on a date to be announced and notified to all interested parties.
44.    For the purpose of ensuring transparency the PRPC has directed that interested parties
should be invited to witness the official opening of all bids.
Evaluation of Tender Bids:
45.    A reputable consulting firm  will be contracted by the ESTU for the purpose of
undertaking a professional evaluation of all tenders.
46.    Tenders from pre-qualified bidders will be evaluated on the basis of the following
criteria:-
(a)    The financial value of the offer.
(b)    The bidder's commitment to continue operating the business.
(c)    Feasibility of the bidder's business plan for the PE.
(d)    The extent to which the proposal offers job protection to the maximum
permissible economical level.
Award of Sale:
47.    On the basis of the recommendations of the Tender Evaluation Committee, the final
decision of the sale will rest solely with the Parastatal Reform Programme Committee.
Methods of Privatization:
48.    The ESTI1 will use any of the known privatization methods including:-
(a)    public offering of shares on the Nairobi Stock Exchange;
(b)    sale of shares by private placement;
(c)    negotiated sales insofar as preemption rights exists and have been exercised;
(d)    sale of enterprise assets (including liquidation);
(e)    new private investments in enterprises;
(f)    employee/management buy-out; and
(g)    leasing or award of management contract.



- 143 -
Annex 14
page 22 of 23
49.   Unless justified by the existence of legal rights, no predetermined direct sale or
negotiations by private treaty will be entertained except after publicly solicited bids have
been obtained.
50.   The choice of option will be determined by the ESTU according to the following
criteria:-
(a)    objectives pursued by the Government for each sale;
(b)    record of performance and economic prospects; and
(c)    size of the enterprises and the ability to mobilize private funds.
Redundancies and the 'Safety Net"
51.   It is evident that a number of PEs are grossly overstaffed and some of these enterprises
are insolvent or non-viable and will have to be liquidated. The public sector in many
countries, including Kenya to a certain extent, has for a long time functioned as an
employer of last resort and continued to expand until their marginal product of labour
reached zero or became negative. There is no economic justification for these types of
actions.
52.    Since Kenya does not have a social security system to cater for redundant employees, the
momentum with which implementation of the parastatal reform programme proceeds will
be greatly influenced by the establishment of a 'safety net" fund to underwrite
compensation claims arising from the anticipated redundancies. DGIPE together with the
ESTU, will develop and implement, a safety net and labour redeployment programme.
Public Awareness of the Privatization Process:
53.    On conclusion of a sale agreement, the ESTU will issue a press statement giving
complete particulars of each transaction, including the terms of sale, the offers received,
the price at which the sale is executed and the valuation of assets.
54.   These guidelines may be amended from time to time as and when the need arises.
55.   This document has been designated to provide a framework of reference to the interested
public. In the event of anyone wishing to obtain more specific data on particular
procedures, the ESTU will be happy to accommodate any requests for additional
information. Queries should be addressed to:-
The Executive Director,
Executive Secretariat and Technical Unit,
Parastatal Reform Programme Committee,
7th Floor Anniversary Towers,
P.O. Box 34542,
NAIROBI



- 144 -
Annex 14
page 23 of 23
or
The Investment Secretary,
Department of Government Investments and Public Enterprises,
Office of the Vice President and Ministry of Finance,
P.O. Box 30007,
NAIROBI



SUDAN                                                                                           40*~~~~~~~~f.1  KEN    
F- g. GO
E/.S,90
Lv~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rAw
f~ f 
A R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(
41
/IV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
UGANDA                  ,                                                                              wo,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Z                                                                                                                    SO ALI
(                                                                  h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Po
No.0 Boy  SOILS~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S-.l  d
IO?.,Ob-d-lIaror.,
U~~~er                                               N._                         @ lornl Oa



